DAVIDSON COUNTY, NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-15 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance passed 4-22-2024; and
State legislation through 2023 North Carolina Legislative Service, Pamphlet No.
6
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the County of Davidson shall be
designated as the Code of Davidson County and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation, shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Terms defined. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
   CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This code as modified by
amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
   COUNTY. Davidson County, North Carolina.
   G.S. The General Statutes of North Carolina, as amended.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
   OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this county unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
   PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
   PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
   STATE. The State of North Carolina.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
   WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
   YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed; equivalent to the words
YEAR OF OUR LORD.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this county shall be by the following
rules, unless such construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance:
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, such
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of such act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, such
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this county exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express such intent, such spelling shall be corrected and such word
or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
such error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this county for the transaction of all county
business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of such act or the giving of such notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and embraced. All prior ordinances
pertaining to the subjects treated by this code shall be deemed repealed from
and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   (A)   Pursuant to G.S. § 153A-49, the Davidson County Board of Commissioners
elects to omit from this code the budget ordinance, any bond orders, and other
classes of ordinances of limited interest or transitory nature, including:
      (1)   Those individual ordinances granting individual franchises to
applicants pursuant to the “Ordinance Regulating Ambulance Services” (
Chapter 96 of this code) and the “Cable Communica-tions and Regulatory
Ordinance for the County of Davidson, North Carolina” (adopted 2-14-89); and
      (2)   All Community Development Block Grant project ordinances.
   (B)   All other ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other
ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in
full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary
implication.
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the County Board of Commissioners requiring
publication shall take effect from and after the due publication thereof,
unless otherwise expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall
take effect from their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in anyway be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall by itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the County Board of Commissioners shall desire to amend any
existing chapter or section of this code, the chapter or section shall be
specifically repealed and a new chapter or section, containing the desired
amendment, substituted in its place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of such chapter or section. In addition to such
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-80; Am.
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
      Example: (G.S. § )(Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-85).
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information.
      Example:
         § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            The county shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
         For provisions concerning the inspection of public records, see G.S.
§§ 139-1 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)    An ordinance contained herein may provide for its enforcement by
other remedies, as authorized in G.S. § 153A-123, including the imposition of
civil fines, the ordering of specific equitable relief, including injunctions,
or a combination of remedies. In addition, any ordinance contained herein may
be enforced by an appropriate equitable remedy issuing from a court of
competent jurisdiction.
   (B)   An ordinance may provide, when appropriate, that each day's continuing
violation shall be separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. passed 4-22-24)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   COUNTY POLICIES
      
31.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 30: COUNTY POLICIES
Section
   
30.01   Annual registration of house trailers, mobile homes and similar
vehicular structures
   
30.02   Listing of real property for taxation
   
30.03   Assembly on public property
 
   
30.99   Penalty
§ 30.01 ANNUAL REGISTRATION OF HOUSE TRAILERS, MOBILE HOMES AND SIMILAR
VEHICULAR STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      MOBILE HOME, TRAILER or HOUSE TRAILER (all being referred to herein as
“mobile homes”. Any vehicle or structure so designed and constructed as will
permit occupancy thereof as sleeping quarters or a residence, temporary or
permanent, for one or more persons; or the conduct of any business or
profession, occupation or trade, or similar use thereof as a selling or
advertising device; and so designed that it is or may be mounted on wheels for
the purpose of conveyance on the public streets, roads or highways, propelled
or drawn by its own or other power; and shall include all such mobile homes,
regardless of the fact that they are underpinned or placed on a permanent
foundation, until such time as the mobile home assumes the character of real
property and is so listed for ad valorem tax purposes. This definition shall
include, but is not limited to, a mobile home as defined in the Zoning
Ordinance of Davidson County, the Davidson County Health Regulations, and in
G.S. Ch. 143, Art. 9A.
   (B)   Duty of owner or person in possession. Every owner or person in
possession thereof, if other than the owner of a mobile home located within the
county, except a mobile home temporarily located within the county with the
express predetermined intent and purpose of conveyance outside of the county
within 30 days after arrival, a mobile home held for display or exhibition
purposes by a mobile home dealer licensed by the state as such and displaying
the license, and a mobile home passing through the county on a public street,
road or highway for conveyance elsewhere, shall register the mobile home during
the regular ad valorem tax-listing period of each year with the County Tax
Supervisor’s Office, provided that registration as herein referred to shall not
relieve any person from the obligation to list all property for ad valorem tax
purposes in the manner required by law, and more particularly the Machinery Act
of 1971 (G.S. §§ 105-271 et seq.) and provisions contained therein, including
but not limited to G.S. § 105-316.
   (C)   Registration. Registration shall occur when the mobile home is
properly listed with the County Tax Supervisor’s Office for ad valorem tax
purposes; and upon such listing, the Tax Supervisor’s Office shall deliver a
numbered plate, sticker or other appropriate device to the person registering
or listing such mobile home., which device shall be displayed on the mobile
home on or near the main door or exit so as to be clearly visible from the
exterior. However, any mobile home otherwise required to be registered pursuant
to this section shall not be deemed exempted from the provisions of this
section, if listing for ad valorem tax purposes is not required.
   (D)   Registration after January 1. Mobile homes moved into or located
within the county after January 1 of each year shall likewise be registered
within 30 days after the mobile homes become located within the county; and in
such event, registration shall be made by application to the County Tax
Supervisor’s Office or the office of the County Superintendent of Inspections
(at the time of electrical inspection or other required approval), if the
mobile home at that time has not been registered. No permit provided for
pursuant to the Zoning Ordinance of Davidson County, including but not limited
to a special use permit, or the State Building Code shall be issued until the
mobile home shall be registered as herein required.
   (E)   Information. Registration shall consist of delivery of a sticker or
decal or other appropriate device upon receipt of the following information to
be obtained from the owner or other person registering the vehicle:
      (1)   Name of the owner and person to be in possession if other than the
owner;
      (2)   Year, make and model of the mobile home or vehicle; and
      (3)   Place, meaning tax block and lot where the mobile home is or will
be located.
   (F)   Registration period. The period of registration for mobile homes shall
be for the 12-month period of January 1 through December 31 of each year, and
such mobile homes shall be registered annually thereafter, in the manner
required herein. The decal or other device shall show the year for which issued
and the date of expiration.
   (G)   Issuance of evidence of registration. For every registered mobile
home, the County Tax Supervisor’s Office or other department referred to herein
shall issue the person registering the mobile home an appropriate numbered
plate, sticker or decal. Upon satisfactory evidence that any such registration
numbered plate, sticker or decal has been lost or destroyed, the registrar
shall issue a duplicate to the owner or person listing.
   (H)   Display of evidence of registration. Every mobile home located within
the county, except as otherwise herein provided, shall, throughout the current
issue year, display the assigned numbered plate, sticker or decal as herein
required and in such manner as to be visible from the exterior at all times.
   (I)   Registration by Superintendent of Inspections. In order to facilitate
the registration of mobile homes under the provisions of this section and to
provide a procedure or registering mobile home at times other than when
property is listed for ad valorem tax purposes, the Superintendent of
Inspections is hereby authorized to register the vehicles as herein provided,
and shall forthwith make a report of such registration to the County Tax
Supervisor.
(Ord. passed 12- -74)
§ 30.02 LISTING OF REAL PROPERTY FOR TAXATION.
   On or after April 15, 1991, the County Register of Deeds shall comply with
the provisions of G.S. § 105-303(a)(1) as set forth in this section.
   (A)   When any conveyance of real property (other than a deed of trust or
mortgage) is recorded, the Register of Deeds shall certify the following
information to the Tax Assessor:
      (1)   The name of the person conveying the property;
      (2)   The name and address of the person to whom the property is being
conveyed;
      (3)   A description of the property sufficient to locate and identify it;
      (4)   A statement as to whether the parcel is conveyed in whole or in
part.
   (B)   In order to comply with the foregoing provisions, the Register of
Deeds shall refuse to accept for recordation any conveyance (other than a deed
of trust or mortgage) unless said conveyance contains on its face the following
information:
      (1)   The name of the person conveying the property;
      (2)   The name and address of the person to whom the property is being
conveyed;
      (3)   A description of the property sufficient to locate and identify it.
This description shall include the township, county tax map, block and lot
number of the property purported to be conveyed;
      (4)   A statement as to whether the parcel is conveyed in whole or in
part.
(Ord. passed 4-9-91)
§ 30.03 ASSEMBLY ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
article shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where
the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
      (1)   ASSEMBLE OR ASSEMBLING. To make a public display or demonstration
of sentiment for or against a person or cause, including protesting which may
include the distribution of leaflets or handbills, the display of signs and/or
flags and any oral communication or speech, which may involve an effort to
persuade or influence, including all expressive and symbolic conduct, whether
active or passive, so long as the conduct does not violate the law.
      (2)   CAMP OR CAMPING. The use of county property for living
accommodation purposes such as sleeping, or making preparations to sleep
(including the laying down of bedding for the purpose of sleeping), or storing
personal belongings, or placing any tents or a temporary shelter on county
property for living accommodation purposes.
      (3)   OBSTRUCT. To interfere with pedestrian or vehicular movement on a
public road way,  public sidewalk, public right-of-way, entrance or exit to
private property, or any other area open to the public.
      (4)   SIDEWALK. That portion of the street right-of-way which is
designated for the use of pedestrians and may be paved or unpaved and shall
include easements and rights-of-way.
      (5)   TEMPORARY SHELTER. Tents, tarps, or any type of structure or cover
that provides partial shelter from the elements.
   (B)   Standards of conduct for assemblies. Assemblies held on County
property must abide by the following standards of conduct:
      (1)   Assemblies cannot at any time nor in any way obstruct, interfere
with, or block the following: persons entering or exiting from vehicles;
persons crossing streets or otherwise using the public way; the entrance or
exit to any building or access to property abutting the street or sidewalk;
emergency personnel in the performance of their duties; or pedestrian or
vehicular traffic. Assemblies shall not be conducted on any public roadway used
primarily for vehicular traffic, nor interfere with the business of the county
or state. Parking must be in designated parking spaces.
      (2)   Assemblers may carry written or printed placards or signs provided
the words used would not tend to incite violence. The staff or pole on which a
sign, flag, or banner may be carried shall be made of corrugated material,
plastic, or wood and shall not be made of metal or metal alloy. If made of
wood, the staff or pole shall be no greater than three-fourths inch in diameter
at any point. A staff or pole must be blunt at both ends. The pole or staff of
any flag displayed must be continuously held by an assembler.
      (3)   If more than one group of assemblers desires to assemble at the
same time at or near the same location, law enforcement officers may, without
regard to the purpose or content of the message, assign each group a place to
assemble in order to preserve the public peace. Members of a group shall not
enter an area assigned to another group.
      (4)   Spectators of assemblies shall not physically interfere with
individuals engaged inassembling. Assemblers and spectators of assemblies shall
not speak fighting words or threats that would tend to provoke a reasonable
person to a breach of the peace.
      (5)   Parking is restricted to designated parking spaces.
      (6)   Nothing in this section prohibits a law enforcement officer from
issuing a command to disperse in accordance with G.S. 14-288.5 in the event of
a riot or disorderly conduct by an assemblage of three or more persons.
   (C)   Prohibited activities on public property. The following activities are
prohibited on public property:
      (1)   Except within designated areas in County parks, it shall be
unlawful for anyone to camp on any public property owned by the County,
including public rights-of-way and sidewalks. Camping is deemed a public
nuisance and the County may summarily remove a temporary shelter, bedding or
personal belongings.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to light or use a campfire or bonfire on
County property, unless otherwise permitted.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than governmental
employees or its agents in the performance of their duties, to possess any
obstruction object or instrument with the intent to obstruct on a public road,
public sidewalk, public right-of-way, entrance or exit to private property or
any other area open to the public.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than governmental
employees in the performance of their duty, to attach themselves to another
person, building, vehicle or fixture with the intent to obstruct pedestrian or
vehicular movement on a public road, public sidewalk, public right-of-way,
entrance or exit to private property or any other area open to the public.
      (5)   It shall be unlawful to hang, fasten, or attach any rope, wire,
chain, sign, banner, flag or electrical device or power cord to any County
property including buildings, hand rails, fences, bridges, overpasses,
vehicles, construction equipment, memorials, utility poles, public signs,
landscaping plantings and materials, trees or artwork and the placement of
poles, posts, pins or pegs in the ground provided, however, that political
signs may be placed in designated areas at polling sites.
   (D)   Law enforcement lines and barricades. Law enforcement officers are
authorized to establish law enforcement lines and barricades to preserve the
public peace, arrest offenders and to protect the rights of persons and
property. It shall be unlawful for anyone to intentionally cross over a law
enforcement line or barricade.
   (E)   Penalty. Any person who fails or refuses to abide by or otherwise
violates this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction
shall be punished by a fine of not more than $50 and/or imprisoned as provided
in G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. passed 1-12-2021)
§ 30.99 PENALTY.
   Any owner or person in possession of a mobile home who shall violate or fail
to comply with any of the provisions of §
30.01, or any person who shall counsel, aid or abet any such violation or
failure or comply shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not
to exceed $50 or by imprisonment as provided in G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. passed 12- -74)
CHAPTER 31: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
31.01   State of emergency; restrictions authorized
   
31.02   Declaration imposing prohibitions and restrictions
   
31.03   Evacuation
   
31.04   Curfew
   
31.05   Restrictions on possession, consumption, or transfer of alcoholic
beverages
   
31.06   Restriction on possession, transportation, and transfer of dangerous
weapons and substances
   
31.07   Restrictions on access to areas
   
31.08   Additional prohibitions and restrictions
   
31.09   Removal of prohibitions and restrictions
   
31.10   Superseding and amendatory declarations
   
31.11   Termination of declaration
   
31.12   Exercise of powers in absence or disability of Chairperson
   
31.13   Territorial applicability
 
   
31.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Fire Prevention and Protection, see
Ch. 98
§ 31.01 STATE OF EMERGENCY; RESTRICTIONS AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   A state of emergency shall be deemed to exist whenever during times of
public crisis, disaster, rioting, catastrophe, or similar public emergency, for
any reason, public safety authorities are unable to maintain public order or
afford adequate protection for lives, safety or property, or whenever the
occurrence of any such condition is imminent.
   (B)   In the event of an existing or threatened state of emergency
endangering the lives, safety, health and welfare of the people within the
county or any part thereof, or threatening damages to or destruction of
property, the Chairperson of the Board of Commissioners of the county is hereby
authorized and empowered under Article 1A of Chapter 166A to use a public
declaration declaring to all persons the existence of such a state of
emergency, and, in order to more effectively protect the lives and property of
people within the county, to place in effect any or all of the restrictions
hereinafter authorized.
   (C)   The Chairperson is hereby authorized and empowered to limit by the
declaration the application of all or any part of such restrictions to any area
specifically designated or described within the county and to specific hours of
the day or night; and to exempt from all or any part of such restrictions,
while acting in the line of and within the scope of their respective duties,
law enforcement officers, firefighters and other public employees, rescue squad
members, doctors, nurses, employees of hospitals and other medical facilities;
on-duty military personnel, whether state or federal; on-duty employees of
public utilities, public transportation companies, and newspaper, magazine,
radio broadcasting, and television broadcasting corporations; and such other
classes of persons as may be essential to the preservation of public order and
immediately necessary to serve the safety, health, and welfare needs of people
within the county.
(Ord. passed 11-26-13; Ord. passed 12-11-18)
§ 31.02 DECLARATION IMPOSING PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The Chairperson of the Board of Commissioners of the county by
declaration may impose the prohibitions and restrictions specified in §§
31.03 through
31.08 of this chapter in the manner described in those sections. The
Chairperson may impose as many of those specified prohibitions and restrictions
as he finds are necessary, because of an emergency, to maintain an acceptable
level of public order and services, and to protect lives, safety, and property.
The declaration need not require or provide for the imposition of all of the
types of prohibitions or restrictions, or any particular prohibition or
restriction authorized by this chapter during an emergency but instead requires
the Chairperson to determine and impose those prohibitions or restrictions
deemed necessary or suitable to a particular state of emergency. The
Chairperson shall recite his findings in the declaration.
   (B)   The declaration shall be in writing. The Chairperson shall take
reasonable steps to give notice of the terms of the declaration to those
affected by it and shall post a copy of it in the County Courthouse. The
Chairperson shall send reports of the substance of the declaration to the mass
communications media which serves the affected area. The Chairperson shall
retain a text of the declaration and furnish upon request certified copies of
it.
(Ord. passed 11-26-13; Ord. passed 12-11-18)
§ 31.03 EVACUATION.
   The Chairperson may direct and compel the voluntary or mandatory evacuation
of all or part of the population of the county, prescribe routes, modes of
transportation, and destination in connection with evacuation; and control
ingress and egress of a disaster area, the movement of persons within the area,
and the occupancy of premises therein.
(Ord. passed 11-26-13; Ord. passed 12-11-18) Penalty, see §
31.99
§ 31.04 CURFEW.
   (A)   The declaration may impose a curfew prohibiting in certain areas and
during certain periods the appearance in public of anyone who is not a member
of an exempted class. The declaration shall specify the geographical area or
areas and the period during each 24-hour day to which the curfew applies. The
Chairperson may exempt from some or all of the curfew restrictions classes of
people whose exemption the Chairperson finds necessary for the preservation of
the public health, safety, and welfare. The declaration shall state the
exempted classes and the restrictions from which each is exempted.
   (B)   Unless otherwise specified in the declaration, the curfew shall apply
during the specified period each day until the declaration is terminated,
expires or the Chairperson by superseding declaration removes the curfew.
(Ord. passed 11-26-13; Ord. passed 12-11-18) Penalty, see §
31.99
§ 31.05 RESTRICTIONS ON POSSESSION, CONSUMPTION, OR TRANSFER OF ALCOHOLIC
BEVERAGES.
   The declaration may prohibit the possession or consumption of any alcoholic
beverage; including beer, wine, and spirituous liquor, other than on one’s own
premises, and may prohibit the transfer, transportation, sale or purchases of
any alcoholic beverage within the area of the county described in the
proclamation. The prohibition, if imposed, may apply to transfers of alcoholic
beverages by employees of Alcoholic Beverage Control stores as well as by
anyone else within the geographical area described.
(Ord. passed 11-26-13; Ord. passed 12-11-18) Penalty, see §
31.99
§ 31.06 RESTRICTION ON POSSESSION, TRANSPORTATION, AND TRANSFER OF DANGEROUS
WEAPONS AND SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   The declaration may prohibit the transportation or possession off
one’s own premises, or the sale or purchase of any dangerous weapon or
substance. The Chairperson may exempt from some or all of the restrictions
classes of people whose possession, transfer, or transportation of certain
dangerous weapons or substances is necessary to the preservation of the
public’s health, safety, or welfare. The declaration shall state the exempted
classes and the restrictions from which each is exempted.
   (B)   DANGEROUS WEAPON OR SUBSTANCE means:
      (1)   Any item described as a “Dangerous weapon or substance” as defined
in G.S. § 14-288.1.
      (2)   Any other instrument or substance that is capable of being used to
inflict serious bodily injury or destruction of property, when the
circumstances indicate that there is some probability that such instrument or
substance will be so used.
      (3)   Any part or ingredient in any instrument or substance included
above when the circumstances indicate a probability that such a part or
ingredient will be so used.
      (4)   Notwithstanding the provisions set out above, this article does not
authorize prohibitions or restrictions on lawfully possessed firearms or
ammunition. As used in this article, “firearm” has the same meaning as it does
under G.S. § 14-409.39(2).
   (C)   The declaration may restrict, regulate or limit the sale and/or
distribution of gasoline and/or diesel fuel by commercial enterprises.
   (D)   If imposed, the restrictions shall apply throughout the jurisdiction
of the county or such part thereof as designated in the proclamation.
   (E)   Penalty. A violation of this section shall be punished as provided in
§
10.99.
(Ord. passed 11-26-13; Ord. passed 12-11-18; Ord. passed 4-22-24)
§ 31.07 RESTRICTIONS ON ACCESS TO AREAS.
   (A)   The declaration may prohibit obtaining access or attempting to obtain
access to any area, designated in the manner described in this section, in
violation of any order, clearly posted notice, or barricade indicating that
access is denied or restricted.
   (B)   Areas to which access is denied or restricted shall be designated by
the Sheriff and his subordinates or other law enforcement officer when directed
in the declaration to do so by the Chairperson. When acting under this
authority, the Sheriff and his subordinates may restrict or deny access to any
area, street, highway or location within the county if that restriction or
denial of access or use is reasonably necessary to promote efforts being made
to overcome the emergency or to prevent further aggravation of the emergency.
(Ord. passed 11-26-13; Ord. passed 12-11-18) Penalty, see §
31.99
§ 31.08 ADDITIONAL PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   The declaration may prohibit or restrict:
   (A)   Movements of people in public places;
   (B)   The operation of offices, business establishments, and other places to
or from which people may travel or at which they may congregate; and
   (C)   Other activities or conditions the control of which may be reasonably
necessary to maintain order and protect lives or property during the state of
emergency, within the area designated in the proclamation.
(Ord. passed 11-26-13; Ord. passed 12-11-18) Penalty, see §
31.99
§ 31.09 REMOVAL OF PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   The Chairperson shall by declaration terminate the entire declaration of
emergency or remove any of the prohibitions and restrictions when the emergency
no longer requires them, or when directed to do so by the Board of
Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 11-26-13; Ord. passed 12-11-18)
§ 31.10 SUPERSEDING AND AMENDATORY DECLARATIONS.
   The Chairperson in his/her discretion may invoke the restrictions authorized
by this chapter in separate declarations, and may amend any declaration by
means of a superseding declaration in accordance with the procedures set forth
in §
31.02.
(Ord. passed 11-26-13; Ord. passed 12-11-18)
§ 31.11 TERMINATION OF DECLARATION.
   A state of emergency declared pursuant to this chapter shall remain in
effect until such time as the proclamation is amended or rescinded in the same
manner in which it was issued.
(Ord. passed 11-26-13; Ord. passed 12-11-18)
§ 31.12 EXERCISE OF POWERS IN ABSENCE OR DISABILITY OF CHAIRPERSON.
   In case of the absence or disability of the Chairperson, the Vice-
Chairperson of the Board of Commissioners and after that followed by the County
Commissioners in succession based on their longevity in office, shall have and
exercise all of the powers herein given the Chairperson.
(Ord. passed 11-26-13; Ord. passed 12-11-18)
§ 31.13 TERRITORIAL APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall not apply within the corporate limits of any municipality
or within the area of the county over which the municipality has jurisdiction
to enact general police power ordinances unless the municipality by resolution
consents to this application or the mayor of the municipality has requested its
application.
(Ord. passed 11-26-13; Ord. passed 12-11-18)
§ 31.99 PENALTY.
    Except as provided by §
31.06 of this chapter, any person violating any prohibition or restriction
imposed by a declaration authorized by this chapter shall be punished in
accordance with the provision of §
10.99.
(Ord. passed 11-26-13; Ord. passed 12-11-18; Ord. passed 4-22-24)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50. SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL
      
51. SEWERAGE SYSTEM
CHAPTER 50: SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL
Section
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Applicability of federal and state laws
   
50.03   Storage and disposal
   
50.04   Landfill management
   
50.05   Boxsite ordinances, solid waste receptacles, and disposal of solid
waste
   
50.06   Separation of recycled materials
   
50.07   Illegal storage, collection, and disposal of solid waste
   
50.08   Abatement of public nuisances
   
50.09   Administration and enforcement
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BOARD. Board of Commissioners of Davidson County.
      BULKY WASTE. Large items of solid waste such as furniture, large auto
parts, trees, branches, stumps, and other oversize wastes whose large size
precludes or complicates their handling by nonnal solid waste collection,
processing, or disposal methods.
      COLLECTION. The act of removing solid waste or materials that have been
separated for the purpose of recycling to a transfer station, processing
facility, or disposal facility.
      COMMERCIAL SOLID WASTE. All types of solid waste generated by stores,
offices, restaurants, warehouses, and other non-manufacturing activities,
excluding residential and industrial waste: provided, that this definition is
also applicable to places of residence having three or more dwelling units such
as apartment buildings and mobile home courts.
      COMMERCIAL SOLID WASTE COLLECTOR. Any person, fm, corporation, or other
entity, engaged in whole or part, in the collection, transportation, delivery,
or disposal of solid waste generated within Davidson County, (service area),
including any such entity engaged in such activities with respect to solid
waste generated by others for profit and/or hire.
      COMPOST. A humus-like material resulting from the biological
decomposition of organic materials.
      CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION WASTE. Solid waste resulting solely from
construction, remodeling, repair, or demolition operations on buildings or
other structures, but does not include inert debris, land-clearing debris, yard
debris, or used asphalt, asphalt mixed with dirt, sand, gravel, rock, concrete,
or similar nonhazardous material.
      DEPARTMENT. The Department of Enviroment, Health, and Natural Resources.
      DIRECTOR. The Director of the Davidson County Public Services Department
or the Director’s authorized representative.
      DISPOSAL. The discharge, deposit, injection, dumping, spilling, leaking,
or placing of any solid waste into or on any land or water so that the solid
waste or any constituent part of the solid waste may enter the environment or
be emitted into the air or discharged into any waters, including ground waters.
      DIVISION. The Director of the Division of Solid Waste Management of the
North Carolina Department of Environment, Health, and Natural Resources, or the
Director’s authorized representative.
      GARBAGE. All putrescible waste, including animal offal and carcasses, and
recognizable industrial by-products, but excluding sewage and human waste.
      HAZARDOUS WASTE. A solid waste, or combination of solid wastes, which
because of its quantity, concentration, or physical, chemical, or infectious
characteristics may:
         (a)   Cause or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or
an increase in serious irreversible or incapacitating reversible illness; or
         (b)   Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health
or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of,
or otherwise managed.
      INCINERATION. The process of burning solid, semisolid, or gaseous
combustible wastes to an inoffensive gas and a residue containing little or no
combustible material.
      INDUSTRIAL PROCESS WASTE. Solid waste resulting from an industrial or
manufacturing process which may be disposed of at the county landfill after
demonstrating its nonhazardous status through analysis, or by other means.
Includes, but is not limited to, sandblasting grit, contaminated food products,
ash, and dust.
      INDUSTRIAL SOLID WASTE. Solid waste generated by manufacturing or
industrial processes that is not hazardous waste.
      INERT DEBRIS. Solid waste which consists solely of material that is
virtually inert and that is likely to retain its physical and chemical
structure under expected conditions of disposal.
      INFECTIOUS WASTE. Solid waste capable of producing an infectious disease.
The types of waste designated as infectious are microbiological waste,
pathological waste, blood products, and sharps. (Included in “medical waste. “)
      INSTITUTIONAL SOLID WASTE. Solid waste generated by educational, health
care, correctional, and other institutional facilities. Also, including
materials originated from services offered on behalf of the public, e.g.
nursing homes, jails, and schools.
      LAND-CLEARING DEBRIS. Solid waste which is generated solely from land-
clearing activities.
      LANDFILL. A disposal facility or part of a disposal facility where waste
is placed in or on land and which is not a land treatment facility, a surface
impoundment, an injection well, a hazardous waste long-term storage facility,
or a surface storage facility.
      MEDICAL WASTE. Any solid waste which is generated in the diagnosis,
treatment, immunization of human beings, or animals in research pertaining
thereto, or in the production or testing of biological materials, but does not
include any hazardous waste identified or listed pursuant to this chapter,
radioactive waste or household waste as defined in 40 C.F.R. 261/4(b)(1) in
effect on I July 1989, or those substances excluded from the definition of
SOLID WASTE.
      MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE. Any solid waste resulting from the operation of
residential, commercial, industrial, governmental, or institutional
establishments that would norrnally be collected, processed, and disposed of
through a public or private solid waste management service. MUNICIPALSOLID
WASTE does not include hazardous waste, sludge, industrial waste managed in a
solid waste management facility owned and operated by the generator of the
industrial waste from management of that waste, or solid waste from mining or
agricultural operations.
      NON PROCESSABLE SOLID WASTE. All solid waste other than hazardous waste,
which could impair the operation or capacity of the disposal system or cause
potential or actual injury to the county’s employees and/or contractors, but
which is capable of being disposed of by sanitary landfill, including, but
without being limited to, furniture, bedding, white goods, metal cable, gypsum
board, bricks and blocks, concrete industrial process waste, asphalt materials,
liquid wastes including sludge from water or waste water treatment plants,
petroleum products, metal (other than containers), tree stumps, logs, brush,
pallets, and other scrap wood and construction debris.
      OPEN BURNING. Any fire wherein the products of combustion are emitted
directly into the outdoor atmosphere and are not directed thereto through a
stack or chimney, incinerator, or other similar devices.
      OPEN DUMP. Any facility or site where solid waste is disposed of that is
not a sanitary landfill and that is not a facility for the disposal of
hazardous waste, i.e. a solid waste disposal site that does not have a permit,
and/or does not comply with the rules set forth in the North Carolina Solid
Waste Management Rules, 15A NCAC 13b.
      PATHOLOGICAL WASTE. Human tissues, organs, and body parts, and the
carcasses and body parts of any animals that were known to have been exposed to
pathogens that are potentially dangerous to humans during research, were used
in the production of biologicals or in vivo testing of pharmaceuticals, or that
died with a known or suspected disease transmissible to humans.
      PERSON. An individual, corporation, company, association, partnership,
unit of local government, state agency, federal agency, or other legal entity.
      PLANNING DIRECTOR. The Director of the Davidson County Planning
Department or the Director’s authorized representative.
      PLASTIC BAG. A polyethylene or other heavy-duty plastic bag meeting the
National Sanitation Foundation standard of 1.5 mils and not exceeding 30
gallons capacity with a securing twist tie.
      PREMISES. A definite portion of real estate including its appurtenance, a
building, or part of a building.
      PROCESSING. Any technique designed to change the physical, chemical, or
biological character or composition of any solid waste so as to render it safe
for transport; amendable to recovery, storage or recycling; safe for disposal;
or reduced in volume or concentration.
      PUTRESCIBLE. Solid waste capable of being decomposed by microorganisms
with sufficient rapidity as to cause nuisances from odors and gases, such as
kitchen wastes, offal, and animal carcasses.
      RADIOACTIVE WASTE. Waste containing any material, whether solid, liquid,
or gas, that emits ionizing radiation spontaneously.
      RECYCLABLE MATERIAL. Those materials which are capable of being recycled
and which would otherwise be processed or disposed of as solid waste.
      RECYCLING. Any process by which solid waste, or materials which would
otherwise become solid waste, are collected, separated, or processed, and
reused or returned to the use in the form of raw materials or products.
      REFUSE. All nonputrescible wastes. Solid waste, other than garbage and
ashes, from residence, commercial establishments, and institutions.
      RESIDENTIAL WASTE. Solid waste originating from private households
(private single-family homes and apartments, condominiums and the like, not
institutional residential facilities). Solid waste from a place of residence
having three or more dwelling units is defined as COMMERCIAL SOLID WASTE.
      RESOURCE RECOVERY. The process of obtaining material or energy resources
from discarded solid waste that no longer has any useful life in its present
form and preparing the solid waste for recycling.
      SANITARY LANDFILL. A facility for disposal of solid waste on land in a
sanitary manner in accordance with the Solid Waste Management Rules 15A NCAC
138 adopted by the Division of Solid Waste Management of the North Carolina
Department of Environment, Health, and Natural Resources and Solid Waste
Management Law, Article I Part 2 remedies G.S. §§ 130A-17 to 130A-25 and
Article 9, G.S. §§ 130A-290 to 130A-390.86, and as amended from time to time.
      SCRAP TIRE. A tire that is no longer suitable for its original, intended
purpose because of wear, damage, or defect.
      SEPTAGE. Solid waste that is a fluid mixture of untreated and partially
treated sewage solids, liquids, and sludge of human or domestic origin that is
removed from a septic tank system.
      SHARPS. Needles, syringes, and scalpel blades.
      SLUDGE. Any solid, semisolid, or liquid waste generated from a municipal,
commercial, institutional, or industrial wastewater treatment plant, air
pollution control facility or any other waste having similar characteristics
and effects.
      SLURRY WASTE. A waste with high liquid content not easily dewatered.
      SOLID WASTE. Any hazardous or nonhazardous garbage, refuse, or sludge
from a waste treatment plant, water supply treatment plant, or air pollution
control facility, domestic sewage and sludges generated by the treatment
thereof in sanitary sewage collection, treatment, and disposal systems, and
other material that is either discarded or is being accumulated, stored, or
treated prior to being discarded, or has served its original intended use and
is generally discarded, including solid, liquid, semisolid, or contained
gaseous material resulting from industrial, institutional, commercial, and
agricultural operations, and from community activities. The term does not
include:
         (a)   Fecal waste from fowl or animals other than humans;
         (b)   Solid or dissolved material in:
            1.   Domestic sewage and sludges generated by treatment thereof in
sanitary sewage collection, treatment, and disposal systems which are
designated to discharge effluents to the surface waters;
            2.   Irrigation return flows; and
            3.   Wastewater discharges and the sludges incidental to and
generated by treatment which are point sources subject to permits granted under
402 of the Water Pollution Control Act, as amended (P.L. 92-500), and permits
granted under G.S. § 143-215.1 by the Environmental Management Commission.
However, any sludge that meets the criteria for hazardous waste under RCRA
shall also be a SOLID WASTE for the purposes of this chapter.
         (c)   Oils and other liquid hydrocarbons controlled under G.S. Chapter
143, Article 21A. However, any oils or other liquid hydrocarbons that meet the
criteria for hazardous waste under RCRA shall also be a SOLID WASTE for the
purposes of this chapter;
         (d)   Any source, special nuclear, or byproduct material as defined by
the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (42 U.S.C. 2011);
         (e)   Mining refuse covered by the North Carolina Mining Act, G.S.§§
74-46 through 74-68 and regulated by the North Carolina Mining Commission (as
defined under G.S. § 143B-290). However, any specific mining waste that meets
the criteria for hazardous waste under RCRA shall also be a SOLID WASTE for the
purposes of this chapter; and
         (f)   Recovered material.
      SOLID WASTE RECEPTACLES. Container used for the temporary storage of
solid waste while awaiting collection.
      SOLID WASTE RULES. The regulations governing solid waste management
adopted by the Solid Waste Section of the Department of Environment, Health,
and Natural Resources in accordance with EPA guidelines and other federal
regulations.
      SOURCE SEPARATION. Setting aside recyclable materials at their point of
generation by the generator.
      SPECIAL WASTE. Any solid waste that can require special handling and
management, including white goods, whole tires, used oils, lead-acid batteries,
medical waste, and appliances.
      USED OIL. Any oil which has been refined from crude oil or synthetic oil
and, as a result of use, storage, or handling, has become unsuitable for its
original purpose due to the presence of impurities or loss of original
properties, but which may be suitable for further use and is economically
recyclable.
      WASTE REDUCTION. The process of decreasing the quantity of materials and/
or products that must be disposed.
      WHITE GOODS. Refrigerators, ranges, water heaters, freezers, unit air
conditioners, washing machines, dishwashers, dryers, and other similar domestic
and commercial large appliances.
      YARD TRASH. Slid waste consisting solely of vegetative matter resulting
from landscaping maintenance.
   (B)   The definitions set forth in G.S. § 130A-290 which are not expressly
set forth in this chapter shall apply to and are hereby incorporated herein by
reference to this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-26-01; Ord. passed 2-25-14)
§ 50.02 APPLICABILITY OF FEDERAL AND STATE LAWS.
   The provisions of this chapter are intended, and shall be interpreted, to be
consistent with, and supplementary to, the North Carolina General Statutes,
state rules, and any county ordinance, regarding solid waste. To insure the
intent and interpretation, and in the event of ambiguity between the provisions
of this chapter and other laws, rules, or ordinances, the stricter of the
provisions shall apply. Any violation of the provisions shall also be a
violation of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-26-01; Ord. passed 2-25-14) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.03 STORAGE AND DISPOSAL.
   (A)   No owner, occupant, tenant, or lessee of any property may deposit,
store, or permit to accumulate any solid waste on his or her property that is
not stored or disposed of in a manner prescribed by this chapter.
   (B)   The owner, occupant, tenant, or lessee of any property shall remove or
cause to be removed all solid waste from his or her property at least once each
week, i.e. at least once each seven-day period.
   (C)   Garbage shall be stored only in a container that is durable, rust-
resistant, nonabsorbent, watertight, and easily cleaned, with a close-fitting,
fly-tight cover in place. Solid waste receptacles, as defined by this chapter,
may be used for storage provided they meet the requirements of this section.
Each container shall be kept clean so that no odor or other nuisance condition
exists.
   (D)   Refuse shall be sorted in a manner that will resist harborage to
rodents and vermin and will not create a fire hazard. Regulated refuse under
this section includes, but is not limited to, lumber, boxes, barrels, bottles,
cans, tires, paper, cardboard, rags, old furniture and other bulky waste, and
white goods. Useful materials, such as firewood and building materials, may be
stored on the premises, provided they ate sorted in a safe manner at a
reasonable height above ground.
   (E)   No owner, occupant, tenant, or lessee of any building or dwelling may
place or leave, or cause to be placed or left, outside the building or
dwelling, any bulky waste for longer than 72 hours, provided that the storage
of junk vehicles in accordance with
Chapter 151 shall not constitute a violation of this chapter.
   (F)   No owner, occupant, tenant, or lessee of any building or dwelling may
leave outside the building or dwelling, in a place accessible to children, any
abandoned or unattended icebox, refrigerator, freezer, or other receptacle that
has an airtight door without first removing the door.
   (G)   Solid waste shall be disposed of only in one of the following ways:
      (l)   In a landfill approved by the Division;
      (2)   In an incinerator that has obtained and possesses all required
local, state, and federal control permits;
      (3)   By any other method, including recycling and resource recovery,
that has been approved by the Division;
      (4)   A boxsite operated by Davidson County and transported to a landfill
approved by the Division; and
      (5)   In addition to the methods listed above, solid waste may be
disposed of in the solid waste receptacles at boxsites operated by the county,
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (H)   No person may discard, dispose, leave; or dump any solid waste on or
along any street or highway or on public or private property unless the solid
waste is placed in a receptacle or at a location designated for the deposit of
solid waste.
   (I)   No person shall intentionally throw, scatter, spill, place, cause, or
allow to be blown, scattered, spilled, thrown or placed or otherwise dispose of
any litter upon any public property or private property not owned by the
violator within Davidson County or into the waters of Davidson County
including, but not limited to, upon any public highway, public park, lake,
river, stream, campground, forest land, recreational area, mobile home park,
highway, road, street, or alley; the occurrence of any of the foregoing acts
resulting from transporting solid waste in a vehicle shall constitute a
violation.
   (J)   No person shall receive, store, cover, or otherwise accept for dumping
or disposal on property, any solid waste not generated on the property owned or
occupied by the person, except as herein authorized.
   (K)   Nothing in this chapter is intended to authorize the disposal of solid
waste in any manner prohibited by federal or state laws.
   (L)   Construction wastes must be disposed of at disposal sites approved and
permitted by the Division.
   (M)   Regulated medical, hazardous, and radioactive waste must be disposed
of according to written procedures approved by the Division.
   (N)   Any person collecting and transporting solid waste generated on the
person’s property for disposal at an approved disposal site must transport the
solid waste as follows: solid waste must be covered and the vehicle and
container used for collection and transportation of the solid waste shall be
covered, leak-proof, durable, and easily cleaned.
   (O)   All sharps shall be placed in a sealed, puncture-proof container prior
to disposal.
   (P)   Open burning of solid waste is prohibited.
   (Q)   A person operating or having operated an open dump for disposal of
solid waste or a person who owns land on which an open dump is or has been
operating shall immediately close the site in accordance with 15A NCAC 13B §
.0502.
   (R)   No person shall bury solid waste in earth or submerge solid waste in
water unless expressly permitted by this chapter or applicable federal and
state law and regulations.
(Ord. passed 6-26-01; Ord. passed 2-25-14) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.04 LANDFILL MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   The county sanitary landfill may be used for the disposal of solid
waste by county residents and nonresident property owners. The landfill shall
be open during business hours established by the Board of Commissioners. In
emergencies, the landfill may be opened for additional hours as directed by the
County Manager or the Manager’s representative, except when open during regular
business hours, the landfill shall be kept locked, and entry shall not be
permitted. Solid waste shall be disposed of at the landfill in the manner
according to procedures established by the Director of Public Services.
   (B)   The following waste may not be disposed of in the county sanitary
landfill or in any privately owned municipal solid waste landfill:
      (1)   Burning or smoldering materials, or any other materials that would
cause a fire hazard;
      (2)   Hazardous waste;
      (3)   Lead-acid batteries*;
      (4)   Liquid waste;
      (5)   Untreated regulated medical waste;
      (6)   Radioactive waste;
      (7)   Used oil*;
      (8)   Yard and wood waste;
      (9)   White goods*;
      (10)   Aluminum cans*; and
      (11)   Tires*.
      *Asterisk means: these items will be segregated from the waste stream and
recycled.
   (C)   (1)   The following wastes may be accepted on a conditional basis only
or may require special treatment before they are placed in the landfill.
         (a)   Asbestos. Accepted for disposal if properly packaged in
accordance with 40 C.F.R. 61 and G.S. § 150-B14 (double-bagged in grill polybag
and closed with a tie and a 24-hour notice is given).
         (b)   Animal carcasses. One hour notification prior to delivery but
not after 3:00 p.m.
         (c)   Barrels or drums. Both ends cut out and barrels and drums
flattened.
         (d)   Ashes. Accepted only when securely placed in plastic bags or
cardboard boxes prior to disposal.
      (2)   Conditionally acceptable wastes may be disposed of in accordance
with Division regulations and policies promulgated by the Director. Generators
of conditionally acceptable waste shall obtain prior approval from the landfill
office before transporting conditionally approved wastes to the landfill.
Additional disposal fees may be required on conditionally acceptable waste.
   (D)   (1)   The following wastes may be accepted at the landfill for the
purpose of recycling and require special handling for proper separation and
disposal. Disposal must be in compliance with state solid waste rules, federal
regulations, and applicable Davidson County Solid Waste Management precautions.
         (a)   Tires. Must lie separated and stacked in the designated area,
container, or trailer.
         (b)   White goods (appliances). Must be separated and stacked in the
designated area, container, or trailer.
         (c)   Scrap metals. Must be separated and deposited in the designated
area or container.
         (d)   Used oil. Must be motor oil only and be deposited in designated
containers.
         (e)   Used batteries. Must be placed in designated containers or
trailers.
      (2)   All recyclable material must be used, cleaned prior to deposit at
the landfill, and shall be placed in separate containers or areas.
   (E)   No person may loiter or rummage about the landfill or remove articles
therefrom.
   (F)   No person may deposit material at any point in the landfill except
where indicated by authorized employees of the landfill or by official signs.
   (G)   No person may discharge firearms, fireworks or explosives on landfill
property, except duly sworn law enforcement officers in the line of duty.
   (H)   The maximum speed of vehicles at the landfill is 25 miles per hour.
   (I)   Persons under the age of 12 years must remain inside vehicles while at
the landfill.
   (J)   No persons shall go upon or remain at the Davidson County landfill,
except to dispose of solid waste as permitted by this chapter, or to
participate in activities sponsored by Davidson County at the landfill. Any
person who goes upon or remains at the landfill, except as authorized by this
chapter, shall be considered a trespasser. The Director shall place or cause to
be placed appropriate signs at conspicuous places in the landfill to give
notice of the prohibition set forth in this section.
   (K)   The provisions of this section are applicable to all parts of the
county not within a city as defined in G.S. § 153A-1(1), provided that if a
city, as defined, has by resolution permitted this section or any part thereof
to be applicable within the city, it shall so apply. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, the provisions of this section are applicable to property of the
county used for governmental purposes and located within a city.
   (L)   All solid waste management activity described in this section is
subject to the restrictions imposed by the state and federal laws and
regulations. In the event of a conflict between the provisions of this chapter
and any state and federal law, the latter shall prevail.
(Ord. passed 6-26-01; Ord. passed 2-25-14) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.05 BOXSITE ORDINANCES, SOLID WASTE RECEPTACLES, AND DISPOSAL OF SOLID
WASTE.
   (A)   Solid waste receptacles are maintained at boxsites throughout the
county for the convenience of county residents, owned or leased by the county.
Except as otherwise provided in this section, disposal of solid waste at
boxsites shall be permitted and regulated in the same manner as disposal of
solid waste at the Davidson County landfill and only in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The following wastes may not be deposited in solid waste receptacles:
      (1)   Asbestos**;
      (2)   Burning or smoldering materials, ashes, or any other materials that
would create a fire hazard;
      (3)   Commercial waste;
      (4)   Construction waste;
      (5)   Hazardous waste;
      (6)   Industrial waste*;
      (7)   Institutional waste*;
      (8)   Lead-acid batteries*;
      (9)   Liquid waste;
      (10)   Radioactive waste;
      (l l)   Regulated medical waste;
      (12)   Tires*;
      (13)   Used oil***;
      (14)   White goods**;
      (15)   Yard waste;
      (16)   Sludges;
      (17)   Barrels* *;
      (18)   Sharps not properly contained;
      (19)   Bulky wastes other than furniture*;
      (20)   Large animal carcasses (50 pounds or more)*;
      (21)   Scrap metal**; and
      (22)   Aluminum cans**.
         Asterisk meanings:
         *   May be taken to the county landfill
         **   May be taken to the county landfill on a conditional basis
         ***   May be taken to the county landfill or to selected boxsites on a
conditional basis
   (C)   Solid waste intended for disposal at boxsites (solid waste receptacle)
shall be in plastic bags or suitable containers and deposited inside the
receptacle. No solid waste may be left at the boxsite outside of the boxsite
receptacles.
   (D)   No person may remove any item from a solid waste container, solid
waste receptacle, climb on or into a container receptacle, or damage any
container receptacle at a boxsite.
   (E)   No solid waste collectors shall deposit waste at county boxsites in
solid waste receptacles provided and maintained by the county.
   (F)   No person shall deposit solid waste in a boxsite (solid waste
receptacle) provided and maintained by Davidson County, unless the person is a
resident of Davidson County or owns property in Davidson County and is
depositing approved waste as defined in this chapter, from the property in
Davidson County. Any person that desires to deposit solid waste in a boxsite
(solid waste receptacle) may be required to present identification and/or
verification that the person is authorized to so deposit the waste pursuant to
the provisions of this chapter. The identification shall be presented to any
employee of the county designated to control the boxsite (solid waste
receptacle) sites or any individual placed in control of the boxsite (solid
waste receptacle) by virtue of contract or agreement with the county.
   (G)   No solid waste generated outside the boundaries of Davidson County may
be deposited at a boxsite (solid waste receptacle) provided and maintained by
the county.
   (H)   No person shall go upon or remain on the premises of real property on
which a boxsite (solid waste receptacle) is located, provided, and maintained
by the county, except to dispose of solid waste pursuant to the terns and
provisions of this chapter. Any person that goes upon and remains at a boxsite
(solid waste receptacle site) except to dispose of solid waste as perrnitted by
this chapter shall be considered a trespasser. The Director shall place, or
cause to be placed, an appropriate sign at conspicuous places at the boxsite to
give notice of the prohibition set forth in this section.
   (I)   Brown goods may be disposed of in the open top boxes solid waste
receptacles at the boxsites at reasonable times as set by the Director.
(Ord. passed 6-26-01; Ord. passed 2-25-14) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.06 SEPARATION OF RECYCLED MATERIALS.
   (A)   Each person who owns, leases, or manages a residence, residential
unit, or place of business, industry, commerce, or other place providing goods
or services, or institution, church, or school is encouraged to remove
recyclable materials from the solid waste generated as outlined in division (B)
below and make them available for recycling in division (C) below. Nothing in
this chapter is intended to prevent any person from donating or selling
recyclable materials to any other person.
   (B)   When available for recycling, all recyclable material shall be
separate from other solid waste. Recyclable material shall consist of the
following items and shall be prepared for recycling as directed.
      (1)   Glass. All brown, green, and clear glass shall be rinsed.
      (2)   Cans. Except for aluminum cans, all metal cans shall be rinsed, cut
out at both ends, the paper label removed, and flattened. Aluminum cans shall
be rinsed and flattened.
      (3)   Plastic milk jugs. All plastic milk jugs shall be rinsed and
flattened or crushed. The caps shall be removed.
      (4)   Plastic soft drink bottles. Bottles shall be rinsed, caps removed,
and flattened or crushed.
      (5)   Cardboard. Corrugated cardboard only (sandwich type), no pizza
boxes, single-ply boxes, waxed, or treated boxes. Boxes shall be flattened.
      (6)   Newsprint. Bundled but not tied; not in plastic bags or wet.
   (C)   All recyclable material, subject to change according to markets,
should be placed in the designated recycling containers provided by the county
at drop-off centers.
   (D)   Ownership of recyclable materials:
      (1)   After recyclable material has been placed in a designated container
at the drop-off collection center designated by the county or its authorized
agent, the recyclable material shall become the property of the county or its
authorized agent; and
      (2)   No person, other than a county employee or the county’s authorized
agent acting in behalf of the county may remove recyclable material from a
designated container that has been placed at a designated recycling location or
collection center.
(Ord. passed 6-26-01; Ord. passed 2-25-14) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.07 ILLEGAL STORAGE, COLLECTION, AND DISPOSAL OF SOLID WASTE.
   (A)   The storage, collection, and disposal of solid waste within the area
of jurisdiction of this chapter in a manner not permitted by this chapter, or
state and federal laws and regulations is prohibited. A violation of this
chapter shall subject the offender ‘to criminal prosecution, assessment of a
civil penalty, or other legal action as more particularly set forth in this
chapter.
   (B)   Littering within the area of jurisdiction of Davidson County of this
chapter is prohibited. A violation of this section shall subject the offender
to criminal prosecution, assessment of a civil penalty, or other legal action
as more particularly set forth in this chapter.
   (C)   No person shall place, solicit, or knowingly permit the placing of
solid waste on property which a person owns or leases, unless the solid waste
is generated on the premises and stored as provided in this chapter or unless
the property has been approved as a solid waste disposal site pursuant to this
chapter or the laws and regulations of the state. A violation of this section
shall subject the offender to criminal prosecution, assessment of a civil
penalty, or other legal action as more particularly set forth in this chapter.
   (D)   By the authority of the provisions of G.S. § 153A-140, the unlawful
storage, accumulation, or presence of solid waste on public or private property
in the area of jurisdiction of this chapter in an amount exceeding 50 pounds or
100 cubic feet is hereby claimed and declared, subject to the limitations set
forth in G .S. Chapter 106, Article 57, to be a public nuisance. The public
nuisance shall be abated as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-26-01; Ord. passed 2-25-14) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.08 ABATEMENT OF PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   (A)   Upon reasonable cause to believe that a public nuisance as defined in
§
50.07, exists, the Planning Director or his or her designee, upon not less than
ten days’ notice to the occupant and owner of the property on which the alleged
nuisance is located, shall hold a hearing to determine whether or not the
nuisance does, in fact, exist. If the hearing officer (Planning Director or
designee) makes a determination that a public nuisance exists, he or she shall
enter and serve upon the owner and occupant an order to remove, abate, or
remedy the nuisance within a reasonable period of time, but not less than 90
days. The order may be appealed by the owner or occupant to the General Court
of Justice of the State of North Carolina, Superior Court Division, by a
petition for review filed with the court no later than ten days following
service of the order. Such an appeal tolls the running of the time provided to
remove, abate, or remedy the nuisance, unless the court determines that the
appeal was made frivolously as provided in G.S. § 1A-1, Rule 11 of the North
Carolina Rules of Civil Procedure, or was otherwise made in violation of that
Rule.
   (B)   Upon failure of the owner or occupant of the property or of the person
responsible for placing the solid waste on the property to remove, abate, or
remedy the nuisance within the period the Hearing Officer has allowed, the
Planning Director shall remove, abate, or remedy the nuisance as provided in
the order and charge the cost thereof to the owner and occupant. If the expense
is not paid by the owner or occupant, it shall be a lien upon the land or on
premises where the nuisance arose and shall be collected as unpaid taxes.
(Ord. passed 6-26-01; Ord. passed 2-25-14)
§ 50.09 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   The Davidson County Board of Commissioners authorizes the administration and
enforcement of this chapter. The administration and enforcement of this chapter
shall be vested with the Davidson County Planning Director. Further, the
Davidson County Planning Department may employ individuals to operate as Solid
Waste Enforcement Officers, who shall have the authority and duty to perform
inspections, issue citations, assess penalties, and take enforcement actions
subject to the direction of the Planning Director.
(Ord. passed 6-26-01; Ord. passed 2-25-14)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Davidson County may exercise remedies for violation of any provision
of this chapter as allowed and authorized by G.S. § 153A-123 provides that
violation of a county ordinance is a misdemeanor, that the county may levy a
civil penalty for violations, and that the ordinance may be enforced by
equitable remedies such as injunction or by criminal process as any person,
firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor as described in G.S. § 14-4 or may be prosecuted
pursuant to G.S. § 14 -399 if applicable. Under G.S. § 14-4, each day’s
continuing violation shall be a separate and distinct offense.)
   (B)   A citation may be issued to any person if there is probable cause to
believe that the person has violated any provision of this chapter. Citations
so issued may be served upon the violator in person by the Solid Waste
Enforcement Officer or mailed to the person by certified mail if the person
cannot be readily found. Any citation so served or mailed shall direct the
violator to make payment of the fine on or before a specified day and hour to
the Davidson County Planning Department and to present evidence of the remedy
of any violation of this chapter within a period of not less than 72 hours
after service or delivery to the violator to the Davidson County Planning
Department. If served by certified mail, the violator shall have six days after
the return receipt date to respond to the citation. Appeals from any citation
or order may be addressed in writing to the Planning Director within the above
mentioned time frames.
   (C)   If the violator does not respond to the citation, the Solid Waste
Enforcement Officer shall forthwith proceed with enforcement remedies as
described in G.S. § 153A-123 or criminal sanctions as described in G.S. § 14-
4 or § 14-399 against the person.
   (D)   A warning may be issued by the Solid Waste Enforcement Officer without
fine when the officer is of the opinion that a violation of this chapter may be
remedied without the necessity of prosecution; however, a warning citation may
not be issued in the case where public health and/or safety are endangered.
   (E)   (1)   Civil penalties for any violation of this chapter are as
follows:
         (a)   First offense: $75;
         (b)   Second offense: $200; and
         (c)   Third offense: $300.
      (2)   A citation may be issued for multiple violations and the violator
assessed the sum of the penalties for each offense.
   (F)   A civil penalty of $500 may be assessed for a flagrant and willful
violation. A violation may constitute grounds for the Solid Waste Enforcement
Officer to seek injunctive relief.
(Ord. passed 6-26-01; Ord. passed 2-25-14)
CHAPTER 51: SEWERAGE SYSTEM
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Purpose
   
51.02   Definitions
   
51.03   Abbreviations
   
51.04   Confidential information
   
51.05   Disclaimer of liability
Sewer Connections
   
51.12   Permit
   
51.13   Connection fee
   
51.14   County supervision
   
51.15   New systems and connections
   
51.16   Specifications for installation of sewer systems in old buildings
   
51.17   Ground level alterations
   
51.18   Valve requirements
   
51.19   Prohibited connections
   
51.20   Maintenance
Sewer Service Extensions
   
51.31   Application; requirements and conditions
   
51.32   Investment by county; over-sizing reimbursement
   
51.33   Regulations concerning new developments
   
51.34   Commissioners may adopt any feasible plan
   
51.35   Extension of trunk sewers
   
51.36   Outfall sewers
   
51.37   Conformance with municipal requirements
Regulations
   
51.46   Damage and tampering prohibition
   
51.47   General discharge prohibitions
   
51.48   Specific pollutant limitations
   
51.49   Accidental discharge provisions
   
51.50   Precedence of other legislation
Administration
   
51.57   Sewer connection permit
   
51.58   Industrial wastewater discharge permits
   
51.59   Reporting requirements
   
51.60   Self-monitoring regulations
   
51.61   Monitoring and sampling by county
   
51.62   Pretreatment of industrial wastewaters
   
51.63   Employee notification of regulations
   
51.64   Trade names
Enforcement
   
51.71   Criteria constituting a violation
   
51.72   Actions following a violation
   
51.73   Penalties
   
51.74   Affirmative defenses to discharge violations
   
51.75   Conflict
Charges and Fees
   
51.81   Waste treatment cost review
   
51.82   Sewer connection fees
   
51.83   Sewer service charges
   
51.84   Surcharges
   
51.85   Charges for monitoring
   
51.86   Penalty fees
   
51.87   Payment deadline; penalties for failure to pay
   
51.88   Rates
   
51.89   Sewer service credit
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter sets forth requirements for all contributors to the
wastewater collection and treatment system for Davidson County, and enables the
county to comply with all applicable state and federal laws required by the
Clean Water Act and the General Pretreatment Regulations (40 C.F.R. 403).
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are as follows:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the collection
system and/or treatment works that will pass through the system, inadequately
treated, into receiving waters or the atmosphere, or that will otherwise be
incompatible with the wastewater treatment system.
      (2)   To prevent any introduction of pollutants into the wastewater
treatment system that will interfere with the operation of the system or will
contaminate the residuals.
      (3)   To improve the opportunity to recycle and/or reclaim wastewaters
and residuals from the system.
      (4)   To provide for equitable distribution of the cost of construction,
operation and maintenance of the wastewater treatment works.
      (5)   To protect both municipal personnel, who may be affected by sewage,
sludge and effluent in the course of their employment, as well as the general
public.
      (6)   To ensure that the municipality complies with its NPDES or non-
discharge permit conditions, residual use and disposal requirements, and any
other federal or state laws to which the municipal wastewater system is
subject.
   (C)   This chapter shall apply to all users of public sanitary sewer systems
for which funds have been provided by Davidson County for the construction of
all or part of such public sewer systems. By discharging wastewater into
county-funded systems, all users agree with terms and conditions established in
this chapter, as well as any permits, enforcement actions or orders issued
hereunder. Except as otherwise provided herein, the County Manager shall
administer, implement and enforce the provisions of these policies.
(Ord. passed 9-9-08)
§ 51.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the following terms,
words and phrases shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this
section. This chapter is gender-neutral and the masculine gender shall include
the feminine and vice-versa. The use of the singular shall be construed to
include the plural and the plural shall include the singular as indicated by
the context of its use. Definitions for other terms not specified in this
chapter shall come from Glossary, Water and Wastewater Control Engineering,
1981, APHA, ASCE, AWWA, WPCF or most recent edition. Abbreviations are defined
in §
51.03.
   ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE. An incident in which there is unintentional and
temporary noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards or the
provisions of this chapter.
   ACT or THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the
Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The Director of the Division of Environmental Management
of the North Carolina Department of Environment and Natural Resources, or his
or her designee.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF USER.
      (1)   If the industrial user is a corporation, AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE
shall mean the president, secretary or a vice-president of a principal business
function or any other person who performs similar policy- or decision-making
functions for the corporation.
      (2)   If the industrial user is a partnership or sole proprietorship, an
AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE shall mean a general partner or the proprietor,
respectively.
      (3)   If the industrial user is a federal, state or local government
facility, an AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE shall mean a director or highest
official appointed or designated to oversee the operation and performance of
the activities of the government facility, or their designee.
      (4)   The individuals described in divisions (1) through (3) above may
designate another authorized representative if the authorization is in writing,
the authorization specifies the individual or position responsible for the
overall operation of the facility from which the discharge originates or having
overall responsibility for environmental matters for the company, and the
written authorization is submitted to the county.
   AVERAGE FLOW.  The total flow in gallons in a normal operating day of 24
hours.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES. Practices, such as preventive maintenance,
scheduling of activities or process alterations, that enable the user to comply
with the provisions of this chapter or any applicable state and/or federal
guidelines.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND.  A standard test used in assessing wastewater
strength. The measure of decomposable organic material in domestic or
industrial wastewater as represented by the system utilized over a period of
five days, at 20°C, and as determined by the appropriate standard procedures.
   BYPASS. The intentional diversion of waste streams from any portion of a
user’s treatment facility.
   CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. Regulations promulgated by the State of
North Carolina or local agencies or by the EPA designated as national
categorical pretreatment standards or pretreatment standards.
   CATEGORICAL STANDARDS. National categorical pretreatment standards or
pretreatment standards.
   COMMISSIONERS.  The Davidson County Board of Commissioners.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANTS. Wastewater constituents for which the POTW was
designed or is operated to adequately treat.
   CONTRACTOR.  Any person or persons who transport or dispose of septage is a
septic tank contractor.
   CONTROL AUTHORITY. The County Manager of Davidson County, or his or her
authorized representatives.
   COUNTY.  Davidson County, North Carolina, or any duly authorized agent (s)
or official(s) acting on behalf of the county.
   DEVELOPER.  An individual or group of individuals that seeks to construct
new facilities on a property.
   DIRECTOR. The County Manager or the person designated by the county to
supervise the operation of the county’s wastewater collection and treatment
system, or his or her authorized representative(s) .
   EFFLUENT.  Sewage, water or other liquid flowing out of any basin, treatment
device or facility.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or EPA. The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency or, where appropriate, the term may also be used as a designation for
the administrator or other duly authorized official of that agency.
   FEDERAL REGISTER. A federal government periodical dealing with federal
legislation, published weekdays by the National Archives and Records Service.
   40 C.F.R. 403. Section 40, Part 403 of the Code of the Federal Register that
mandates protection of the environment.
   GARBAGE.  The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and/or serving of foods. It is composed largely of
putrescible organic matter and its natural moisture content.
   GRAB SAMPLE. A sample taken from a waste stream on a onetime basis, with no
regard to the flow in the waste stream, and over a period of time not to exceed
15 minutes.
   GREASE INTERCEPTOR OR GREASE TRAP. A pretreatment device designed and
installed to separate fats, oils and grease from wastewater.
   INDIVIDUAL IN RESPONSIBLE CHARGE. The person at the local level who is in
charge of the pretreatment facility and whose responsibility it is to ensure
that the wastewater discharge is in compliance with this chapter and state and
federal requirements.
   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any user of a publicly owned treatment works identified in
the U.S. Standard Industrial Classification Manual, or latest revision under
the following divisions:
      Division A - Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing;
      Division B - Mining Division;
      D - Manufacturing;
      Division E - Transportation, Communications, Electric, Gas and Sanitary
Services;
      Division I - Services;
      Division J - Public Administration;
      Division K - Nonclassifiable Establishments.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE CONTROL. A section of the Public Works Department that is
in charge of controlling industrial discharges to the sewer system and
supervising the industrial pretreatment program.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER.  All water-carried wastes and wastewater, excluding
domestic wastewater and unpolluted water. Includes all wastewater from any
producing, manufacturing, processing, institutional, commercial, agricultural
and/or other operations where the wastewater discharged includes wastes of
nonhuman origin.
   INFLOW/INFILTRATION.  INFLOW is the result of extraneous water entering the
sewer system. INFLOW includes water discharged into service connections and
sewer pipes from foundation and roof drains, outdoor paved areas, unpolluted
cooling water from air conditioners, and unpolluted discharges from businesses
and industries. INFILTRATION is the entry of water into the sewer system from
surrounding soil. Common points of entry include broken pipe and defective
joints in the pipe or walls of manholes. INFILTRATION may result from sewers
being laid below the groundwater table or from saturation of the soil by rain
or irrigation water.
   INFLUENT. Sewage, water or other liquid flowing into any basin, treatment
device or facility.
   INSTANTANEOUS FLOW RATE. The flow rate at any given moment, measured in
gallons per day.
   INTERFERENCE. The inhibition or disruption of the POTW treatment processes,
operations or its sludge process, use or disposal, which causes or contributes
to a violation of any requirement of the POTW’s NPDES or non-discharge permit,
or prevents sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with specified
applicable state and federal statutes, regulations or permits. The term
includes prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal by the POTW in accordance
with Section 405 of the Act (33 U.S.C. 1345), or any criteria, guidelines or
regulations developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA) (42
U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.), the Clean Air Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act,
the Marine Protection Research and Sanctuary Act (MPRSA), or more stringent
state criteria (including those contained in any state sludge management plan
prepared pursuant to Title IV of SWDA) applicable to the method of disposal or
use employed by the POTW.
   MAY. Is permissive.
   MEDICAL WASTE. Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood
products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes and dialysis
wastes.
   NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD or CATEGORICAL STANDARD. Any
regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by EPA in
accordance with Section 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317), which
applies to a specific category of industrial users and which appears in 40
C.F.R., Ch. 1, Subch. N, pts. 405-471.
   NATIONAL PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD or PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD.
Absolute prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances; these
prohibitions appear in §
51.48 and are developed under the authority of Section 307(b) of the Act and 40
C.F.R. § 403.5.
   NEW SOURCE.
      (1)   Any building, structure, facility or installation from which there
may be a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced after the
publication of proposed categorical pretreatment standards under Section 307(c)
of the Act which will be applicable to such source if such standards are
thereafter promulgated in accordance with Section 307(c), provided that:
         (a)   The building, structure, facility or installation is constructed
at a site at which no other source is located; or
         (b)   The building, structure, facility or installation totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source; or
         (c)   The production or wastewater-generating processes of the
building, structure, facility or installation are substantially independent of
an existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source, should
be considered.
      (2)   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located
results in a modification rather than a new source if the construction does not
create a new building, structure, facility or installation meeting the criteria
of division (l)(a) or (l)(b) above, but otherwise alters, replaces or adds to
existing process or production equipment.
      (3)   For purposes of this definition, construction of a new source has
commenced if the owner or operator has:
         (a)   Begun, or caused to begin, as part of a continuous on-site
construction program:
            1.   Any placement, assembly or installation of facilities or
equipment; or
            2.   Significant site preparation work, including clearing,
excavation or removal of existing buildings, structures or facilities,
necessary for the placement, assembly or installation of new source facilities
or equipment; or
         (b)   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase
of facilities or equipment intended to be used in its operation within a
reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts that can be terminated or
modified without substantial loss and contracts for feasibility, engineering
and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation under this
definition.
   NONCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANTS. Those pollutants that are forbidden or regulated
by national pretreatment standards, that will pass through a POTW inadequately
treated, that interfere with the POTW operations or contaminate the resulting
residuals, or that can injure personnel.
   NONCONTACT COOLING WATER. Water used for cooling that does not come into
direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product or
finished product.
   NORMAL OPERATING DAY. A 24-hour day in which the standard and routine
operations and work of the facility are conducted. It would include, but is not
limited to: daily cleaning, routine maintenance and production. It would not
include: work stoppages, scheduled and unscheduled shutdowns, holiday
schedules, major cleanups and the like.
   NORMAL SEWAGE. Waters having the following characteristics:
      BOD5 - 1,668 pounds per million gallons (200 mg/l) or less;
      SS - 1,668 pounds per million gallons (200 mg/1) or less;
      Oil and grease - (Hydrocarbon) 834 pounds per million gallons (100 mg/1)
or less; and
      pH - Not less than 5.0 and not more than 10.0 units.
   NORTH CAROLINA PLUMBING CODE. The most recent edition of the North Carolina
State Building Code, entitled Plumbing, published by the North Carolina
Building Code Council and the North Carolina Department of Insurance.
   OIL AND GREASE. Any material (animal, vegetable or hydrocarbon) that is
extractable from an acidified sample of a waste by Freon or other designated
solvents, and as determined by the appropriate standard procedure.
      ANIMAL/VEGETABLE OIL AND GREASE. The oil and grease apart from that
differentiated by Method 502 E of Standard of Methods for Examination of Water
and Wastewater, 17th Edition.
      HYDROCARBON OIL AND GREASE. That oil and grease differentiated by Method
502 E of Standard of Methods for Examination of Water and Wastewater, 17th
Edition.
   OUTFALL SEWER. An underground conduit or pipe lying in easements across
private property and in areas other than street rights-of-way. The primary
purpose of an outfall sewer is to collect sewage flow from street sewers or
other outfall sewers, and to convey it further downstream to another outfall or
trunk sewer network. While not strictly prohibited, it is neither desired nor
advisable to utilize outfall sewers as the primary connection point for service
laterals from buildings or structures unless there is no other economically
feasible method of providing sewer service to a property.
   PASS-THROUGH. A discharge that exits the POTW into waters of the state in
quantities or concentrations that, alone or with discharges from other sources,
causes a violation, including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a
violation, of the POTW’s NPDES or non-discharge permit, or a downstream water
quality standard.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint-stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity or any other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agents or
assigns. This definition includes all federal, state and local government
entities.
   pH. The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion
concentration, expressed in moles per liter, that indicates the degree of
acidity or alkalinity of a substance. A pH value of 7.0 is neutral, being
neither acid nor alkaline. Values below 7.0 are acid and those above 7.0 are
alkaline.
   POLLUTANT. Any “waste” as defined in G.S. § 143-213(18) and dredged spoil,
solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions,
medical wastes, chemical wastes, biological materials, radioactive materials,
heat, wrecked or discarded equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt and industrial,
municipal and agricultural waste, and certain characteristics of wastewater
(e.g., pH, temperature, TSS, turbidity, color, BOD, COD, metals, toxicity or
odor).
   PRETREATMENT or TREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the
elimination of pollutants or the alteration of the nature of pollutant
properties in wastewater prior to, or in lieu of, discharging or otherwise
introducing such pollution into a POTW. The reduction or alteration can be
obtained by physical, chemical or biological processes or a process changes or
other means, except by diluting the concentration of the pollutants unless
allowed by an applicable, pretreatment standard.
   PRETREATMENT PROGRAM.  The program for the control of pollutants introduced
into the POTW from non-domestic sources developed by the county in compliance
with 40 C.F.R. 403.8, and approved by the approval authority as authorized by
G.S. § 143-215.3(a)(14) in accordance with 40 C.F.R. 403.11.
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS.  Any substantive or procedural requirement
related to pretreatment, other than a pretreatment standard.
   PRETREATMENT STANDARD.  Any regulation containing pollutant discharge limits
promulgated by the State of North Carolina or local agencies or by the EPA in
accordance with Section 307(b) and (c) of the Act.
   PRIVIES.  Latrines, outhouses or any other permanently installed outdoor
water closets.
   PROPER CONNECTIONS.  Those sewer pipe connections made in accordance with
the North Carolina Plumbing Code or as stipulated by the Director.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE.  Wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been so shredded that all particles will be
carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public sewers,
with no particle greater than one-quarter inch in any dimension.
   QUALIFIED LABORATORY.
      (1)   For commercial laboratories, a laboratory accepted and approved by
the North Carolina Department of Environment, Health and Natural Resources
(NCDENR) and also approved by the Director.
      (2)   For all other laboratories, including in-house laboratories, a
laboratory accepted and approved by the Director.
   RESIDUALS. The solid or semi-solid waste generated from a biological
wastewater treatment facility with a NPDES permit that is owned or operated by
the Commissioners.
   SANITARY SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries domestic waste and/or
industrial wastes, and to which storm, surface, ground waters and unpolluted
waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SCUM. A filmy layer of matter on the surface of wastewater, including
materials that adhere to POTW structures.
   SEPTAGE. The sludge produced in individual domestic on-site wastewater
disposal systems, such as septic tanks and cesspools.
   SERVICE LATERAL. The underground branch pipe connecting buildings or other
structures to a street sewer, outfall sewer, trunk sewer or other collecting
sewerage conduit, for the purpose of conveying wastewater from the point of
origin within a building to the main collecting sewer conduit. SERVICE LATERALS
may be of varying sizes, but are usually a minimum four inches diameter and
seldom are larger than eight inches in diameter. SERVICE LATERALS may also be
referred to as “building sewers”, “building connections” or “laterals”.
   SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE. Substantial physical damage to property, damage to
the user’s treatment facilities that causes them to become inoperable, or
substantial and permanent loss of natural resources that can reasonably be
expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE does not
mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT.  Any arrangement of devices, equipment or structures
used for treating sewage.
   SEWER CONNECTION. A sewer pipeline, normally a four-inch pipe, running
laterally from a street sewer, an off-street sewer, outfall sewer or a trunk
sewer to an individual tract, lot or parcel of
land to serve one or more houses or other buildings, whether or not connected
to any house or building.
   SEWER SYSTEM. The structures, equipment and processes required to collect,
carry away and treat domestic and industrial wastes, and dispose of the
effluent.
   SHALL. Is mandatory.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER. Any industrial user of the wastewater disposal
system that:
      (1)   Discharges an average of 25,000 gallons or more per day of process
wastewater to the POTW (excluding sanitary, noncontact-cooling and boiler-
blowdown wastewaters); or
      (2)   Contributes more than 5% of the design flow of the POTW treatment
plant, or more than 5% of the maximum allowable headworks loading of the POTW
treatment plant for any pollutant of concern; or
      (3)   Is required to meet a national categorical pretreatment standard;
or
      (4)   Is, regardless of divisions (1), (2) and (3) of this definition,
otherwise determined by the control authority to have a reasonable potential
for adversely affecting the POTW’s operation, or for violating any pretreatment
standard or requirement or receiving stream standard, or to limit the POTW’s
sludge disposal options.
   SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE or REPORTABLE NONCOMPLIANCE. Noncompliance defined
as follows:
      (1)   Violations of wastewater discharge limits.
         (a)   CHRONIC VIOLATIONS. Sixty-six per cent or more of the
measurements exceed (by any magnitude) the same daily maximum limit or the same
average limit in a six-month period.
         (b)   TECHNICAL REVIEW CRITERIA (TRC) VIOLATIONS. Thirty-three per
cent or more of the measurements are more than the TRC times the limit (maximum
or average) in a six-month period. There are two groups of TRCs: for
conventional pollutants BOD, TSS, fats, oil and grease, TRC = 1.4; for all
other pollutants, TRC = 1.2.
         (c)   Any other violation(s) of an effluent limit (average or daily
maximum) that the control
authority believes has caused, alone or in combination with other discharges,
interference or pass-through; or endangered the health of the sewage treatment
plant personnel or the public.
         (d)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent
endangerment to human health/welfare or to the environment, and has resulted in
the POTW’s exercise of its emergency authority to halt or prevent such a
discharge.
      (2)   Violations of compliance schedule milestones, contained in a
pretreatment permit or enforcement order, for starting construction, completing
construction and attaining final compliance by 90 days or more after the
schedule date.
      (3)   Failure to provide reports for compliance schedule, self-monitoring
data, baseline monitoring reports, 90-day compliance reports and periodic
compliance reports within 30 days from the due date.
      (4)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance.
      (5)   Any other, violation or group of violations that the control
authority considers to be significant.
   SLUDGE. The solid or semi-solid waste resulting from chemical treatment,
coagulation, flocculation, sedimentation, flotation, precipitation, filtration
and/or biological oxidation of water or wastewater.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial wastes that, in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds, for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes, five times the average 24-hour flows
or concentration during normal operating day, or that, in the opinion of the
Director, adversely affects the sewer system.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION CODE.  A four-digit number signifying a
particular type of establishment identified in the U.S. Standard Industrial
Classification Manual, or latest edition.
   STANDARD PROCEDURES.  Those methods outlined in the most recent edition of
the EPA manual Methods for Chemical Analysis of Water and Wastes, and/or the
APHA, AWWA, WPCF publication Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater, or in 40 C.F.R. 136.
   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A pipe or conduit designed, constructed and
intended to carry stormwater, surface waters, drainage and other unpolluted
waters, but not sewage or industrial wastes.
   STORMWATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom.
   STREET SEWER.  Underground conduit or pipe, lying within either private or
public dedicated rights-of-way, that serves as the primary collection device
for sewage flow emanating from buildings and structures by means of individual
service laterals. STREET SEWERS may be of a variety of sizes (size is normally
a minimum of eight inches in diameter) and may also be referred to as “street
mains” or “local sewers”. STREET SEWERS are almost exclusively reserved for the
collection of polluted wastewaters to be conveyed to a wastewater treatment
facility.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in, water, sewage or other liquids; solids that are not dissolved
and are measured by the appropriate standard procedures.
   TOXIC SUBSTANCES. Any substance or mixture, whether gaseous, liquid or
solid, that, when discharged into the sewer system, may tend to interfere with
any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to human beings or
animals, inhibit aquatic life, or create a hazard to recreation in the
receiving waters of the effluent from the sewage treatment plant.
   TRUNK SEWER. A major outfall installed along the valley line of a watershed
to serve as a collector for street sewers and outfall lines serving
subdivisions and developed property within an entire watershed. While not
strictly prohibited, it is neither desired nor advisable to utilize TRUNK
SEWERS as the primary connection point for service laterals from buildings or
structures, unless there is no other economically feasible method of providing
sewer service to a property.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER.  Water whose discharge will not cause any violation of
receiving water standards of the State of North Carolina.
   UPSET.  An exceptional incident in which there is unintentional and
temporary noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards or the
provisions of this chapter because of factors beyond the control of the
industrial user. An UPSET does not include noncompliance to the extent caused
by operational error of improperly designed treatment facilities, inadequate
treatment facilities, lack of preventive maintenance, or careless or improper
operation.
   USER.  An individual, establishment or industry using any part of the sewer
system.
   WASTEWATER.  The liquid and water-carried industrial or domestic wastes,
whether treated or untreated, from dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial
facilities and institutions, together with any inflow and infiltration that may
be present, which is discharged into or permitted to enter the county’s
treatment works.
   WATER CLOSETS. Any self-contained toilets, including those in recreational
vehicles and portable units.
   WATERS OF THE STATE.  All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, watercourse
waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage
systems and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface or underground,
natural or artificial, public or private, that are contained within, flow
through or border upon the state or any portion thereof.
(Ord. passed 9-9-08)
§ 51.03 ABBREVIATIONS.
   The following abbreviations, when used in this chapter, shall have the
designated meanings:
   BOD - Biochemical oxygen demand
   C.F.R. - Code of Federal Regulations
   COD - Chemical oxygen demand
   EPA - Environmental Protection Agency
   gpd - Gallons per day
   G.S. - North Carolina General Statutes
   I/I - Inflow and infiltration
   IWC - Industrial waste control
   l - Liter
   mg - Milligrams
   mg/l - Milligrams per liter
   NPDES - National pollutant discharge elimination system
   O/G - Oil and grease
   O & M - Operation and maintenance
   POTW - Publicly owned treatment works
   RCRA - Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
   SIC - Standard industrial classification
   SS - Suspended solids
   SWDA - Solid Waste Disposal Act
   2012 S-11
   TSS - Total suspended solids
   TKN - Total Kjeldahl nitrogen
   U.S.C. - United States Code
(Ord. passed 9-9-08)
§ 51.04 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, questionnaires,
permit applications, permits and monitoring programs, and from inspections
shall be available to the public or other governmental agency without
restriction, unless the user specifically requests and is able to demonstrate,
to the satisfaction of the Director, that the release of such information would
divulge information, processes or methods of production entitled to protection
as trade secrets of the user. Any such request must be asserted at the time of
submission of information or data.
   (B)   When requested by the person furnishing a report, the portions of a
report that might disclose trade secret processes shall not be made available
for inspection by the public, but shall be made available upon written request
to governmental agencies for uses related to this chapter, the National
Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit, non-discharge permit
and/or the pretreatment programs; provided, however, that such portions of a
report shall be available for use by the state or any state agency in judicial
review or enforcement proceedings involving the person furnishing the report.
   (C)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics will not be recognized as
confidential information.
   (D)   All records relating to compliance with pretreatment standards shall
be made available to officials of the state and EPA upon request.
(Ord. passed 9-9-08)
§ 51.05 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   Neither the county nor the Board of County Commissioners shall be liable to
any person for failure to furnish sewer service for any purpose or under any
conditions, or for the quantity or quality of the service furnished, or for
damage from discontinuance of service. All connections and service are subject
to these provisions.
(Ord. passed 9-9-08)
SEWER CONNECTIONS
§ 51. 12 PERMIT.
   All persons connecting to the county sewer system, shall obtain a permit
pursuant to §
51.57.
(Ord. passed 9-9-08)
§ 51.13 CONNECTION FEE.
   The fee charged for individual private sewer connection, shall be in
accordance with the schedule set forth under §
51.88.
(Ord. passed 9-9-08)
§ 51.14 COUNTY SUPERVISION.
   All sewer connections in their entirety, including the replacement of
pavement over trenches, between the sewer in a public street and the cleanout
fitting at the curb line, shall be made by the county after the permit is
issued. This shall apply to all sewer connections except those installed by
contractors for new developments, in which case the work and connections shall
be under the supervision of the Director.
(Ord. passed 9-9-08)
§ 51.15 NEW SYSTEMS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   New sewer connection applicants who discharge non-domestic wastes will
be required to have an approved sampling point prior to connection.
   (B)   All connections for sewers on private property shall be inspected by
the Director, or his or her representative(s), before the trench is filled,
whether the pipes have been run within the building line or not. Sewer pipes or
main drains are not to be raised, lowered or otherwise changed except under the
authorization of the Director.
   (C)   The plumbing system of each new building and of new work installed in
an existing building on premises abutting on a street in which there is a
sanitary sewer shall be separate from and independent of that of any other
building, and every building shall have an independent connection with a
sanitary sewer where available, except as provided below:
      (1)   Exception.
         (a)   When one building stands in the rear of another building on a
common interior lot, and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to
the rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the
house drain from the front building may be extended to the rear building and
the whole will be considered as one house drain.
         (b)   A common sewer connection will be permitted to serve more than
one building in the following categories:
            1.   Apartments;
            2.   Townhouse developments;
            3.   Condominium developments;
            4.   Planned unit developments;
            5.   Hotels, motels;
            6.   Hospitals;
            7.   Warehouses, industrial buildings engaging in one business
only;
            8.   Schools;
            9.   Mobile home parks;
            10.   Shopping centers;
            11.   Churches;
            12.   Other buildings under common management.
      (2)   A common sewer connection, including a private sewer collection
system, will be permitted to serve the above categories of buildings meeting
the following minimum requirements:
         (a)   The building or buildings to be served are in compliance with
the county’s Zoning Ordinance and subdivision regulations.
         (b)   The building permit and plat show a single owner or several
owners with a common management agreement, and indicate that the complex of
buildings will be constructed on a single tract.
         (c)   All sewer construction within easements shall be in accordance
with county, state and federal standards and specifications, and all other
construction shall be in accordance with the state plumbing code. Any
construction that requires only cleanouts to be installed shall be performed by
a licensed master plumber or licensed utility contractor. All construction
requiring manholes will be performed by a licensed utility contractor. The
owners or management of such complexes shall remain the owners of the private
sanitary sewer systems, and be responsible for their operation and maintenance.
         (d)   Should a building within such a complex be conveyed to a new
owner without a common management contract, the Commissioners shall require a
sewer connection from that building to the public main.
   (D)   It is the general policy of the county to provide for the expansion of
sewers by apportioning the costs of the project to the benefited properties. In
applying this chapter, the Board may:
      (1)   Utilize the procedure of special assessment as provided in G.S. Ch.
153A, Art. 9;
      (2)   Establish a fee in lieu assessment, to be collected prior to
connection, consisting of:
         (a)   An equitable, mathematical procedure similar to the bases for
making assessments as found in G.S. § 153A-186, to represent local sewer main
costs;
         (b)   A capital recovery fee, as provided in §
51.82(B) herein, to represent trunk or outfall sewer costs;
         (c)   A connection fee for the furnishing of an individual service
lateral connection, to represent cost of providing the individual laterals; and
         (d)   A capacity fee, if applicable, to the owner of the wastewater
treatment plant serving the property, to represent the cost of providing a
treatment facility.
      (3)   Pay for the project, whether in part or in whole, as a general
obligation to all of the taxable property in the county.
(Ord. passed 9-9-08)
§ 51.16 SPECIFICATIONS FOR INSTALLATION OF SEWER SYSTEMS IN OLD BUILDINGS.
   When and if it becomes necessary to install sewer systems in old buildings,
the following specifications must be complied with:
   (A)   If property is under one ownership, a maximum of two separate
buildings may be connected to a four-inch or six-inch sewer connection. When
and if the ownership of these two buildings shall be divided, a separate
connection must be provided for each building.
   (B)   If more than two buildings are under one ownership and it is desired
to drain the waste from these buildings to the sanitary sewer at a single
point, a private sewer must be installed at the property owner’s expense. The
private sewer must be built in accordance with county specifications for
sanitary sewers. The property owner must also obtain and record a permanent
easement for the maintenance and operation of such private sewer. The property
owner shall be responsible for the operation and maintenance of such private
sewer.
(Ord. passed 9-9-08)
§ 51.17 GROUND LEVEL ALTERATIONS.
   The county shall be notified by the property owner of any changes desired to
be made by the property owner that will alter the existing ground elevations
within the street right-of-way, and permission must be obtained by such
property owner from the Director for making such alterations. The entire cost
of doing such work, including the adjustments to existing water meter boxes,
sewer connections, cleanout fittings, or any of them, will be borne by the
property owner.
(Ord. passed 9-9-08)
§ 51.18 VALVE REQUIREMENTS.
   All plumbing fixtures or outlets connected with the sanitary sewer that are
located below the level of the top of the first upstream manhole shall be
equipped with an approved backwater device or the house sewer shall be so
equipped.
(Ord. passed 9-9-08)
§ 51.19 PROHIBITED CONNECTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to directly or indirectly connect, or
permit the connection of, any open gutter, septic tank, privy vault or
rainwater conductor to any sanitary sewer.
(Ord. passed 9-9-08)
§ 51.20 MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any house sewer, house drain or connection with any main
sewer or common drain becomes clogged, broken, out-of-order or detrimental to
the use of the sewer or other drain, or unfit for the purpose of drainage, the
owner, agent, occupant or person having charge of any building or premises
drained through such defective connection shall, when directed by the Director
or a health officer, within five days after notice in writing, reconstruct or
repair such sewer, drain or connection as the condition of same may require.
   (B)   The county will maintain sewer services from the main line to the
curbline or right-of-way, depending on the location of the county’s cleanout,
to be located as directed by county.
(Ord. passed 9-9-08)
SANITARY SEWER EXTENSIONS
§ 51.31 APPLICATION; REQUIREMENTS AND CONDITIONS.
   All persons desiring to construct sewer improvements and to connect same
with the sewer system of the county shall make written application for
permission to the Director. All such applications for sewer improvements, to be
constructed and connected to the sewer system of the county, shall be subject
to the following:
   (A)   All sewer improvements/extensions shall be designed and installed in
accordance with the most restrictive of standards, specifications and
requirements of the county, the city/utility treating the collected sewage or
NCDENR.
   (B)   The applicant shall employ, at his or her expense, a licensed
professional engineer to prepare plans and specifications of the proposed
improvement. The engineer shall submit all necessary documents to the county
and NCDENR for approval. The applicant shall further engage and authorize the
engineer to:
      (1)   Observe the project during construction;
      (2)   Provide, upon completion of the project, an engineer’s
certification of substantial compliance to assure that the constructed sewer
system conforms to the construction plans and specifications;
      (3)   Prepare record as-built drawings and submit these record drawings
to the county; and
      (4)   Submit to NCDENR the appropriate certifications and documents as
required by state and local regulations.
   (C)   The applicant shall engage a licensed utility contractor, acceptable
to and approved by the county, to construct the proposed sewer project,
including all appurtenances.
   (D)   All properties connected to the county sewer system shall be subject
to a capital recovery fee as described in §
51.82.
   (E)   The applicant shall pay a construction plan review fee and a
construction inspection review fee as specified in §
51.88.
   (F)   As-built drawings, on mylar medium, plus an electronic copy in a
format acceptable to the county, shall be furnished for all sewer
installations. These record drawings shall be tied to the North Carolina Grid
Coordinates, and shall show the horizontal and vertical location of the sewer
and appurtenances, other than service laterals on private property.
   (G)   The applicant shall pay, in addition to all applicable connection fees
and capital recovery fees, all costs involved in making the extension, except
such portions of the cost of trunk sewers as the county may agree to bear.
   (H)   All sewer mains and line-extensions of the county sewer system, except
service laterals on private property, shall become the property of the county
without cost. Such mains and lines shall be located within dedicated public
rights-of-way or within easements, shown on a recorded plat or in a recorded
deed, and recorded in the county public registry. The county shall have the
right to operate, maintain, inspect, repair and replace such mains and lines.
   (I)   All risks shall be assumed by the applicant and the owners of the
property being supplied with sewer service. The County Board of Commissioners
shall not be responsible for any damages or injury to property by reason of
such sewer system, its construction, maintenance or repair. The County Board of
Commissioners shall not be liable to any person, firm or corporation, for
failure to supply sewer service.
   (J)   All requests for extensions to the sewer system of the county shall be
submitted, in writing, to the county, and shall be reviewed and approved by the
Commissioners before construction of any such sewer improvement shall be
initiated.
   (K)   Any subdivision to which or in which the sewer system is to be
extended must be approved by the County Planning Board and the Director.
   (L)   All agreements with regard to sewer extensions shall be approved by
the County Attorney as to form and legality. Any permit to make any such
extension or connection shall not be transferable and shall be limited to the
time stated therein.
(Ord. passed 9-9-08)
§ 51.32 INVESTMENT BY COUNTY; OVER-SIZING REIMBURSEMENT.
   The county may make an investment in sanitary sewers installed within the
system for additional costs of mains larger than the minimum eight-inch main,
if the additional size is of benefit to the county and is required by the
Director. Whenever over-sizing is required by the Director:
   (A)   The county and the applicant shall enter into an agreement (prior to
approval of the sewer project) providing for:
      (1)   The division of costs between county and applicant;
      (2)   The terms and length of time for reimbursement.
   (B)   The applicant shall cause his or her engineer to include the required
over-sizing in the construction documents.
   (C)   The sewer construction contract shall be let in accord with provisions
of §
51.35.
(Ord. passed 9-9-08)
§ 51.33 REGULATIONS CONCERNING NEW DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   The county shall require that all streets in a new development to be
served by the county sewer system must be developed in accordance with the
county planning ordinance and constructed in accordance with NCDOT
requirements.
   (B)   In the case of new developments, the county shall require the
developer to bring the grade of proposed streets reasonably close to the final
grade to be established before construction of the sewer system referred to
herein is begun.
   (C)   An applicant for sewer extension shall be required to furnish the
county a complete plan of his or her proposed development, including profiles,
with established grades shown thereon. All plans shall be on the sheet size,
scale and sheet format as required by the county.
   (D)   The applicant shall dedicate through his or her property, without cost
to the county, the necessary rights-of-way for the proposed extension
thereunder.
   (E)   The applicant shall extend the sewer system completely through the
development being served to the property’s upstream boundaries unless the
property is the upstream-most property, in which case the Director may grant an
exception.
   (F)   Upon completion of construction of the sewer, as evidenced by the
engineer’s certificate of compliance referred to in §
51.31, and as approved by the Director, the sewer system extension shall be the
property of Davidson County upon:
      (1)   The submission of approved as-built plans to Director;
      (2)   The submission of easement descriptions, together with evidence of
recordation, to the Director;
      (3)   The submission to the Director of contract-closeout documents:
         (a)   Contractor’s waiver of lien;
         (b)   Contractor’s affidavit of payment of materials and labor; and
         (c)   Assignment and transfer of all right title, easements and
interest of the applicant to Davidson County.
(Ord. passed 9-9-08)
§ 51.34 COMMISSIONERS MAY ADOPT ANY FEASIBLE PLAN.
   With respect to any sewer extension project, no section of this subchapter
shall be construed to prevent the Commissioners from adopting any economically
feasible plan or policy that best facilitates the completion of that project.
(Ord. passed 9-9-08)
§ 51.35 EXTENSION OF TRUNK SEWERS.
   Applicants for sewer extensions considered trunk sewers may be granted
permission to construct the trunk sewer extension, subject to the following
conditions:
   (A)   The contract for the trunk sewer shall be let by the applicant’s
engineer in a format acceptable to the county, and shall be based on plans and
specifications prepared in accordance with §
51.33. A county representative shall be present at the bid opening and a
minimum of three bids must be obtained.
   (B)   It shall be the applicant’s responsibility and expense to obtain all
easements/right-of ways required for the sewer extension.
      (1)   In the event that the easements/rights-of-way cannot be obtained by
the applicant, the applicant may appeal to the Board of Commissioners for its
assistance.
      (2)   The Board of Commissioners, at its sole discretion, shall determine
if the extension warrants its participation.
      (3)   Under either scenario, the entire expense of the easements/rights-
of-way and all acquisition cost shall be borne by the applicant.
   (C)   The county will finance the difference between the cost of
constructing an eight-inch sewer and the cost of constructing an oversized
sewer required by the county according to §
51.32.
   (D)   The trunk sewer and easements therefor shall be the property of
Davidson County; and all sewer mains and lines connected therewith and all
appurtenances thereto, together with the easements necessary for the operation
and maintenance of all such sewer mains and lines, shall be the property of
Davidson County, from the completion thereof and acceptance of same by the
county as described in §
51.33(F).
   (E)   In the event the Commissioners find that the county is unable to
finance its share of a trunk sewer project under the above terms, permission
for the construction of such trunk sewer project may be granted upon the terms
and conditions as set forth above, except that the applicant shall be required
to pay the entire cost of the project.
(Ord. passed 9-9-08)
§ 51.36 OUTFALL SEWERS.
   Whenever an outfall sewer is required to be constructed as a part of the
sanitary sewer system installed to provide sewer service to an area, such
outfall shall be considered a part of the project. The Commissioners shall have
the power to enter into contracts for the installation of sewer outfalls,
pumping stations and other facilities designed to serve area outside of a
development, within the county limits, and to participate in the costs thereof
to the extent and in the manner that the Commissioners determine to be
appropriate and in the best interest of the county.
(Ord. passed 9-9-08)
§ 51.37 CONFORMANCE WITH MUNICIPAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All connections and/or extensions permitted must be in conformance, for all
sewer effluents, with the service agreement between Davidson County and the
owner/operator of the wastewater treatment facility.
(Ord. passed 9-9-08)
REGULATIONS
§ 51.46 DAMAGE AND TAMPERING PROHIBITION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any equipment
or materials belonging to Davidson County and used or intended to be used for
the purposes of making measurement, tests or examination of sewage or wastes;
   (B)   Remove, damage or interfere with the functioning of any pipe, main
manhole, manhole cover, building, apparatus or equipment used in the
collection, conveyance or treatment of sewage or industrial wastes;
   (C)   Place or cause to be placed in any manhole or sewer pipe or main any
material that results, or is likely to result, in the stopping or obstructing
of the normal flow of sewage or wastes.
   (D)   Place or cause to be placed on any manhole, sewer pipe or main any
material that will change the amount of cover material over the pipe, sewer
main or manhole without prior written permission from the Director.
(Ord. passed 9-9-08)
§ 51.47 GENERAL DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS.
   All substances are to enter the sewer system through proper connections or
at the POTW. The emptying of septage or substance from chemical toilets is
restricted as mandated in §
51.58.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to introduce any substance, either
solid, liquid or gaseous, into the sewer system of the county, at manholes or
in any other way, except through a proper connection, under specific permit or
as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   No user shall contribute or cause to be contributed into the POTW,
directly or indirectly, any pollutant or wastewater that causes interference or
pass-through. These general prohibitions apply to all users of a POTW, whether
or not the user is a significant industrial user or subject to any national,
state or local pretreatment standards or requirements.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge, or cause to be
discharged, into any sanitary sewer any stormwater, surface water, groundwater,
roof runoff, subsurface drainage or other unpolluted water. It shall also be
unlawful to discharge sewage, directly or indirectly, into any storm sewer
system.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge into the sewer
system, or cause to be discharged into the sewer system, the sludge or other
residue resulting from pretreatment of waters or wastewaters.
   (E)   No user shall increase the use of process water or in any other way
attempt to dilute a discharge as partial treatment to achieve compliance with
the limitations contained in the federal pretreatment standards, or the
requirements in any other pollutant-specific limitation developed by the county
or state.
   (F)   Pollutants, substances, wastewater or other wastes prohibited by this
section shall not be processed or stored in such a manner that they could be
discharged to the municipal wastewater system. All floor drains located in
process or materials storage areas must discharge to the industrial user’s
pretreatment facility before connecting with the system.
(Ord. passed 9-9-08)
§ 51.48 SPECIFIC POLLUTANT LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Specific prohibitions. No user shall contribute or cause to be
contributed into the POTW the following pollutants, substances or wastewater:
      (1)   Pollutants that create a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW,
including but not limited to, waste streams with closed-cup flashpoints of less
than 140°F (60°C), using the test methods specified in 40 C.F.R. 261.21. (This
prohibition does not apply to any aqueous solution containing less than 24%
alcohol by volume, which would otherwise be a hazardous waste under 40 C.F.R.
261.21 by virtue of having a closed-cup flashpoint of less than 140°F (60°C).)
Wastes that may prevent or make hazardous the maintenance or inspection of
sewers and associated structures and equipment, such as gasoline, kerosene,
fuel oil, used antifreeze, solvents, strong acids and alkalis, cyanides,
radioactive wastes, exhaust gases from internal combustion engines and others
as may be prescribed by the Director.
      (2)   Wastes that limit the hydraulic capacity of county sewers and
associated equipment and structures, such as grease, garbage with particles
greater than one-quarter inch in any dimension, animal guts or tissues, paunch
manure, bones, hair, hides or fleshings, whole blood, feathers, ashes, cinders,
sand, spent lime, stone or marble dust, metal, glass, straw, shavings, grass
clippings, rags, spent grains, spent hops, waste paper, wood, plastics, gas,
tar, paint, lacquer, varnish, asphalt residues, residues from refining or
processing of fuel or lubricating oil, mud, solid or viscous pollutants, or
glass grinding or polishing wastes.
      (3)   Petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil, or products of
mineral oil origin in amounts that will cause interference or pass-through.
      (4)   Wastes that have the potential to damage sewers and associated
structures and equipment, such as grit, wastes having a pH lower than 5.0 or
higher than 10, or other corrosive wastes as may be prescribed by the Director.
      (5)   Any wastewater containing pollutants, including oxygen-demanding
pollutants (BOD and the like), in sufficient quantity (flow or concentration),
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to cause interference
with the POTW.
      (6)   Any wastewater having a temperature that will inhibit biological
activity in the POTW treatment plant resulting in interference, but in no case
wastewater that causes the temperature at the introduction into the treatment
plant to exceed 104°F (40°C).
      (7)   Any pollutants that result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors
or fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems.
      (8)   Any trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points
designated by the Director in accordance with §
51.58.
      (9)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases or solids or other
wastewater that, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are
sufficient to create a public nuisance or hazard to life, or are sufficient to
prevent entry into the sewers for maintenance and repair.
      (10)   Any substance that may cause the POTW’s effluent or any other
product of the POTW, such as residuals or scums, to be unsuitable for
reclamation and reuse, or to interfere with the reclamation, process. In no
case, shall a substance discharged to the POTW cause the POTW to be in
noncompliance with sludge use or disposal regulations or permits issued under
Section 405 of the Act, the Solid Waste Disposal Act, the Clean Air Act, the
Toxic Substances Control Act, or state criteria applicable to the sludge
management method being used.
      (11)   Waters or wastes containing dyes or other color that cannot be
removed by biological processes, and that require special chemical treatment in
order for sewage treatment plant effluent to meet standards set by state law,
or rules, regulations or orders made pursuant to law.
      (12)   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes
except as specifically approved by the Director in compliance with applicable
state or federal regulations.
      (13)   Wastes containing waxes, greases or oils that may solidify or
become viscous at temperatures between 32°F (0°C) and 140°F (60°C). Fats, oils,
greases or waxes that are free floating shall not be discharged into the sewer
system. Fats, oils and greases shall not be discharged to the sewer system if
their concentration and physical dispersion results in separation and adherence
of such materials to such structures. If such materials cause blockage in the
sewer system, then they must be removed prior to discharge into the sewer
system.
      (14)   Any medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the
Director.
      (15)   Any material containing ammonia, ammonia salts or other chelating
agents that will produce metallic complexes that interfere with the municipal
wastewater system.
      (16)   Any material that would be identified as hazardous waste according
to 40 C.F.R. 261 if not disposed of in a sewer, except as may be specifically
authorized by the Director.
      (17)   Any wastewater causing the treatment plant effluent to violate
state water quality standards for toxic substances as described in 15A NCAC
2B.0200.
      (18)   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources,
the treatment plant’s effluent to fail a toxicity test.
      (19)   Any wastes containing detergents, surface-active agents or other
substances that may cause excessive foaming in the municipal wastewater system.
      (20)   Wastes that form excessive amounts of scum that may interfere with
the operation of a sewage treatment plant, or cause undue additional labor or
expense in connection with its operation.
      (21)   Waters or wastes that require excessive quantities of chlorine for
stabilization in addition to biological treatment.
      (22)   Wastes containing any toxic or poisonous substances in sufficient
quantity:
         (a)   To interfere with the biological processes used in a sewage
treatment system, singularly or in combination.
         (b)   That, singularly or in combination with other liquid wastes,
upon passing through a sewage treatment plant, will be harmful to persons,
livestock or aquatic life utilizing the receiving streams into which water from
a sewage treatment plant is discharged.
      (23)   Wastes that, singularly or in combination, would cause an
interference and/or contaminate the resulting residuals, or other wastes as may
be prescribed by the Director.
      When the Director determines that a user(s) is contributing to the POTW
any of the substances enumerated above, in such amounts that may cause or
contribute to interference of POTW operation or pass-through, the Director
shall advise the user(s) of the potential impact of the contribution on the
POTW, and take appropriate actions in accordance with §
51.72 to protect the POTW from interference or pass-through.
   (B)   Local limits.
      (1)   No person shall discharge wastewater containing concentrations in
excess of the following limitations, without having first obtained an
industrial wastewater discharge permit specifying more lenient limits:
         BOD   500 mg/1
         SS   500 mg/1
         Cd   0.005 mg/1
         Cr   0.03 mg/1
         Cu   0.20 mg/1
         Pb   0.05 mg/1
         Ni    0.05 mg/1
         Zn   0.50 mg/1
         Silver   0.002 mg/1
         Cyanide   0.005 mg/1
         Arsenic   0.005 mg/1
         Mercury   0.0002 mg/1
      (2)   No person shall discharge wastewater containing concentrations in
excess of:
         Hydrocarbon O/G = 100 mg/1 (must be emulsified)
         pH - not less than 5.0 nor more than 10.0 units
      (3)   Discharge imitations for specific pollutants will be determined by
the Director on an individual basis and specified on the wastewater discharge
permit. In no case will limitations specified be less stringent than applicable
federal or state guidelines. The Director may impose mass limits in addition
to, or in place of, the concentration-based limits above.
      (4)   If a user’s 12-month running average flow will fluctuate 20% or
more from the flow allocation specified on the discharge permit, a new
wastewater discharge permit must be obtained.
      (5)   The instantaneous discharge flow rate shall not exceed the
following limits:
 
Average Flow in Gallons per Day Allowable Ratio of Instantaneous Flow Rate To
                                Average Flow
50,000 - 100,000                3
100,000 - 500,000               2
more than 500,000               1.5
Users whose average flow is less than 50,000 gallons per day shall not
discharge an instantaneous rate of flow in excess of 150,000) gallons per day
 
      (6)   No person shall discharge any wastes or wastewaters in a “slug” as
defined in §
51.02.
   (C)   Right of revision. The county reserves the right to establish
limitations and requirements that are more stringent than those required by
either state or federal regulation, if deemed necessary to comply with the
objectives presented in §
51.01, or the general and specific prohibitions in §§
51.47 and
51.48, as is allowed by 40 C.F.R. 403.4.
   (D)   State requirements.  State requirements and limitations on discharges
shall apply in any case where they are more stringent than federal requirements
and limitations or those in this chapter.
   (E)   National categorical pretreatment standards. Users subject to
categorical pretreatment standards are required to comply with applicable
standards as set out in 40 C.F.R. Ch. 1, Subch. N, pts. 405-471 and
incorporated herein.
      (1)   Where a categorical pretreatment standard is expressed only in
terms of either the mass or the concentration of a pollutant in wastewater, the
Director may impose equivalent concentration or mass limits in accordance with
40 C.F.R. 403.6(c).
      (2)   When wastewater subject to a categorical pretreatment standard is
mixed with wastewater not regulated by the same standard, the Director shall
impose an alternate limit using the combined waste stream formula in 40 C.F.R.
403.6(e).
      (3)   A user may obtain a variance from a categorical pretreatment
standard if the user can prove, pursuant to the procedural and substantive
provisions in 40 C.F.R. 403.13, that factors relating to its discharge are
fundamentally different from the factors considered by EPA when developing the
categorical pretreatment standard.
      (4)   A user may obtain a net gross adjustment to a categorical standard
in accordance with 40 C.F.R. 403.15.
   (F)   Pretreatment of wastewater.
      (1)   Users shall provide wastewater treatment as necessary to comply
with this chapter and wastewater permits issued under §
51.58, and shall achieve compliance with all national categorical pretreatment
standards, local limits and the prohibitions set out in §§
51.47 and
51.48 within the time limitations as specified by EPA, the state, or the
Director, whichever is most stringent. Any facilities necessary for compliance
shall be provided, operated and maintained at the user’s expense. Detailed
plans showing the pretreatment facilities and operating procedures shall be
submitted to the county for review and shall be approved by the Director before
construction of the facility. The review of such plans and operating procedures
shall in no way relieve the user from the responsibility of modifying the
facility as necessary to produce an effluent acceptable to the county under the
provisions of this chapter. Any subsequent changes in the pretreatment
facilities or method of operation shall be reported to and be approved by the
Director prior to the user’s initiation of the changes.
      (2)   Additional pretreatment measures.
         (a)   Whenever deemed necessary, the Director may require users to
restrict their discharge during peak flow periods, designate that certain
wastewater be discharged only into specific sewers, relocate and/or consolidate
points of discharge, separate sewage waste streams from industrial waste
streams, and such other conditions as may be necessary to protect the POTW and
determine the user’s compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
         (b)   The Director may require any person discharging into the POTW to
install and maintain, on their property and at their expense, a suitable
storage and flow-control facility to ensure equalization of flow. A wastewater
discharge permit may be issued solely for flow equalization.
         (c)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Director, they are necessary for the proper handling of
wastewater containing excessive amounts of grease and oil or sand. All
interception units shall be of type and capacity approved by the Director and
shall be so located to be easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. Such
interceptors shall be inspected, cleaned and repaired regularly, as needed, by
the user at the user’s expense.
         (d)   Users with the potential to discharge flammable or toxic
substances may be required to install and maintain an approved gas detection
meter.
   (G)   Accidental discharge/slug control plans. At least once every two
years, the Director shall evaluate whether each significant industrial user
needs an accidental discharge/slug control plan. The Director may require any
user to develop, submit for approval and implement such a plan. Alternatively,
the Director may develop such a plan for any user. An accidental discharge/slug
control plan shall address, at a minimum, the following:
      (1)   Description of discharge practices, including non-routine batch
discharges;
      (2)   Description of stored chemicals;
      (3)   Procedures for immediately notifying the Director of any accidental
or slug discharge, as required by §
51.59; and
      (4)   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants, including solvents, and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response.
(Ord. passed 9-9-08)
§ 51.49 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE PROVISIONS.
   Each user shall provide protection from accidental discharge of prohibited
materials or other substances regulated by this chapter. Facilities to prevent
accidental discharge of prohibited materials shall be provided and maintained
at the owner’s or user’s own cost and expense. Detailed plans showing
facilities and operating procedures to provide this protection shall be
submitted to the county for review and shall be approved by the county before
construction of the facility. Review and approval of such plans and operating
procedures shall not relieve the industrial user from the responsibility to
modify the user’s facility as necessary to meet the requirements of this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 9-9-08)
§ 51.50 PRECEDENCE OF OTHER LEGISLATION.
   Upon the promulgation of federal categorical pretreatment standards for a
particular industrial subcategory, the federal standard, if more stringent than
state or local limitations, shall immediately supersede all other limitations
imposed under this chapter. In any case, the most stringent limitation shall
apply.
(Ord. passed 9-9-08)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 51.57 SEWER CONNECTION PERMIT.
   Except in new developments where connections may be installed by private
contracting firms, all persons desiring to make sewer connections to the sewer
system of the county shall apply to the Director for a permit, upon forms
prescribed and furnished by the Director. Upon payment of the required fees to
the County Revenue Collector, a written permit shall be issued by the Director.
The acceptance of such permit shall obligate the owner of the property referred
to in the permit to comply with all policies and regulations in force at the
time the permit is granted, or which shall be in force at any time thereafter.
When requested by the Director, a user shall submit information on the nature
and characteristics of its wastewater within 30 days of the request. The
Director is authorized to prepare a form for this purpose and may periodically
require users to update this information.
(Ord. passed 9-9-08)
§ 51.58 INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITS.
   (A)   Permit requirements. It shall be unlawful to discharge without a
permit to the POTW any wastewater except as authorized by the Director in
accordance with the provisions of these policies. Any person desiring to
commence discharging industrial wastes after this chapter becomes effective
shall obtain a permit prior to commencing the discharge of such wastes into any
sanitary sewer. Any person discharging industrial waste and not now holding a
valid discharge permit shall file a county-provided application for a permit.
Existing industrial users determined by the Director to be significant
industrial users shall obtain a significant industrial user permit within 180
days of receiving notification of the Director’s determination. For new users,
the discharge permit application must be completed by the industry and approved
by the Director before use of sewer system begins.
   (B)   Significant industrial user determination. All persons proposing to
discharge non-domestic wastewater, or proposing to change the volume or
characteristics of an existing discharge of non-domestic wastewater shall
request from the Director a significant industrial user determination. If the
Director determines or has reason to believe that the proposed discharge fits
the significant industrial user criteria, he or she will require that a
significant industrial user permit application be filed.
   (C)   Industrial user permit application. 
      (1)   Users required to obtain an industrial user permit shall complete
and file with the county, an application in the form prescribed by the
Director. Industrial users shall submit an industrial user permit application
within 30 days after notification.
      (2)   Industries discharging wastewaters that are more concentrated than
any limitation specified in §
51.48 will be required to resubmit an updated portion of this application at a
frequency determined by the Director. In support of the application, the user
shall submit, in units and terms appropriate for evaluation, the following
information:
         (a)   Name, address and location, (if different from the address);
         (b)   Standard industrial classification (SIC) codes for pretreatment,
the industry as a whole and any processes for which categorical pretreatment
standards have been promulgated;
         (c)   Analytical data on wastewater constituents and characteristics,
including but not limited to those mentioned in §
51.48, any of the priority pollutants (Section 307(a) of the Act) that the
applicant knows or suspects are present in the discharge as determined by a
reliable analytical laboratory, and any other pollutant of concern to the POTW.
Sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance with procedures
established by the EPA pursuant to Section 304(g) of the Act and contained in
40 C.F.R. 136, as amended;
         (d)   Time and duration of the discharge;
         (e)   Average daily and 30-minute peak wastewater flow rates,
including daily, monthly and seasonal variations if any;
         (f)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and
details to show all sewers, floor drains, sewer connections, direction of flow
and appurtenances by the size, location and elevation;
         (g)   Description of activities, facilities and plant processes on the
premises, including all materials that are or could be accidentally or
intentionally discharged;
         (h)   Where known, the nature and concentration of any pollutants in
the discharge that are limited by any county, state or federal pretreatment
standards; a statement regarding whether or not the pretreatment standards are
being met on a consistent basis; and if not, whether additional operation and
maintenance (O & M) and/or additional pretreatment is required for the user to
meet applicable pretreatment standards;
         (i)   If additional pretreatment and/or O & M will be required to meet
the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the user will
provide such additional pretreatment. The completion date in this schedule
shall not be longer than the compliance date established for the applicable
pretreatment standard. The following conditions apply to this schedule:
            1.   The schedule shall contain progress increments, in the form of
dates, for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the
construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to
meet the applicable pretreatment standards. No increment in the schedule shall
exceed nine months.
            2.   No later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and
the final date for compliance, the user shall submit a progress report to the
Director, including, at a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress, the reason for any delay, and if appropriate, the steps
being taken by the user to return to the established schedule. In no event
shall more than nine months elapse between such progress reports to the
Director.
         (j)   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes, and
rate of production;
         (k)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum
per day);
         (l)   Number and type of employees and hours of operation of plant,
proposed or actual hours of operation of plant, and proposed or actual hours of
operation of pretreatment system;
         (m)   If subject to a categorical standard, a baseline monitoring
report in accordance with 40 C.F.R. 403.12(b) and 15A NCAC 2H.0908(a), as
outlined in §
51.59.
         (n)   Any other information as may be deemed by the Director to be
necessary to evaluate the permit application.
   (D)   Application signatories and certification. All wastewater discharge
permit applications and user reports must be signed by an authorized
representative of the user and contain the following certification statement:
      “I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments
were prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system
designed to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the
information submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage
the system, or those persons directly responsible for gathering the
information, the information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and
belief, true, accurate and complete. I am aware that there are significant
penalties for submitting false information, including the possibility of fine
and imprisonment for knowing violations.”
   (E)   Application review and evaluation.  The Director will evaluate the
data furnished by the user and may require additional information.
      (1)   The Director is authorized to accept and process applications for
the county.
      (2)   If the application is not complete with all required information,
the staff shall advise the applicant by mail:
         (a)   How the application or accompanying supporting information may
be modified to make them acceptable or complete;
         (b)   That the 90-day processing period required in G.S. § 143-215.1
begins upon receipt of corrected or complete application with required
supporting information.
         (c)   That, if complete plans with all required information are not
resubmitted within 60 days, the application packet will be returned to the
applicant as “Incomplete.”
   (F)   Final action on significant industrial user permit applications.
      (1)   The Director shall take final action on all applications not later
than 90 days following receipt of a complete application.
      (2)   The Director is authorized to:
         (a)   Issue an industrial user permit containing such conditions as
are necessary to effectuate the purposes of this chapter and G.S. § 143-215.1;
         (b)   Issue a significant industrial user permit containing time
schedules for achieving compliance with applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements;
         (c)   Modify any permit upon not less than 60 days notice and pursuant
to §
51.58;
         (d)   Revoke any permit pursuant to §
51.73;
         (e)   Suspend a permit pursuant to §
51.73;
         (f)   Deny a permit application when, in the opinion of the Director,
such discharge may cause or contribute to pass-through or interference of the
wastewater treatment plant, or where necessary to effectuate the purposes of
G.S. § 143-215.1.
   (G)   Hearings.
      (1)   Request for variance. Within 30 days from the effective date of the
permit or permit denial, an industry may request, in writing, from the Director
a variance of any requirements or limits contained in the permit. The Director
will review all requests for variances. Unless such written demand is made
within 30 days, the action shall be final and binding. The Director shall
transmit a copy of the decision by registered or certified mail.
         (a)   New permits. Upon appeal, including judicial review in the
general courts of justice, of the terms or conditions of a newly issued permit,
the terms and conditions of the entire permit are stayed and the permit is not
in effect until either the conclusion of judicial review or until the parties
reach a mutual resolution.
         (b)   Renewed permits. Upon appeal, including judicial review in the
general courts of justice, of the terms or conditions of a renewed permit, the
terms and conditions of the existing permit remain in effect until either the
conclusion of judicial review or until the parties reach a mutual resolution.
      (2)   Final appeal hearing. Any decision of the Director made as a result
of a variance request review held under §
51.72 may be appealed to the Commissioners, upon filing a written demand within
ten days of receipt of notice of the decision. Hearings held under this
division shall be conducted in accordance with §
51.72(E). Failure to make written demand within the time specified herein shall
bar further appeal. The Commissioners shall make a final decision on the appeal
within 90 days of the date the appeal was filed and shall transmit a written
copy of its decision by registered or certified mail.
      (3)   Official record. When a final decision is issued under §
51.72, the Commissioners shall prepare an official record of the case that
includes:
         (a)   All notices, motions and other like pleadings;
         (b)   A copy of all documentary evidence introduced;
         (c)   A certified transcript of all testimony taken, if testimony is
transcribed. If testimony is taken and not transcribed, then a narrative
summary of any testimony taken;
         (d)   A copy of the final decision of the Commissioners.
      (4)   Judicial review. Any person against whom a final order or decision
of the Commissioners is entered, pursuant to the hearing conducted under §
51.72, may seek judicial review of the order or decision by filing a written
petition (along with a copy for the county), within 30 days after receipt of
notice by registered or certified mail of the order or decision, but not
thereafter, with the Superior Court of Davidson County. Within 30 days after
receipt of the copy of the petition of judicial review, the Commissioners shall
transmit to the reviewing court the original or a certified copy of the
official record.
   (H)   Permit modification.
      (1)   Modifications of permits shall be subject to the same procedural
requirements as the issuance of permits, except as follows:
         (a)   Changes in the ownership of the discharge, when no other change
in the permit is indicated;
         (b)   A single modification of any compliance schedule not in excess
of four months;
         (c)   Modification of compliance schedules (construction schedules) in
permits for new sources, where the new source will not begin to discharge until
control facilities are operational.
         Any changes or new conditions in the permit shall include a reasonable
time schedule for compliance.
      (2)   Within nine months of the promulgation of a national categorical
pretreatment standard, the wastewater discharge permit of users subject to the
standard shall be revised to require compliance within the time frame
prescribed by the standard. Where a user subject to a national categorical
pretreatment standard has not previously submitted an application for a
wastewater discharge permit, as required by §
51.58, the user shall apply for a wastewater discharge permit within 90 days
after the promulgation of the applicable national categorical pretreatment
standard.
      (3)   A request for modification by the permittee shall constitute a
waiver of the 60-day notice required by G.S. § 143-215.1(b) for modifications.
   (I)   Permit conditions.  The Director shall have the authority to grant a
permit with such conditions attached as he or she believes necessary to achieve
the purpose of this chapter, state and federal laws, rules and regulations.
   (J)   Permit duration. Permits shall be issued for a specified time period,
not to exceed five years.
   (K)   Permit transfer.
      (1)   Wastewater permits are issued to a specific user for a specific
operation. A wastewater discharge permit shall not be reassigned or transferred
or sold to a new owner, new user, different premises or a new or changed
operation.
      (2)   The holder of any permit to discharge must notify the Director, or
his or her representative, in writing when:
         (a)   A change of ownership occurs;
         (b)   A change in use of premises occurs;
         (c)   A 10% change occurs in waste volume, strength or
characteristics;
         (d)   A change in name occurs;
         (e)   The facility ceases to discharge industrial wastewater due to
the termination of operation.
(Ord. passed 9-9-08)
§ 51.59 REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Baseline monitoring reports.
      (1)   Within either 180 days after the effective date of a categorical
pretreatment standard, or the final administrative decision on a category
determination under 40 C.F.R. 403.6(a)(4), whichever is later, existing
categorical users currently discharging to or scheduled to discharge to the
POTW shall submit to the Director a report containing information listed in
division (2) below. At least 90 days prior to commencement of their discharge,
new sources and sources that become categorical users subsequent to the
promulgation of an applicable categorical standard, shall submit to the
Director a report containing the information listed in division (2) below. A
new source shall report the method of pretreatment it intends the use to meet
applicable categorical standards. A new source also shall give estimates of its
anticipated flow and quantity of pollutants to be discharged.
      (2)   Users described above shall submit the information set forth below:
         (a)   Identifying information. The name and address of the facility,
including the name of the operator and owner.
         (b)   Environmental permits. A list of any environmental control
permits held by or for the facility.
         (c)   Description of operations.  A brief description of the nature,
average rate of production and standard industrial classifications of the
operation(s) carried out by the user. This description should include a
schematic process diagram indicating points of discharge to the POTW from the
regulated processes.
         (d)   Plow measurement. Information showing the measured average daily
and maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated process
streams and other streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined waste
stream formula set out in 40 C.F.R. 403;6(e).
         (e)   Measurement of pollutants.
            1.   The categorical pretreatment standards applicable to each
regulated process.
            2.   Where required by the standard or by the Director, the results
of sampling and analysis identifying the nature and concentration, and/or mass,
of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each regulated process.
Instantaneous, daily maximum, and long-term average concentrations, or mass,
where required shall be reported. The sample shall be representative of daily
operations and shall be analyzed in accordance with procedures set out in §
51.59(N).
            3.   Sampling must be performed in accordance with procedures set
out in §
51.59(O).
         (f)   Certification. A statement, reviewed by the user’s authorized
representative and certified by a qualified professional, indicating whether
pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis, and if not, whether
additional operation and maintenance (O & M) and/or additional pretreatment is
required to meet the pretreatment standards and requirements.
         (g)   Compliance schedule.  If additional pretreatment and/or O & M
will be required to meet the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by
which the user will provide such additional pretreatment and/or O & M. The
completion date in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance date
established for the applicable pretreatment standard. A compliance schedule
pursuant to this section must meet the requirements set out in §
51.59(B).
         (h)   Signature and certification. All baseline monitoring reports
must be signed and certified in accordance with §
51.58(D).
   (B)   Compliance schedule progress reports. The following conditions shall
apply to the compliance schedule required by §
51.59(A)(2)(g).
      (1)   The schedule shall contain progress increments, in the form of
dates, for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the
construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to
meet the applicable pretreatment standards. Such events include, but are not
limited to, hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans,
executing contracts for major components, commencing and completing
construction, and beginning and conducting routine operation;
      (2)   No increment referred to above shall exceed nine months;
      (3)   The user shall submit a progress report to the Director no later
than 14 days following each date in the schedule and the final date of
compliance, including, at a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress, the reason for any delay, and if appropriate, the steps
being taken by the user to return to the established schedule; and
      (4)   In no event shall more than nine months elapse between such
progress reports to the Director.
   (C)   Reports on compliance with categorical pretreatment standard deadline.
Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
categorical pretreatment standards, or in the case of a new source following
commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any user subject
to such pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the Director a
report containing the information described in §
51.59(A)(2)(d) through (f). For users subject to equivalent mass or
concentration limits established in accordance with the procedures in 40 C.F.R.
403.6(c), this report shall contain a reasonable measure of the user’s long-
term production rate. For all other users subject to categorical pretreatment
standards expressed in terms of allowable pollutant discharge per unit of
production (or other measure of operation), this report shall include the
user’s actual production during the appropriate sampling period. All compliance
reports must be signed and certified in accordance with §
51.58(D).
   (D)   Periodic compliance reports.
      (1)   During each six-month period, compliance with each pretreatment
standard will be determined by evaluating both county and self-monitoring data,
but in no case less than one analysis per six-month period for each
pretreatment standard.
      (2)   All industrial users shall, at a frequency prescribed by the
permit, submit a report indicating the nature and concentration of pollutants
in the discharge. All periodic compliance reports must be signed and certified
in accordance with §
51.58(D).
      (3)   All wastewater samples must be representative of the user’s
discharge. Wastewater monitoring and flow measurement facilities shall be
properly operated, kept clean and maintained in good working order at all
times. The failure of a user to keep its monitoring facility in good working
order shall not be grounds for the user to claim that sample results are
unrepresentative of its discharge.
      (4)   If a user subject to the reporting requirement in this section
monitors any pollutant more frequently than required by the Director, using the
procedures prescribed in 40 C.F.R. 136, the results of this monitoring shall be
included in the report.
   (E)   Notice of violation; repeat sampling and reporting. If sampling
performed by a user indicates a violation, the user must notify the Director
within 24 hours of becoming aware of the violation. The user shall also repeat
the sampling and analysis and submit the results of the repeat analysis to the
Director within 30 days after becoming aware of the violation. The user is not
required to resample if the Director monitors at the user’s facility at least
once a month, or if the Director samples between the user’s initial sampling
and when the user receives the results of this sampling.
   (F)   Notice of hazardous waste discharges; certification of program to
reduce hazardous wastes.
      (1)   Any user who discharges hazardous waste shall notify the POTW, the
EPA Regional Waste Management Division Director, and state hazardous waste
authorities, in writing, of any discharge into the POTW of a substance that, if
otherwise disposed of, would be a hazardous waste under 40 C.F.R. 261. Such
notification must include the name of the hazardous waste as set forth in 40
C.F.R. 261, the EPA hazardous waste number, and the type of discharge
(continuous, batch or other). If the user discharges more than 100 kilograms of
such waste per calendar month to the POTW, the notification also shall contain
the following information, to the extent such information is known and readily
available to the user: an identification of the hazardous constituents
contained in the wastes, an estimation of the mass and concentration of such
constituents in the waste stream discharge during the calendar month, and an
estimation of the mass of constituents in the waste stream expected to be
discharged during the following 12 months. All notifications must take place no
later than 180 days after the discharge commences. Any notification under this
division need be submitted only once for each hazardous waste discharge.
However, notifications of changed conditions must be submitted under §
51.59(G). The notification requirement in this section does not apply to
pollutants already reported by users subject to categorical pretreatment
standards under the self-monitoring requirements of §
51.59(A), (C) and (D).
      (2)   Users are exempt from the requirements of division (1) above,
during a calendar month in which they discharge no more than 15 kilograms of
hazardous wastes, unless the wastes are acute hazardous wastes as specified in
40 C.F.R. 261.30(d) and 261.33(e). Discharge of more than 15 kilograms of
nonacute hazardous wastes in a calendar month, or of any quantity of acute
hazardous wastes as specified in 40 C.F.R. 261.30(d) and 261.33(e), requires a
one-time notification. Subsequent months during which the user discharges more
than such quantities of any hazardous waste do not require additional
notification.
      (3)   In the case of any new regulation under Section 3001 of RCRA
identifying additional characteristics of hazardous waste or listing any
additional substance as a hazardous waste, the user must notify the Director,
the EPA Regional Waste Management Waste Division Director, and state hazardous
waste authorities of the discharge of such substance within 90 days of the
effective date of such regulations.
      (4)   In the case of any notification made under this section, the user
shall certify that it has a program in place to reduce the volume and toxicity
of hazardous wastes generated to the degree it has determined to be
economically practical.
      (5)   This provision does not create a right to discharge any substance
not otherwise permitted to be discharged by this chapter, permit issued
thereunder, or any applicable federal or state law.
   (G)   Reports of changed conditions.  Each user must notify the Director of
any planned significant change to the user’s operations or system that might
alter the nature, quality or volume of its wastewater as soon as possible
before the change.
      (1)   The Director may require the user to submit such information as may
be deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition, including the submission
of a wastewater discharge permit application under §
51.58.
      (2)   The Director may issue a wastewater discharge permit under §
51.58, or modify an existing wastewater discharge permit under §
51.58, in response to changed conditions or anticipated changed conditions.
      (3)   For purposes of this requirement, significant changes include, but
are not limited to, flow increases of 20% or greater and the discharge of any
previously unreported pollutants.
   (H)   Interruption of operations report.  Notice by the user shall be given
to the Director in advance, or at the earliest possible time, when normal
operations of the industry will be interrupted for 24 hours or longer, when
wastes will not be available for discharge, or prior to implementation of a
process change that will alter demands on the municipal treatment facilities.
Notice shall also be given to the Director of any increase or decrease in work
schedule from that indicated in the discharge permit application.
   (I)   Reports of potential problems.
      (1)   In the case of any discharge, including but not limited to,
accidental discharges, discharges of a non-routine, episodic nature, a non-
customary batch discharge, or a slug load, that may cause potential problems
for the POTW, including a hazard to the POTW treatment processes, personnel or
sludge disposal methods, the user shall immediately telephone and notify the
Director of the incident. This notification shall include the location of the
discharge, type of waste, concentration and volume, if known, and corrective
actions taken by the user.
      (2)   Within five days following such discharge, the user shall, unless
waived by the Director, submit a detailed written report describing the cause
(s) of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent
similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the user of any
expense, loss, damage to the POTW, natural resources or any other damage to
person or property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of any fines,
penalties or other liability that may be imposed pursuant to this chapter.
      (3)   A notice shall be permanently posted on the user’s bulletin board
or other prominent place, advising employees whom to call in the event of a
discharge described in division (1) above. Employers shall ensure that all
employees who may cause such a discharge to occur are advised of the emergency
notification procedure.
   (J)   Sludge documentation.  The transportation and/or disposal or sludges
generated by pretreatment shall be subject to applicable federal, state and
local regulations. The industrial user shall be responsible for documenting the
transporting and/or disposal of all pretreatment sludges. Receipts and other
documentation shall be kept for a minimum of three years, and shall be made
available to the Director upon request.
   (K)   Intercepted and separated materials.  Upon request by the Director, a
user having an interceptor or separator must state specifically how the waste
oil, grease, solvent, paint, and the like, is disposed of, and must provide
evidence of such disposal service when required by the Director. Records and
receipts must be kept demonstrating that these waste materials were contained
and transported in a safe manner as prescribed by the rules of regulatory
agencies, including but not limited, to the U.S. Department of Transportation,
and handled by reputable persons who shall dispose of all such wastes in
accordance with all federal, state and local regulations.
   (L)   Truth in reporting. The reports required by this section shall comply
with the provisions of the United States Code (18 U.S.C. 1001) relating to
fraud and false statements, and the provisions of Section 309(c)(2) of the Act
governing false statements, representations or certifications in reports
required under the Act.
   (M)   Other reporting requirements. Significant industrial users shall
comply with all other reporting requirements as specified in 40 C.F.R. 403.
   (N)   Analytical requirements. All pollutant analyses, including sampling
techniques, to be submitted as part of a wastewater discharge permit
application or report shall be performed in accordance with the techniques
prescribed in 40 C.F.R. 136, unless otherwise specified in an applicable
categorical pretreatment standard. If 40 C.F.R. 136 does not contain sampling
or analytical techniques for the pollutant in question, sampling and analyses
must be performed in accordance with procedures approved by EPA.
   (O)   Sample collection.
      (1)   Samples shall represent the waste flow from the premises over that
work day. The samples shall be time-composited or flow proportional, with such
compositing being performed either manually or by automatic sampling equipment.
The sample compositing technique must be approved by the Director.
      (2)   Samples for oil and grease, temperature, pH, cyanide, phenols,
sulfides and volatile organic compounds must be obtained using grab collection
techniques.
      (3)   The handling, storage and analysis of all samples collected for the
determination of the characteristics of waste discharged shall be performed in
accordance with standard procedures.
   (P)   Timing. Written reports will be deemed to have been submitted on the
date postmarked. For reports that are not mailed, postage prepaid, into a mail
facility serviced by the United States Postal Service, the date of receipt of
the report shall govern.
   (Q)   Record keeping. Users subject to the reporting requirements of this
chapter shall retain, and make available for inspection and copying, all
records of information obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required
by this chapter, and any additional records of information obtained pursuant to
monitoring activities undertaken by the user independent of such requirements.
Records shall include the date, exact place, method and time of sampling, and
the name of the person(s) taking the samples; the dates analyses were
performed; who performed the analyses; the analytical techniques or methods
used; and the results of such analyses. These records shall remain available
for a period of at least three years. This period shall be automatically
extended for the duration of any litigation concerning the user or the county,
or where the user has been specifically notified of a longer retention period
by the Director.
(Ord. passed 9-9-08)
§ 51.60 SELF-MONITORING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Self-monitoring reports. If a self-monitoring report is required, the
reporting schedule and requirements will be stated on each industrial user’s
discharge permit.
   (B)   Requirements. Periodic measurements of flow, suspended solids, BOD and
other appropriate waste characteristics shall be made by those permittees
specifically designated by the Director. The Director shall determine the
number of 24-hour flow measurements and samples required. All samples taken by
the industrial user shall be divided with the county for testing as specified
by the Director. Continuous monitoring may be required in cases involving large
fluctuations in quantity or quality of wastes, or if the wastewater appears to
have characteristics that may damage the treatment system. The acceptability of
any monitoring results shall be determined by the Director. Self-monitoring
frequency, parameters and location shall be specified on the industrial waste
discharge permit.
   (C)   Measurements.
      (1)   All sampling and analysis for self-monitoring purposes shall be
performed by qualified laboratories acceptable to the Director, in the manner
described, and certified under penalty of perjury by the permittee. Sample
collection and analysis and the collection of other information shall be
performed with sufficient care to produce evidence admissible in enforcement
proceedings or in judicial actions.
      (2)   The handling, storage and analysis of all samples collected for the
determination of the characteristics of waste discharged shall be performed in
accordance with standard procedures.
(Ord. passed 9-9-08)
§ 51.61 MONITORING AND SAMPLING BY COUNTY.
   (A)   Regulations. The county may inspect or monitor the effluent source or
treatment facilities of any user to ascertain whether the purpose and
requirements of this chapter are being met.
      (1)   Any person discharging industrial wastes into the sanitary sewer
may be required to construct and maintain a suitable control or inspection
manhole at the point where wastes enter the sewer, or at some other location
approved by the county.
      (2)   The county shall have the right to set up on the user’s property
such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling inspection, compliance
monitoring and/or metering operations. As provided for in §
51.46, county equipment set up on a user’s property may not be handled or
tampered with.
      (3)   Where pretreatment or equalization facilities are provided by the
user for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously to provide
effective operation by the owner at his or her expense. All industrial user
pretreatment units shall be subject to periodic inspection by the county.
      (4)   The county, state or EPA shall have a right of entry to, upon or
through any premises in which an effluent source is located, or in which any
discharge records are located. The county shall also have access to review and
be able to copy any data pertaining to the user’s effluent discharges, inspect
any monitoring equipment or method, and sample any discharges coming into the
sanitary sewer system.
      (5)   Where a user has security measures in force that would require
proper identification and clearance before entry into their premises, the user
shall make necessary arrangements with their security guards so that, upon
presentation of suitable identification, personnel and vehicles from the county
will be permitted to enter without delay for purposes of performing their
specific responsibilities.
      (6)   Search warrants. If the Director, approval authority or EPA has
been refused access to a building, structure or property, or any part thereof,
and is able to demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a
violation of this chapter, or that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as
part of a routine inspection and sampling program of the county designed to
verify compliance with this chapter, or any permit or order issued hereunder,
or to protect the overall public health, safety and welfare of the community,
then the Director, approval authority or EPA may seek issuance of a search
warrant.
      (7)   If the monitoring facility is inside the user’s fence, there shall
be accommodations to allow safe and immediate access for county personnel, such
as a gate secured with a county lock. Access to the sampling site is not to be
obstructed by any object (e.g., vehicles, supplies, equipment, landscaping).
There shall be ample room in or near such facility to allow accurate sampling
and compositing of samples for analysis. The industrial user’s entire
monitoring and sampling facility shall be maintained at all times in a safe and
proper operating condition by and at the expense of the user.
      (8)   While performing the necessary work on private properties, the
authorized county representatives shall observe all safety rules applicable to
the premises as established by the company. The county shall indemnify the
company against loss or damage to its property by county employees. The county
shall also indemnify the company against liability claims for personal injury
or property damage asserted against the company resulting from the county’s
inspection or sampling operations. An exception to this would be such as may be
caused by negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions in
connection with monitoring or inspection sites.
      (9)   Where a permittee operates as an integrated complex, involving
varying processes and having separate industrial waste sewer connections within
the same contributory area, such permittee may be considered as one unit with
multiple connections. An analysis for each connection may be combined in
proportion to the flow from the connection, and the weighted average of the
results thus obtained may be used as the measure of the total flow and
concentration of the wastes discharged into the sewer system for the purpose of
surcharge calculation.
      (10)   For integrated complexes involving various users with multiple
water meters but a common discharge line (e.g., shopping centers), the county
will monitor the common discharge line for the surcharge basis, and the
surcharge will be billed to the owner(s) of the complex.
   (B)   Frequency of county monitoring.
      (1)   If the industrial user’s discharge flow does not contain toxic or
priority pollutants, or compatible pollutants in quantities, the POTW Director
will monitor at a minimum of two samples per six months.
      (2)   If the industrial user’s discharge contains toxic or hazardous
materials, or compatible pollutants in quantities sufficient to impact the
operation of the POTW, more frequent monitoring may occur, as prescribed by the
Director.
      (3)   Deviations from the above sampling schedule will be determined by
the Director.
(Ord. passed 9-9-08)
§ 51.62 PRETREATMENT OF INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATERS.
   (A)   Conditions under which a pretreatment system or device may be
required. An industrial wastewater pretreatment system or device may be
required by the Director to pretreat industrial wastewater prior to discharge
into the sewer system. Any person who is prohibited from discharging a
substance as specified in these regulations, or who is required to provide
pretreatment under federal pretreatment standards and requirements, shall have
the sole responsibility to devise, at his or her own expense, the methods for
eliminating the problem so as to make any waste discharge eligible for a permit
and for compliance with this chapter and federal regulations.
   (B)   Review required. All pretreatment systems or devices shall be reviewed
by the Director; however, Director approval shall not absolve the industrial
user of the responsibility of meeting any industrial effluent limitation
required in the permits.
   (C)   Periodic inspection required. All pretreatment systems or devices
shall be subject to periodic inspection by the county.
   (D)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors. Grease, oil and sand interceptors
shall be provided, when deemed necessary by the Director, for the proper
handling of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, sand or other
harmful ingredients. All interceptors shall comply with all applicable local
and state plumbing codes and be acceptable to the Director, and shall be
located as to be readily accessible for cleaning and inspection. All
interceptors shall comply with the following provisions:
      (1)   General requirements.
         (a)   All interceptors shall be designed so that they will not become
air bound or permit siphonage, and shall be equipped with a flow control
fitting with external cleaning devices.
         (b)   All traps shall be properly vented and a fresh air inlet or vent
shall be installed on the house side of the interceptor. The outlet of the
interceptor shall have a vacuum breaker or vent.
      (2)   Oil and grease interceptors.
         (a)   An approved interceptor shall be installed in the drainage
system of the building or premises of the following uses or occupancies, unless
its omission is approved by the Director: restaurants, public eating places,
food preparation at institutions and schools, all wastes in meat preparation
areas, pot sinks, dishwashing machines, can washers, commercial garages, repair
shops, service stations, trucking docks, laundries, and any other places whose
wastes would be expected to contain oil or grease.
         (b)   Interceptors shall be so constructed as to be oil-tight and
shall have easily removable, watertight and/or gastight covers as required.
         (c)   Every interceptor shall have a vent not less than two inches in
diameter, connected to the interceptor tank to relieve vapor, and terminated in
an approved manner.
(Ord. passed 9-9-08)
§ 51.63 EMPLOYEE NOTIFICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   In order that user’s employees be informed of county requirements,
users shall make available to their employees copies of this chapter, together
with such other wastewater information and notices as furnished by the county
which are directed toward improving water pollution control.
   (B)   Employers shall ensure that all applicable employees who may cause
prohibited discharges are advised of the emergency notification procedure as
set forth in §
51.59(E).
(Ord. passed 9-9-08)
§ 51.64 TRADE NAMES.
   The county’s mention of trade names, brands or commercial products does not
constitute endorsement or recommendation for their use.
(Ord. passed 9-9-08)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 51.71 CRITERIA CONSTITUTING A VIOLATION.
   (A)   A user shall be considered in violation when guilty of any of the
following, regardless of intent or accident:
      (1)   Violation of the conditions of this chapter or applicable state and
federal regulations.
      (2)   Violation of the conditions of any permit herein described.
      (3)   Failure to factually report discharge characteristics.
      (4)   Failure to submit any required reports in the prescribed time
period.
      (5)   Refusal of access to user premises for inspection or monitoring.
      (6)   Failure to pay any fees, charges or surcharges.
      (7)   Tampering with any monitoring device or method that knowingly
results in inaccuracy.
   (B)   Each day during which any violation continues shall constitute a
separate violation.
(Ord. passed 9-9-08)
§ 51.72 ACTIONS FOLLOWING A VIOLATION.
   (A)   Notification of industrial user violation. A reasonable effort shall
be made by the county to notify the violating party. Written notification shall
be sent to the authorized representative, entitled “Notice of Violation,” and
specifying the nature and source of the violation. Following this notification,
follow-up determinations will be used to establish penalties as provided by §
51.73 and/or corrective action to be taken by the violator. Where repetitive
violations are occurring and the user is using best efforts and best management
practices as determined by the Director to avoid further failures or
violations, the Director may allow a reasonable time for satisfactory
correction thereof. Depending upon the severity of the situation, the Director
may require disposal of the industrial waste in some manner other than into the
sanitary sewer at the expense of the user. The user shall, within the period of
time specified in the notification, satisfactorily correct the failure or
violation. Extensions of this time limit may he granted by the Director upon
consideration of a written request by the user, which shall set forth the
truthful reasons why compliance cannot be timely made. Corrections of violation
conditions shall not preclude assessment of penalties.
   (B)   Consent orders. The Director is hereby empowered to enter into consent
orders, assurances of voluntary compliance, or other similar documents
establishing an agreement with the person responsible for the noncompliance.
Such orders will include specific action to be taken by the discharger to
correct the noncompliance within a time period also specified by the order.
Consent orders shall have the same force and effect as an administrative order
issued pursuant to §
51.72(C) below.
   (C)   Administrative orders.  When the Director finds that an industrial
user has violated or continues to violate this chapter, permits or orders
issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment requirement, the Director may issue
an order to cease and desist all such violations and direct those persons in
noncompliance to do any of the following:
      (1)   Immediately comply with all requirements;
      (2)   Comply in accordance with a compliance time schedule set forth in
the order;
      (3)   Take appropriate remedial or preventive action in the event of a
continuing or threatened violation;
      (4)   Disconnect unless adequate treatment facilities, devices or other
related appurtenances are installed and properly operated within a specified
time period.
   (D)   Show-cause hearing.
      (1)   The county may order any violator to show cause why the proposed
enforcement action should not be taken. When the Commissioners order the
hearing, a notice shall be served on the user, specifying the time and place of
a hearing regarding the violation, the reasons why the action is to be taken,
the proposed enforcement action, and a request that the user show cause why
this proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The notice of the hearing
shall be served personally or by registered or certified mail (return receipt
requested). Service may be made on any agent or officer of a corporation.
      (2)   For the user to request the hearing, a written request shall be
filed with the Director of Public Works within 20 days of receipt of the
notification of the enforcement action. The request shall specify why the
action against the user should not have been taken, and/or the reasons why the
enforcement action should be revised. The user shall be notified, in writing,
of the date, time and place of the hearing.
      (3)   After reviewing the evidence presented at the show-cause hearing,
the Director shall render his or her decision, which may include, but is not
limited to, issuing an order that the sewer service be discontinued if
abatement is not achieved in a specified time period, and/or recommend to the
County Commissioners that fines by imposed as authorized by §
51.73(C).
      (4)   A show-cause hearing under this section is not a prerequisite to
the assessment of a civil penalty under §
51.73(D), nor is any action or inaction taken by the Director under this
section subject to an administrative appeal under §
51.58(G).
   (E)   Appeal. Users that disagree with decisions made by the Director can
appeal by filing a written request, within ten days of such decision, to the
County Clerk to the Board of Commissioners. If the user disagrees with the
Director’s decision and files an appeal as stated above, the user’s situation
will be decided upon by a committee composed of members of the Board. The
committee members will be chosen by the Board chairman. The committee composed
of the members of the Board will make a formal report to the full Board of
Commissioners of its findings and decision on the user’s appeal. The
committee’s decision shall be final. Fines or penalties approved by the County
Commissioners are not subject to appeal.
(Ord. passed 9-9-08)
§ 51.73 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Sewer service discontinuation.  
      (1)   The county may suspend sewer service to any user when such a
suspension is necessary, in the opinion of the county, to stop an actual or
threatened discharge that presents or may present an imminent or substantial
endangerment to the health or welfare of persons, to the environment, causes
interference to the POTW or its residuals disposal methods, or may cause the
county to violate any conditions of the applicable NPDES permit. Any person
notified of a suspension of sewer service shall immediately cease discharge of
all wastewater. In the event of a failure of the person to comply voluntarily
with the suspension order, the county shall take such steps as deemed
necessary, including immediate severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or
minimize damage to the POTW or endangerment to health or the environment.
      (2)   The county may reinstate sewer service upon proof of the
elimination of the discharge that caused the violation. A detailed written
statement by the user shall be submitted within 15 days of the date of
notification of the violation. This statement shall describe the causes of the
harmful contribution, and the measures taken to prevent any future occurrence.
Reinstatement of sewer service may also require the posting of a compliance
bond by the user. This compliance bond shall be: (a) in an amount estimated to
be the cost of complying with this chapter; (b) conditioned upon the faithful
performance of the provisions of the chapter; and (c) in a form approved by the
County Attorney. The violator shall also make immediate repayment for all
damages incurred by the discharge, and for any sampling and analysis done in
connection with the discharge.
   (B)   Termination of permit.
      (1)   Any user who violates the conditions of this chapter, or applicable
state and federal regulations, is subject to having its permit terminated:
         (a)   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of his or her discharge;
         (b)   Failure to report significant changes in operations or
wastewater constituents and characteristics;
         (c)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for the
purpose of inspection or monitoring; or
         (d)   Violation of conditions of the permit, consent or administrative
orders.
      (2)   A user whose permit has been revoked or terminated shall
immediately stop all discharges of any liquid-carried wastes to the sewer
system covered by the permit. A user whose permit has been revoked must apply
for a new permit and pay all fees, charges, penalties and such other sums as
may be due to the county before issuance of a new permit is considered.
      (3)   The Director may disconnect or permanently block from the sewer
system the industrial sewer connection of any user whose permit has been
revoked, if such action is necessary to ensure compliance with the order of
revocation.
      (4)   If the Director finds that the holder of a consent or
administrative order is not proceeding in accordance with the conditions and
schedule specified in a diligent manner, the Director may allow the applicant
to continue to operate pursuant to the order upon the posting of a compliance
bond. This compliance bond shall be: (a) in an amount estimated to be the cost
of complying with the order; (b) conditioned upon the faithful performance of
the provisions of the order; and (c) in a form approved by the County Attorney.
   (C)   Fines and expense fees.
      (1)   A special fine of not more than $10,000 per violation may be
assessed. The Director shall consider the following in assessing the fine:
         (a)   The degree and extent of the harm to the natural resources, to
the public health, or to public or private property resulting from the
violation;
         (b)   The duration and gravity of the violation;
         (c)   The effect on ground or surface water quantity or quality or on
air quality or other environmental impacts.
         (d)   Reason for the violation;
         (e)   The amount of money saved by noncompliance;
         (f)   Whether the violation was committed willfully or intentionally;
         (g)   The prior record of the violator in complying or failing to
comply with the pretreatment program;
         (h)   The response of the industrial user with regard to the violation
(e.g. notification to POTW, attempts to stop, remedy or minimize the problem);
         (i)   Subsequent industrial user action so that similar problems do
not recur.
      (2)   Violators will be assessed the costs incurred by the county
resulting from:
         (a)   Investigative costs;
         (b)   Enforcement costs;
         (c)   Fines and expenses associated with violations of county-held
permits (including fish kills and other environmental impacts);
         (d)   Terminating or revoking a permit;
         (e)   Severance of the sewer connections.
      (3)   Violators will also be assessed the cost to rectify the damage and
the cost of the work required to clear and/or repair any part of the system
affected by the discharge violation.
      (4)   Full payment of all fines and fees shall be made by the user before
issuance of a new permit or reconnection to the sewer system.
      (5)   Assessments for both fines and regular service charges shall be
paid within 30 days after invoicing. If a payment is not made within the
allotted time, the county may levy an additional late charge of 10% of the
amount due.
      (6)   Fines and penalties assessed under this chapter and not paid within
the prescribed period of time may be collected in a civil action pursuant to
G.S. § 160A-l75(c) . In addition, the county may seek criminal prosecution for
a violation of this chapter, which shall constitute a misdemeanor as provided
for in G.S. § 160A-176(c).
      In addition to the penalties provided herein, the county may recover
reasonable attorneys’ fees, court costs, court reporters’ fees and other
expenses of litigation by appropriate suit at law against the person found to
have been in violation.
   (D)   Civil penalties.
      (1)   Any user who is found to have failed to comply with any provisions
of this chapter, or the orders, rules, regulations and permits issued
hereunder, may be fined up to $10,000 per day per violation.
      (2)   In determining the amount of the civil penalty, the Director shall
consider the following:
         (a)   The degree and extent of the harm to the natural resources, to
the public health, or to public or private property resulting from the
violation;
         (b)   The duration and gravity of the violation;
         (c)   The effect on ground or surface water quantity or quality or on
air quality;
         (d)   The cost of rectifying the damage;
         (e)   The amount of money saved by noncompliance;
         (f)   Whether the violation was committed willfully or intentionally;
         (g)   The prior record of the violator in complying or failing to
comply with the pretreatment program;
      (3)   Appeals of civil penalties assessed m accordance with this section
shall be as provided in §
51.72(E).
   (E)   Other available remedies. In addition to those previously mentioned in
this chapter, remedies are available to the Director, who may use any single
one or combination against a noncompliant user. Additional available remedies
include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Injunctive relief.  Whenever a user is in violation of the
provisions of this chapter, or an order or permit issued hereunder, the
Director, through the County Attorney, may petition the Superior Court of
Justice for the issuance of a restraining order or a preliminary and permanent
injunction that restrains or compels the activities in question.
      (2)   Public nuisances.  Any violation of the prohibitions or effluent
limitations of this chapter, or of a permit or order issued hereunder, is
hereby declared a public nuisance and shall be corrected or abated as directed
by the Director. Any person(s) creating a public nuisance shall be subject to
the provisions of the county code governing such nuisances.
   (F)   Remedies nonexclusive.  The remedies provided for in this chapter are
not exclusive. The Director may take any, all, or any combination of these
actions against a noncompliant user. Enforcement of pretreatment violations
will generally be in accordance with the county’s enforcement response plan.
However, the Director may take other action against any user when the
circumstances warrant. Further, the Director is empowered to take multiple and
escalated enforcement action(s) against any noncompliant user.
   (G)   Annual publication of significant noncompliance.  At least annually,
the Director shall publish, in the largest daily newspaper circulated in the
service area, a list of those industrial users found to be in significant
noncompliance (as defined in §
51.02), also referred to as reportable noncompliance in 15A NCAC 2H.0903(b)
(10), with applicable pretreatment standards and requirements during the
previous 12 months.
(Ord. passed 9-9-08; Ord. passed 4-22-24)
§ 51.74 AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES TO DISCHARGE VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Upset.
      (1)   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action
brought for noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards if the
requirements of division (2) below are met.
      (2)   A user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset
shall demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs or
other relevant evidence, that:
         (a)   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause(s) of the
upset;
         (b)   The facility was at the time, being operated in a prudent and
workman-like manner, and in compliance with applicable operation and
maintenance procedures; and
         (c)   The user has submitted the following information to the Director
within 24 hours of becoming aware of the upset: (If this information is
provided orally, a written submission must be provided within five days.)
            1.   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of
noncompliance;
            2.   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times
or, if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue; and
            3.   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.
      (3)   In any enforcement proceeding, the user seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
      (4)   A user will have the opportunity for a judicial determination on
any claim of upset only in an enforcement action brought for noncompliance with
categorical pretreatment standards.
      (5)   A user shall control production of all discharge to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with categorical pretreatment standards, upon
reduction, loss or failure of its treatment facility, until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost or fails.
   (B)   Prohibited discharge standards defense. A user shall have an
affirmative defense to an enforcement action brought against it for
noncompliance with the general prohibitions in §
51.47 or the specific prohibitions in §
51.48(A)(2), (3) and (5) through (7), if it can prove that it did not know or
have reason to know that its discharge, along or in conjunction with discharges
from other sources, would cause pass-through or interference, and that either:
      (1)   A local limit exists for each pollutant discharged and the user was
in compliance with each limit directly prior to and during the pass-through or
interference; or
      (2)   No local limit exists, but the discharge did not change
substantially in nature of constituents from the user’s prior discharge when
the county was regularly in compliance with its NPDES permit, and in the case
of interference, was in compliance with applicable sludge use or disposal
requirements.
   (C)   Bypass.
      (1)   Bypass is prohibited, and the Director may take an enforcement
action against a user for a bypass, unless:
         (a)   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury
or severe property damage;
         (b)   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the
use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate back-up equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgement to prevent a bypass that occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
         (c)   The user submitted notices and received approval to the bypass
initiation.
      (2)   The Director may approve an anticipated bypass, after considering
its adverse effects, if the Director determines that it will meet the three
conditions listed in division (C)(1) of this section.
(Ord. passed 9-9-08)
§ 51.75 CONFLICT.
   All other ordinances and parts of other ordinances inconsistent or
conflicting with any part of this chapter are hereby repealed to the extent of
such inconsistency or conflict.
(Ord. passed 9-9-08)
CHARGES AND FEES
§ 51. 81 WASTE TREATMENT COST REVIEW.
   The Director shall review the cost of wastewater treatment annually and
shall recommend to the Commissioners adjustments to the sewer service charges
accordingly. These sewer service charges shall be reviewed and approved by the
Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 9-9-08)
§ 51.82 SEWER CONNECTION FEES.
   (A)   Private connections.  The fees charged for individual private sewer
connections shall be in accordance with the following schedules:
      (1)   The standard connection shall be four-inch pipe from main to curb
line. The fee for such connection is specified in §
51.88(A).
      (2)   Connections required other than standard shall be charged at the
rate specified in §
51.88(A).
   (B)   Capital recovery fee. In addition to the service tap installation fees
prescribed above, there shall be a capital recovery fee (CRF) in each instance
where neither the present nor any prior owner of the property, building or
dwelling unit, to which the sewer connection is being made, shall have paid or
been regularly assessed for the construction of the sewer main.
      (1)   The CRF charge for residential development shall be based on the
number of dwelling units. The number of residential units shall be derived from
the zoning jurisdiction’s approved site plan or survey produced by a licensed
engineer or surveyor.
      (2)   Bona fide nonprofit schools and churches shall be assessed a CRF in
accordance with the residential rate, per unit (building) to be served with
sewer.
      (3)   In general, the CRF charge for all other development and uses will
be applied to all of the contiguous acreage one person or firm owns either
directly or indirectly. Generally, the same acreage as the county is taxing
will be used as the acreage to determine acreage charges, or by a survey of the
property if available. Exclusions for acreage charges cannot be made for
portions of land for future streets and highways, including a proposed right-
of-way, that has been designated by a governmental agency. Portions of property
not suitable for building, sites such as a pond, creek or floodplain, will be
included in the acreage for which a charge will be made. All land lying within
a publicly dedicated road right-of-way in excess of a width of 30 feet on each
side of the road may be exempt from acreage charges. Any disagreement as to the
amount of actual acreage owned will be settled by a survey provided by the
property owner. The amount of the capital recovery fee is specified in §
51.88(B).
(Ord. passed 9-9-08)
§ 51.83 SEWER SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   There shall be billed and collected, either monthly or bimonthly, a
sewer service charge for the purpose of paying all operation and maintenance
costs and to pay debt service. A sewer service charge shall be assessed to all
properties in which there is a sewer connection with the county sanitary sewer
system, and to properties served by public water where connection to the county
sanitary sewer system is imminent. The rates are given in §
51.88.
   (B)   An industrial user’s sewer service charge will be calculated, based on
the total quantity of water metered into the facility. If a user demonstrates
to the satisfaction of the Director that all purchased water is not returned to
the sewer system, the user’s sewer service charge will be calculated only on
that quantity of water returned to the sewer system. In this case, the sewer
service charge shall be determined on measurements from a flow meter installed
and maintained by the user and acceptable to the county as to accuracy,
maintenance and point of installation, as verified by submittal of a monthly
flow monitoring report. Applicable rates are presented in §
51.88.
   (C)   Any user that is the sole contributor of flow to a wastewater
treatment plant or wastewater pumping station constructed for the purpose of
serving only that user shall pay to the Commissioners the entire cost of
operating and maintaining the facility. Such charges shall be paid as specified
by a written agreement.
   (D)   The penalties for failure to pay such charges shall be the same as in
case of failure to pay the water bill, except that, in computing any monetary
penalties, the penalty shall be based and assessed on the combined water and
sewer charge.
   (E)   Where sewer service is provided by the county to property to which
water service is not provided by Davidson Water, there shall be billed and
collected bimonthly a sewer service charge. A current listing of these charges
is provided in §
51.88(F).
   (F)   If a hotel, motel, office building, supermarket, school or other
establishment contains a beauty shop, restaurant, drugstore or other activity
for which a rate is specified in §
51.88(F), a sewer service charge shall be made for such activity at the rate
shown, in addition to the charge made for the building in which the activity is
housed.
   (G)   Sewer service billing for each property shall begin at the date of
water meter installation or sewer service connection to the county sanitary
sewer system, whichever occurs first.
(Ord. passed 9-9-08)
§ 51.84 SURCHARGES.
   (A)   A sewer service surcharge shall be billed and collected from industria
users of the sewer system that discharge industrial wastes, based on BOD and
suspended solids contributions. The surcharge is calculated on the basis of
wastewater BOD and suspended solids concentrations in excess of 200 mg/1 for
each of the parameters.
   (B)   The county will determine by monitoring, as provided for in §
51.61, the amount of BOD and suspended solids being received into its sewer
system from industrial users. Such surcharge shall be imposed in addition to
any existing sewer service charge and any sewer charge imposed in the future.
If an industrial user makes a request to Director, additional monitoring may be
performed for surcharge purposes. The Director is in no way obligated to honor
requests for additional surcharge monitoring. If additional surcharge
monitoring is performed, the industrial user would be subject to the additional
monitoring fees discussed in §
51.85.
(Ord. passed 9-9-08)
§ 51.85 CHARGES FOR MONITORING.
   (A)   Periodic and additional monitoring. Industrial users whose discharge
is being periodically monitored by the county shall pay for specific sampling
and analytical work performed by the county.
      (1)   If, during the course of normal monitoring by the county, a
violation of this chapter is determined, additional monitoring by Director may
be imposed on the industrial user at a frequency defined by the Director. The
charge for the monitoring will be for only those wastewater parameters or
conditions that are in violation of this chapter, and monitoring may continue
until the violation ceases.
      (2)   Any additional monitoring for surcharge purposes requested by an
industrial user shall be paid for by the industrial user on a per-analysis
basis.
   (B)   Pretreatment program administration charges.  The schedule of charges
and fees adopted by the county may include charges and fees for:
      (1)   Reimbursement of costs of setting up and operating the pretreatment
program;
      (2)   Monitoring, inspections and surveillance procedures;
      (3)   Reviewing slug control plans, including accidental and/or slug load
discharge procedures and construction plans and specifications;
      (4)   Permit application review and/or permitting;
      (5)   Other fees as the county may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements of the pretreatment program.
(Ord. passed 9-9-08)
§ 51.86 PENALTY FEES.
   Any person found to be in violation of this chapter may be required to pay
penalty fees as outlined in §
51.73(C).
(Ord. passed 9-9-08)
§ 51.87 PAYMENT DEADLINE; PENALTIES FOR FAILURE TO PAY.
   (A)   All charges, fees and assessments shall be made monthly or bimonthly,
and shall be due on the day following the date the bill is mailed.
   (B)   The county shall adhere to the following collection schedule for sewer
connections.
      (1)   If any charges remain on the thirtieth day after the due date of
such charges, a 10% penalty will automatically be applied to the unpaid
balance. Maximum gross penalties on unpaid balances will not exceed $5,000.
      (2)   If a bill is unpaid 35 days after the bill was mailed, a second
notice of payment shall be mailed to the customer. If the thirty-fifth day
falls on a weekend or a holiday, the notice shall be sent on the next business
day. This notice shall constitute the county’s intent to apply an additional
late payment penalty in ten days in the amount of $1.50.
      (3)   If a bill is unpaid 45 days after the bill was mailed, a notice of
termination shall be mailed to the customer. If the forty-fifth day falls on a
weekend or a holiday, the notice shall be mailed on the next business day. This
notice informs the customer that service has been ordered terminated and
provides the date of termination. An additional late payment penalty of $20 is
added to the unpaid balance ten days after the termination notice is mailed, if
payment has not been received by that date.
      (4)   If a bill is unpaid 55 days after the bill was mailed, service
shall be cut off by locking or removing the meter. If the fifty-fifth day
occurs on a weekend or a holiday, such action will be taken on the next
business day. The outstanding balance, plus all penalties, shall be paid before
sewer service is restored.
(Ord. passed 9-9-08)
§ 51.88 RATES.
   (A)   Connections.
 
Type of Connection                          Cost
Standard lateral connection, maximum length $1,500 - 4-inch $1,800 - 6-inch
30 feet
Added length                                $15/foot - 4-inch $18/foot - 6-inch
Non-standard lateral connection             Actual cost + 15% $650 minimum
Free bore under roadway                     $40/foot
No casing                                   $800 minimum
Standard casing                             $125/foot
Steel casing, not including carrier pipe
 
   (B)   Capital recovery fee (CRF).
 
Type of Use                         Cost
Residential                         $600/residential dwelling unit
Bona fide non-profit schools and    $600/unit (building)
churches
                                    $l,000/acre for wastewater flows of 3,000
                                    cubic feet/acre/month or less
Business, commercial and industrial Minimum of $1,000
                                    For wastewater flows greater than 3,000
                                    cubic feet/acre/month, CRF shall be $350/
                                    1,000 cubic feet/acre/month
 
   (C)   Plan review fee:                     $0.20/linear foot sewer
   (D)   Construction inspection fee:            $0.45/linear foot sewer
   (E)   Service where public water also provided.
      (1)   Volume rate      $6.81 per 100 cubic feet of water metered,
excluding first 267 cubic feet (2,000 gallons)
      (2)   Base fee       $14.20 per month; base fee includes up to 267 cubic
feet (2,000 gallons)
   (F)   Service where public water not provided.
Type of Use County Monthly Rates
                                                                              County
Type of Use                                                                   Monthly
                                                                              Rates
(1)   Single-family, two-family residence and mobile home                  $37.18
(2)   Multifamily, per unit                                                $22.13
(3)   Hotel or motel per unit                                              $14.20
(4)   Supermarket                                                          $140 .08
(5)   Launderette                                                          $411.82
(6)   Commercial establishment with restrooms and fountains only           $37.18
(7)   Beauty or barbershop                                                 $37.18
(8)   Professional or commercial office building                           $37.18
   (maximum of four restrooms)
(9)   Professional or commercial office building, each additional restroom $14.20
over four
(10) Service station or garage                                                $37.18
(11) School, rate per student                                                 $0.65
(12) Drug store with soda fountain or food service                            $122.00
(13) Drug store without soda fountain or food service                         $37.18
(14) Restaurant, café or grill                                               $208.23
                                                                              Rate
                                                                              established
(15) Manufacturing plant or other use not listed                              by the
                                                                              Director
                                                                              based on
                                                                              discharge
 
   (G)   Monitoring charges (§
51.85).
 
Type of Monitoring                                   Charge
Sample collection, preparation and report generation $64.50 per sample
Flow monitoring first day, initial set up and report $107.50/day
generation
Other flow monitoring                                $32.25/day
Cost per analysis:                                    
   pH                                             $4.30
   Biochemical oxygen demand                      $36.55
   Total organic carbon                           $32.25
   Chemical oxygen demand                         $23.65
   Total and volatile suspended solids            $21.50
   Total and volatile solids                      $21.50
   Total oil and grease                           $32.25
   Hydrocarbon oil and grease                     $34.40
   Kjeldahl nitrogen                              $32.25
   Ammonia nitrogen (specific ion)                $21.50
   Nitrate nitrogen (specific ion)                $21.50
   Cadmium                                        $21.50
   Copper                                         $21.50
   Chromium (total)                               $21.50
   Lead                                           $21.50
   Nickel                                         $21.50
   Zinc                                           $21.50
   Phosphorous                                    $21.50
Fees for other analyses will be determined by the Director
 
   (H)   Late payment fees. See §
51.87.
   (I)   Bill. The monthly bill may be comprised of the following elements:
sewer service base rate; BOD surcharge; SS surcharge; and monitoring charges.
   (J)   Other work. Any extra or unusual work shall incur additional cost.
   (K)   Savings clause. The county reserves the right to have industrial user
samples analyzed by a private laboratory. In such cases, the industrial user
shall be charged for these analyses at actual cost, plus costs incurred for
sample collection, data generation, administration and other pretreatment
activities as determined by the Director.
(Ord. passed 9-9-08)
§ 51.89 SEWER SERVICE CREDIT.
   If a user demonstrates, to the satisfaction of the Director, that all of the
user’s metered water was not returned to the county sewer system, then the
user’s sewer service charges may be calculated on that quantity of water
returned to the sewer system. The County Public Works Office shall calculate
sewer service charges and authorize applicable credits. This section shall not
be construed to authorize successive credits to a user for irrigation, filling
of swimming pools and hot tubs, or other uses for which a separate water
service meter may be obtained to isolate domestic water from non-sewered uses.
(Ord. passed 9-9-08)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70. PARKING ON COUNTY PROPERTY
CHAPTER 70: PARKING ON COUNTY PROPERTY
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Application to county owned property
   
70.03   Vehicles to which this chapter applies
   
70.04   Implied contract
   
70.05    Time limit
   
70.06   Designated parking spaces
   
70.07   Court and other authorized persons
   
70.08   Type of permits
   
70.09   Issuance of permits
   
70.10   Extended permits
   
70.11   Authorization for enforcement
   
70.12   Removal of vehicles
   
70.13   Violations
   
70.14   Violation by county employee
   
70.15   Reclaiming of vehicles
   
70.16   No liability of county
   
70.17   Venue and jurisdiction
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and phrases when used in this chapter shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them below:
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. Any vehicle or motor vehicle which is parked for longer
than 24 hours on a county parking lot without the consent or permission of the
county or any vehicle which is parked on public property for longer than seven
days.
   COUNTY. Davidson County.
   DESIGNATED SPACE or PARKING SPACE. A location of space for the parking of a
vehicle between two lines painted or marked on the travel surface of a county
owned parking lot.
   IMPROPER PARKING or IMPROPERLY PARKED. A vehicle which is not parked within
a designated space or is parked in a space without permission of the county or
is parked for longer than the authorized two hour limit or is parked by a
person not conducting county business on county owned property or is parked in
such a way as to create a health or safety hazard to persons or property or is
parked for longer than the time allowed by the permit issued to that vehicle or
is otherwise parked in violation of this chapter or is parked for longer than
the time purchased to park a vehicle.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any machine or vehicle designed or intended to travel over
land or water or in the air by self-propulsion or a vehicle attached to a self-
propelled vehicle, including automobiles, trucks, mopeds, farm tractors,
motorcycles, recreational vehicles, and motor homes.
   OPERATOR. Any person who acts to park a vehicle on county property to which
this chapter applies.
   OWNER. A person, firm, corporation, association, government and any other
entity holding legal title to a vehicle or a person in lawful possession of a
vehicle or a person, firm, corporation, association or government holding any
kind of lien on a vehicle.
   PARKED or PARKING. The placing of a vehicle on any county property to which
this chapter applies and includes proper parking, improper parking, improperly
parked and all forms of placing a vehicle on county property.
   PARKING LOT or PARKING DECK. A parcel of land or a structure provided for
the parking of vehicles.
   RENTAL VEHICLE. Any vehicle rented or leased by the legal title holder to
another person.
   TWO HOURS or TWO HOUR LIMIT. One continuous period of two hours when the
vehicle is on the county property.
   VEHICLE. Any machine or device in, upon or by which any person or property
is or may be transported or drawn upon the surface of the earth or in the air
and by way of illustration includes motor vehicles, trailers, bicycles, and
mopeds.
(Ord. passed 4-27-99)
§ 70.02 APPLICATION TO COUNTY OWNED PROPERTY.
   (A)   This chapter shall apply to any county owned parking lot which has the
following described sign prominently displayed. Each county owned parking lot
to which this chapter applies shall have one or more signs prominently located
at the entrance to the parking lot. The County Manager shall determine at which
lots the sign shall be posted. The sign shall substantially state in words or
letters:
      PARKING IN THIS LOT IS LIMITED TO TWO HOURS WHILE TRANSACTING BUSINESS
WITH THE COUNTY. ALL VEHICLES PARKED LONGER THAN TWO HOURS WITHOUT PERMIT SHALL
BE TOWED AT OWNER'S EXPENSE. THIS SIGN POSTED BY ORDER OF THE COUNTY
COMMISSIONERS.
   (B)   This chapter, except for §§
70.04,
70.06,
70.08 and
70.10, shall also apply to any county owned parking lot or parking deck which
does not have such a sign posted.
   (C)   This chapter shall also apply to all county property in regard to
abandoned vehicles.
(Ord. passed 4-27-99)
§ 70.03 VEHICLES TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
This chapter shall apply to all vehicles parked on county property. This
chapter shall also apply to government owned vehicles and persons operating
government owned vehicles parked on county property. All removal, towing and
storage costs incidental to the removal of a vehicle owned by any government
and the penalty for each day of violation and civil penalty incidental to a
violation involving a government owned vehicle shall be paid by the vehicle
operator who caused the violation.
(Ord. passed 4-27-99) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 IMPLIED CONTRACT.
Any owner or operator who shall park a vehicle on county owned property to
which this chapter applies impliedly enters into a contract with the county to
permit the vehicle to be removed, towed, and stored pursuant to this chapter
and impliedly grants the county a lien upon the vehicle in the amount of the
cost of the removal, towing, storage and civil fine. The county shall have a
possessory lien on the vehicle pursuant to the provisions of G.S. § 44A-2. The
owner and operator also impliedly contracts with the county to be personally
liable for and agrees to pay the cost of the removal, towing, storage and civil
fine imposed for a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 4-27-99) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 TIME LIMIT.
Parking on county property shall be only as permitted and authorized by the
Board of Commissioners. Parking in a county owned parking lot shall be limited
to no more than two hours while transacting business with the county, except
for authorized persons. Members of the public transacting business in a county
office shall be allowed to park in a designated space for up to two hours
without a permit. Any vehicle parked longer than two hours without permit or
any vehicle parked in violation of this chapter or any abandoned vehicle shall
be removed at any time without the owner's permission.
(Ord. passed 4-27-99) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06 DESIGNATED PARKING SPACES.
The County Manager shall designate parking spaces for members of the public
transacting business in a nearby county building or office, and for county
employees, court personnel, law enforcement personnel and other authorized
personnel. The County Manager shall designate parking spaces for court
personnel and other authorized persons and spaces for permit parking only.
County employees, court personnel, law enforcement personnel or other
authorized personnel may be issued a permit for permissive parking. The County
Manager shall designate spaces for handicap parking, but those persons and
vehicles shall be subject to this chapter. A vehicle with a permit shall not be
permitted to park in a space designated for public use. A vehicle without a
permit shall not be permitted to park in a space designated for permit parking
only.
(Ord. passed 4-27-99) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.07 COURT AND OTHER AUTHORIZED PERSONS.
Parking spaces shall be specifically designated for court personnel or other
authorized persons who must park for longer than two hours. Court personnel or
other authorized persons shall be issued a temporary permit for parking longer
than two hours in designated spaces.
(Ord. passed 4-27-99)
§ 70.08 TYPE OF PERMITS.
Permits shall be of a type to hang from the rearview mirror and shall be hung
from the mirror in plain view. If the vehicle does not have a rear view mirror,
the permit shall be placed in plain view on the dash or in the front of the
vehicle in order that an enforcement officer can see the permit. Any vehicle in
or on which the permit is not displayed in plain view shall be removed as
specified in §
70.12 below. Permits shall be for county employees, court personnel or other
persons who must have parking for longer than two hours on one or more days.
(Ord. passed 4-27-99) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.09 ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
The County Manager is hereby authorized to promulgate rules for the application
to receive permits and determination of what persons shall receive permits. The
County Manager or his designee shall issue a permit to an authorized person.
The County Manager is hereby authorized to issue permits to each department
head for authorized use only. Any person who receives a permit shall return the
permit to the department head or the County Manager. The department head shall
maintain custody, control, and inventory of the permits. Any unauthorized
issuance, possession or use of a permit shall constitute a violation of this
chapter. Permits shall not be transferred by the permittee to any other person
or vehicle.
(Ord. passed 4-27-99) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.10 EXTENDED PERMITS.
On any day when court personnel or other authorized personnel shall need a
permit for longer than two hours or for longer than one day, the court bailiff
shall obtain in advance the necessary permit for each judge, court reporter or
other authorized personnel. If the judge, court reporter,, or other authorized
person will need the permit longer than one day, the permit may be retained
until the last day of need. At that time, the permittee shall return the permit
to the bailiff. It shall be unlawful for any person who is not properly
authorized for such permit to obtain a permit to park for more than two hours
on one day or a permit to park for more than one consecutive day.
(Ord. passed 4-27-99) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.11 AUTHORIZATION FOR ENFORCEMENT.
The Director of Public Buildings for the county or his designee and any law
enforcement officer who shall observe or have reliable information of a
violator of this chapter, shall have authority to issue a citation for a
violation of this chapter and to remove any vehicle parked in violation of this
chapter. The Director of Public Buildings for the county or his designee and
any law enforcement officer shall be and is hereby authorized to declare any
vehicle to be a health or safety hazard to persons or property and to declare a
vehicle as an abandoned vehicle.
(Ord. passed 4-27-99) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.12 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES.
A vehicle parked in violation of this chapter or which is an abandoned vehicle
may be removed from the county property by the county through its Director of
Public Buildings or his designee. Any law enforcement officer who shall observe
or have reasonably reliable information that a vehicle is an abandoned vehicle
or is parked in violation of this chapter is hereby authorized to have such
vehicle removed from the county property and is authorized to have any towing
service to remove the vehicle. The vehicle shall be removed to a storage area
or garage designated by the County Manager. After a vehicle is removed, the
owner shall pay to the county, as a condition of regaining possession and
release of the vehicle, all reasonable costs incidental to the removal, towing
and storage of the vehicle and any civil fine or penalty due for the violation.
Any and all expense for such removal, towing, and resulting storage charges and
civil fine shall become a possessory lien on the vehicle.
(Ord. passed 4-27-99) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.13 VIOLATIONS.
It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to:
   (A)   Allow a vehicle to be parked longer than two hours on county owned
property to which this chapter applies, without a permit allowing parking for
longer than two hours;
   (B)   Allow or permit a vehicle to be parked in a space not designated for
that vehicle;
    (C)   Park a vehicle in a parking space without permission of the county;
   (D)   Place a vehicle so that it is improperly parked as defined in Section
70.01(D) above;
   (E)   Issue, possess or use a permit without proper authority;
   (F)   Apply for or obtain a permit by misrepresentation or by fraudulent
means;
   (G)   Transfer or attempt to transfer a permit to any other person or to any
other vehicle;
   (H)   Allow or permit a vehicle to be parked longer than for the time period
purchased to park the vehicle; or
   (I)   Park a vehicle on county property without transacting business with
the county.
(Ord. passed 4-27-99) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.14 VIOLATION BY COUNTY EMPLOYEE.
A violation of this chapter during the course of employment by a county
employee shall constitute misconduct on the part of that employee and may
subject the employee to disciplinary action pursuant to the Personnel
Resolution of Davidson County.
(Ord. passed 4-27-99) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.15 RE-CLAIMING OF VEHICLES.
If any vehicle is not claimed within five days after removal, the County
Manager or his designee shall obtain from or through the Sheriff’s office, or
other reliable source, identification of the registered owner of the vehicle.
The County Manager or designee shall then notify the registered owner of the
location of the vehicle, the charges which apply to that time, and that the
vehicle may be reclaimed by paying the charges incurred to the time of
reclaiming the vehicle.
(Ord. passed 4-27-99) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.16 NO LIABILITY OF COUNTY.
The county shall not be liable or responsible to anyone because of fire, theft,
damage, loss or injury to any vehicle or any article of personal property on
county property nor for any personal injury occurring on county property.
Neither the county nor any of its agents nor law enforcement personnel shall be
held to answer in a civil lawsuit or criminal action to any owner or any other
person for any costs, expense or damage resulting from the towing, removal and
storage of any vehicle pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. passed 4-27-99)
§ 70.17 VENUE AND JURISDICTION.
Any civil lawsuit filed against the county or any of its commissioners, agents,
and employees and any law enforcement officer to contest this chapter or to
claim any damage or injury resulting from removal of a vehicle pursuant to this
chapter shall be filed only in the appropriate division of civil court in
Davidson County, North Carolina. Venue shall be in only Davidson County.
Jurisdiction shall be in only the appropriate division of civil court in
Davidson County for any such civil lawsuit.
(Ord. passed 4-27-99)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of this chapter is an infraction as provided in GS. § 914-4.
The maximum penalty for each daily violation of the chapter is $50.00 per day,
plus all costs associated with or resulting from the violation, such as
removal, towing and storage.
   (B)   Violation of this chapter shall also subject the offender to a civil
penalty of $100.00 per day for each day of violation. As permitted by G.S. §
153 A- 123(c), such civil penalty shall be recovered by the county in a civil
action in the nature of debt if the offender does not pay the civil penalty
within ten days after having been cited for violation of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 4-27-99)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMAL CONTROL
      
91.   ALARM USERS
      
92.   LITTER CONTROL
      
93.   MASS GATHERINGS
      
94.   PUBLIC SAFETY TELEPHONE REGULATIONS
      
95.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
96.   NON-EMERGENCY AMBULANCE SERVICE
      
97.   TEACHER SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM
      
98.   FIRE AND LIFE SAFETY
CHAPTER 90: ANIMAL CONTROL
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Establishment and composition of the Animal Control Program
   
90.03   General duties of Animal Control Program
   
90.04   Cruelty to animals
   
90.05   Animals creating nuisance
   
90.06   Destruction of dangerous or nuisance animals at large that cannot be
seized by reasonable means
   
90.07   Identification for dogs and cats
   
90.08   Control of overpopulation of dogs and cats
   
90.09   Animal hoarding and high volume breeders
   
90.10   Setting humane animal traps and authority to receive trapped animals
   
90.11   Confinement and control of dangerous dog(s)
   
90.12   Dogs or animals used for sentry or guard duty
   
90.13   Law enforcement dogs excluded
   
90.14   Potentially dangerous exotic animals
   
90.15   Enforcement
   
90.16   Interference with enforcement
   
90.17   Not in conflict with general statutes or wildlife resource regulations
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   ABUSE.
      (1)   Failing to provide an animal with adequate food and drinkable water
at suitable intervals sufficient to maintain the animal ‘s health and well-
being;
      (2)   Overworking or overdriving any animal causing physical pain,
suffering, or death to the animal;
      (3)   Cruelly beating, torturing, molesting, harassing, injuring,
tormenting, poisoning, baiting, or mutilating any animal causing physical pain,
suffering, or death to the animal;
      (4)   Failing to provide adequate medical attention for any sick,
diseased, or injured animal in order to prevent physical pain, suffering, or
death to the animal;
      (5)   Keeping or conveying any animal under conditions which cause
physical pain, suffering, disability or death to the animal or which increase
the probability of the transmission of disease;
      (6)   Failing to provide an adequate shelter for an animal wherein the
animal can be protected from extremes of weather (heat, cold, rain, sun, etc.)
physical suffering, and impairment of health, and which is large enough to
allow the animal to make normal body movements.
      (7)   For animals which are kept outside, under weather conditions which
adversely affect the animal’s health, failing to provide a shelter for the
animal which is surrounded on three (3) sides, covered by a roof, and has a
floor (excluding barns), and which is structurally sound, maintained in good
repair, and constructed in such a manner that it is water and wind resistant.
      (8)   Animals which are tethered must be appropriately tethered in either
fixed or running configuration.
         (a)   Fixed. Tethered dogs must be attached to a swiveled ground
anchor by a cable wire or chain not shorter than ten feet. Ropes are not
acceptable for use as tethers. All tethers must have swivels attached on both
ends to prevent twisting. The tether must be arranged so as to be free from any
obstacles that may limit the moveable length of the tether. Shelter and water
must be present and always within reach of a tethered animal. If an animal
cannot reach its shelter or water due to tangled or shortened tether, an
Owner’s failure to prevent or correct the situation will be defined as abuse.
Tethers must also be attached to a safe and secure collar. The tether wire may
not be used as a collar.
         (b)   Running. A strong runner wire (minimum of ten feet) which is
firmly secured to fixed anchor points; posts, trees or fences are acceptable.
The tether is attached to the runner wire and must have a swivel to prevent
entanglement. The tether must be arranged so as to be free from any obstacles
that may limit the moveable length of the tether. Shelter and water must be
present and always within reach of a tethered animal. If an animal cannot reach
its shelter or water due to a tangled or shortened tether, an Owner’s failure
to prevent or correct the situation will be defined as abuse. Tethers must be
attached to a safe and secure collar. The tether wire may not be used as a
collar.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. An employee of Davidson County or a municipality
within Davidson County whose responsibility includes animal control and the
enforcement of animal control laws, rules and regulations, including the Rabies
Control Rules.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any premises designated by the county for the purpose of
impounding and caring for all animals found running at large or otherwise
subject to impounding in accordance with the provisions of this chapter or
Rules For The Control of Rabies within Davidson County.
   AT LARGE. Any animal shall be deemed to be at large when it is off the
property of its owner and not under restraint or control of a competent person.
   ATTACK. An approach to a person by an unrestrained animal in vicious,
terrorizing or threatening manner or apparent attitude of attack, without the
animal having been teased, molested, provoked, beaten, tortured, or otherwise
harmed.
   CRUELTY. Intentional or negligent infliction of pain and suffering on an
animal.
   DANGEROUS DOG. Any dog that has demonstrated a fierce or dangerous
propensity or tendency to do any act which may endanger persons or property.
This would include but not be limited to any dog which (1) assaults, bites,
attacks or inflicts serious injury on a human being without provocation on
public or private property and/or (2) which has killed or injured a pet or
domestic animal without provocation and/or (3) which is trained or being
trained in mode of attack. Exceptions: no dog is dangerous pursuant to this
definition if at the time the threat, injury or damage was sustained, the
person attacked was teasing, tormenting, abusing or assaulting the dog, or has
in the past teased, tormented, abused or assaulted the dog or was committing or
attempting to commit a crime. Nor shall a dog be considered dangerous pursuant
to this definition if it has c attacked or injured a pet or domesticated animal
in defense of an attack by another animal or if it is protecting or defending
its young.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any of various animals such as horses, sheep, cattle,
goats, hogs, poultry, etc; domesticated by man so as to live and breed in a
tame condition.
   EXOTIC ANIMAL. Any non-domesticated animal which is not native to North
Carolina nor governed by the NC Wildlife Resource Commission. This term is
exclusive of birds, ferrets, hedgehogs, chinchilla, sugar gliders, mice,
hamsters, gerbils, degus, guinea pigs, rabbits, fish, and non-venomous reptiles
except members of the crocodile family, komodo dragons and crocodile monitors.
   EXHIBITOR. Any person who is licensed by the U.S. Department of Agriculture
as an exhibitor.
   OWNER. Any person, group of persons, firm, partnership or corporation
owning, keeping, having charge of, sheltering, feeding, harboring or taking
care of any animal for more than three days. The owner is responsible for the
care, actions and behavior of his animals. In the event that the owner of an
animal is a minor, the parent or guardian of such minor shall be held liable
for noncompliance with the provision of this chapter.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, corporation, organization, trade or
professional association, firm, limited liability company, joint venture,
association, trust, estate or any other legal entity, and any officer, member,
shareholder, director, employee, agent or representative thereof.
   POSSESS. As referred to in §
90.12, any person who owns, possesses, keeps, harbors, brings into the county,
has in one’s possession, acts as a custodian, or has custody or control of an
exotic animal.
   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS EXOTIC ANIMAL. Any exotic animal which is a non-
domesticated feline (lion, tiger, leopard, etc) or its hybrid (excluding
Bengals, Chaussies, Savannahs, and Safari Cats), a non-domesticated canine
(wolves, coyotes, foxes, etc) or its hybrid, bears, elephants, rhinoceros,
hippopotamus, nonhuman primates, venomous reptiles, members of the crocodile
family, komodo dragons, crocodile monitors, African Rock Pythons, Burmese
Pythons, Reticulated Pythons and Anacondas.
   RESTRAINT. An animal is under restraint within the meaning of this chapter
if it is (1) controlled by means of a chain, leash, or other like device; or
(2) on or within a vehicle being driven or parked; or (3) within a secure
enclosure; or (4) within the dwelling house of the owner.
   SECURE ENCLOSURE. A building or an enclosed area (l) to which all entrances
and exits can be securely locked, (2) which will prohibit the ability of an
animal coming into contact with another animal or any person outside of the
enclosure and (3) which is located on the animal owner’s premises.
   STRAY. Any animal which is running at large and appears to be lost, unwanted
or abandoned.
   TETHERING. The securing of an animal to an anchor point by a cable or chain
to confine it to a desired area. There are two types of tethering: fixed or
running.
(Ord. passed 12-12-17)
§ 90.02 ESTABLISHMENT AND COMPOSITION OF THE ANIMAL CONTROL PROGRAM.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Animal Control Program of Davidson County,
which shall be composed of the county animal shelter, its employees, the animal
control officers and such employees and/or officials as shall be determined by
the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   In the performance of their duties, animal control officers and Law
Enforcement Officers shall have all the powers, authority and immunity granted
under this chapter and by the general laws of this state to enforce the
provisions of this chapter, and the General Statutes of North Carolina as they
relate to the care, treatment, control or impounding of animals.
(Ord. passed 12-12-17)
§ 90.03 GENERAL DUTIES OF ANIMAL CONTROL PROGRAM.
   The Animal Control Program shall be charged with the responsibility of:
   (A)   Enforcing, in this county, all state and county laws, ordinances,
rules, and resolutions relating to the care, custody and control of animals.
   (B)   Investigating and prosecuting cruelty or abuse of animals as defined
in this chapter, state and federal laws.
(Ord. passed 12-12-17)
§ 90.04 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter to abuse or
inflict cruelty upon animals.
   (B)   The Davidson County Board of Commissioners as provided under G.S. §
19A-45 may appoint an animal cruelty investigator(s). An animal cruelty
investigator(s) has the responsibility for carrying out the defined duties of
an animal cruelty investigator as mandated by G.S. §§ 19A-46 and 19A-47. An
animal control officer may be requested to accompany the investigator on animal
seizures.
(Ord. passed 12-12-17) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 ANIMALS CREATING NUISANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, possess or maintain
an animal in such a manner so as to constitute a nuisance. This provision does
not apply to animals used during the course of lawful hunting.
   (B)   The actions of an animal constitute a nuisance when an animal disturbs
the rights of, threatens the safety of, or damages a member of the general
public; or interferes with the ordinary use and enjoyment of private or public
property. By way of example and not of limitation, the following acts or
actions by an owner or possessor of an animal are hereby declared to be a
nuisance and are therefore unlawful:
      (1)   Maintaining an animal that damages property.
      (2)   Maintaining an animal that chases, snaps at, attacks or otherwise
molests pedestrians, bicyclists, motor vehicle passengers, domestic or exotic
animals.
      (3)   Allowing an animal to create a danger to the public while running
at large.
   (C)   Any owner permitting an animal(s) to create a nuisance shall pay a
civil penalty of (fees effective May 11, 2004):
      (1)   First violation - $25 plus shelter reclaim fee & boarding fee if
applicable as well as an order of restraint.
      (2)   Second violation - $50 plus shelter reclaim fee & boarding fee if
applicable.
      (3)   Subsequent violation - $100 plus shelter reclaim fee and boarding
fee if applicable.
   (D)   Payment: said civil penalties shall be paid at the Davidson County
Finance Department within 30 days of the issuance of a notice of citation for
violation of this section including cumulative notice (covering on-going
citations issued for a period of time) if an appeal is not filed as described
below.
   (E)   Appeals: appeal of any citation issued under the authority of this
chapter shall be by notice in writing submitted to the Davidson County Manager
within 25 days of its issuance. Failure to timely submit a written notice shall
constitute a waiver of right to appeal the citation.
      (1)   The Davidson County Manager shall either personally hear or shall
designate a hearing officer to consider the appeal.
      (2)   Conduct of hearing: at a scheduled hearing, both the individual
cited and the Sheriff’s Department Representative will submit evidence tending
to prove or disprove the existence of the violation with the burden of proof on
the appellant. Upon submission of evidence, the decision of the deputy issuing
the citation will be either upheld or vacated unless there is a stipulation of
violation with a waiver of fine upon performance of certain actions. If upheld,
the cited individual has an additional five business days to pay the fine as
described above after appeal decision is made.
(Ord. passed 12-12-17)
§ 90.06 DESTRUCTION OF DANGEROUS OR NUISANCE ANIMALS AT LARGE THAT CANNOT BE
SEIZED BY REASONABLE MEANS.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, a dangerous or nuisance
animal at large that cannot be seized by reasonable and normal means, retrieved
by an animal control officer, trapped in a humane, live-capture animal trap
provided by the animal control division, or tranquilized by animal control
personnel, may be humanely destroyed in the field.
(Ord. passed 12-12-17)
§ 90.07 IDENTIFICATION FOR DOGS AND CATS.
   Each person who owns or maintains a dog or cat that is located in this
county shall affix to such dog or cat the following identification:
   (A)   A rabies tag in accordance with § 7(B) of the “Rules for the Control
of Rabies within Davidson County.”
   (B)   Some form of identification with the owner’s name, address and phone
number.
   (C)   Any owner not in compliance with division (B) of this section shall
pay a civil penalty of (fees effective May 11, 2004):
      (1)   First violation - written warning.
      (2)   Subsequent violation - $5 plus shelter reclaim fee and boarding fee
if applicable.
   (D)   Said penalty shall be paid within five business days of the issuance
of a citation for violation of this section.
(Ord. passed 12-12-17)
§ 90.08 CONTROL OF OVERPOPULATION OF DOGS AND CATS.
   (A)   Any person who has been found in violation of any other provision of
this chapter on at least two separate occasions shall not own or harbor any
dogs or cats over the age of six months that have not been spayed or neutered.
Animals deemed medically ineligible for the procedure by a veterinarian are
exempted for spay and neuter requirements.
   (B)   Definitions:
      HARBOR. An individual who feeds or shelters an animal for seven days
shall be deemed to be harboring it unless the animal is boarded for a fee.
      OWNER. A person or legal entity that has possessory property rights to a
dog or cat.
      VIOLATION. The issuance of a citation for breach of another provision of
this chapter which is not appealed or where the appeal has been denied.
   (C)   Enforcement.
      (1)   Davidson County may exercise remedies for violation of any
provision of this chapter as allowed and authorized by G.S. § 153A-123, which
provides that violation of a county ordinance is a misdemeanor, or that the
county may levy a civil penalty for violations, and further that the ordinance
may be enforced by equitable remedies such as injunction.
         (a)   Criminal penalty. Any person violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of $100 per
day or imprisonment for not more than 30 days, or both not to exceed $500. Each
day’s continuing violation shall be a separate and distinct offense.
         (b)   Civil penalty. Any person who is found in violation of this
chapter shall be subject to a civil penalty of $100 per day. Each day’s
violation shall be treated as a separate offense.
      (2)   A citation may be issued to any person if there is probable cause
to believe that the person has violated this section. Citations so issued may
be served upon the violator in person by Animal Control Officers or mailed to
the person by certified mail if the person cannot be readily found. Any
citation so served or mailed shall direct the violator to make payment of the
fine on or before a specified day and hour to the Davidson County Finance
Department and to present evidence of the remedy of any violation of this
chapter within a period of not less than 72 hours after service or delivery to
the violator. If served by certified mail, the violator shall have six days
after the return receipt date to respond to the citation.
      (3)   If the violator does not respond to the citation, the County
Attorney may prosecute this action under the provisions of G.S. § 153A-123 and
have a criminal summons entered against the person charged and prosecuted in
the matter as a misdemeanor or in the alternative, pursue recovery of the
accessed civil fines through a court action.
      (4)   All fines may be waived by the County within 30 days of the
citation upon certification by a veterinarian that the animal in question has
been spayed or neutered, or it is proven the animal in question is ineligible
for spay or neuter.
      (5)   This chapter may be enforced by equitable remedies, and any
unlawful condition which may be in violation of this chapter may be abated by
mandatory or prohibitory injunction in accordance with G.S. § 153A-123.
      (6)   Enforcement of this section of the Davidson County Animal Control
Ordinance will begin six months after its enactment.
      (7)   Animal owners may appeal citations to the County Manager’s Office
within three days of issuance.
(Ord. passed 12-12-17)
§ 90.09 ANIMAL HOARDING AND HIGH VOLUME BREEDERS.
   Animal owners possessing more than five domestic adult animals are subject
to provisions of the Davidson County Zoning Ordinance; Article III, § 3.08
(Commercial Kennel) and Article V, § 5.08(R).
(Ord. passed 12-12-17)
§ 90.10 SETTING HUMANE ANIMAL TRAPS AND AUTHORITY TO RECEIVE TRAPPED ANIMALS.
   The Animal Control Program is authorized to place, upon request by the
property owner/controller, live-capture animal traps on private or public
property to trap and remove stray, at large, abandoned, or nuisance animals. It
is unlawful for any person other than an animal control officer or the
officer’s designee to remove any animal from county owned trap or to damage,
destroy, move, or tamper with the trap. The animal control department is
authorized to receive and impound animals that are trapped by other agencies or
persons.
(Ord. passed 12-12-17) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.11 CONFINEMENT AND CONTROL OF DANGEROUS DOG(S).
   (A)   It is unlawful for any owner to maintain or harbor unconfined or
unrestrained any dangerous dog.
   (B)   The owner will be notified in writing to confine the dangerous dog in
a humane secure enclosure. The owner shall post a plainly visible sign upon the
secure enclosure warning that a dangerous dog is on the premises. Said sign
shall not exceed one foot by two feet or two square feet in area; and shall be
deemed an incidental sign for the purposes of the Davidson County Zoning
Ordinance.
   (C)   The owner shall have a total of ten days from the date of notification
to provide a humane, secure enclosure. The animal deemed “dangerous” shall be
under constant restraint on the owner’s property during this period. An animal
control officer is empowered to confiscate the dangerous dog and harbor it at
the owner’s expense pending the owner’s construction of a humane secure
enclosure (as defined). If any dangerous dog is confiscated under this
provision and the owner of the dangerous dog fails to provide a secure
enclosure within the ten days from the date of notification, Davidson County
Animal Control is authorized to dispose of the animal. If the owner constructs
a secure enclosure (as defined), and the animal is not being destroyed pursuant
to §
90.99(B) and (C), the dog may be redeemed within ten days from confiscation
provided: (1) all fees owing to Animal Control for harboring, caring and
maintaining the animal are paid; and, (2) confirmation by the Animal Control
Officer of the construction of the secure enclosure.
   (D)   When a dangerous dog escapes, the owner is required to inform the
Animal Control Program, as soon as practicable, but not later than 24 hours,
after the escape.
(Ord. passed 12-12-17) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.12 DOGS OR ANIMALS USED FOR SENTRY OR GUARD DUTY.
   Any person owning, maintaining or harboring a dog or other animal for sentry
or guard purposes must post a plainly visible sign upon the secure enclosure
warning that a dangerous dog or animal is on the premises. Said sign shall not
exceed one foot by two feet or two square feet in area; and, shall be deemed an
incidental sign for the purposes of the Davidson County Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. passed 12-12-17)
§ 90.13 LAW ENFORCEMENT DOGS EXCLUDED.
   Any dog used by a law enforcement agency in the investigation of crimes or
as otherwise necessary in the enforcement of the law is excluded from
requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 12-12-17)
§ 90.14 POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS EXOTIC ANIMALS.
   (A)   Intent. It is the intent of the Davidson County Commissioners to
protect the public against health and safety risks that exotic animals pose to
the community and to protect the welfare of the individual animals held in
private possession.
   (B)   Keeping of potentially dangerous exotic animals regulated. It shall be
unlawful for any person to own, possess, keep, harbor, breed, bring into the
county, have in one’s possession, act as a custodian, or have custody or
control of any exotic animal or potentially dangerous exotic animal, except as
defined by this chapter.
      (1)   Certain potentially dangerous exotic animals prohibited. No person
shall own, possess, keep, harbor, breed, bring into the county, or have in
one’s possession, act as a custodian, or have custody or control of potentially
dangerous exotic animals as follows: felids of the Panthera family (lions,
tigers, jaguars, etc) and their hybrids, species of lynx and their hybrids,
nondomesticated canids (wolves, coyotes, etc) and their hybrids, all non-human
primates which are great apes or apes (gorilla, chimpanzee, gibbons,
orangutans, etc), all non-human primates which are old world monkeys (languars,
mandrills, macaques, baboons, etc), polar bears, grizzly bears, elephants,
rhinoceroses, hippopotamuses, venomous reptiles, komodo dragons, water
monitors, crocodile monitors, members of the crocodile family, African Rock
Pythons, Burmese Pythons, Reticulated Pythons and Anacondas.
      Exemptions
         (a)   Animal control or law enforcement agencies or officers acting
under the authority of this chapter.
         (b)   Licensed veterinary hospitals or clinics who are temporarily
treating/housing potentially dangerous exotic animals.
         (c)   Any licensed and accredited research, medical or educational
institution.
         (d)   Any person who is in legal possession of a prohibited
potentially dangerous exotic animal prior to the effective date of this chapter
shall be allowed to continue to possess the animal(s) provided that person:
            l.   Register such animal(s) with the Davidson County Animal
Control Program in accordance with division (C) of this section.
            2.   Submits an emergency contingency and recapture plan to the
Davidson County Animal Control Program in accordance with division (D) of this
section.
            3.   Maintains liability insurance coverage of a minimum of $
100,000.
            4.   Has each animal(s) implanted with a microchip at the expense
of the possessor by or under the supervision of a veterinarian and provide the
Davidson County Animal Control office with the microchip number. This provision
does not apply if a veterinarian determines that the implant of a microchip
would endanger the well-being of the animal(s).
            5.   Has the proper caging requirements to house such animal(s) so
as to provide for the welfare of the animals and protect the public, as set
forth in division (F) of this section.
         (e)   Persons temporarily transporting or exhibiting potentially
dangerous exotic animals in or through the county as set forth in division (E)
(2) of this section.
      (2)   Provision for unlawful acts against prohibited potentially
dangerous exotic animals. If any person other than a law enforcement officer,
the owner, or a veterinarian acting under the authority of the owner willfully
or intentionally kills or maims or causes to be killed or maimed a prohibited
potentially dangerous exotic animal while on or in the owner’s property, the
owner of such animal may acquire a replacement animal of the same species
without being in violation of this chapter. It is the intent of this provision
to prevent the criminal destruction of any prohibited potentially dangerous
exotic animal and not to allow replacement of the animal if it is destroyed
while creating a danger running at large, unless the animal’s escape was caused
by the criminal act of a person other than the owner. A necropsy of the
deceased animal may be required in order to replace the animal.
      (3)   Certain potentially dangerous exotic animals regulated. Any person
may own, possess, keep, harbor, breed, bring into the county, have in one’s
possession, act as a custodian, or have custody of any animal not otherwise
prohibited by this chapter, provided they:
         (a)   Register such animals with the Davidson County Animal Control
Office in accordance with division(C) of this section.
         (b)   Submit an Emergency Contingency and Recapture Plan to the
Davidson County Animal Control Office in accordance with division (D) of this
section.
         (c)   Maintain liability insurance coverage of a minimum of $100,000.
         (d)   Do not breed, exhibit, or sell any un-prohibited dangerous
exotic animal(s) unless licensed by the United States Department of Agriculture
(USDA) under the Federal Animal Welfare Act.
   (C)   Registration.
      (1)   All persons who are in legal possession of potentially dangerous
exotic animals prior to the effective date of this chapter shall register said
animals within 30 days with the Davidson County Animal Control Office by
submitting a completed Davidson County Exotic Animal Registration Form. Within
120 days of the enactment of this chapter, all persons shall be in full
compliance.
      (2)   All persons who acquire un-prohibited potentially dangerous exotic
animals after the date of this chapter shall register with the Davidson County
Animal Control Office and complete the Davidson County Exotic Animal
Registration Form within five business days of acquiring the animal(s). Proof
of liability insurance for all un-prohibited potentially dangerous exotic
animals shall be submitted along with the Davidson County Exotic Animal
Registration Form.
      (3)   All persons who possess potentially dangerous exotic animals shall
notify the Davidson County Animal Control Office of any changes to the stated
information on the Davidson County Exotic Animal Registration Form including,
but not limited to, the death, disposition or escape of any registered animal.
      (4)   A one-time registration fee of $5 will be charged for each animal
registered.
   (D)   Escapes.
      (1)   Any person possessing a animal(s) as defined by this chapter shall
submit to the Davidson County Animal Control Office a plan for the quick and
safe recapture of the exotic animal(s) if the exotic animal(s) escapes. If
recapture is impossible, the registrant must have a plan for the destruction of
the exotic animal(s).
      (2)   If an exotic animal escapes, or damage to the enclosure could
result in an escape, the possessor of the exotic animal shall immediately
contact 911. The possessor is liable for all expenses associated with efforts
to recapture the animal.
      (3)   No person may intentionally release an exotic animal. If an exotic
animal is intentionally released the possessor is liable for all expenses
associated with efforts to recapture the animal.
   (E)   Temporary exhibitors and transporters.
      (1)   Temporary exhibitors of potentially dangerous exotic animals, such
as circuses which operate for periods of not more than seven consecutive days,
no more than twice in the same calendar year may possess and exhibit
potentially dangerous exotic animals provided they:
         (a)   Register with the Davidson County Animal Control Office by
submitting a completed Davidson County Exotic Animal Registration Form prior to
or within 24 hours of bringing any potentially dangerous exotic animal(s) into
the county.
         (b)   Submit a plan for the quick and safe recapture of the exotic
animal(s) if the exotic animal(s) escapes. If recapture is impossible, the
registrant must have a plan for the destruction of the exotic animal(s).
         (c)   Provide proof of liability insurance of a minimum of $100,000.
         (d)   Have all required Federal and State licenses and permits.
      (2)   Persons transporting potentially dangerous exotic animals through
Davidson County for a period of no longer than 48 hours.
   (F)   Caging requirements for potentially dangerous exotic animals. All
potentially dangerous exotic animals shall be confined in a secure enclosure.
      (1)   Secure enclosures shall be constructed of material and of such
strength as appropriate for the animal(s) involved. Indoor and outdoor
facilities shall be structurally sound and shall be maintained in good repair
to protect the animal(s) from injury and to contain the animals. All outdoor
housing facilities must be constructed in a manner to prevent escape by the
animal(s). All secure enclosures must be constructed to prevent unauthorized
persons from entering or coming into contact with the animal(s).
      (2)   All outdoor secure enclosures shall be equipped with a safety
entrance. A safety entrance is defined as a double-gated entry that allows a
keeper to enter and exit a cage without providing an avenue of escape to an
animal(s).
      (3)   All outdoor secure enclosures shall be equipped with a lockout area
or shift cage which allows the keeper to access and clean the cage while the
animal(s) is contained in a separate area. This can consist of a den box with a
guillotine door that also has access from outside the cage which allows the
animal(s) to be in one area while the caregiver accesses the other area, or
some other method that allows positive separation of the animal(s) and the
keeper.
      (4)   All doors or gates shall be kept locked when not attended.
   (G)   Signs. The owner of any potentially dangerous exotic animal(s) shall
post a plainly visible sign upon the secure enclosure warning that a
potentially dangerous exotic animal(s) is on the premises. Said sign shall not
exceed one foot by two feet or two square feet in area; and shall be deemed an
incidental sign for the purposes of the Davidson County Zoning Ordinance.
   (H)   Public contact. Showing a potentially dangerous exotic animal(s) at
any public property or commercial or retail establishment is prohibited unless
said potentially dangerous exotic animal(s) is being transported to a licensed
veterinarian or is otherwise in compliance with this chapter.
   (I)   Inspection. The possessor of an exotic animal(s), at all reasonable
times shall allow the Davidson County Animal Control Program, its staff, and
its agents to enter the premises where the animal(s) is kept to ensure
compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. passed 12-12-17) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.15 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Davidson County Animal Control Program, its staff, its agents, or any
law enforcement agents are authorized and empowered to enforce the provisions
of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 12-12-17)
§ 90.16 INTERFERENCE WITH ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, hinder or molest the
Davidson County Animal Control Program agents or officers or veterinarians in
the performance of any duty authorized by this chapter, or to seek to release
any animal(s) in the custody of such agents, except as otherwise specifically
provided.
(Ord. passed 12-12-17) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.17 NOT IN CONFLICT WITH GENERAL STATUTES OR WILDLIFE RESOURCES
REGULATIONS.
   No provision of this chapter shall be construed or applied in conflict with
the provisions of North Carolina General Statues pertaining to the regulation
of wildlife and wildlife resources; nor shall any provision of this chapter be
construed or applied to permit any activity or condition with respect to a wild
animal which is prohibited or more severely restricted by regulations of the
Wildlife Resources Commission.
(Ord. passed 12-12-17)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided, any person who violates any provision of
this chapter, shall be fined a civil penalty of $100. If the violation is
continued, each day’s violation shall constitute a separate offense. Payment of
said such penalties shall be made within ten days. Civil penalties may be
assessed by citation and recovered by Davidson County in a civil action in the
nature of a debt.
   (B)   If any dangerous dog shall, when unprovoked, attack, assault, wound,
bite or otherwise injure or kill a human being, the owner shall pay a $500 fine
and, after a ten day waiting period exclusive of Sundays and holidays, said dog
shall be destroyed by the Animal Control Program.
   (C)   If any dangerous dog shall, when unprovoked, kill or wound, or assist
in killing or wounding any domestic animal or pet, the owner of said dog shall
pay a $250 civil penalty and the Animal Control Program is empowered to
confiscate and, after the expiration of a ten day waiting period exclusive of
Sundays and holidays, shall destroy said dangerous dog.
   (D)    In addition, enforcement of this chapter may be by appropriate
equitable remedy, injunction or order of abatement issued by a court of
competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed 12-12-17; Ord. passed 4-22-24)
CHAPTER 91: ALARM USERS
Section
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   False alarm; civil penalties
   
91.03   Obligations of alarm contractors and alarm users
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM CONTRACTOR. Any person, corporation, proprietorship, partnership or
other organization engaged in the business of selling, leasing, installing,
maintaining, and/or monitoring alarm systems installed on the premises of
another for the purpose of protection of such premises.
   ALARM SYSTEM. Any electronic or mechanical device which emits any signal
(electronic, visible, audible, silent, recorded or otherwise) which is
designed, intended or used to detect an unauthorized entry into a building,
structure, or premises, or to signal an attempted robbery, burglary or holdup.
ALARM shall be deemed to include any device which initiates a telephone call
and delivers a recorded message to any emergency telephone number assigned to
the Communications Center or by which a third party telephones any emergency
telephone number and requests enforcement services on the basis of having
received an automatic signal from a subscriber of an alarm service.
   ALARM USER. Any person, corporation, partnership, proprietorship,
governmental or educational entity owning or leasing an alarm system, or on
whose premises an alarm system is maintained for the protection of such
premises.
   FALSE ALARM. The activation of an alarm system through mechanical or
electronic failure, malfunction, improper installation or the negligence of the
subscriber, his employees or agent, and signals purposely activated to summon
Sheriff personnel in non-emergency situations unless law enforcement response
was canceled by the alarm user or his agent before officers arrive at the alarm
location. A false alarm shall not include an alarm which can reasonably be
determined to have been activated by adverse weather conditions, a failure in
the electrical power to the alarm, or other conditions beyond the control of
the alarm user. In addition, an alarm activated during an alarm system testing
procedure shall not be considered a false alarm if the alarm user first
notifies and receives permission from the Davidson County Sheriff’s Office
Communications Center to test the system. An alarm is false within the meaning
of this section when, upon inspection by the Sheriff, evidence indicates that
no unauthorized entry, robbery, or other such crime was committed or attempted
in or on the premises which would have activated a properly functioning alarm
system.
   SHERIFF. The Sheriff of Davidson County, Lexington, North Carolina, or his
designee or agent.
(Ord. passed 5-12-96)
§ 91.02 FALSE ALARM; CIVIL PENALTIES.
   (A)   First and second false alarms. If within any 12-month period, the
Davidson County Sheriff’s Office responds to one or two false alarms at the
same premises or location, the Sheriff shall send a notice to the alarm user
informing him or her of the false alarm(s) and encouraging the prevention of
future false alarms.
   (B)   Third and fourth false alarms. If within any 12-month period, the
Davidson County Sheriff’s Office responds to a third or fourth false alarm at
the same premises or location, the alarm user shall be subject to a civil
penalty of $50 for any such alarm(s), provided that after the third false alarm
only, the civil penalty may be waived by the Sheriff or his designee upon
written evidence from a person or company licensed by the North Carolina Alarm
System Licensing Board certifying that the false alarm was caused by electronic
or mechanical malfunction of the alarm system and that the alarm system has
been repaired.
   (C)   Fifth and subsequent false alarms. If within any 12-month period, the
Davidson County Sheriff’s Office responds to a fifth or subsequent false alarm
at the same premises or location, the alarm user shall be subject to a civil
penalty of $100 for each false alarm.
   (D)   False alarms following installation. Any false alarms occurring within
seven days of installation of a new alarm system shall not be considered a
false alarm for the purpose of the assessment of civil penalties.
   (E)   Continuing alarms. An alarm user or his representative shall reset an
alarm when notified by the Sheriff’s Office or Communications Center that such
alarm has been activated. All audible alarms shall be equipped with an
automatic reset devise that will reset and cease to sound the alarm after no
more than thirty (30) minutes of continuous activation. When an alarm activates
continuously for a period of 60 minutes from the time an officer initially
responds to the alarm due to the failure of the alarm or the alarm user or his
representative to reset the alarm, it shall be deemed a false alarm and each
subsequent 60-minute period or portion thereof that the alarm continues to be
activated shall be considered a separate false alarm. The alarm user shall be
subject to a civil penalty for such continuing alarm at a flat rate of $10 for
each false alarm as defined in this division (E), not to exceed $100 for any
24-hour period. The absence of direct notice to the alarm user or his
representative of the activation shall not constitute a defense to these fees
if the Sheriff’s Office or Communications Center is not reasonably able to
contact such person due to the failure of the alarm user to conform to the
provisions of this chapter.
   (F)   Authority to waive penalty. The Sheriff shall have the authority to
waive any penalties charged to an alarm user when such an alarm user submits to
the Sheriff adequate evidence that the alleged false alarm was not actually
false as defined in this chapter. In such instances, the Sheriff shall prepare
a written notice of such intention to waive the penalty and submit same to the
County Manager. The Sheriff shall not formally waive such penalty until the
County Manager has signed the notice and returned same to the Sheriff.
   (G)   Liability for payment of civil penalty.
      (1)   Notwithstanding any contractual agreement between an alarm
contractor and an alarm user, the alarm user shall be liable for payment of any
civil penalty due to Davidson County.
      (2)   Any county employee authorized by the Sheriff may issue to the
known owner of or person having control of any place of business or residence a
civil penalty citation giving notice of the violation of this ordinance. Any
such official shall be authorized to secure the name and address of the owner
of or person in control of the place of business or residence found to be in
violation of exceeding the number of alarms allowed. Citations so issued may be
delivered in person or mailed by registered mail to the person charged if the
person cannot readily be located. Each citation issued shall impose upon the
owner or person in charge a civil penalty as prescribed by this chapter which
shall be paid to the Sheriff’s Office within 30 days of receipt in full
satisfaction of the assessed penalty. If the civil penalty is not paid within
the time prescribed in the citation, the appropriate personnel of the County
may initiate a civil action in the nature of debt to collect such civil
penalty.
(Ord. passed 5-12-96)
§ 91.03 OBLIGATIONS OF ALARM CONTRACTORS AND ALARM USERS.
   (A)   Each alarm user in the county shall post in a conspicuous place on the
premises where the alarm system is maintained and shall furnish to the
Sheriff’s Office the name(s) and telephone numbers of the person(s) currently
authorized and able to deactivate the alarm system.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any alarm contractor or alarm user to
activate an alarm system without first contacting the Sheriff’s Office. The
Sheriff’s Office must be supplied a list of names and telephone numbers or
persons that can deactivate the alarm system.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the alarm user to provide an
adequate number of responsible persons to permit notification of an activation
at any time and to keep this information current.
(Ord. passed 5-12-96)
CHAPTER 92: LITTER CONTROL
Section
   
92.01   Definition
   
92.02   Litter in public places
   
92.03   Litter in parks, lakes, streams and fountains
   
92.04   Truck loads causing litter
   
92.05   Placement of litter in receptacles
   
92.06   Molesting receptacles
   
92.07   Litter in occupied private property
   
92.08   Owner to maintain premises free of litter
   
92.09   Duty of road or railroad construction/repair companies and other
similar companies
   
92.10   Removal of contractors refuse
   
92.11   Open excavations
   
92.12   Duty of landlords, tenants of business establishments
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definition of litter shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LITTER. Handbills, debris, bottles, cans, jars, cups, napkins, wrappers,
sacks, plastic material, trash, waste material, garbage, fruit or vegetable
peelings, refuse, rags, old clothes, any worn out, discarded, or old iron,
other metal, automobile parts, chain, copper, parts of machinery, automobile
tires, appliances, or old wrecked, or unusable automobiles and trucks,
crockery, rocks, bricks, lumber sawdust, broken glass, excess leaves, dirt or
rubbish of any kind that may be offensive or unsightly or that may be dangerous
to traffic, concrete and/or tar composition that was removed after being used
as a binder for road surfaces, dead animals, carcass, human body or parts
thereof, carrion, offal, human excrement, filth, manure, putrid or decaying
animal matter, or other substance or matter offensive to the smell or injurious
to health.
(Ord. passed 11-7-77)
§ 92.02 LITTER IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall place, deposit or cause to be placed, deposited or left any
litter in or upon any public roadway, lane, alley, drive, bridge, overpass,
underpass, culvert, branch or catch basin, or upon any grounds, walk, path, or
drive appurtenant to any public building, park, recreation area or facility, or
in or about any public swimming pool or facility, or upon any private property
or railroad right-of- way, or other public place or into any occupied premises
within the county except in public receptacles, in authorized private
receptacles for collection, in official county landfills or collection boxes.
(Ord. passed 11-7-77) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 LITTER IN PARKS, LAKES, STREAMS AND FOUNTAINS.
   No person shall place, deposit or leave or cause to be placed, deposited or
left any litter in any park, fountain, pond, lake, stream or other body of
water in a park or elsewhere in the county, except in public receptacles and in
such a manner that the litter will be prevented from being carried or deposited
by the elements upon any parts of the park, any roadway or other public place.
Where public receptacles are not provided, all such litter shall be carried
away form the park by the person responsible for its presence and disposed of
properly elsewhere.
(Ord. passed 11-7-77) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 TRUCK LOADS CAUSING LITTER.
   No person shall drive or move any truck or other vehicle within the county
unless such vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any load,
contents or litter from being blown or deposited upon any roadway, alley or
other public place.
(Ord. passed 11-7-77) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 PLACEMENT OF LITTER IN RECEPTACLES.
   Persons placing litter in public receptacles or in authorized private
receptacles, shall do so in such a manner as to prevent it from being carried
or deposited by the elements upon any roadway or other public place or upon
private property. It shall not be unlawful to deposit such materials upon a
public dump maintained by the county for such purpose or in receptacles
provided for that purpose.
(Ord. passed 11-7-77) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 MOLESTING RECEPTACLES.
   No person shall overhaul, molest or interfere with the contents of any
litter receptacle set out for removal by authorized collectors, unless
permission has been given by the property owner. Nor shall any person overhaul,
molest or interfere with the contents of any litter receptacle of the county or
of any contents at the landfill site unless permission has been given by the
County Manager.
(Ord. passed 11-7-77) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.07 LITTER IN OCCUPIED PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No person, firm, organization or corporation shall place, deposit, leave or
cause to be placed, deposited, or left, either temporarily or permanently, any
litter of any kind upon the lands of another without first obtaining written
consent of the owner thereof.
(Ord. passed 11-7-77) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.08 OWNER TO MAINTAIN PREMISES FREE OF LITTER.
   Every operator of a drive-in restaurant, drive-in theater or other business
establishment which serves food or beverages for consumption on the premises,
either out-of-doors or in an automobile, shall provide suitable receptacles on
the premises, out-of-doors, for the disposal of bottles, cans, cups, napkins
and other disposable items in, on or with which food or beverages are served
and shall maintain their premises free of litter. Regardless of whether such
receptacles are provided or not, it shall be unlawful for any person to throw,
place, deposit, leave, or cause to be thrown, placed, deposited or left, any
litter of any kind upon the premises, out-of-doors, of any such drive-in
restaurant, drive-in theater or other business establishment.
(Ord. passed 11-7-77) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.09 DUTY OF ROAD OR RAILROAD CONSTRUCTION/REPAIR COMPANIES AND OTHER
SIMILAR COMPANIES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of these contractors to properly remove any
excess materials, and litter within 30 days after completion of said project.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of these contractors to remove broken materials
within two weeks, even if the project is not completed.
   (C)   If said removal is not done as listed above, the County Manager shall
notify those involved, giving them an additional seven days. If they still fail
to comply, they can be removed by the county and those involved will be charged
accordingly.
(Ord. passed 11-7-77) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.10 REMOVAL OF CONTRACTORS REFUSE.
   (A)   All tree trimmings, accumulations of glass or materials left from new
construction or other contractual labors, shall be removed at the expense of
the person doing said construction or repair. This includes excess sod, dirt
and/or tree removal.
   (B)   If said removal is not done as listed above, the County Manager shall
notify those involved, giving them an additional seven days. If they still fail
to comply, they can be removed by the county and those involved will be charged
accordingly.
(Ord. passed 11-7-77) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.11 OPEN EXCAVATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner of a lot or tract of land within a
residential district to excavate a basement for a proposed building at such
place, and then allow the excavation to remain open and exposed for a period of
more than six months without constructing a building over the excavation. The
failure of the owner to construct a building over the excavation or, in lieu
thereof, to fill in the excavation within six months from the digging thereof
is declared to be a violation.
(Ord. passed 11-7-77) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.12 DUTY OF LANDLORDS, TENANTS OF BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS.
   It shall be the duty of each landlord and tenant of business establishments
to see that proper litter receptacles are provided.
(Ord. passed 11-7-77) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
    Violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be punished as
provided in §
10.99.
(Ord. passed 11-7-77; Ord. passed 4-22-24)
CHAPTER 93: MASS GATHERINGS
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Intent and purpose
   
93.02   Definitions
Permits
   
93.10   Permit required
   
93.11   Application for permit
   
93.12   Provisional permit; bond and insurance required
   
93.13   Issuance of permit; revocation; forfeiture of bond; cancellation
Standards and Requirements
   
93.20   Intent
   
93.21   Alteration of provisions
   
93.22   Necessary facilities and services
   
93.23   Right of entry
 
   
93.98   Violation; injunction
   
93.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   The intent and purpose of this chapter is to provide for the protection of
the public health, public welfare, and public safety of those persons in
attendance at mass gatherings held in Davidson County and of those persons who
reside near of are located in proximity to the sites of mass gatherings or are
directly affected thereby.
(Ord. passed 4-17-80)
§ 93.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COUNTY MANAGER. The County Manager of Davidson County.
   HEALTH DIRECTOR. The Davidson County Health Director or his authorized
representative.
   MASS GATHERINGS. The congregation or assembly of not more than 5000 and more
than 1000 people in an open space or open air for a continuous period of 24
hours or more; it shall include mass gatherings held for any purpose but shall
not include assemblies in permanent buildings or permanent structures designed
or intended for use by large numbers of people which meets standards set by
local and state building codes.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, corporation or other organization of any kind
which holds, sponsors, organizes, conducts, or promotes, jointly or severally,
a mass gathering.
   SANITARIAN. The representative of the Davidson County Health Director.
(Ord. passed 4-17-80)
PERMITS
§ 93.10 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No persons shall organize, sponsor or hold any mass gathering unless a
permit has been issued to such person by the County Manager under the
provisions of this chapter. A permit shall be required for each mass gathering
and is not transferable to other persons. Such a permit shall be issued by the
County Manager and by a Sanitarian and upon the written report of a Sanitarian,
which inspection and report shall be to determine whether the provisions of
this chapter have been complied with by the applicant.
(Ord. passed 4-17-80) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.11 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Application for a permit for a mass gathering shall be made to the
County Manager, on a form and in a manner prescribed by him, by the person who
will organize, sponsor or hold the mass gathering. The application shall be
filed with the County Manager at least 30 days prior to the commencement of the
mass gathering. A fee of $100 dollars shall accompany the application.
   (B)   The application shall contain the following information:
identification of the applicant, identification of any other person(s)
responsible for organizing, sponsoring or holding the mass gathering, the
location of the proposed mass gathering, estimated maximum number of persons
reasonably expected to be in attendance at any one time, the date or dates and
the hours during which the mass gathering is to be conducted, and a statement
as to the total time period involved.
   (C)   The application shall be accompanied by an outline map of the area to
be used, to approximate scale, showing the location of all proposed and
existing privies or toilets; lavatory and bathing facilities; all water supply
sources including lakes, ponds, streams, wells, storage tanks, et seq.; all
areas of assemblage; all camping areas; all food service areas; all garbage and
refuse storage and disposal areas; all entrances and exits to public highways;
and emergency ingress and egress roads.
   (D)   The application shall be accompanied by such plans, reports, and
information required by the County Manager as he shall deem necessary to carry
out the provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   In addition to the requirements provided in division (A) through (D)
of this section, the application shall contain a statement that the applicant
will use every reasonable means to provide adequate surveillance and security
necessary to insure compliance by those in attendance at such mass gathering
with all applicable laws which prohibit the unlawful possession, possession for
sale, transportation or use of intoxicating beverages or drugs, whether
narcotic or not if prohibited by applicable law, and if such permit be granted
said applicant shall employ or otherwise provide competent and trained security
personnel at a ratio of one for each 500 persons, or fraction thereof, expected
to be in attendance at such mass gathering, which security personnel shall be
approved in writing by the Sheriff of Davidson County and such approval must be
attached to said application.
   (F)   In addition to requirements provided in division (A) through (E) of
this section, the application shall contain a statement that the applicant will
use every reasonable means to provide adequate surveillance and security to
ensure compliance by those in attendance at such mass gathering with applicable
laws relating to traffic regulations, trespass and crimes against persons and
property in an area with a radius of 2500 feet from the center of the proposed
site for such mass gathering, and in the event such permit is granted shall
provide competent, trained personnel as provided in division (E).
   (G)   Prior instances of violations of applicable law designated in division
(E) and (F) of this section, or of this chapter, as evidenced by final
judgments courts of this county or courts hearing cases arising out of this
county shall be considered by the County Manager along with the information
required to be set forth in the application provided for herein and other
evidence in determining whether or not to grant the requested permit, and such
violation within one year of the date of such application shall be grounds for
denying such permit.
(Ord. passed 4-17-80)
§ 93.12 PROVISIONAL PERMIT; BOND AND INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Within ten days after the receipt of the application, the County
Manager and a Sanitarian shall review the application and inspect the proposed
site for the mass gathering. If it reasonably appears that the requirements of
this chapter can be met by the applicant, a provisional permit shall be issued.
   (B)   If the County Manager shall deem it necessary to protect the health,
welfare and safety of those persons in attendance at mass gatherings and of
other persons who may be affected by mass gatherings and to carry out the
provisions of this chapter, he may require the permittee within five days after
insurance of the provisional permit to file with the County Manager a
performance bond or other surety to be executed to the county in the amount of
$1,000. The bond, if required, shall be conditioned on full compliance with
this chapter and shall be forfeitable upon noncompliance and a showing by the
County Manager of any injury, damage or other loss to the state or local
governmental agencies caused by the noncompliance. The permittee shall in
addition file satisfactory evidence of public liability and property damage
insurance in an amount determined by the County Manager to be reasonable (but
not to exceed $1,000 in amount) in relation to the risks and hazards involved
in the proposed mass gathering.
(Ord. passed 4-17-80)
§ 93.13 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; REVOCATION; FORFEITURE OF BOND; CANCELLATION.
   (A)   If, upon inspection by the County Manager 15 days prior to the
starting date of the mass gathering, or earlier upon request of the permittee,
the required facilities are found to be in place and satisfactory arrangements
are found to have been made of required services, and other applicable
provisions of this chapter are found to have been met, the County Manager shall
issue a permit for the mass gathering. If, upon such inspection, the
facilities, arrangements, or other provisions are not satisfactory, the
provisional permit shall be revoked and no permit issued.
   (B)   Upon revocation of either the provisional permit or the permit, the
permittee shall immediately announce cancellation of the mass gathering in as
effective manner as is reasonably possible, including but not limited to the
use of whatever methods were used for advertising or promoting the mass
gathering.
   (C)   If the provisional permit or the permit is revoked prior to or during
the mass gathering, the County Manager may order the permittee to install such
facilities and make such arrangements as may be necessary to accommodate those
persons who may nevertheless attend or be present at the mass gathering despite
the cancellation and to restore the site to a safe and sanitary condition. In
the event the permittee fails to comply with the order of the County Manager,
the County Manager may immediately proceed to install such facilities and make
such other arrangements and provisions for clean-up as may be minimally
required in the interest of public health and safety, utilizing such state and
local funds and resources as may be available to him. Prior to and within 60
days after such action, the County Manager may apply to a court of competent
jurisdiction to order forfeiture of the permittee’s performance bond or surety
for violation of this chapter. The court may order that the proceeds shall be
applied to the extent necessary to reimburse the state and local governmental
agencies for expenditures made pursuant to the action taken by the County
Manager upon the permittee’s failure to comply with his order. Any excess
proceeds shall be returned to the insurer of the bond or to the surety after
deducting costs.
(Ord. passed 4-17-80)
STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS
§ 93.20 INTENT.
   The following standards and requirements are intended to protect the health,
welfare, and safety of those attending mass gatherings and of other persons who
may be affected by mass gatherings. In applying these standards and
requirements to a particular mass gathering, the County Manager is hereby
authorized to apply more rigid or less rigid standards and requirements as
called for by the specific characteristics of the gathering based upon
generally recognized public health principles and practices.
(Ord. passed 4-17-80)
§ 93.21 ALTERATION OF PROVISIONS.
   Any such alteration in the prescribed standards and requirements shall be in
writing and shall be sent to the applicant.
(Ord. passed 4-17-80)
§ 93.22 NECESSARY FACILITIES AND SERVICES.
   Necessary facilities and services shall be provided, including, but not
limited to the following provisions:
   (A)   Activity area. An activity area shall be provided of sufficient size
to accommodate the estimated number of person reasonably expected to be in
attendance at any one time. This activity area is in addition to those areas
required for parking in division (G), for camping in division (D), and for the
command post in division (E).
   (B)   Distance from dwellings. No part of the perimeter of the activity and
camping areas shall be within 1500 feet of any residence unless the occupant or
owner has signed a written waiver. Notarized copies of any such waivers shall
accompany the application.
   (C)   Distance from certain public water supply sources. No part of the
perimeters of the activity, including camping areas, shall be located within
one mile of a Class I or Class II reservoir, as classified by the Sanitary
Engineering Division of the North Carolina Division of Health Services, or
within three miles of a protected watershed which drains into an A-I stream, as
classified by the North Carolina Department of Natural and Economic Resources,
and which stream is used as a source of public water supply.
   (D)   Camping area. As area of adequate size shall be provided and
designated for camping. Such area shall be in addition to the areas provided
for activities in division (A) and for parking in division (G).
   (E)   Command post. An adequate command post at a conveniently accessible
location approved by health, law enforcement, and other governmental agencies
shall be provided for use by personnel of health, law enforcement and other
governmental agencies. The command post shall consist of at least one building
or mobile unit equipped with an adequate number of telephones and other
utilities, and an adequate number of parking spaces. The permittee shall insure
access to it at all times by such governmental personnel.
   (F)   Ingress and egress roads; entrances and exits. The permittee shall
provide personnel and arrangements necessary to keep entrances and exits to
public highways open to traffic at all times. He shall make arrangements with
private parties and/or consult with the State Highway Commission regarding
adequate ingress and egress roads.
   (G)   Parking. Parking facilities shall be provided off public roadways
sufficient to serve the reasonably expected requirements at a rate of up to 100
passenger cars per acre or 30 buses per acre. One parking space for cars shall
be provided for each four people to attend. Camper class vehicles shall park in
the camping area provided in division (D). Parking on shoulders of public
highways shall not be permitted and temporary signs shall be erected by
applicant to so indicate.
   (H)   Plan for limiting attendance, exclusion of non-ticket holders, crowd
control, and security enforcement. The application for permit shall be
accompanied by a written plan for limiting attendance to the number stated in
the application for permit, the exclusion of persons not holding tickets, and a
written plan for security enforcement, including the number of security guards
to be provided for internal and external crowd control and security
enforcement. The plan shall be accompanied by a written statement by the
sheriff or chief of police, whichever has jurisdiction over the area, that the
plan seems adequate. The permittee shall execute the plan.
   (I)   Dust control. The application shall be accompanied by a written plan
for dust control. The permittee shall execute the plan.
   (J)   Fire prevention and control. The application shall be accompanied by a
written plan for fire prevention and control.
   (K)   Plans for emergencies. The application shall be accompanied by written
plans for dealing with emergency situations involving the occurrence of
incidents requiring rapid evacuation, including arrangements for use of
emergency egress roads.
   (L)   Provision of adequate medical care. The application for permit shall
be accompanied by a written plan for the provision of adequate medical care,
such plan having been approved in writing by the local health director. At the
time of the inspection required by §
93.12, the structure and all supplies and equipment provided for in the plan
shall be in place; and the agreements and statements provided for in the plan
shall be determined to be valid. The plan shall include provisions for:
      (1)   The name and address of a physician licensed to practice medicine
in North Carolina to be responsible for the organization and delivery of
emergency medical services. A signed notarized statement by the physician
accepting the responsibility shall accompany the plan. He shall determine how
many licensed physicians, licensed nurses, and other medical personnel shall be
on duty on the premises at any particular time.
      (2)   At least one enclosed covered structure to be used as a medical
treatment center. The structure or structures shall provide at least a total of
450 square feet and shall have running water under pressure from an approved
source.
      (3)   A list of medical supplies and equipment sufficient to support
reasonably anticipated medical care requirements.
      (4)   Notification of all general public hospitals within 20 miles of the
mass gathering location as to scheduled dates and anticipated attendance of the
mass gathering.
      (5)   The name and address of at least one licensed ambulance service
agency to be responsible for providing emergency transportation. A signed
notarized statement by an official of the agency accepting the responsibility
shall accompany the plan.
    (M)   (1)   Water supply - general. There shall be provided a water supply
from an approved source. An approved emergency source shall be provided in
addition where necessary. Approved facilities shall be provided for
distributing and dispensing and the supply shall be adequate in quantity and
quality. The sponsor shall have in his possession, at the time of the
inspection as provided in §
93.12, the reports of bacteriological and chemical examinations of water
samples by the laboratory section of the State Division of Health Services. The
water shall be chlorinated so as to provide a free chlorine residual of at
least 1.0 part per million at all outlets at all times during the gathering.
The water supply and the facilities for distribution and dispensing shall be
provided with effective safeguards to prevent the introduction of
hallucinogenic drugs or other contamination.
      (2)   Water supply - requirements. If water is to be provided only for
drinking and washing, water shall be supplied at a rate of three gallons per
person per day and a peak hour demand of one and one-half pints per person. If
water is to be provided for drinking, washing and bathing, water shall be
supplied at a rate of 12 gallons per day per person and a peak hour demand of
six pints per person.
      (3)   Water supply - source. Water shall be obtained from a public or
community water supply approved by the Sanitary Engineering Division, North
Carolina Division of Health Services. If a new source of water supply is to be
provided, the application shall be accompanied by the necessary plans,
engineer’s report, and specifications (in triplicate) as required for review
and approval by the Sanitary Engineering Division, North Carolina Division of
Health Services; and the application shall include plans, engineer’s report,
and specifications for the emergency source capable of supplying at least three
gallons per day per person. If water is to be hauled from an off-site source,
storage facilities shall be provided in the area sufficient in volume to supply
the needs of the gathering for its duration. Before being filled with water for
use during the gathering, all storage tanks shall be cleaned thoroughly, filled
with clean water containing a chlorine residual of at least 100 parts per
million, and, after a contact time of at least 24 hours, all such tanks shall
be emptied. Subsequently, and prior to the issuance of a permit, all such tanks
shall be filled with water from an approved source and all inlets to such tanks
shall be closed and locked so as to give positive protection against the
introduction of contamination.
      (4)   Water supply - distribution. Water outlets shall be provided at an
adequate number of convenient and readily accessible locations properly
distributed throughout the activity and camping areas.
   (N)   Toilet facilities; sewage disposal. Sanitary toilet facilities shall
be provided at an adequate number of convenient and readily accessible
locations properly distributed throughout the activity and camping areas at a
rate of not more than 100 persons per toilet seat.
      (1)   If chemical toilet rental is to be employed, all toilets shall be
so located as to be readily accessible by service vehicles and shall be
serviced as often as necessary. Material removed from such toilets shall be
disposed of in a public or community sewerage system, or in a disposal trench
to be constructed in the area. Each load of material deposited in such a trench
shall be covered immediately with earth or lime. At the end of each 24-hour
period, the material shall be covered with a layer of at least six inches of
earth.
      (2)   If trench latrines are to be used, all trenches shall be covered
with flytight seat boxes with hinged lids.
      (3)   If water-carried sewage facilities are provided, the sewer system
shall be connected to a public or community sewage system having waste-water
treatment facilities of adequate capacity to treat the flow of waste-water from
the mass gathering; and the application shall be accompanied by a signed
statement by the North Carolina Department of Natural and Economic Resources
attesting to the adequacy of the treatment facilities. A similar statement
shall accompany the application if material moved from a chemical toilet is to
be disposed of in a public or community sewage system. No sewage shall be
discharged to the surface of the ground or into any watercourse.
   (O)   Solid waste collection and disposal. Facilities shall be provided for
all solid wastes to be collected and stored in leak-proof, non-absorbent
containers, and all solid wastes shall be removed daily or more often and
disposed of in a community solid waste disposal facility or in a sanitary
landfill to be constructed in the area. Solid wastes shall be placed in the
landfill, compacted as densely as possible, and covered after each day of
operation with a compacted layer of at least six inches of dirt. Approved
receptacles having a maximum capacity of 32 gallons shall be provided at places
conveniently located throughout the activity, camping and parking areas, and at
each food service facility for the deposition of solid wastes. If bulk solid
waste storage containers are used, at least two four cubic yard containers
shall be provided per 1,000 persons in the case of once daily removal, or two
cubic yard containers per 1,000 persons in the case of twice daily removal, and
these containers shall be so located as to be accessible to solid waste service
vehicles.
   (P)   Food dispensing. Sanitary food dispensing facilities shall be provided
at accessible and convenient locations, and shall be maintained in a sanitary
condition. Perishable food items dispensed from such facilities shall be
limited to pre-packaged items, such as wrapped sandwiches, prepared in
commercial establishments and under official sanitary supervision, and shall be
dispensed in the unbroken packages, provided that chicken, hamburgers, and
frankfurters obtained from approved sources may be cooked and packaged at the
site if all operations or preparation, cooking and packaging in unit packages
for dispensing to individuals are done inside an approved structure or vehicle,
in a sanitary manner, and otherwise in compliance with §
93.98 of the “Rules and Regulations Governing the Sanitation of Restaurants and
Other Foodhandling Establishments” of the North Carolina Division of Health
Services, perishable foods shall be stored at or below 45°F, or in the frozen
state, until heated recooked immediately before serving.
   (Q)   Insect and rodent control. There shall be no fly or mosquito-breeding
places, rodent harborages, or undrained areas on the premises. Necessary
measures shall be taken to control flies, mosquitoes, rodents, or other vermin.
   (R)   Post-gathering clean-up. Within one week after the end of the
gathering, all sanitary landfills and any trenches or pits used for sewage and
liquid waste disposal shall be covered with at least two feet of compacted
earth material; and be areas and immediate surrounding properties shall be
cleaned of all litter and solid wastes on roads leading from the areas and
within one mile of the areas and which can be attributed to the mass gathering
shall be removed. All solid wastes shall be disposed of as provided in division
(N). Unless otherwise directed by the owner of the property, all temporary
facilities (such as solid waste receptacles and signs) shall removed from the
areas.
   (S)   Noise level at perimeter. The application shall be accompanied by
detailed plans for amplifying equipment, which shall be so located and operated
as to limit the noise level at the perimeter of the site to no more than 70
decibels on a scale of a sound level meter which meets the specifications of
the American National Standards Institute. The applicant shall include a signed
statement certifying at the noise level limit as herein specified will not be
exceeded.
   (T)   Lighting. The application shall be accompanied by detailed plans for
lighting designed to illuminate the site.
   (U)   Signs. Signs shall be posted throughout the area showing the locations
toilet facilities, water supply outlets, solid waste receptacles food stands,
first aid facilities, and the command post.
(Ord. passed 4-17-80) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.23 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
    Authorized representatives of the County Manager shall have at all times
the right of proper entry upon any and all parts of the premises of any place
in which such entry is necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter,
or the rules and regulations adopted under the authority of this chapter; and
it shall be unlawful for any person to resist a proper entry by such authorized
representatives of the County Manager.
(Ord. passed 4-17-80) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.98 VIOLATION; INJUNCTION.
   If any person shall violate or threaten to violate the provisions of this
chapter or any rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereto and such
violation, if continued, or such threatened violation, if committed, is or may
be dangerous to the public health, safety, or welfare, or if any person shall
hinder or interfere with the proper performance of duty of the County Manager
or his representative and such hindrance or interference is or may be dangerous
to the public health, the County Manager may institute an action in the
superior court of the county in which such violation, threatened violation,
hindrance or interference occurred for injunctive relief against such continued
violation, hindrance or interference, irrespective of all other remedies at
law, and upon the institution of such an action, the procedure shall be in
accordance with the provisions of G.S. Ch. 1, Art. 37.
(Ord. passed 4-17-80) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
    Any person who willfully holds a mass gathering as herein defined without
first securing a permit to do so shall be punished as provided in §
10.99.
(Ord. passed 4-17-80; Ord. passed 4-22-24)
CHAPTER 94: PUBLIC SAFETY TELEPHONE REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Title
   
94.02   Legislative purposes
   
94.03   Definitions
Charges; Fund
   
94.10   Imposing monthly charges
   
94.11   Payment and collection of charges
   
94.12   Administrative fee
   
94.13   Emergency telephone system fund
   
94.14   Payments from fund
Standards of Operation
   
94.20   Telephone records
   
94.21   Limitation of liability
   
94.22   Persons outside county
   
94.23   Misuse of 911 system
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the Davidson County Public Safety Telephone
Code.
(Ord. passed 7-10-90)
§ 94.02 LEGISLATIVE PURPOSES.
   The Board of Commissioners declares it to be in the public interest to
provide a toll free number through which an individual in this county can gain
rapid, direct access to public safety aid. The number shall be provided with
the objective of reducing response time to situations requiring law
enforcement, fire, medical, rescue or other public safety service.
(Ord. passed 7-10-90)
§ 94.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   911 SYSTEM or 911 SERVICE. An emergency telephone system that provides the
user of the public telephone system the ability to reach a public safety
answering point by dialing the digits 911. The term 911 system or 911 service
also includes enhanced 911 service. ENHANCED 911 SERVICE shall mean an
emergency telephone system that provides the user of the public telephone
system with 911 service and in addition, directs 911 calls to appropriate
public safety answering points by selective routing based on the geographical
location from which the call originated and provides the capability for
automatic number identification and automatic location identification features.
   911 CHARGE. A contribution to Davidson County for the 911 service start-up
equipment costs, subscriber notification costs, addressing costs, billing
costs, and nonrecurring and recurring installation, maintenance, service, and
network charges of a service supplier providing 911 service pursuant to this
chapter.
   ADDRESSING. The assigning of a numerical address and street name (the street
name may be numerical) to each location within Davidson County’s geographical
area necessary to provide public safety service as determined by Davidson
County. This address replaces any route and box number currently in place in
the 911 database and facilitates quicker response by public safety agencies.
   COUNTY. The county of Davidson.
   EXCHANGE ACCESS FACILITY. The access from a particular telephone
subscriber’s premises to the telephone system of a service supplier. Exchange
access facilities include service supplier provided access lines, PBX trunks
and centrex network access registers, all as defined by tariffs of telephone
companies as approved by the North Carolina Utilities Commission. Exchange
access facilities do not include service supplier owned and operated telephone
pay station lines, or Wide Area Telecommunications Service (WATS), Foreign
Exchange (FX) or incoming only lines.
   PUBLIC AGENCY. The state and any city, county, municipal corporation,
chartered organization, public district, or public authority located in whole
or in part within the state which provides or has authority to provide
firefighting, law enforcement, ambulance, medical, or other emergency services.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AGENCY. A functional division of a public agency which
provides firefighting, law enforcement, medical, suicide prevention, civil
defense, poison control, or other emergency services.
   SERVICE SUPPLIER. A person or entity who provides exchange telephone service
to a telephone subscriber.
   TELEPHONE SUBSCRIBER or SUBSCRIBER. A person or entity to whom exchange
telephone service, either residential or commercial, is provided and in return
for which the person or entity is billed on a monthly basis. When the same
person, business, or organization has several telephone access lines, each
exchange access facility shall constitute a separate subscription.
(Ord. passed 7-10-90)
CHARGES; FUND
§ 94.10 IMPOSING MONTHLY CHARGES.
   (A)   The county shall impose a monthly 911 charge upon each exchange access
facility subscribed to by telephone subscribers whose exchange access lines are
in the area served or which would be served by the 911 service. The 911 charge
shall be uniform and may not vary according to the type of exchange access
facility used.
   (B)   The imposition and collection of the charges as provided in this
chapter shall become effective on November 10, 1990.
(Ord. passed 7-10-90)
§ 94.11 PAYMENT AND COLLECTION OF CHARGES.
   (A)   The subscriber of an exchange access facility will be billed for the
monthly 911 charges, if any, imposed with respect to that facility. Each
service supplier shall, on behalf of the county, collect the charges from those
subscribers to whom it provides exchange telephone service in the area served
by the 911 service. As part of its normal monthly billing process, the service
supplier shall collect the charges for each month or part of the month an
exchange access facility is in service, and it may list the charge as a
separate entry on each bill. If a service supplier receives a partial payment
for a monthly bill from a subscriber, the service supplier shall apply the
payment against the amount the subscriber owes the service supplier first.
   (B)   A service supplier has no obligation to take any legal action to
enforce the collection of the 911 charges for which any subscriber is billed.
However, the county may initiate collection action of the 911 charges for which
any subscriber is billed and shall further be entitled to collect all
reasonable costs associated with the collection action including attorneys’
fees.
   (C)   The county subscribing to 911 service shall remain ultimately
responsible to the service supplier for all 911 installation, service,
equipment, operation, and maintenance charges owed to the service supplier.
Upon request by the county, the service supplier shall provide the county with
a list of amounts uncollected along with the names and addresses of telephone
subscribers who have not paid the 911 charge.
   (D)   Any taxes due on 911 service provided by the service supplier will be
billed to the county subscribing to that service. However, state and local
taxes do not apply to 911 charges billed to subscribers under this chapter.
§ 94.12 ADMINISTRATIVE FEE.
   Each service supplier that collects the 911 charges on behalf of the county
is entitled to a one percent administrative fee as compensation for collecting
the charges. The service supplier shall remit the rest of the charges it
collects during the month to the financial officer of the county within ten
days after the last day of the month.
(Ord. passed 7-10-90)
§ 94.13 EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM FUND.
   The financial officer of the county to whom 911 charges are remitted under §
94.12 shall deposit the charges in a separate, restricted fund. The fund shall
be known as the Emergency Telephone System Fund. The financial officer may
invest money in the Fund in the same manner that other money of the county may
be invested. The financial officer shall deposit any income earned from such an
investment in the Fund.
(Ord. passed 7-10-90)
§ 94.14 PAYMENTS FROM FUND.
   (A)   Money from the Emergency Telephone System Fund shall be used only to
pay for:
      (1)   The lease, purchase, or maintenance of emergency telephone
equipment, including necessary computer hardware, software and database
provisioning, addressing, and nonrecurring costs of establishing a 911 system,
and
      (2)   The rates associated with the service supplier’s 911 service and
other service supplier recurring charges.
       (B)   The following expenses are not eligible for payment from the Fund:
the lease or purchase of real estate, cosmetic remodeling of emergency dispatch
centers, hiring, training, and compensating dispatchers, and the purchase of
mobile communications vehicles, ambulances, fire engines, or other emergency
vehicles.
   (C)   The county may contract with a service supplier for any term
negotiated by the service supplier and the county and may make payments from
the Fund to provide any payments required by the contract.
(Ord. passed 7-10-90)
STANDARDS OF OPERATION
§ 94.20 TELEPHONE RECORDS.
   (A)   Each telephone service supplier shall provide subscriber telephone
number, names and service addresses to 911 systems when required by the county.
Although customer numbers, names and service addresses shall be available to
911 systems, such information shall remain the property of the disclosing
service supplier. The total cost of the system shall include expenses paid to
service suppliers to provide and maintain 911 information. This information
shall be used only in providing emergency response services to 911 calls. The
county may not release a telephone number required to be provided under this
section to any person for purposes other than including the number in the
emergency telephone system database or providing the number to permit a
response to police, fire, medical or other emergency situation.
   (B)   To the extent necessary to provide 911 service, private listing
customers of a service supplier in a 911 service area waive the privacy
afforded by nonlisted and nonpublished numbers when 911 service is established.
   (C)   No service supplier, or agents or employees of a service supplier,
shall be liable to any person providing 911 service established under this
chapter for release for emergency telephone purposes of information specified
in this section that is not already part of the public record, including
nonlisted or nonpublished telephone numbers.
(Ord. passed 7-10-90)
§ 94.21 LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.
   A service supplier, including any telephone company and its employees,
directors, officers and agents, is not liable for any damages in a civil action
for injuries, death, or loss to persons or property incurred by any person as a
result of any act or omission of a service supplier or of any of its employees,
directors, officers, or agents, except for willful or wanton misconduct, in
connection with developing, adopting, implementing, maintaining, or operating
any 911 system.
(Ord. passed 7-10-90)
§ 94.22 PERSONS OUTSIDE COUNTY.
   When an individual physically resides in an adjacent county, but receives
local exchange telephone service from a central office in county, it shall be
the responsibility of county to notify the appropriate public agency of a
request for public safety service from such individual.
§ 94.23 MISUSE OF 911 SYSTEM.
   Any person who intentionally calls the 911 number for other than purposes of
obtaining public safety assistance commits a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 7-10-90) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 95: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Road Name and Address Display Regulations
   
95.01   Purpose and intent
   
95.02   Application of provisions
   
95.03   Definitions
   
95.04   Official road names
   
95.05   Display of road address numbers
   
95.06   Responsibilities of Address Program Administrator
   
95.07   Enforcement of provisions
ROAD NAME AND ADDRESS DISPLAY REGULATIONS
§ 95.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose and intent of this subchapter is to provide a uniform system of
road addresses for all properties and buildings throughout the county in order
to facilitate provision of adequate public safety and emergency response
services and to minimize difficulty in locating properties and buildings for
public service agencies and the general public.
(Res. passed 10-7-91)
§ 95.02 APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS.
   This subchapter shall apply in all areas of the county not within a
municipality, except that it shall not apply in the extraterritorial
jurisdiction of any municipality which has adopted similar provisions in its
zoning, subdivision or building inspection codes.
(Res. passed 10-7-91)
§ 95.03 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and phrases when used in this subchapter shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them in this section. Except as specifically
set forth in this section, the definitions in Article 5 of the Davidson County
Subdivision Regulations shall govern the meaning of words and phrases in this
subchapter.
   ADDRESS PROGRAM ADMINISTRATOR. The official of the county charged with the
administration of this subchapter, including his authorized agent or delegate.
   BUILDING. A structure having a roof supported by columns or walls for the
shelter, support or enclosure of persons, animals, chattels or equipment. When
separated by division walls from the ground up without openings, each portion
of such building may be deemed a separate building. For the purposes of this
subchapter, the term BUILDING may also include other manmade structures.
   DRIVEWAYS. A private way, beginning at the property line of a lot abutting a
public road, private road, easement or private right-of-way, giving access from
that public road, recorded easement, recorded private road or private right-of-
way, and leading to a building, use or structure on that lot. A driveway may
not serve more than a single lot unless it runs along a lot line shared by two
lots and serves no more than two lots.
   ROAD ADDRESS. The combination of numbers and road name assigned by Davidson
County which uniquely identifies a particular building or lot.
   ROAD. A public or private one-way or two-way road for ingress and/or egress.
Such roads may be of various types including frontage roads, rear access roads,
roads with cul-de-sacs, and dead-end roads. This definition includes secondary
roads but does not include driveways.
(Res. passed 10-7-91)
§ 95.04 OFFICIAL ROAD NAMES.
   (A)   The road names on file with the Planning Office are hereby declared
the official names of these roads, unless changed by action of the County
Commissioners. The Planning Office is hereby authorized to determine the need
for road name changes and to recommend such changes to the County
Commissioners.
   (B)   All roads in the county shall be identified by a sign showing the
official name and state road number. These road signs shall be placed at all
intersections and shall identify both intersecting streets.
   (C)   Road name signs shall be uniform throughout the county in accordance
with the Governors Highway Safety Commission Program.
(Res. passed 10-7-91)
§ 95.05 DISPLAY OF ROAD ADDRESS NUMBERS.
   (A) All buildings shall clearly display a road address number. The owner and
occupant of each building are required to clearly display a road address number
on each building so that the location can be identified easily from the road
pursuant to the following provisions:
      (1)   The official address number must be displayed on the front of a
building or at the entrance to a building which is most clearly visible from
the street or road during both day and night; the owner of a residence may as
an option to placing the number on the building place the official address
number on the mailbox for that residence/building if the mailbox is located at
the end of the driveway or easement nearest the road which provides access to
the building.
      (2)   If a building is more than 75 feet from any road, the address
number shall be displayed at the end of the driveway or easement nearest the
road which provides access to the building.
      (3)   Numerals placed on a dwelling indicating the address number of a
single family dwelling shall be at least four inches in height and shall be
posted and maintained so as to be legible from the road. Numerals placed at the
end of a driveway or easement pursuant to division (A)(2) of this section or on
a mailbox pursuant to division (A)(1) of this section shall be three inches in
height and shall be posted and maintained so as to be legible from the road.
      (4)   Numerals for multiple dwelling units and nonresidential buildings
shall be at least six inches in height and shall be placed on the front of the
building facing the road or on the end of the building nearest the road.
      (5)   Numerals must be of contrasting color to the background.
      (6)   Manufactured home lots shall have sequential address numbers
throughout the park. Each lot will have a separate address number assigned. The
address number of each lot must be clearly displayed on the lot so as to be
legible from the road rather than mounted on the mobile home unit.
   (B)   The Address Program Administrator will have the right to authorize and
approve alternate methods of displaying house numbers which meet the intent of
this subchapter when strict adherence to these standards cannot reasonably be
met.
(Res. passed 10-7-91)
§ 95.06 RESPONSIBILITIES OF ADDRESS PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION.
   The Address Program Administrator will be responsible for the interpretation
and administration of this subchapter, including:
   (A)   Assigning all numbers for properties and buildings.
   (B)   Maintaining address records of each property and building.
   (C)   Recommending change of existing addresses when necessary to facilitate
sequential house numbers along a road.
   (D)   Designating individual unit addresses within the multiple housing
units in conformity with this subchapter.
   (E)   Assisting the public in complying with the requirements of this
subchapter.
(Res. passed 10-7-91)
§ 95.07 ENFORCEMENT OF PROVISIONS.
   (A)   No building permit shall be issued until an official road address
number has been assigned for that lot. The record plat of any subdivision
hereafter recorded must show the road address number for each lot created or
recorded.
   (B)   No zoning certificate of occupancy and compliance or building
inspection certificate of compliance shall be issued by the Planning and Zoning
Department or the Building Inspections Department until the road address number
for that building or lot is properly displayed.
   (C)   Owners and occupants of buildings already constructed which do not
comply with this subchapter will be notified and requested to meet these
requirements within 60 days from the date of the notification. A warning notice
will be issued after 60 days if the requirements have not been met. If the
owner or occupant does not comply voluntarily with this subchapter within 30
days of delivery of a warning notice by registered or certified mail or by hand
delivery to the building in violation, enforcement action pursuant to G.S. §
153A-123 may be initiated. This subchapter may also be enforced by appropriate
equitable remedy issued by a court of competent jurisdiction including but not
limited to issuance of mandatory or prohibitory injunctions and orders of
abatement. Each day of continuing violation of the terms of this subchapter
shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(Res. passed 10-7-91)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of the terms of this subchapter shall constitute a misdemeanor
and shall be punishable by the maximum fine and sentence as authorized by G.S.
§ 14-4.
(Res. passed 10-7-91)
CHAPTER 96: NON-EMERGENCY AMBULANCE SERVICE
Section
General Provisions
   
96.01   Definitions
Franchise Regulations
   
96.10   Franchise required
   
96.11   Application for franchise
   
96.12   Granting of franchise
   
96.13   Term of franchise
   
96.14   Standards; generally
   
96.15   Standards for medical crew members
   
96.16   Standards for ambulances and equipment
   
96.17   Standards for communications
   
96.18   Insurance
   
96.19   Records to be maintained
   
96.20   Rates and charges
Administration and Enforcement
   
96.30   Department of Emergency Medical Services
   
96.31   Inspection of records, premises and equipment
   
96.32   Addendum to provisions
   
96.33   Reading of the terms and conditions of provisions and franchise
   
96.34   Compliance with state and federal laws
   
96.35   Acceptance of terms and conditions
   
96.36   Compliance with terms and conditions
   
96.37   Rights of county
   
96.38   Transference of power
 
   
96.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 96.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMBULANCE. Any privately or publicly owned motor vehicle that is
specifically designed, constructed, or modified and equipped, and is intended
to be used for and is maintained or operated for the transportation of patients
on the streets or highways of this state.
   AMBULANCE PROVIDER. An individual, firm, partnership, corporation,
association, company, group of individuals acting together for a common
purpose, or organization of any kind which engages in or professes to provide
the service of transporting patients in an ambulance.
   BOARD. Shall mean the Davidson County Board of Commissioners.
   COUNTY. Shall mean Davidson County, North Carolina.
   DISPATCHER. A person who is available at all times to receive requests for
emergency or non-emergency services, to dispatch appropriate resources to the
requested need and to advise law enforcement agencies and emergency medical
facilities of any existing or threatened emergency.
   EMERGENCY TRANSPORTATION SERVICE. The operation of an ambulance, with the
equipment and personnel to provide medical care transportation of a patient who
is in need of immediate medical treatment in order to prevent loss of life or
further aggravation of physiological or psychological illness or injury.
   FRANCHISE. A permit issued by the county for the non-emergency operation of
an ambulance.
   FRANCHISEE. Any person having been issued a franchise by the county for non-
emergency operation of an ambulance.
   LICENSE. Any driver's license or other license or permit to operate a motor
vehicle issued or granted by the laws of the state.
   MEDICAL CREW MEMBER. An individual who meets the requirements set forth in
the rules of the North Carolina Medical Care Commission setting forth the
qualifications required for credentialing by the N.C. Department of Health and
Human Services, Office of Emergency Medical Services, that allows them to
practice as any of the following: emergency medical responder (EMR), emergency
medical technician (EMT), advanced EMT (AEMT), and/or paramedic, as defined in
G.S. § 131E-155 and any rules promulgated pursuant thereto.
   NON-EMERGENCY TRANSPORTATION SERVICES. The operation of an ambulance for any
purpose other than an "emergency transportation service."
   OWNER. Any person or entity who owns an ambulance, rescue specialty or first
response vehicle.
   PATIENT. An individual who is sick, injured, wounded, or otherwise
incapacitated or helpless such that the need for some medical assistance might
be anticipated, as defined in G.S. § 131E-155.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, association,
company, group of individuals acting together for a common purpose, or
organization of any kind, including any governmental agency of the United
States.
   SHALL. Always describes actions that are mandatory and not merely directive.
   STATE. The State of North Carolina.
(Ord. passed 10-28-14; Ord. passed 2-27-18; Ord. passed 11-12-19; Ord. passed
2-27-23)
FRANCHISE REGULATIONS
§ 96.10 FRANCHISE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any ambulance provider or person to furnish,
operate, conduct, maintain, advertise or otherwise be engaged or profess to be
engaged in the transportation of patients within the county or operation of
ambulance services that originate in the county, unless such person or entity
shall have first obtained and shall currently hold a valid franchise granted
pursuant to this chapter or is exempted from a franchise pursuant to this
chapter. Each ambulance used by the person or entity shall hold a valid permit
issued by the North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services, Office of
Emergency Medical Services (NCOEMS) as an ambulance and carry and be able to
provide a minimum of EMT level care, through the paramedic level. The
franchisee shall operate at the level approved by the county, as described in
the county treatment protocols.
   (B)   No person shall drive an ambulance, attend a patient in an ambulance,
or permit an ambulance to be operated when transporting a patient within the
county unless he or she holds a currently valid credential as an EMT (emergency
medical technician), advanced EMT or paramedic issued by the NC Department of
Health and Human Services, Office of Emergency Medical Services.
   (C)   No franchise shall be required for:
      (1)   Privately owned vehicles not used in the business of transporting
patients.
      (2)   A vehicle rendering services as an ambulance in case of a mass
casualty incident, when the permitted ambulances based in the locality of the
mass casualty are insufficient to render the services required.
      (3)   Any ambulance operated by a hospital system that is physically
located within the geographic boundaries of Davidson County and is used for the
sole purpose of hospital to hospital transportation of their current patients
or specialty care transports.
      (4)   Ambulances owned and operated by an agency of the United States
Government or this county.
(Ord. passed 10-28-14; Ord. passed 2-27-18; Ord. passed 11-12-19; Ord. passed
2-27-23)
§ 96.11 APPLICATION FOR FRANCHISE.
   An applicant may apply for a franchise to operate emergency transportation
service and/or non-emergency transportation service. The applicant will specify
in the application the type and level of service to be provided. The county may
require an applicant to operate both emergency and non-emergency transportation
services. The application shall be made by the ambulance provider upon such
forms as may be prescribed or prepared by the county and shall contain, but not
be limited to, the following information:
   (A)   The name and address of the ambulance provider and of the owner of the
ambulance(s).
   (B)   The trade or other names, if any, under which the applicant does
business, along with a certified copy of an assumed name certificate stating
such name or articles of incorporation stating such name.
   (C)   A résumé of the training and experience of the applicant in the
transportation and care of patients.
   (D)   A full description of the type and level of service to be provided
including the place or places from which it is intended to operate, the manner
in which the public will be able to obtain assistance, and how vehicles will be
dispatched.
   (E)   A compilation of the financial statement for the applicant performed
and submitted by an independent accountant.
   (F)   A description of the applicant's capability to provide coverage for
the district covered by the franchise applied for and including an accurate
estimate of the minimum and maximum response times within such district.
   (G)   Any information the county shall deem reasonably necessary for a fair
determination of the capability of the applicant to provide ambulance services
in the county in accordance with the requirements of state laws and the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-28-14; Ord. passed 2-27-18; Ord. passed 11-12-19; Ord. passed
2-27-23)
§ 96.12 GRANTING OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)    Prior to accepting applications for the operation of an ambulance,
the Board of Commissioners may designate specific service areas as franchise
districts. The districts will be established using criteria that include
geographic size, road access, the location of existing medical transportation
services, population and response time. The county shall have the authority to
redistrict or rearrange existing districts at any time at its discretion.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an application for a franchise, the county shall
schedule a time and place for hearing the applicant. The county shall cause
such investigation as it may deem necessary to be made of the applicant and its
proposed operations.
   (C)   A franchise may be granted if the county finds that:
      (1)   The applicant meets all applicable state standards and regulations,
the requirements and regulations of the franchise ordinance, and standards
which are consistent with and supplementary to any North Carolina statute or
any North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services regulation relating
to ambulance services.
      (2)   The proposed franchise will fit within the existing service so as
not to adversely affect the operations of the County EMS.
      (3)   A need exists for the proposed service in order to improve the
level of ambulance service available to the residents of the county, and it is
determined that this is a reasonable and cost effective manner of meeting the
need. Factors to be considered in evaluating need include, but are not limited
to: call volume in the proposed area; quality of the existing service and
whether quality would be improved in the proposed and surrounding service areas
by an additional service; response times; communication systems; and capability
for maintaining medical control requirements.
(Ord. passed 10-28-14; Ord. passed 2-27-18; Ord. passed 11-12-19; Ord. passed
2-27-23)
§ 96.13 TERM OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   The county may grant a franchise hereunder to an ambulance provider,
to be valid for a term to be determined by the county not to exceed four years.
No franchise granted pursuant to this chapter shall give any exclusive right or
permission to a franchisee. The county expressly reserves the right to grant
similar non-exclusive franchises at any time on such terms as the county may
then deem appropriate. The county, by action of the Board of Commissioners, may
terminate any franchise upon 30 days prior written notice to the franchisee,
provided that except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the Board of
Commissioners shall not meet to take any final action involving the review,
renewal, revocation or termination of the franchisee's franchise unless the
county has advised the franchisee in writing at least 30 days prior to such
meeting as to the time, place and purpose, and published a notice at least ten
days before the meeting in a newspaper of general circulation within the
county. After termination, the ambulance provider may reapply for a franchise.
   (B)   Any ambulance provider that is granted a franchise will maintain at
least one ambulance to provide response to 911 center dispatched calls within
Davidson County at all times.
(Ord. passed 10-28-14; Ord. passed 2-27-18; Ord. passed 11-12-19; Ord. passed
2-27-23)
§ 96.14 STANDARDS; GENERALLY.
   (A)   Each franchised ambulance shall comply at all times with the
requirements of this chapter, the franchise granted hereunder, and all
applicable state and local laws and regulations relating to health, sanitation,
safety, equipment, ambulance design and medical control authority requirements,
and all other laws, regulations and ordinances. Failure to comply with any of
the foregoing requirements may result in the immediate termination, revocation
or suspension of the ambulance franchise by the county.
   (B)   Prior approval of the county shall be required where ownership or
control of more than 10% of the right of control of franchisee is required by a
person or group of persons acting in concert, none of whom own or control 10%
or more of such right of control, singularly or collectively, at the date of
the franchise. By acceptance of the franchise, the franchisee specifically
agrees that any such acquisition occurring without prior approval of the county
shall constitute a violation of the franchise by the franchisee and shall be
cause for termination at the option of the county.
   (C)   Any change of ownership of a franchised ambulance service without
prior approval of the county shall terminate the franchise and shall require a
new application and a new franchise and conformance with all the requirements
of this chapter as upon original franchising.
   (D)   No franchise may be sold, assigned, or otherwise transferred without
the approval of the county and a finding of conformance with all requirements
of this chapter as upon original franchising.
   (E)   A franchise document may not be defaced, removed or obliterated.
   (F)   At the expiration of the term for which a franchise is granted as
provided under this chapter, or any renewal period granted under the provisions
of this section, the county may grant a renewal franchise pursuant to
procedures consistent with this chapter. Any franchise holder desirous of
renewing its franchise shall file an application for renewal at least 90 days
prior to expiration of the term of its currently existing franchise. All
renewal applications shall contain the information required in this chapter as
for application for an original franchise. Upon receipt of such renewal
application, the county shall hold a public hearing to consider whether the
renewal application meets the county's needs and interests. Upon the conclusion
of said public hearing, the county may issue a renewal franchise for an
additional period of up to four years, based upon a consideration of the
applicable factors as specified by this chapter. Nothing contained in this
section shall be construed or interpreted to grant to any franchise holder any
vested right to a renewal term of its franchise or to any renewal period
granted under the provisions of this division (F).
   (G)   To avoid the appearance of a conflict of interest, no franchisee or
franchise applicant shall employ any person who is also a supervisor or manager
within the County Department of Emergency Services.
   (H)   If a franchisee should refuse, neglect or willfully fail to operate or
maintain its franchise operations in any other way that substantially violates
the material terms of this chapter or of the franchise; or practices any fraud
or deceit upon the county or its patients; or if a franchisee becomes
insolvent, unwilling to pay its uncontested debts, is adjudged bankrupt, or
seeks relief under the bankruptcy laws, then this franchise may be revoked. In
the event the county believes that grounds for revocation exist or have
existed, the Board of Commissioners shall notify the franchisee in writing
setting forth the nature and facts of such noncompliance. If within 30 days
following such written notification, the franchisee has not furnished
reasonably satisfactory evidence that corrective action has been taken or is
being actively and expeditiously pursued, that the alleged violations did not
occur, or that the alleged violations were beyond the franchisee's control, the
Board may schedule a public hearing in accordance with this chapter.
   (I)   The Board shall not revoke a franchise pursuant to this section until
it has given written notice to the franchisee that it proposes to take such
action and the grounds therefor. The Board shall not revoke the franchise until
the franchisee, or its representative, has had reasonable opportunity to be
heard before the Board and shows the proposed grounds for revocation did not or
do not exist, as the case may be. At such hearing, the county shall be required
to present evidence establishing the franchisee's breach of its obligation
under the franchise and the franchisee shall have the right to examine
witnesses and present evidence on its behalf. At the conclusion of the public
hearing, the Board shall determine whether the franchise should be revoked, and
shall set forth in writing the facts and reasons upon which its decision is
based.
(Ord. passed 2-27-23)
§ 96.15 STANDARDS FOR MEDICAL CREW MEMBERS.
   (A)   The minimum level of any medical crew member operating upon an
ambulance within the county shall be at the N.C. emergency medical technician
(EMT) level.
   (B)   The franchisee shall not refuse to hire, nor discharge from
employment, nor discriminate against any person regarding compensation, terms,
conditions, or privileges of employment because of age, sex, race, religion,
color or national origin. The franchisee shall take affirmative action to
ensure the employees are treated during employment without regard to their age,
sex, race, religion, color or national origin. This condition includes, but is
not limited to the following: recruitment advertising, employment interviews,
employment, rates of pay, upgrading, transfer, demotion, layoff and
termination.
   (C)   (1)   Upon suspension, revocation, or termination of a franchisee's
medical crew member's driver's license, credentials or qualifications required
for credentialing, such person shall not drive an ambulance, provide medical
care, or provide credentialed services in conjunction with an ambulance
service.
      (2)   It is the responsibility of the franchisee to provide a copy of the
MVR to the Director of Emergency Services for each driver of a franchised
ambulance annually on the first day of July, or upon hiring of such driver.
Failure to provide an MVR for a driver will result in disqualification of that
driver. Major driving infractions, such as DUI/DWI, reckless driving, passing a
stopped school bus, vehicular homicide/manslaughter, speeding in excess of 15
mph above the posted speed limit, or leaving the scene of an accident should be
reported immediately to the Director of Emergency Services. The county's
Director of Emergency services and the county's Risk Manager will review the
MVRs and reports of major driving infractions. Persons with unacceptable
driving records will not be allowed to drive a franchised ambulance. Applicable
county policy will be the criteria used to determine whether or not a driving
record is acceptable.
   (D)   It is the intent of the county that person allowed to drive
franchisee-owned or operated vehicles be held to a like driving standard to
those person operating county vehicles. When any such franchisee vehicle is
involved in an accident, regardless of fault, the franchisee shall immediately
require the driver of such vehicle to be medically screened for any indication
of possible abuse of alcohol, prescription drugs, or any illegal substance.
These results will be made available to the county's Risk Manager upon receipt
form the applicable laboratory. The franchisee will bear the cost of such
testing.
   (E)   In addition to the post-accident testing required by division (D)
above, each franchisee shall adopt and administer random, unannounced testing
for all person allowed to drive franchisee-owned or operated vehicles. This
random, unannounced testing will be conducted pursuant to a policy for such
testing adopted by the franchisee that is consistent with the Davidson County
Substance Abuse Policy as set out in Chapter X of the Davidson County, North
Carolina, Human Resources Resolution, as periodically amended. The results of
all random, unannounced testing will be provided by the franchisee to the EMS
Director and the County Risk Manager within ten days of testing.
(Ord. passed 10-28-14; Ord. passed 2-27-18; Ord. passed 11-12-19; Ord. passed
2-27-23)
§ 96.16 STANDARDS FOR AMBULANCES AND EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Ambulance and equipment standards as developed by the State Medical
Care Commission pursuant to G.S. § 131E-157 and G.S. § 143-508 shall be applied
and the same are incorporated herein by reference.
   (B)   Each ambulance shall meet current NCOEMS requirements for ground
transport vehicles and maintain compliance throughout the franchise period.
(Ord. passed 10-28-14; Ord. passed 2-27-18; Ord. passed 11-12-19; Ord. passed
2-27-23)
§ 96.17 STANDARDS FOR COMMUNICATIONS.
   (A)   Each ambulance shall be equipped with a North Carolina VIPER
compatible two-way radio (https://www.ncdps.gov/media/6752/open) capable of
establishing good quality voice communications from within the geographical
confines of the county and able to communicate with each hospital emergency
department in the county in which the county EMS transports to as well as
compatible with all hospital emergency departments to which transportation of
patients is made on a regular basis anywhere within the state.
   (B)   Each ambulance provider shall maintain current agreements,
authorizations or Federal Communications Commission licenses for all
frequencies and radio transmitters operated by the provider if other than the
county paging frequencies and the North Carolina VIPER radio system. Copies of
all agreements, authorizations and licenses shall be on display or available
for inspection per Federal Communications Commission's rules and regulations.
   (C)   Each base of operations of a franchisee shall have at least one open
telephone line. Telephone numbers must be provided to the Davidson County EMS
and the Davidson County Communications Center.
   (D)   Each franchisee shall make provision for call intake and dispatch of
its respective units and shall supply personnel with equipment compatible with
Davidson County's paging system for notification of dispatched calls.
   (E)   Each franchisee shall make dispatch and communication records
available and comply with requests for records in accordance to state and
county policy.
   (F)   All radio programming shall be done by the Davidson County radio shop
at the current rate charged by the shop.
(Ord. passed 10-28-14; Ord. passed 2-27-18; Ord. passed 11-12-19; Ord. passed
2-27-23)
§ 96.18 INSURANCE.
   (A)   No ambulance franchise shall be granted under this chapter, nor shall
such franchise be valid after granted, unless the applicant or franchisee has
at all times in force and effect liability insurance coverage issued by an
insurance company licensed to transact business in this state which meets the
criteria set out below.
   (B)   Liability insurance requirements.
      (1)   The franchisee shall procure and maintain liability insurance
against claims for injuries to persons or damages to property for the duration
of the franchise which may arise from or in connection with the performance of
services hereunder by the franchisee, their agents, representatives, or
subcontractors.
         (a)   Commercial general liability insurance. The franchisee shall
maintain occurrence version commercial general liability insurance or
equivalent form with a limit of not less than $1,000,000 each occurrence. If
such insurance contains a general aggregate limit, it shall be no less than two
times the occurrence limit. Such insurance shall:
            1.   Include the county, its officials, officers, and employees as
additional insureds with respect to performance of the services. The coverage
shall contain no special limitation on the scope of protection afforded to the
above listed additional insured. Additional insured should read Davidson
County, a body politic and corporate of the State of North Carolina, Post
Office Box 1067, Lexington, North Carolina 27293-1067.
            2.   Be primary with respect to any insurance or self-insured
retention programs covering Davidson County and its officials, officers and
employees. The county's insurance shall be in excess of and not contribute to
the insurance required to be maintained by the franchisee.
         (b)   Business automobile liability insurance. The franchisee shall
maintain business automobile liability insurance or equivalent form with a
limit of not less than $1,000,000 each accident. Such insurance shall include
coverage for owned, hired, and non-owned automobiles.
         (c)   Workers' compensation and employers' liability insurance. The
franchisee shall maintain workers' compensation insurance with North Carolina
statutory limits and employers' liability insurance with limits of not less
than $1,000,000 each accident.
         (d)   Medical malpractice liability insurance. The franchisee shall
maintain in force for the duration of this contract professional liability or
errors and omissions liability insurance or equivalent form with a limit of not
less than $1,000,000 each occurrence. If coverage required by this section is
written on a claims-made basis, the franchisee warrants that any retroactive
date applicable to coverage under the policy precedes the effective date of
this franchise and that continuous coverage will be maintained or an extended
discovery period will be exercised for a period of three years beginning from
the time that services pursuant to this franchise agreement are completed.
         (e)   Excess liability insurance. The franchisee shall maintain an
excess liability insurance policy in the amount of $5,000,000. This excess
liability insurance policy shall be excess over the general liability,
automobile liability, workers' compensation, and medical malpractice liability
insurance coverage.
      (2)   The franchisee shall:
         (a)   Prior to commencement of services, furnish the county with
properly executed certificates of insurance which shall clearly evidence all
insurance required in this section and provide that such insurance shall not be
cancelled, allowed to expire, or be materially reduced in coverage except on 30
days prior written notice to the county.
         (b)   Provide certified copies of endorsements and policies, if
requested by the county, in lieu of or in addition to certificates of
insurance.
         (c)   Replace certificates, policies, and endorsements for any such
insurance expiring prior to completion of the services.
         (d)   Maintain such insurance from the time services commence until
services are completed.
         (e)   Place such insurance with insurers authorized to do business in
North Carolina and having A.M. Best Company ratings of not less than A:VII. Any
alternatives to this requirement shall require written approval of the county's
Risk Manager.
   (C)   The franchisee understands and acknowledges that these liability
insurance coverage requirements are minimums and that they do not restrict or
limit the hold harmless provisions of this agreement.
   (D)   Each liability insurance policy must list the county as a party to be
notified by the insurance company in the event that the franchisee's insurance
is revoked, withdrawn, cancelled, or allowed to lapse, or in the event that
there is any change whatsoever in the above-described coverage amounts.
   (E)   Each liability insurance policy must authorize the insurance company
to release any information regarding said insurance policy and the status of
said policy to the county, and specifically Davidson County Emergency Medical
Services, at any time an inquiry is made.
   (F)   Each franchisee shall operate as an independent contractor, and the
county shall not be responsible for any of the franchisee's acts or omissions
while providing services under this chapter. Each franchisee shall hold the
county harmless from and against any and all claims, expenses (including
attorney fees), costs or liability for negligent or intentional acts or
omissions, including willful or criminal conduct, of the franchisee, its
employees, agents or other representatives while providing services under this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-28-14; Ord. passed 2-27-18; Ord. passed 11-12-19; Ord. passed
2-27-23)
§ 96.19 RECORDS TO BE MAINTAINED.
   Each franchise shall maintain all records required by law and will
additionally maintain the following records:
   (A)   Record of dispatch. Shall show time call was received, time ambulance
was dispatched, time arrived at scene, time arrived at destination, and time
ready for service. Response time reports shall be available using the
requirements set forth in the EMS Performance Improvement Center "EMS System
Response" Toolkit.
   (B)   Trip record form. Shall be on a form or electronic data system
approved by the county and compliant with the North Carolina College of
Emergency Physicians Standards for EMS Data Collection and shall include all
information required in division (A) of this section in addition to other
information required by the county. The trip record shall be so designed as to
provide the patient with a copy thereof containing all required information. A
copy of the trip record may serve as a receipt for any charges paid.
   (C)   Daily report log. Shall be maintained for the purposes of identifying
all persons/patients transported in any one 24-hour period.
   (D)   Daily driver and attendant checklist and ambulance inspection report.
Shall list the contents and description of operations for each ambulance,
signed by the individual verifying the ambulance's operations and that
equipment is in clean and proper working order on a daily basis.
(Ord. passed 10-28-14; Ord. passed 2-27-18; Ord. passed 11-12-19; Ord. passed
2-27-23)
§ 96.20 RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Franchisees operating on a fee for service basis shall not exceed the
Davidson County EMS fee schedule of ambulance fees as may annually be amended
and updated by Davidson County EMS.
   (B)   The franchisee may not attempt to collect fees or charges from the
family, guardian or patient during the course of medical treatment. The service
may gather appropriate medical billing information to facilitate reimbursement
at a later date and time.
   (C)   For non-emergency services provided which involve transportation
originating outside the county or terminating more than 50 miles outside the
county, payment may be required before rendering service.
(Ord. passed 10-28-14; Ord. passed 2-27-18; Ord. passed 11-12-19; Ord. passed
2-27-23)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 96.30 DEPARTMENT OF EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES.
   The Davidson County Department of Emergency Services Director or his or her
designee shall be the enforcing agency for the regulations contained in this
chapter. Such office will:
   (A)   Receive all franchise proposals from potential ambulance providers.
   (B)   Study each proposal for conformance to this chapter.
   (C)   Make recommendations to the Board regarding the award of the franchise
to the applicant submitting the best proposal.
   (D)   Inspect the premises, vehicles, equipment, and personnel of the
franchisees to assure compliance to this chapter and perform any other
inspections that may be required.
   (E)   Make recommendations to the Board regarding the temporary or permanent
suspension of a franchise in the event of noncompliance with franchise terms of
this chapter; and/or recommend the imposition of misdemeanor or civil penalties
as provided herein.
   (F)   Ensure by cooperative agreement with other ambulance services the
continued service in a district where an ambulance franchise has been
suspended.
   (G)   Receive complaints from the public, other enforcing agencies, and
ambulance services regarding franchise infractions and recommend corrective
actions as needed.
   (H)   Make recommendations to the Board regarding improvements which will
ensure better medical care transportation.
   (I)   Maintain all records required by this chapter and other applicable
county regulations.
   (J)   Perform such of the above functions as may be requested by any
municipality within the county.
(Ord. passed 11-12-19; Ord. passed 2-27-23)
§ 96.31 INSPECTION OF RECORDS, PREMISES AND EQUIPMENT.
   The Director of Davidson County Emergency Services or his or her designee
may inspect a franchisee's records, premises and equipment at any time, without
notice, in order to insure compliance with this chapter and any franchise
granted hereunder.
(Ord. passed 10-28-14; Ord. passed 2-27-18; Ord. passed 11-12-19; Ord. passed
2-27-23)
§ 96.32 ADDENDUM TO PROVISIONS.
   The Board may, through appropriate actions, amend or expand this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-28-14; Ord. passed 2-27-18; Ord. passed 11-12-19; Ord. passed
2-27-23)
§ 96.33 READING OF THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF PROVISIONS AND FRANCHISE.
   Except as expressly provided in this chapter and the franchise, the
franchisee shall have no recourse against the county for any loss, expense or
damage resulting from the terms and conditions of this chapter or the franchise
because of the county's failure to have the authority to grant the franchise.
The franchisee expressly agrees that upon its acceptance of the franchise, it
does so relying upon its own investigation and understanding of the power and
authority of the county to grant said franchise. The franchisee by accepting
the franchise, acknowledges that it has not been induced to accept same by any
promise, verbal or written, by or on behalf of the county or by any third
person regarding any term or condition of this chapter or the franchise not
expressed therein. The franchisee further acknowledges that by acceptance of
the franchise, that it has read the terms and conditions of this chapter and
the franchisee accepts, without reservations, the obligations imposed by the
terms and conditions herein. The decision of the Board concerning franchisee's
selection, awarding, renewal, revocation or termination of any franchise shall
be final.
(Ord. passed 10-28-14; Ord. passed 2-27-18; Ord. passed 11-12-19; Ord. passed
2-27-23)
§ 96.34 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE AND FEDERAL LAWS.
   The franchisee shall, at all times, comply with all laws of the state and
federal government and the rules and regulations of any federal or state
administrative agency. However, this section shall not be construed to require
the county to make an initial determination of any such violation.
(Ord. passed 10-28-14; Ord. passed 2-27-18; Ord. passed 11-12-19; Ord. passed
2-27-23)
§ 96.35 ACCEPTANCE OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS.
   The franchisee agrees, by acceptance of the franchise, to accept the
validity of the terms and conditions of this chapter and the franchise in their
entirety and that it will not, at any time, proceed against the county in any
claim or proceeding challenging any term or provision of this chapter or the
franchise, and that it will not claim or contend that any provision of this
chapter is unreasonable, arbitrary or void, or that the county did not have the
authority to impose such term or condition.
(Ord. passed 10-28-14; Ord. passed 2-27-18; Ord. passed 11-12-19; Ord. passed
2-27-23)
§ 96.36 COMPLIANCE WITH TERMS AND CONDITIONS.
   The franchisee shall not be excused from complying with any terms and
conditions of this chapter or the franchise by any failure of the county, upon
any one or more occasions, to insist on the franchisee's performance or to seek
franchisee's compliance with any one or more of such terms or conditions.
(Ord. passed 10-28-14; Ord. passed 2-27-18; Ord. passed 11-12-19; Ord. passed
2-27-23)
§ 96.37 RIGHTS OF THE COUNTY.
   The county hereby expressly reserves the following rights:
   (A)   To exercise its governmental powers, now or thereafter, to the full
extent that such powers may be vested in or granted to the county.
   (B)   To adopt, in addition to the provisions contained herein and in the
franchise and in any existing applicable ordinances, such additional reasonable
regulations as it shall find necessary in the exercise of its police power.
   (C)   To amend any provisions of this chapter, and to renegotiate any
provision of a franchise granted pursuant hereto, which is declared or rendered
void or unenforceable by any court or administrative body having jurisdiction
thereof, or by changes in the state or federal laws enacted after the award of
a franchise.
(Ord. passed 10-28-14; Ord. passed 2-27-18; Ord. passed 11-12-19; Ord. passed
2-27-23)
§ 96.38 TRANSFERENCE OF POWER.
   Any delegable right, power or duty of the county, the Board, or any official
of the county under this chapter may be transferred or delegated by resolution
of the Board to an appropriate officer, employee or department of the county,
or any other legal authority.
(Ord. passed 10-28-14; Ord. passed 2-27-18; Ord. passed 11-12-19; Ord. passed
2-27-23)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   Violations of this chapter are punished as provided by §
10.99.
(Ord. passed 10-28-14; Ord. passed 2-27-18; Ord. passed 11-12-19; Ord. passed
2-27-23; Ord. passed 4-22-24)
CHAPTER 97: TEACHING SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM
Section
   
97.01   Enactment and citation
   
97.02   Findings, purpose, and intent
   
97.03   Authority
   
97.04   Definitions
   
97.05   Description of scholarship
   
97.06   Scholarship Review Committee
   
97.07   Initial eligibility requirements
   
97.08   Application
   
97.09   Criteria for awarding scholarships
   
97.10   Evaluation process
   
97.11   Responsibilities of the recipient
   
97.12   Remedies and legal actions
   
97.13   Miscellaneous provisions
 
   
97.99   Penalty
§ 97.01 ENACTMENT AND CITATION.
   The Davidson County Board of Commissioners hereby enacts this chapter, which
may be cited and shall be known as the Davidson County Teaching Scholarship
Ordinance.
(Ord. passed 3-9-04; Ord. passed 8-25-15; Ord. passed 1-10-17)
§ 97.02 FINDINGS, PURPOSE, AND INTENT.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners recognizes that the quality education of
students within Davidson County is essential to the enhancement of the overall
general welfare of the citizenry of Davidson County and that the knowledge of
the citizens is necessary to good government and to the happiness of mankind.
The presence of excellent and dedicated teachers in schools in Davidson County
is extremely important and valuable to the proper education and training of
students in the schools in Davidson County and the health, welfare and general
condition of the citizens of Davidson County. Further, the Board of
Commissioners finds that there exists a need to attract quality teachers for
the schools which serve the citizens of Davidson County. In particular, the
Board of Commissioners recognizes that many individuals do not pursue
employment as a teacher in the schools because of the disparity between the
salaries of school teachers and the salaries of persons in other professions or
employment. Additionally, residents of Davidson County have a unique
familiarity with the economic, social and cultural environment of Davidson
County and the presence of such persons as teachers in schools in Davidson
County will facilitate the education of public school students in Davidson
County. The Board of Commissioners declares that the adequate education of the
students of Davidson County is a recognized object of County government and
that well-educated and trained teachers for the school students in Davidson
County should be encouraged by Davidson County government.
   (B)   This chapter is intended to encourage residents of Davidson County who
attend or will attend post-secondary institutions to teach students in schools
in Davidson County by offering and funding scholarships for qualified students
at postsecondary institutions to help defray tuition and other expenses
associated with attending such institutions. Recipients of these scholarships
will be required to enter into a contract with Davidson County to perform
obligations including, but not limited to, obtaining the necessary training and
certifications to teach in the schools in North Carolina and in Davidson County
and seeking, obtaining and maintaining employment as teachers in approved
schools in Davidson County. This chapter is not intended and shall not be
construed to interfere with the personnel policies of any school or school
system or the employment relationship between a recipient and any school and
shall not require any school or school system to hire or retain any recipient.
Because scholarship recipients will be required to enter into a contract with
Davidson County, the application and award process is designed to assure that
recipients possess the legal capacity to contract with Davidson County.
   (C)   The Board of Commissioners recognizes and intends that every applicant
and recipient must be assured and accorded due process of law in the
application and award process. It is intended that no decision regarding an
application or award or rescission or revocation of an award shall be made in
an arbitrary or capricious manner. Further, no scholarship shall be rescinded
or revoked by Davidson County or the Board of Commissioners without affording
the recipient a fair and adequate hearing to contest such rescission or
revocation.
   (D)   This chapter is intended to award scholarships only to high school
seniors who have been accepted into a post-secondary institution, those
currently attending a post-secondary institution, approved Dual Bachelor’s-
Master’s of Arts in Teaching Program, or recent graduates of post-secondary
education programs which comply with the requirements of G.S. Chapter 115C for
compliance with the compulsory school attendance laws of North Carolina and is
not intended to encourage any person to violate or circumvent such laws. The
scholarships are intended to be generally allocated among residents of Davidson
County who are seniors in or have graduated from county school administrative
units, city school administrative units, private schools or home schools. The
Scholarship Program created by this chapter is not intended to be a “needs-
based” program. Therefore, no scholarships shall be awarded based upon the
financial need or condition of an applicant and accordingly Davidson County
will neither solicit nor consider financial information regarding an applicant.
   (E)   Davidson County will comply with the Open Meetings Law and Public
Records Law of North Carolina in the administration of the Scholarship Program.
To the extent permitted or required by law, Davidson County will endeavor to
protect confidential information submitted by applicants.
   (F)   The Board of Commissioners intends that the needs of the schools shall
be considered by the Scholarship Review Committee in awarding scholarships.
   (G)   This Scholarship Program shall be funded by donations and by local
revenues.
(Ord. passed 3-9-04; Am. Ord. passed 4-22-08; Ord. passed 8-25-15; Ord. passed
1-10-17)
§ 97.03 AUTHORITY.
   Davidson County has the authority to use local revenues to add to school
programs and therefore may enact ordinances to implement such additions or
supplements. Davidson County is authorized by G.S. § l53A-449 to enter into
contracts with any person to carry out any public purpose which Davidson County
may engage in and may appropriate money for such programs. The education of
students in Davidson County is a public purpose and facilitation of teachers
for school students in Davidson County is a public purpose for which Davidson
County may contract with persons. Pursuant to G.S. § l53A-255, Davidson County
may undertake, sponsor, organize, engage in and support social service programs
intended to further the health, welfare, education, safety, comfort and
convenience of the citizens of Davidson County. These social service programs
authorized by G.S. § l53A-255 are in addition to and separate from the social
service programs listed in G.S. Chapters 108A and 111 which Davidson County is
required by G.S. § l53A-255 to provide. The Davidson County Teaching
Scholarship Program is declared to be a social service program. The General
Assembly has declared in G.S. § 153A-4 that Davidson County should have
adequate authority to exercise the powers, rights, duties, functions,
privileges and immunities conferred upon it by law and that the provisions of
G.S. § 153A-255 and other provisions of G.S. Chapter 153A shall be construed to
include any powers that are reasonably expedient to the exercise of the power.
According to the courts of North Carolina, Davidson County may exercise those
powers granted in express words, those powers necessarily or fairly implied in
or incident to those powers expressly granted and those powers essential to the
accomplishment of the declared objects and purposes of Davidson County.
(Ord. passed 3-9-04; Ord. passed 8-25-15; Ord. passed 1-10-17)
§ 97.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE. A ground raised by the recipient or responsible adult
to contest the rescission of the contract by Davidson County other than the
grounds for rescission set forth in §
97.11(F). AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES shall expressly include by way of illustration
only and not limitation fraud, impossibility of performance, frustration of
purpose and statute of limitations and may include any factual basis to support
any affirmative defense.
   APPLICANT. A person who files an application for a scholarship.
   APPROVED DUAL BACHELOR’S-MASTER’S OF ARTS IN TEACHING PROGRAM. A five-year
dual program offered by an accredited institution by which an individual
graduates after five years with a Master’s Degree in an educational discipline,
along with a teaching certificate.
   AWARD. The decision of the Scholarship Review Committee to grant to an
applicant a scholarship and shall constitute an offer by Davidson County to an
applicant to enter into a contract.
   COMMITTEE. The Scholarship Review Committee established by this chapter.
   CONTRACT. An offer made by Davidson County, as manifested by the award of a
scholarship by the Scholarship Review Committee, which is accepted by the
recipient without the variance of any term or provision and creates a binding
agreement between Davidson County and the recipient or any responsible adult
who enters into such contract.
   DAVIDSON COUNTY SCHOOLS. The Davidson County School system.
   DOMICILE or PLACE OF DOMICILE. A place where an applicant has his true,
fixed, and permanent home and principal establishment and to which whenever the
applicant is absent he has the intention of returning. A temporary or transient
place of residence shall not be considered a PLACE OF DOMICILE.
   HOME SCHOOL. A nonpublic school in North Carolina, as permitted by G.S. §
l15C-564, in which one or more children of not more than two families or
households receive academic instruction from parents or legal guardians or a
member of either household and in which all persons providing academic
instruction in such school hold at least a high school diploma or its
equivalent and which annually administers a nationally standardized test or
other nationally standardized equivalent measurement which evaluates
achievement in the areas of English grammar, reading, spelling and mathematics
as required by G.S. § 115C-564 and the statutes cited therein.
   LEXINGTON CITY SCHOOLS. The Lexington City School system.
   NONPUBLIC SCHOOL. A school (i) which is not operated or controlled by a
county school administrative unit or a city school administrative unit or any
other public school system and (ii) which (1) is accredited by the North
Carolina State Board of Education or (2) is accredited by the Southern
Association of Colleges and Schools or (3) is an active member of the North
Carolina Association of Independent Schools or (4) receives no funding from the
State of North Carolina and (iii) which is permitted by G.S. § l15C-555 to be
established and to operate as a nonpublic school.
    POST-SECONDARY INSTITUTION. An institution which offers a bachelor-level
degree in Education or substantially similar major course of study.
   PRIVATE CHURCH SCHOOLS OR SCHOOLS OF RELIGIOUS CHARTER. Schools in North
Carolina, as permitted by G.S. § l15C-547, which (1) are operated or controlled
by a religious organization or are established by a religious charter, (2)
operate on a regular schedule, excluding reasonable holidays and vacations,
during at least nine calendar months of the year, (3) administer at least once
per academic year a nationally standardized test or other nationally
standardized equivalent measurement selected by the chief administrative
officer of such school to all students enrolled or regularly attending grades
three, six and nine, and (4) administer at least once per each academic year a
nationally standardized test or other nationally standardized equivalent
measurement selected by the chief administrative officer of such school to all
students enrolled and regularly attending the eleventh grade. For purposes of
clause three of this subsection, a nationally standardized test or other
nationally standardized equivalent measurement shall refer to a test or
measurement which evaluates achievement in the areas of English grammar,
reading, spelling and mathematics. For purposes of clause four of this
subsection, such test or measurement shall measure in verbal and quantitative
areas.
   PRIVATE SCHOOL. A school in North Carolina which is either a (1) private
religious school or school of religious charter or (2) a nonpublic school other
than a home school.
   PUBLIC SCHOOL IN NORTH CAROLINA. A school which is operated and controlled
by a county school administrative unit or a city school administrative unit and
is located within North Carolina.
   RECIPIENT. A person who is awarded a scholarship by the Scholarship Review
Committee.
   RESIDENT OF DAVIDSON COUNTY. A person domiciled in Davidson County, North
Carolina. An address which is printed on a duly issued North Carolina drivers’
license or identification card and which shows a residential address in
Davidson County shall be prima facie evidence that such person is a resident of
Davidson County. Proof of residence in Davidson County may be established by
other proper and reliable evidence.
   RESPONSIBLE ADULT. A parent, legal guardian or person standing in loco
parentis of an applicant and recipient of a scholarship.
   SCHOLARSHIP or SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM. The Davidson County Teaching Scholarship
Program and the grant of funds by Davidson County to an applicant pursuant to
this chapter.
   STUDENT. A person who at the time the scholarship is to be awarded is a
senior in a county school administrative unit, city school administrative unit,
private school or home school or attends a post-secondary academic institution
as a full-time student as defined by such institution.
   THOMASVILLE CITY SCHOOLS. The Thomasville City School system.
(Ord. passed 3-9-04; Am. Ord. passed 4-22-08; Ord. passed 8-25-15; Ord. passed
1-10-17)
§ 97.05 DESCRIPTION OF SCHOLARSHIP.
   The Board of Commissioners hereby establishes the Davidson County Teaching
Scholarship Program which shall be administered and regulated as set forth in
this chapter. Davidson County shall annually grant to eligible recipients
scholarships to pay for the recipients’ tuition, room and board, books and
other course materials, and other reasonable and customary living expenses
incurred or to be incurred by the recipient during the recipient’s attendance
at a post-secondary institution while pursuing a degree in education for the
purpose of obtaining a teacher’s certification in North Carolina. Recipients of
scholarships may not use any funds awarded pursuant to this program and
Ordinance for any purpose which is not listed herein. The Scholarship Program
shall be conducted on a calendar year basis, and the total amount of each
scholarship shall be as set from time to time by the Board of Commissioners. If
the recipient is not a senior at a post-secondary institution, the amount of
the scholarship shall be divided by the number of full remaining years required
to obtain a bachelor’s degree. Example: If the recipient has not entered the
first year of a post-secondary institution, the recipient shall receive one-
fourth of the amount of the scholarship and shall receive one-fourth of the
amount of the scholarship prior to each subsequent school year, provided the
post-secondary institution has verified enrollment and the grade-point average
of 2.8 or the equivalent for the preceding school year. Recipient shall not be
eligible to receive the remaining amount of the scholarship if the enrollment
and the grade-point average of 2.8 or the equivalent are not attained and
verified. Should the student be enrolled in an approved five-year Dual
Bachelor’s-Master’s of Arts in Teaching Program, the first payment shall not be
made until at least the student’s third semester, with the calculation
described above being applied at that time [payments still spread over the
course of four years of education].
(Ord. passed 3-9-04; Am. Ord. passed 4-22-08; Ord. passed 8-25-15; Ord. passed
1-10-17)
§ 97.06 SCHOLARSHIP REVIEW COMMITTEE.
   (A)   Committee established. A Scholarship Review Committee is hereby
created and shall hereafter be referred to as the Committee.
   (B)   Duties and powers of Committee. The Committee shall have the duty to
evaluate and obtain information on applicants for scholarships and to award
scholarships. To perform these duties, the Committee is authorized to receive
and C review information submitted by or on behalf of the applicant, to contact
employers, instructors, persons submitting references and other persons listed
by the applicant and appropriate school officials and employees to verify
information submitted by the applicant and to gather any information relevant
to the decision making process of the Committee. The Committee may consult with
school officials and other interested persons to obtain information relevant to
the needs of the schools and to permit the Committee members to perform their
duties. The Committee members shall assure that each applicant meets the
eligibility requirements set forth in this chapter. Any applicant who fails to
meet all of the eligibility requirements shall not be considered for or awarded
a scholarship by the Committee.
   (C)   Selection of Committee members. 
      (1)   Composition. The Committee shall consist of nine regular voting
members and three alternates. The nine regular voting members shall be
comprised of the Superintendent of the Davidson County Schools or designee, the
Superintendent of the Lexington City Schools or designee, the Superintendent of
the Thomasville City Schools or designee, one County Commissioner, one
representative of the home school sector in Davidson County nominated by the
operators and instructors of home schools in Davidson County, one
representative of the private school sector in Davidson County nominated by the
operators and instructors of the private schools in Davidson County and three
members of the general population of Davidson County. The Board of
Commissioners may appoint any person as an alternate. The Chairperson and Vice
Chairperson shall be selected from the regular voting members by the Board of
Commissioners. All appointments for regular voting members other than the
superintendents of the school systems or designees, alternates, the Chairperson
and Vice Chairperson shall be made by a majority vote of the Commissioners
present and voting at a duly held meeting of the Board of Commissioners. The
Board of Commissioners shall not be prohibited from appointing a person to the
Committee because such person would be or could become disqualified from
considering or deciding upon a particular scholarship application. The Davidson
County Attorney shall serve as legal counsel to the Scholarship Review
Committee.
      (2)   Terms. Initially, terms of service on the Committee shall be as
follows: three regular voting members and one alternate shall serve one-year
terms; three regular voting members and one alternate shall serve two-year
terms; and three regular voting members and one alternate shall serve three-
year terms. After each initial term is completed, the term of service on the
Committee shall be three years for all regular voting members and alternates.
It is the purpose of this subsection to create staggered terms for service as
regular voting members and alternates on the Committee. Notwithstanding the
length of a term established in this subsection, all regular voting members,
alternates, the Chairperson and Vice Chairperson shall serve in their
respective positions at the pleasure of the Board and may be removed by a
majority vote of the Commissioners present and voting at a duly held meeting
with or without cause. No person shall serve more than two consecutive terms on
the Committee and shall serve no more than four terms total.
   (D)   Compensation. No regular voting member or alternate shall receive any
salary or similar compensation for service on the Committee. However, regular
voting C members and alternates are entitled to reimbursement for travel to
duly convened meetings of the Committee. The reimbursement shall be paid by
Davidson County at the Davidson County rate.
   (E)   Conduct of Committee.
      (1)   Meetings. The Committee shall establish and publish a schedule of
its regular meetings. The Committee may set days and times to assure the
regular attendance of all regular voting members and alternates and the public
to the extent that the public is entitled by law to attend such meetings.
Meetings shall be held on the Fourth Floor, Commissioners Meeting Room, of the
Davidson County Governmental Center. All deliberations and discussions
regarding applicants shall be held in closed session upon proper motion and
voting in open session by a majority of voting members present. A motion to
enter into closed session shall state that the purposes of such session are to
prevent the premature disclosure of a scholarship and to consider information
which is privileged or confidential pursuant to 20 U.S.C. § 1232g. To prevent
the premature disclosure of scholarships, the Committee shall be permitted in
closed session to make award decisions and shall not be required to publish or
announce the names of recipients until all awards have been made and all
applicants have been sent notification of the Committee’s decision. The
Committee shall also be permitted to enter into closed session to consult with
and instruct legal counsel regarding the handling or settling of any claim,
judicial action or administrative procedure arising out of the Committee’s
action or to receive legal advice from legal counsel. The Committee shall
promptly notify all applicants in writing of the Committee’s c decision.
Pursuant to G.S. § 143-318.11(e), a general account of closed meetings shall be
kept in writing or sound or video and sound recordings. Such general account
shall be withheld from public inspection until such time that all scholarship
decisions have been made at which time such general account shall be considered
a public record within the meaning of G.S. § 132-1 and shall be available for
public inspection. All educational records submitted by the applicant are
considered privileged and confidential pursuant to 20 U.S.C. S 1232g and are
not considered public records under G.S. § 132-1. A quorum shall be established
upon the attendance of at least seven regular voting members or alternates. If
a regular voting member is not present at a meeting or is disqualified from
taking particular action, an alternate shall serve in place of that absent or
disqualified regular voting member and shall be considered a voting member for
the period of that member’s absence or disqualification. The rotation or
scheduling of service by alternates shall be as established by the Committee.
      (2)   Procedures for evaluation and awards. The Committee is authorized
to establish procedures and rules for the guidance of the Committee in the
evaluation and awarding of scholarships which are not inconsistent with the
provisions of this chapter or other applicable law. The Committee may, but is
not required to, conduct interviews with applicants at regular meetings of the
Committee. All ex parte communications and contacts, whether in writing or in
person or by telephone or by any other means of communication, between or among
any regular voting member, alternate and applicant or any person acting on
behalf of the applicant are prohibited. The immediately preceding sentence
shall not prevent any regular voting member or alternate from contacting any
employer, institution, person submitting a recommendation or other non-relative
of the applicant who might have relevant information regarding an applicant or
from consulting with the Board of Commissioners, County Manager or County
Attorney regarding an applicant or this chapter. A regular voting member or
alternate who is a parent, spouse, grandparent, sibling, uncle or aunt of an
applicant or who is related by marriage to the applicant or who is or was a
responsible adult of the applicant shall be completely disqualified from any
involvement in the investigation, consideration, evaluation and decision as to
such applicant and such member or alternate shall not act in person or by proxy
upon such application for a scholarship. A qualified alternate shall act on
such application in place of the disqualified regular voting member or
alternate. A scholarship shall be awarded to an applicant only upon a majority
vote of voting members present. However, no action to award or not award a
scholarship shall be made without the presence of at least seven regular voting
members or alternates.
      (3)   Compliance with Open Meetings Law and Public Records Law. It is the
intent of this chapter that the Committee comply with the requirements of the
Open Meetings Law and Public Records Law of North Carolina. If any provision of
this chapter or any procedure of the Committee is inconsistent with the Open
Meetings Law or Public Records Law, then the latter laws shall control.
      (4)   Committee as agent. The Committee shall be an agent of Davidson
County only for the purposes of investigating and evaluating applications and
awarding scholarships.
(Ord. passed 3-9-04; Ord. passed 8-25-15; Ord. passed 1-10-17)
§ 97.07 INITIAL ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS.
   An applicant for a scholarship must be a resident of and be domiciled in
Davidson County for at least six years next preceding the time the scholarship
is awarded and must be a senior attending or a graduate of a county school
administrative unit, a city school administrative unit or a private school or
home school who has been accepted into a post-secondary institution at the time
the scholarship is awarded. An applicant who is a graduate of a county school
administrative unit, a city school administrative unit or a private school or
home school must be enrolled in and attending a post-secondary institution at
the time the scholarship is awarded. All applicants must have a minimum
cumulative grade-point average of 2.8 or the equivalent thereof at the time of
filing an application and must have declared as an education major or
equivalent course of study. The grade-point average or equivalent shall refer
to and shall be based upon those averages as determined by post-secondary
institutions only. Applicants may attend any post-secondary institution located
anywhere in the United States of America or in any territory or possession of
the United States of America. The applicant must in good faith express an
intent to apply for employment as a qualified teacher in a school system in
Davidson County. Applicant must have never been convicted of or pled nolo
contendre to a felony, misdemeanor, or an offense involving a crime of moral
turpitude that is detrimental to or impacts the applicant’s service as a
teacher in a school system in Davidson County. Any person who does not meet all
of the requirements set forth in this chapter shall not be considered for nor
awarded a scholarship.
(Ord. passed 3-9-04; Am. Ord. passed 4-22-08; Ord. passed 8-25-15; Ord. passed
1-10-17)
§ 97.08 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Application required. No person shall be considered for or awarded a
scholarship without completing and filing an application by the deadline stated
in §
97.08(F). There shall be no fee for a person to apply for a scholarship.
   (B)   Completion of application.
      (1)   Contents. Applications shall be on forms as approved by the
Committee. Applicants shall provide the following information: (A) full name,
date of birth and social security number; (B) a copy of a current North
Carolina Driver’s License or Identification Card or other authentic document or
copy thereof bearing the applicant’s residential address; (C) street or
apartment or dormitory address and phone number at which applicant may
currently be reached; (D) street or apartment address at which the applicant
maintains domicile; (E) name of high school, private school or home school
applicant attends or_from which applicant graduated and address and phone
number of such school; (F) copy of verification of enrollment or diploma or
other certification of graduation issued by high school, private school or home
school; (G) certified copy of transcript from all secondary schools, if a
senior in a secondary school, or post-secondary institutions which applicant
has attended and including the most recent transcript; (H) current grade-point
average; (I) major course of study; (J) resume indicating academic and
employment experience and extra-curricular activities in which the applicant
has participated at the post-secondary institution and (K) three sealed letters
of recommendation from persons not related by marriage or birth to the
applicant, with two of the letters being provided by the instructors of the
applicant at the applicant’s post-secondary institution. Additionally, each
applicant shall prepare two typed essays, each not exceeding two double-spaced
pages, and each explaining (1) why the applicant desires to pursue a career in
teaching and (2) what specific changes or additions the applicant would make to
the public education system and why such changes should be made. If an
application states that the applicant is a graduate of a private school or home
school, such applicant shall include a certification or similar statement
issued by the duly authorized representative of the State of North Carolina who
inspects or has inspected such private religious school or school of religious
charter or home school, or if such school is a nonpublic school other than a
home school, a statement of accreditation from the North Carolina State Board
of Education or the Southern Association of Independent Colleges and Schools or
a statement or other evidence of membership in the North Carolina Association
of Independent Schools or a sworn affidavit by the chief executive of such
school that the school receives no funding from the State of North Carolina.
      (2)   Signature of applicant. Each applicant shall sign the application.
The application of any person who has not attained the age of 18 years at the
time of filing the application shall also be signed by the responsible adult of
such applicant. The applicant’s date of birth is requested to assure that any
person who applies for a scholarship and who may enter into a contract with
Davidson County has the legal capacity to enter into such contract.
      (3)   Applicant consents to investigation. Each person who submits an
application consents to the investigation of his or her background and
authorizes the regular voting members and alternates of the Committee, the
County Manager, the County Attorney and the Board of Commissioners to obtain
and review all information submitted by or regarding the applicant to carry out
the respective duties set forth in this chapter.
   (C)   Disclosure of information. By applying for a scholarship, an applicant
or responsible adult of the applicant is permitting the release of the
applicant’s academic record and information to Davidson County and the review
of such information by Davidson County, the regular voting members and
alternates of the Committee appointed by the Board of Commissioners, the Board
of Commissioners, the County Manager and the County Attorney. The applicant or
responsible adult of the applicant also consents to an investigation into the
background of the applicant. Each application shall contain a statement
acknowledging such permission which shall be signed by the applicant or
responsible adult of the applicant. The filing of an application shall
constitute a waiver by the applicant of any objection to the release and review
of academic information or records. No such information shall be released as
authorized by this chapter.
   (D)   Public records and Open Meetings Law may apply. It is the intent of
this chapter that educational records and information submitted by the
applicant shall not be available for public inspection and that the discussion
of whether to award an applicant a scholarship shall not be conducted in a
public meeting. However, all information submitted to the Committee is or may
be subject to the Public Records Law of North Carolina and may be available for
inspection and copying by the public as required by such law. All discussions
of and actions on applications are or may be subject to the Open Meetings Law
of North Carolina and may be made in a meeting open to the public as required
by such law. All educational records of an applicant and the social security
number of an applicant shall not be considered a public record and shall not be
released by Davidson County nor any agent, officer or employee thereof nor any
regular voting member or alternate of the Committee unless required by law.
   (E)   Duty to provide accurate and truthful information. Every applicant
shall certify that the information provided in the application is true and
complete to the knowledge of the applicant and that the applicant is acting in
good faith. The applicant shall have a continuing duty to supplement or correct
any answers during the pendency of an application. Any person who willfully or
knowingly provides false or inaccurate information or willfully or knowingly
fails to supplement or correct such answers if such failure would result in any
answer being false or inaccurate shall be in violation of this chapter and
shall have committed an unlawful act. It shall be a violation of this chapter
and an unlawful act for any applicant to obtain a scholarship award or accept a
scholarship award by willfully or knowingly using or relying upon false or
inaccurate information or other fraudulent means. It shall be a violation of
this chapter and an unlawful act for any person to assist an applicant in
obtaining or to obtain on behalf of an applicant or any other person a
scholarship award or accept a scholarship award by willfully or knowingly using
or relying upon false or inaccurate information or other fraudulent means.
Davidson County may seek remedies for such violation as provided in §
97.12.
   (F)   Filing of application. Applications may be filed within the two
established filing periods which are (1) January 1 to March 15 and (2)
September 1 to November 15. Applications must be filed in the Office of the
County Manager of Davidson County, Davidson County Governmental Center, Fourth
Floor, at 913 North Greensboro Street, Lexington, North Carolina. It is the
intent of this subsection that applications shall be received for consideration
within the dates of the filing periods.
   (G)   No property right by filing an application. The filing of an
application shall not be deemed approval of such application as to form or
content and shall not grant to any applicant a right to or a property interest
in a scholarship. An applicant shall not be entitled to a hearing before the
Board of Commissioners, the Committee or any agent, employee or officer of
Davidson County on the award of a scholarship or denial of a scholarship or any
appeal of any such decisions. Review of an application shall be as provided in
and in accordance with the terms, provisions, rules and regulations of this
chapter, the rules and regulations of the Committee and other applicable law.
   (H)   Consent to be bound by ordinance. Each person who files an application
and each person who signs a filed application consent to be bound by all the
provisions, terms, rules and regulations of this chapter, the Committee, and
the application and disclaimer form.
(Ord. passed 3-9-04; Am. Ord. passed 4-22-08; Ord. passed 8-25-15; Ord. passed
1-10-17) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.09 CRITERIA FOR AWARDING SCHOLARSHIPS.
   (A)   General criteria. An application shall be evaluated and the decision
to award or deny a scholarship shall be made based upon the applicant’s
academic achievements and record during high school, senior high school or
post-secondary education, demonstrated commitment to the teaching profession
and the advancement of public education, extracurricular activities or work
experience and information furnished with the application. No decision to award
a scholarship shall be based upon the financial need or condition of the
applicant. The needs of the schools in Davidson County shall also be considered
by the Committee.
   (B)   Statement of non-discrimination. All applications shall be considered
and all scholarships shall be awarded without regard to the race, creed, ethnic
origin, national origin, gender, religious belief or background, political
affiliation or belief, physical disability, or age of the applicant. However,
an applicant who is not at least age 18 years at the time of filing the
application must have the application signed by a responsible adult of the
applicant.
(Ord. passed 3-9-04; Am. Ord. passed 4-22-08; Ord. passed 8-25-15; Ord. passed
1-10-17)
§ 97.10 EVALUATION PROCESS.
   (A)   Intent. The application review and award process is designed to assure
that every applicant is assured of and afforded adequate due process and
fairness.
   (B)   Allocation of awards. The Committee shall annually award scholarships
to graduates of county school administrative units; to graduates of city school
administrative units; and to a graduate or graduates of a private school or
home school program. The number of scholarships and the allocation of the
scholarships among graduates of schools referred to above shall be as set from
time to time by the Board of Commissioners. If the number of applicants in a
category is less than the number of scholarships allocated to that category,
then the scholarships which are not applied for in that category shall be
allocated to or among those categories which have a greater number of
applicants than scholarships allocated to that category. Nothing in this
chapter requires that all scholarships be awarded.
   (C)   Evaluation and decision. Scholarships shall be awarded on a calendar
year basis. The Committee shall carefully review and consider the information
submitted on the application. Any application which does not contain responses
to all questions or reveals that an application does not meet the eligibility
requirements as established by this chapter and the rules and regulations of
the Committee or contains information which the applicant knows is false or
inaccurate shall be rejected. Scholarships shall not be awarded to persons who
file such applications. The regular voting members and alternates of the
Committee are authorized to review the academic records of the applicant,
contact the employers, supervisors and instructors of the applicant, persons
submitting recommendations on behalf of the applicant and other persons who
have information relevant to the evaluation of the applicant. The Committee
shall make decisions for awarding the scholarships following its review of the
scholarship applications. The Committee shall mail scholarship contracts to the
applicants who are awarded scholarships. The Committee shall notify applicants
who are not awarded scholarships of the Committee’s decisions concerning their
applications. The Committee shall make a report of its work to the
Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 3-9-04; Ord. passed 8-25-15; Ord. passed 1-10-17)
§ 97.11 RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE RECIPIENT.
   (A)   Award of scholarship is an offer to contract. The award of a
scholarship by the Committee is an offer by Davidson County to enter into a
contract with a recipient for such recipient to obtain the benefits of this
scholarship. A recipient who has been awarded a scholarship shall not obtain
the benefit of the scholarship unless such recipient and responsible adult of
such recipient, if required to sign the application, accepts the offer and
enters into a contract with Davidson County as provided in §
97.11(B). Davidson County may revoke an offer upon information or evidence that
an applicant is not eligible or has willfully or knowingly falsified
information or concealed information or has otherwise presented inaccurate
information which must be disclosed pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   Acceptance of offer by recipient. Each applicant awarded a scholarship
shall receive a contract setting forth the rights and obligations of the
recipient as provided in this section. Such contract shall be signed by the
recipient and responsible adult agreeing to the contract and returned to the
Committee by no later than 30 days after the date such contract is received by
the recipient, as shown by the date that is written on the return receipt card
for certified mail. If the recipient is under the age of 18 years at the time
the contract is offered, the contract shall be signed by the responsible adult
of the recipient. Any recipient who does not return or who does not postmark
delivery to the Committee within the time limit set forth herein a contract
which is signed in accordance with this subsection shall be deemed to have
rejected the offer by Davidson County and to have forfeited any right or
interest in this scholarship.
   (C)   Graduation and certification required. A recipient of a scholarship
shall graduate from a post-secondary institution and shall be qualified to
obtain a North Carolina teacher’s certification immediately following scheduled
completion of the recipient’s senior year at the post-secondary institution,
unless the student is enrolled in an approved Dual Bachelor’s-Master’s of Arts
in Teaching Program, in which case the student shall be qualified to obtain a
North Carolina teacher’s certification immediately following scheduled
completion of the Dual Program.
   (D)   Employment required. A recipient must in good faith apply for and
accept an offer of employment in a teaching position from either the Davidson
County Schools, Lexington City Schools, Thomasville City Schools or a private
school [as set out in §
97.04(N) hereinabove] located in Davidson County by no later than six months
following the date on which the recipient receives a North Carolina teacher’s
certification. A recipient must hold a teaching position in the Davidson County
Schools, Lexington City Schools, Thomasville City Schools or private school
located in Davidson County for a minimum of three academic years immediately
following the date of hire of such recipient. Nothing in this chapter shall
require a recipient to maintain employment in the same teaching position for
the three year period provided in this subsection or prevent a recipient from
obtaining a teaching position in another public school or private school in
Davidson County. Only the appropriate school system has the authority to hire
any person; therefore, this chapter is not intended and shall not be construed
to excuse any recipient from the obligations, policies or requirements of the
school or school system which employs the recipient. Nothing in this chapter
shall require any school or school system to offer a teaching position to a
recipient or to continue an employment relationship with a recipient for any
period of time. Neither Davidson County nor any officer agent or employee
thereof nor any member or alternate of the Committee warrant or make any
promise affirmation assurance or guarantee that a recipient shall obtain or be
offered employment with any school system.
   (E)   Notification required. It shall be the obligation of the recipient to
notify the Clerk to the Board of Commissioners of his/her employment status as
set out in §
97.11(D) no later than six months following the date on which the recipient
receives a North Carolina teacher’s certification. Further, it shall be the
responsibility of the recipient to notify the Clerk to the Board should he/she
withdraw from school, be expelled from school or is, for whatever reason,
unable to obtain a North Carolina teacher’s certification immediately following
scheduled completion of the recipient’s senior year at the post-secondary
institution.
   (F)   Extension of time for good cause shown. For good cause shown, a
recipient who does not obtain or accept an offer of employment by the deadline
stated in §
97.11(D) may apply for one extension of time of no greater than one year from
the date of the current deadline to obtain and accept an offer of employment.
Such application shall be filed in the Office of the County Manager by no later
than the date of the current deadline. Upon filing a timely application, the
recipient shall be entitled to a public hearing before the Board of
Commissioners. The recipient shall be entitled to present evidence and
witnesses to support a showing that the failure to obtain a teaching position
as required by this chapter is for good cause. The burden of showing good cause
shall be on the recipient. The Board of Commissioners may grant an extension
upon an affirmative finding based upon substantial, material and competent
evidence that (1) the recipient has attempted diligently to obtain and accept
an offer of employment as required by §
97.11(D); and (2) the inability to obtain such employment is substantially
related to the unavailability of teaching positions for which the recipient
reasonably possesses the minimum qualifications. Good cause shall not be based
upon the recipient’s desire to obtain a higher level of compensation or the
desire to teach at a particular school or location. During the pendency of an
application filed pursuant to this subsection, a recipient may continue to seek
and obtain employment with a public or private school in Davidson County. If a
recipient is offered and accepts such teaching position, the recipient shall be
deemed to have complied with §
97.11(D) even if such offer is made and accepted after the deadline for
obtaining employment set forth in §
97.11(B). It is the intent of this chapter that the timely filing of an
application to extend the time limit set forth in §
97.11(D) shall toll the expiration of such time.
   (G)   Breach and rescission of contract. A contract shall be rescinded by
Davidson County if the recipient (1) fails to graduate by no later than August
30th immediately following the completion of the senior year at the post-
secondary institution; or (2) fails to become qualified to obtain a North
Carolina teacher’s certification by no later than August 30th immediately
following the recipient’s senior year; or (3) does not in good faith seek
employment as required in §
97.11(D) and does not obtain an extension as provided in §
97.11(E); or (4) if an extension is granted, does not in good faith seek
employment by no later than the extended deadline; or (5) has obtained an award
as the result of an intentional or knowing misstatement or response on the
application; or (6) does not meet the eligibility requirements; or (7) uses any
portion of the scholarship funds for purposes not authorized by §
97.05, or (8) has been convicted of or pled nolo contendre to a felony,
misdemeanor, or an offense involving a crime of moral turpitude that is
detrimental to or impacts the recipient’s service as a teacher in a school
system in Davidson County. Each of the breaches which are listed in this
subsection shall constitute a substantial and material breach of the contract.
The failures as listed herein shall entitle the County to seek those remedies
as provided in §
97.12.
   (H)   Right to appeal. Prior to the rescission of a contract by Davidson
County, the recipient shall receive a “Notice of Intent to Rescind Contract,”
addressed by certified mail to the recipient. The recipient shall be entitled
to a public hearing before the Board of Commissioners to contest such
rescission. Such hearing shall be requested in writing by no later than 30 days
following the date of receipt of the notice. At the hearing, the recipient
shall be entitled to present evidence, crossexamine witnesses and be
represented at the hearing by an attorney provided at the sole expense of the
recipient. The Board of Commissioners shall rescind a contract only upon proof
by a preponderance of the evidence to the satisfaction of a majority of the
members present and voting at a public hearing that the recipient has breached
the contract or comes within the grounds for rescission. If the recipient
contests the rescission of the contract based upon an affirmative defense, the
recipient shall have the burden of proving such defense by a preponderance of
the evidence to the satisfaction of a majority of the members present and
voting at the public hearing.
(Ord. passed 3-9-04; Ord. passed 8-25-15; Ord. passed 1-10-17)
§ 97.12 REMEDIES AND LEGAL ACTIONS.
   (a)   Civil. If a contract is rescinded by Davidson County or by the
applicant or responsible adult and the recipient has received funds, the
recipient and responsible adult shall be indebted to Davidson County in the
amount that is paid to the recipient. Such debt shall be recoverable by
Davidson County in an appropriate legal action as provided in §
97.12(C). If a legal action is initiated by the County and a judgment is
obtained by Davidson County against the recipient or responsible adult, such
judgment shall include costs and fees as permitted by law.
   (B)   Criminal. Any person who willfully or knowingly provides or aids or
assists in the providing of false information to obtain a scholarship shall be
subject to punishment for a Class 3 misdemeanor and a maximum fine of $500. Any
recipient who willfully or knowingly relies upon or uses false or misleading
information to obtain a scholarship or enter into a contract with Davidson
County shall be subject to prosecution for obtaining property by false
pretenses as provided in G.S. § 14-100. Any person who assists an applicant or
any other person in obtaining a scholarship award or accepts a scholarship
award by willfully or knowingly using or relying upon false or inaccurate
information or other fraudulent means shall be subject to prosecution in
accordance with the criminal laws of North Carolina. To the extent permitted by
law, the criminal penalties as set forth herein are cumulative and may be
imposed for the same conduct. The criminal penalties set forth herein are not
exclusive.
   (C)   Jurisdiction and venue. Any suit instituted by Davidson County may be
instituted in the appropriate division of the General Court of Justice in
Davidson County or, at the option of Davidson County, in such county or state
where the recipient resides at the time legal action is initiated. Each person
who files an application and each recipient and responsible adult who signs an
application and contract consent to initiate, litigate and prosecute any
action, claim or issue regarding the validity of this chapter, the propriety or
fairness of the application process, the grant or denial of a scholarship, or
any other aspect of this chapter, whether based on federal, state or local law,
only in the appropriate division of General Court of Justice of the State of
North Carolina. By entering into a scholarship contract with Davidson County,
the recipient and any responsible adult who signs the contract with Davidson
County consent to the Courts of the State of North Carolina having personal
jurisdiction over the recipient and the responsible adult and waive any
objection to or defense based upon personal jurisdiction. Venue and
jurisdiction over any litigation shall be only in the appropriate division of
the General Court of Justice in Davidson County, North Carolina.
   (D)   Remedies not exclusive. Davidson County may enforce this chapter
through all remedies permitted by law. The remedies as set forth herein are
construed to be cumulative to the extent permitted by law.
(Ord. passed 3-9-04; Ord. passed 8-25-15; Ord. passed 1-10-17)
§ 97.13 MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Compliance with local government finance law. The Board of
Commissioners shall appropriate sufficient funds for the awarding of
scholarships and the administration of this chapter through proper enactment of
such appropriations in the Davidson County Budget Ordinance or any proper
amendment thereof. As required by G.S. § 159-28, the Davidson County Finance
Officer shall certify on each scholarship which is accepted that the contract
has been preaudited in the manner required by the Local Government Budget and
Fiscal Control Act.
   (B)   Funding. This Scholarship Program shall be funded by donations and
local revenues. Donations may be received by the Davidson County Finance
Officer and placed into a scholarship fund created by the Board of
Commissioners pursuant to the Davidson County Budget Ordinance.
   (C)   Administration and enforcement of this chapter. It shall be the
responsibility of the Committee, the County Manager, the County Attorney, the
Clerk to the Board of Commissioners and the Committee, to enforce the
provisions of this chapter. The evaluation and award of scholarships shall be
the sole responsibility of the Committee and all regular voting members and
alternates of the Committee shall have access to and may review all information
submitted by and concerning the applicant. However, the Board of Commissioners,
County Manager and County Attorney are authorized to obtain and review such
information to assure compliance of all persons with this chapter. The County
Attorney shall institute appropriate legal action to recover the amount of any
scholarship received by a recipient and to seek other appropriate legal
remedies. The regular voting members and alternates of the Committee shall
disclose to the Board of Commissioners, County Manager and County Attorney
credible information that an applicant or any other person has willfully or
knowingly submitted false and inaccurate information on the application or
otherwise to the Committee. Such information may be provided to the District
Attorney or other appropriate law enforcement officials for possible
prosecution of criminal activity as defined by this chapter or other law.
   (D)   Address and phone number correction. Each applicant and recipient
shall diligently and promptly notify Davidson County of any change in the
residential or mailing address and phone number of the applicant or recipient.
   (E)   Notices. All notices, requests and other correspondence submitted by
the recipient or applicant shall be mailed to the Office of the County Manager,
Post Office Box 1067, Lexington, North Carolina, 27293-1067. All notices,
requests and other correspondence sent by Davidson County to the recipient or
applicant shall be sent by certified mail, restricted delivery to the applicant
at the applicant’s last known mailing address.
   (F)   Severability of provisions. If any provision, sentence, clause or
other portion of this chapter is declared to be invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction and venue, the remaining portions, provisions, clauses and
sentences of this chapter which are valid shall be considered separate and
apart from the invalid portions and shall continue to be in full force and
effect.
(Ord. passed 3-9-04; Ord. passed 8-25-15; Ord. passed 1-10-17)
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
    Violations of this chapter including knowingly providing or aiding or
assisting in the provision of false information to obtain a scholarship or any
recipient's knowingly or willfully relying on false or misleading information
to obtain a scholarship or enter a contract with Davidson County shall be
punished in accordance with §
10.99 or subject the violator to prosecution on other charges in accordance
with the criminal laws of North Carolina.
(Ord. passed 3-9-04; Ord. passed 4-22-24)
CHAPTER 98: FIRE AND LIFE SAFETY
Section
General Provisions
   
98.001   Enactment, repeal and effective date
   
98.002   Title
   
98.003   Findings, purpose and intent
   
98.004   Authority
   
98.005   Definitions
   
98.006   Jurisdiction
Duties of Fire Marshal
   
98.020   Administration of this chapter
   
98.021   Investigation of fires and explosion
   
98.022   Additional duties
   
98.023   Right-of-entry, inspection and N.C. Building Code enforcement
authority
   
98.024   Response authority
North Carolina State Building and Technical Codes
   
98.035   North Carolina State Building and Technical Codes adopted
   
98.036   Referenced codes and standards
Commercial Building and Structure Plan Review and Permitting Process
   
98.045   Commercial building and structure plan review process
   
98.046   Required documentation
   
98.047   Permit required construction and operations regulated by N.C. Fire
Prevention Code
   
98.048   Alterations and modifications of existing equipment or service systems
   
98.049   Fire permit applications
   
98.050   Supporting documentation
   
98.051   Commercial building and structure plan review process
   
98.052   Approval of plans
   
98.053   Conditions of permits
   
98.054   Duration of permits
   
98.055   Fee schedule for permits and plan review
   
98.056   Fee schedule for reinstating an expired permit
   
98.057   Additional fees assessed for unauthorized work
   
98.058   Inspections on permits
   
98.059   Scheduling inspections
   
98.060   Fees for inspections
   
98.061   Certificate of compliance
   
98.062   Stop work order
Inspections of Existing Buildings; Penalties
   
98.070   Periodic inspections for hazardous or unlawful conditions
   
98.071   Inspection authority
   
98.072   Existing buildings
   
98.073   Unlawful acts
   
98.074   Violations
   
98.075   Civil penalties
   
98.076   Owner/occupant and responsible party
   
98.077   Compliance with orders and notices of violation
   
98.078   Prosecution of non-compliance
Enforcement
   
98.085   Enforcement of violations of N.C. State Building Codes
Fire Protection and Services Features for Commercial Buildings
   
98.095   Key boxes for emergency entry by Fire Departments
   
98.096   Required, approved water supply
   
98.097   Location of fire hydrants
   
98.098   Posting of occupant load in commercial buildings or structures used
for assembly purposes
   
98.099   Fire Department connections   
Agencies Contracted for Fire Protection
   
98.110   County fire protection and contracts for fire protection services
   
98.111   Use of public funds for purchase of facilities and/or equipment
   
98.112   Construction or use of a structure for fire protection
Legal Provisions
   
98.120   Jurisdiction and venue
   
98.121   No liability against county
   
98.122   Computation of time
   
98.123   Conflict with laws and regulations of North Carolina
   
98.124   Severability of provisions
   
98.125   Governmental function
 
   
98.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Commercial Plan Review Fees
   
Appendix B: Required Operational Permits and Fees
   
Appendix C: Required Construction Permits and Fees (continued)
   
Appendix D: Civil Penalty Schedule
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 98.001 ENACTMENT, REPEAL AND EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   This chapter is hereby enacted by the Board of Commissioners of
Davidson County, North Carolina. This chapter supersedes the “Fire Prevention
and Protection Ordinance” adopted on June 28, 2005, together with amendments
thereto as adopted, which are each hereby repealed in their entirety.
   (B)   This chapter shall become effective at 12:00 a.m., Eastern Standard
Time, on the date immediately following adoption by the Davidson County Board
of Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 6-22-21)
§ 98.002 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Davidson County Fire and Life Safety
Ordinance.” It may also be cited as the “Fire Prevention Ordinance”, and/or the
“Fire Protection Ordinance” hereinafter.
(Ord. passed 6-22-21)
§ 98.003 FINDINGS, PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   Findings. The Board of Commissioners finds and recognizes that it is
an essential function of Davidson County government to protect the citizens of
Davidson County and all other persons who live, own property, and conduct
business within Davidson County from the detrimental effects of fire or other
hazardous conditions which could cause or accelerate the starting or spreading
of uncontrolled fires or constitutes a clear and adverse threat to human life,
safety, or heath. The Board of Commissioners recognizes the need for residents,
business interests, and the owners and occupants of premises used by the public
to be adequately informed of and educated in not only proper fire prevention
and fire safety practices but also the fire protection and prevention laws of
Davidson County and the State of North Carolina. Further, it is acknowledged
that there is a need to set forth the Davidson County Fire Marshal’s powers and
duties in fire protection, prevention, education, and investigation.
   (B)   Purpose and intent. The purpose of this chapter is to establish a
program for the prevention of fires and the protection of life and property in
Davidson County from the damage caused by uncontrolled fire and other
conditions which are otherwise dangerous to human life, public welfare, or
structural integrity of a building or structure. This chapter is intended to
adopt the North Carolina State Building Codes as law for Davidson County; to
prescribe and enforce regulations in a manner consistent with the laws of North
Carolina and generally recognized practices for fire prevention; to define the
duties of the Davidson County Fire Marshal; to define and implement the powers
and duties of Davidson County and the Fire Marshal in the investigation and
prevention of fire and the enforcement of the North Carolina Fire Prevention
Code; and to prevent interference with firefighting and fire prevention
activities.
(Ord. passed 6-22-21)
§ 98.004 AUTHORITY.
    This chapter is adopted pursuant to portions of one or more of the
following authorities established by the North Carolina General Statues (G.S.):
to define, regulate, prohibit or abate acts, omissions, or conditions which are
detrimental to the health, safety, or welfare of its citizens and the peace and
dignity of the county pursuant to G.S. § 153A-121; to define the duties of the
Davidson County Fire Marshal pursuant to G.S. § 153A-234; to adopt a Fire
Prevention Code pursuant to G.S. § 143-138(e); to provide for the recovery of
civil penalties for violations of the Fire Prevention Code of the North
Carolina State Building Code pursuant to G.S. §§ 143-138(e), 143-139(b1) and
153A-123(c1); and to enforce its ordinances through civil penalties pursuant to
G.S. § 153A-123(c), equitable relief pursuant to G.S. § 153A-123(d), and
injunctive relief commanding the violator to correct an unlawful condition on
real property or cease illegal use of real property pursuant to G.S. § 153A-123
(e).
(Ord. passed 6-22-21)
§ 98.005 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)    The definitions outlined in North Carolina State Building Codes,
which are not expressly set forth in this chapter, shall apply to and are
incorporated by reference into this chapter. Words and terms not defined in
this chapter or the North Carolina State Building Codes shall have the meaning
as defined by the edition of the Merriam Webster Collegiate Dictionary as
referenced by applicable State Building Codes or in the current edition of the
Merriam Webster Collegiate Dictionary.
   (B)   When used in this chapter, the following words and/or phrases shall
have the following meanings:
      ADMINISTRATIVE CODE & POLICIES, NORTH CAROLINA (N.C.). A document adopted
by the N.C. Building Code Council, intended to provide for administration and
enforcement of the N.C. Building Code and enforced by Code Officials legally
authorized to practice such enforcement and employed by Davidson County
Government. The ADMINISTRATIVE CODE & POLICIES is incorporated by reference
into the North Carolina Building, Accessibility, Plumbing, Mechanical,
Electrical, Fire Prevention, Fuel Gas, Energy Conservation, Existing Buildings,
Rehabilitation, and Residential Code, hereinafter referred to collectively as
the Technical Codes; and is intended to provide for the administrative aspects
of each.
      ALTERATION. A reconfiguration or addition to an existing building system,
equipment, or components regulated by the N.C. Building and Technical Codes to
meet a new or specific objective for code compliance.
      APPROVED. Acceptable to the code official for compliance with the
provisions of the applicable code or referenced standard.
      BUILDING OFFICIAL. The public officer as defined by G.S. § 160D-1101(4)
duly appointed as the Davidson County Building Official and/or their duly
appointed and authorized assistants, deputies, agents, and/or designees as
authorized by Article 11, Chapter 160D of the North Carolina General Statutes
(G.S. §§ 160D-1101 through 160D-1129).
      CODE OFFICIAL. A public officer or other designated authority charged
with the administration and/or enforcement of the Technical Codes or a duly
authorized designee.
      COMPLIANCE INSPECTION. A follow-up, or subsequent inspection, conducted
by the appropriate Code Official to verify code compliance of a specific
violation discovered during an inspection.
      FIRE CHIEF. The chief officer of the Fire Department serving the fire
district or their duly authorized representative.
      FIRE CODE OFFICIAL. The Fire Chief or other designated authority charged
with the administration and/or enforcement of the N.C. Fire Prevention Code, or
a duly authorized representative.
      FIRE DEPARTMENT. Any organization or agency, as provided by §
98.110, that provides fire protection, public education, fire prevention,
emergency medical care, and rescue services within Davidson County.
      FIRE DISTRICT. A designated boundary established by Davidson County,
where fire protection, public education, fire prevention, emergency medical
care, and rescue services are provided for by a specific Fire Department within
the district.
      FIRE MARSHAL. The Davidson County Fire Marshal and any duly authorized
designee or representative of the Davidson County Fire Marshal.
      GOOD CAUSE. Adequate or substantial grounds or reason to permit a
particular action based on specific information.
      HIGH-PILED COMBUSTIBLE STORAGE. Storage of combustible materials in
closely packed piles or combustible materials on pallets, racks, or shelves
where the top of storage is greater than 12 feet in height. HIGH-PILED
COMBUSTIBLE STORAGE also includes certain high-hazard commodities, such as
rubber tires, Group A plastics, flammable liquids, idle pallets, and similar
commodities, where the top of storage is greater than six feet in height.
      IMMINENT DANGER/THREAT. Any condition that exists within a building or
structure, or within a space within a building or structure, that poses a
dangerous or threatening condition or situation that, if not immediately
corrected, could result in an event that could lead to severe harm or death to
occupants.
      MODIFICATION. The redesign or replacement of existing building systems,
equipment, or components regulated by the N.C. Building and Technical Codes to
current or modern standards and requirements.
      NORTH CAROLINA STATE BUILDING CODE. The document adopted by the N.C.
Building Code Council, intended to provide Code Officials, designers, and
contractors a set of minimum standards to follow in the design and construction
of buildings, structures, facilities, and operations that are regulated
therein, in order to protect public and private persons from dangerous and
unsanitary conditions, and is comprised of the Technical Codes specified in the
N.C. Administrative Code & Policies.
      NOTICE OF VIOLATION. A written document detailing a list of violations
associated with a specific building, structure, or premises resulting from an
inspection.
      OCCUPANCY CLASSIFICATION. Every building or structure, and/or portions or
spaces within a building or structure, shall be classified based on its primary
function or use into one of the occupancy groups, or subgroups in accordance
with Chapter 3 of the N.C. State Building Code.
      OCCUPANT. A person who, by legal contract with an owner of a building,
structure, or property, occupies a specific building structure, property, or
space within for the purpose of operating a business or other occupation.
      OWNER. Any individual, corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, and/or any other group acting as a unit holding legal title to
any structure and/or premises with or without accompanying actual possession
thereof, and shall include the duly authorized agent or attorney, a purchaser,
devisee, fiduciary and any person having a vested or contingent interest in the
premises in question.
      PERIODIC INSPECTION. Inspections scheduled according to the outlined
inspection schedule in the N.C. Fire Prevention Code per occupancy
classification.
      PERMIT APPLICANT. A person applying for a permit through the appropriate
procedures required by the appropriate Code Official.
      PERMIT HOLDER. A person who is appropriately credentialed and/or is
legally responsible for any actions specifically designated on a permit.
      PERMIT SCOPE. The specifically approved actions, work, or operations
covered by a permit issued for a permit-required construction or operation.
      PERMIT TYPE. A specific permit category in accordance with the N.C. State
Building Code.
      PLAN OF ACTION. A written plan submitted by the responsible party that
states in detail the actions to be taken to correct violations found during an
inspection and that includes specific timeframes and/or dates for completion.
      RE-OCCURRING VIOLATION. A specific violation of the N.C State Building
Code, found to be consistently occurring, within the same building, structure,
or property where prior notice of violation has been given for same.
      RESPONSIBLE PARTY. An individual, including heirs, executors,
administrators, assigns and personal representatives of the individual, and/or
a firm, partnership, corporation, governmental agency or other legal entity and
the successors, assigns, and agents of such individuals or entities that
control a property through ownership, lease, occupancy and/or other forms of
possession. The term shall also include a person or entity with direct or
indirect control or management of a specific property.
      SCOPE OF WORK. A document provided by a permit applicant or permit holder
that details the operation and/or construction project.
      SELF-CERTIFICATION/SELF-CERTIFIED. A method of proving that a code
violation has been corrected or remedied by providing proof through means
suitable to the Code Official.
      SERVICE SYSTEM. Any building system associated with providing a service
to a particular building, structure or premises, and is regulated by the
Technical Codes.
      STOP WORK ORDER. A directive given by a Code Official whenever a building
or part thereof is being demolished, constructed, reconstructed, altered, or
repaired in a hazardous manner, or in substantial violation of a state or local
building law or local building ordinance or regulation, or in a manner that
endangers life or property, the appropriate inspector may order the specific
part of the work that is in violation or that presents such a hazard to be
deemed immediately stopped.
      TECHNICAL CODES. See ADMINISTRATIVE CODE & POLICIES definition.
      UNSAFE CONDITION. Structures or existing equipment that are, or hereafter
become unsafe or deficient because of inadequate means of egress or which
constitute a fire hazard or are otherwise dangerous to human life or the public
welfare, or which involve illegal or improper occupancy or inadequate
maintenance.
      VIOLATION. A condition or situation that is not in compliance with the
N.C. State Building Codes.
(Ord. passed 6-22-21)
§ 98.006 JURISDICTION.
    This chapter shall apply to and shall be enforced within the area of
Davidson County outside of municipal corporate limits. Upon request by
resolution from the governing body of any municipality within Davidson County,
the county may, but is not required to, exercise jurisdiction in such
municipality for purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-22-21)
DUTIES OF FIRE MARSHAL
§ 98.020 ADMINISTRATION OF THIS CHAPTER.
   The Davidson County Board of Commissioners shall appoint a duly qualified
Fire Marshal responsible for this chapter’s impartial administration. The Fire
Marshal shall have the authority to administer and enforce this chapter’s
provisions within this area of jurisdiction defined in §
98.006.
(Ord. passed 6-22-21)
§ 98.021 INVESTIGATION OF FIRES AND EXPLOSION.
   (A)   As authorized by G.S. § 58-79-1, the Fire Marshal, or the Fire Chief
of a Fire Department, shall have authority to investigate or cause to be
investigated the circumstances, events, and actions leading to the ignition of
a fire or to any explosion and to collect evidence and data to determine the
origin and cause of any fire or explosion that occurs within the jurisdictional
boundaries. The Fire Marshal may conduct fire or explosion origin and cause
investigations or participate in such investigations in other jurisdictions
upon request.
   (B)   The Fire Chief of a Fire Department may request the Fire Marshal to
conduct an origin and cause investigation for a fire or an explosion. Prior to
requesting assistance from the Fire Marshal, a preliminary investigation should
be made by the Fire Chief of the Fire Department to gather any critical
information pertinent to the incident. The Fire Chief will report any
preliminary findings to the Fire Marshal.
(Ord. passed 6-22-21)
§ 98.022 ADDITIONAL DUTIES OF THE FIRE MARSHAL.
   In addition to enforcement of the provisions of this chapter, the Davidson
County Fire Marshal shall:
   (A)   Advise the Board of Commissioners on improvements in the firefighting
and training activities under the supervision and control of Davidson County;
   (B)   Coordinate firefighting and training activities under the county’s
supervision or control;
   (C)   Coordinate fire prevention activities under the county’s supervision
or control;
   (D)   Assist contracted fire protection agencies in developing and improving
firefighting and fire prevention capabilities;
   (E)   Make periodic inspections and reports of school buildings required by
G.S. Chapter 115 and the inspections of childcare facilities required by G.S.
Chapter 110. A Fire Marshal shall not make electrical inspections unless he or
she is qualified to do so under G.S. § 160D-1103 and holds a valid certificate
issued by the North Carolina Code Officials Qualification Board;
   (F)   Perform those duties and activities as set forth in the Davidson
County Emergency Operation Plan;
   (G)   Perform necessary duties as it pertains to the operation of emergency
management; and
   (H)   Perform any other duties and activities as the Board of Commissioners
may from time to time require of the Fire Marshal.
(Ord. passed 6-22-21)
§ 98.023 RIGHT-OF-ENTRY, INSPECTION AND N.C. BUILDING CODE ENFORCEMENT
AUTHORITY.
   The Fire Marshal is authorized to enter and examine any building, structure,
marine vessel, vehicle, or premises, with the exception of one- and two-family
dwellings, within the jurisdiction of this chapter pursuant to G.S. § 58-79-20.
When duly qualified, under G.S. §§ 143-151.13 and 160D-1103, the Fire Marshal
shall be authorized to exercise code enforcement within the jurisdiction of
Davidson County. See §
98.085.
(Ord. passed 6-22-21)
§ 98.024 RESPONSE AUTHORITY.
   The Fire Marshal, Emergency Manager, or their designee has the authority to
respond in their discretion to any incident within the jurisdictional
boundaries of Davidson County and to participate in any function or capacity
necessary to ensure the mitigation of any incident as may be requested by the
incident commander.
(Ord. passed 6-22-21)
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BUILDING AND TECHNICAL CODES
§ 98.035 NORTH CAROLINA STATE BUILDING AND TECHNICAL CODES ADOPTED.
   Davidson County hereby adopts the N.C. State Building and Technical Codes.
Any person may obtain a copy of any non-copyrighted materials upon payment of a
reasonable copying charge during normal business hours of the department that
enforces that particular code.
(Ord. passed 6-22-21)
§ 98.036 REFERENCED CODES AND STANDARDS.
   The codes and standards referenced in the N.C. State Building Codes shall be
considered to be part of the requirements of this chapter to the prescribed
extent of each such reference. Design of service systems or operations shall be
permitted to utilize a current edition of a referenced standard, provided that
the standard chosen shall be utilized in its entirety.
(Ord. passed 6-22-21)
COMMERCIAL BUILDING AND STRUCTURE PLAN REVIEW  AND PERMITTING PROCESS
§ 98.045 COMMERCIAL BUILDING AND STRUCTURE PLAN REVIEW PROCESS.
   A person or entity wishing to make application for new commercial building
construction, repair, alteration, change of occupancy, or addition, to an
existing building; or alteration or modification of an existing building
service system shall first complete and submit the required permit application
along with required documentation to Central Permitting for review. Documents
shall be reviewed for compliance against the N.C. Building and Technical Codes.
Section
98.046 lists required documentation to be submitted for review. Not every case
will require all documents in the following lists to be submitted based upon
the “scope of work.” The person making application shall be known as the permit
applicant and shall be responsible for all required submittals. It is the
permit applicant’s responsibility to inquire as to the extent of documentation
necessary to meet code compliance per the appropriate Building and Technical
Code, as required by the appropriate Code Official.
(Ord. passed 6-22-21)
§ 98.046 REQUIRED DOCUMENTATION.
   (A)   The following items are required on all commercial projects, based on
the scope of work, for permit-required construction for a building permit:
      (1)   Scope of work;
      (2)   Completed commercial plan review application;
      (3)   Completed
Appendix B (Building code summary);
      (4)   Site plan;
      (5)   Structural plan;
      (6)   Life safety plan;
      (7)   Project value letter.
   (B)   The following four items shall be required for a permit-required
construction pertaining to the appropriate Technical Codes:
      (1)   Plumbing plan;
      (2)   Electrical plan;
      (3)   Mechanical plan;
      (4)   Fire protection plan.
(Ord. passed 6-22-21)
§ 98.047 PERMIT REQUIRED CONSTRUCTION AND OPERATIONS REGULATED BY THE N.C. FIRE
PREVENTION CODE.
   (A)   A property owner or owner’s authorized agent who intends to conduct an
operation or business or install or modify a fire protection system and
independent equipment, regulated by the N.C. Fire Prevention Code, or to cause
any such work to be performed, shall first make application to the Fire Marshal
to secure the required permit.
   (B)   When required by the N.C. Fire Prevention Code Chapter 1, Section 105,
and G.S. § 160D-1110, a permit shall be issued by the Fire Marshal. Permits
shall be issued to a single permit holder as defined in §
98.005. The permit holder shall be responsible for all work being conducted
within the permit scope. The permit holder shall provide, or have provided by
their authorized representative, an application for permit, associated
documentation or specifications, and any documentation required in accordance
with the N.C. Administrative Code and Policies Section 106. When required by
the Building and Technical Codes, associated permits shall be applied for and
issued in conjunction with the required construction or operational permits of
the N.C. Fire Prevention Code.
   (C)   Operational permits.
      (1)   A permit application and a scope of work are required to be
submitted for review and shall detail the operation being performed. Each and
every detail shall be represented on the permit upon issuance; this shall be
known as the permit scope.
      (2)   Each different permit-required operation in accordance with Section
105.6 of the N.C. Fire Prevention Code shall require separate permitting. This
shall be known as the permit type.
      (3)   A separate fee shall be assessed for each different permit type in
accordance with
Appendix B of this chapter.
      (4)   Where a single building, or multiple buildings within an associated
property of a single business or facility, has two or more permit-required
operations of the same permit type, even though the permit scope may not be
identical, a single permit can be issued to cover the permit scope for all
operations provided that each permit scope is specifically listed on the
permit.
      (5)   A permit issued for a permit-required operation shall remain valid
until such time as the permit required operation is no longer within the
parameters of the permit scope, the entity associated with the permit ceases to
exist, or the entity is sold to another entity even though that entity may
perform the exact same permit-required operation.
   (D)   Construction permits.
      (1)   Permit applications for permit-required construction shall
specifically detail the work being performed, and each and every detail shall
be represented on the permit upon issuance; this shall be known as the permit
scope.
      (2)   Each different permit-required construction in accordance with
Section 105.7 of the N.C. Fire Prevention Code shall require separate
permitting. This shall be known as the permit type.
      (3)   Where a permit-required construction for a specific permit type
that requires work from more than one entity, each different entity shall be
permitted and inspected for their scope on the permit by the appropriate Code
Official.
      (4)   A separate application and fee shall be assessed for each permit
issued when two or more permit scopes are associated with a single permit type
for permit-required construction.
      (5)   Where permit-required construction of the same permit type is
required for more than one building or structure on the same lot or associated
property of a business or facility, a single permit shall not be allowed to
extend beyond the footprint of each independent building or structure, unless
permitted by the N.C. State Building Code Sections 504 and 506.
      (6)   Where a single building has two or more permit-required
construction projects of the same permit type but requires different design
criteria and/or different acceptance criteria, a single permit shall be issued
for each additional design and/or acceptance criteria.
      (7)   A permit holder for a new construction project shall be the
appropriately licensed contractor where required by General Statute or other
law. Where not required to be licensed, the permit holder shall be the
installation contractor who meets any necessary requirements based upon the
appropriate referenced standard for the installation.
(Ord. passed 6-22-21)
§ 98.048 ALTERATIONS AND MODIFICATIONS OF EXISTING EQUIPMENT OR SERVICE
SYSTEMS.
   Alterations or modifications to existing equipment or a service system,
regulated by the N.C. Fire Prevention Code, shall not commence before a permit
is applied for and secured when required by that Code. The permit holder for an
existing building may be the owner, occupant, or responsible party, provided
that all work is performed by the appropriate, licensed entity when required by
General Statute or other law and demonstrated to the Fire Code Official.
(Ord. passed 6-22-21)
§ 98.049 FIRE PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   A permit application can be obtained by contacting the Fire Marshal or
visiting the Davidson County Fire Marshal’s website. Applications for a
required fire permit shall be filed through Central Permitting or directly to
the Fire Marshal and shall include all supporting documentation required on the
application.
(Ord. passed 6-22-21)
§ 98.050 SUPPORTING DOCUMENTATION.
   Supporting documentation required for a permit shall be submitted in such
form and detail as prescribed by the appropriate Code Official. Drawings and
specifications shall be provided to scale with sufficient clarity and detail to
indicate the work’s nature and character. The appropriate Code Official may
require any details or documentation as necessary to determine compliance.
Documents may be required to be sealed by a registered design professional,
when required by General Statute, or when required by the Code Official.
(Ord. passed 6-22-21)
§ 98.051 COMMERCIAL BUILDING AND STRUCTURE PLAN REVIEW PROCESS.
   All submitted applications for construction or operational permits shall be
subject to plan review pursuant to the North Carolina Fire Prevention Code,
local ordinances, state laws, and/or other regulatory documents prior to a
permit being issued as described in §
98.045.
(Ord. passed 6-22-21)
§ 98.052 APPROVAL OF PLANS.
   Plans or plan sets reviewed and approved for a permit regulated by the N.C.
Building and Technical Codes shall be indicated with a stamp that states
“Reviewed for Code compliance.”
(Ord. passed 6-22-21)
§ 98.053 CONDITIONS OF PERMITS.
   A permit shall constitute permission to construct a building or structure;
or to maintain, store or handle materials; or to conduct processes that produce
conditions hazardous to life or property; or to install equipment utilized in
connection with such activities; or to install or modify any fire protection
system or equipment or any other construction, equipment installation,
alteration or modification in accordance with the provisions of the N.C.
Building and Technical Codes.
(Ord. passed 6-22-21)
§ 98.054 DURATION OF PERMITS.
   An operational permit shall remain in effect until reissued, renewed, or
revoked for such a time as prescribed on the permit. Permits are non-
transferable, and any change in occupancy, operation, tenancy, or ownership
shall require a new permit to be issued. Construction permits are valid as
specified in G.S. § 160D-1111 or until the permitted work has passed final
inspection and a certificate of compliance is given.
(Ord. passed 6-22-21)
§ 98.055 FEE SCHEDULE FOR PERMITS AND PLAN REVIEW.
   The Davidson County Board of Commissioners shall establish a fee schedule
for plan review conducted on commercial buildings and structures regulated by
the N.C. Building and Technical Codes, and for associated required permits.
(Ord. passed 6-22-21)
§ 98.056 FEE SCHEDULE FOR REINSTATING AN EXPIRED PERMIT.
   Where an issued permit expires pursuant to timeframes outlined in G.S. §
160D-1111, the permit holder shall be required to re-pay the permit fees, in
accordance with the original permit cost, to have the permit reinstated,
provided there is no change in the scope of work of the originally approved
permit.
(Ord. passed 6-22-21)
§ 98.057 ADDITIONAL FEES ASSESSED FOR UNAUTHORIZED WORK.
   The responsible party shall be assessed an additional fee of double the
normal scheduled permit fee for work that commences prior to approval or
without the Code Official’s knowledge.
(Ord. passed 6-22-21)
§ 98.058 INSPECTIONS ON PERMITS.
   Inspections shall be conducted to verify compliance on permit-required
construction and operations that are regulated by the N.C. Building and
Technical Codes. The Code Official is authorized to conduct as many inspections
as necessary to ensure compliance, based upon permit type and acceptance
procedures.
(Ord. passed 6-22-21)
§ 98.059 SCHEDULING INSPECTIONS.
   Only the permit holder will be authorized to schedule inspections on
permits. The permit holder shall be permitted to authorize a designated
representative who can schedule inspections on permits held by that permit
holder.
(Ord. passed 6-22-21)
§ 98.060 FEES FOR INSPECTIONS.
   Fees shall not be assessed for initial inspections required on permits. The
Code Official shall be authorized to assess a fee, where the permit holder
schedules an inspection on a permit that is blatantly not ready, or does not
have the permitted work in compliance after such violations have been
communicated to the permit holder by the Code Official. The fee schedule for
inspections on permits are set forth in Appendix D of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-22-21)
§ 98.061 CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE.
   The Code Official shall provide, in writing, a certificate of compliance
when the conditions of a permit are deemed to be in full compliance and all
inspections are completed.
(Ord. passed 6-22-21)
§ 98.062 STOP WORK ORDER.
   When in the course of their duties, a Code Official discovers that a
commercial building or structure, or part thereof, is being demolished,
constructed, reconstructed, altered, or repaired in a hazardous manner, or in
substantial violation of a state or local building law or local building
ordinance or regulation, or in a manner that endangers life or property, the
Code Official shall notify the responsible party when possible and the
appropriate Code Official. The appropriate Code Official shall place a stop-
work order in accordance with G.S. § 160D-404(b). The stop-work order shall be
in writing and directed to the person doing the work and shall state the
specific work to be stopped, the exact reasons for the stoppage, and the
conditions under which the work may be resumed. Appeals to the issuance of a
stop-work order shall be in accordance with § 160D-1114.
(Ord. passed 6-22-21)
INSPECTIONS OF EXISTING BUILDINGS. PENALTIES
§ 98.070 PERIODIC INSPECTIONS FOR HAZARDOUS OR UNLAWFUL CONDITIONS.
   In order to preserve and protect public health and safety and to satisfy the
requirements of G.S. § 160D-1117, Davidson County shall have a periodic
inspection schedule, based upon the minimum frequency outlined in the N.C. Fire
Prevention Code, to identify activities and conditions in buildings,
structures, and premises that pose a danger of fire, explosion, or related
hazards, and conditions that pose an inimical threat to human life, safety, and
health.
(Ord. passed 6-22-21)
§ 98.071 INSPECTION AUTHORITY.
   Under the Fire Marshal’s authority, the Fire Code Official shall have the
authority to enter and examine any building, structure, marine vessel, vehicle
or premises, for the purpose of conducting inspections, in accordance with
Section 104.3 of the N.C. Fire Prevention Code. The Fire Code Official is
authorized to conduct such inspections as are deemed necessary to determine the
extent of compliance needed to remain in compliance with N.C. State Building
Codes.
(Ord. passed 6-22-21)
§ 98.072 EXISTING BUILDINGS.
   Existing buildings, structures, and premises shall be maintained to the
extent required of the N.C. State Building Code cycle in effect when initially
granted a certificate of occupancy. Changes in occupancy or use, additions,
alterations, repairs, changes or modifications to components of the means of
egress, or storage features shall not be permitted, and considered in violation
of the N.C. State Building Code, unless a permit is obtained, the permitted
work inspected and approval granted by the appropriate Code Official(s), and
there is a valid certificate of occupancy provided by the Building Official.
(Ord. passed 6-22-21)
§ 98.073 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   It shall be unlawful for a person, firm, or corporation to erect, construct,
alter, repair, remove, demolish or utilize a building, occupancy, premises, or
system regulated by the N.C. State Building Codes, or cause same to be done, in
conflict with, or in violation of any of the provisions of the N.C. State
Building Codes and this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-22-21) Penalty, see §
98.999
§ 98.074 VIOLATIONS.
   If during a periodically scheduled inspection, the Fire Code Official
discovers a violation of the N.C. State Building Codes, the Code Official shall
prepare a written notice of violation, such notice shall be served to the
owner, occupant, or the responsible party, and the enforcement procedure in §
98.085(B) shall be followed. Hazards or violations that are identified during
an inspection that pertain to the Technical Codes shall be brought to the
attention of the appropriate Code Official for remedy. Any Code Official who is
authorized to practice code enforcement within Davidson County’s jurisdiction
upon receiving notification of a violation is authorized at all reasonable
hours, for the purpose of examination, to enter into and upon all buildings and
premises within the jurisdiction upon presenting proper credentials.
(Ord. passed 6-22-21)
§ 98.075 CIVIL PENALTIES.
   When a violation that constitutes an unsafe condition, as defined by §
98.005, the enforcement procedure in §
98.085(C) shall be followed, and civil penalties in accordance with a fee
schedule listed in Appendix D of this chapter shall be assessed. When a
violation is found to be a re-occurring violation as defined by §
98.005, the enforcement procedure in §
98.085(B) shall be followed.
(Ord. passed 6-22-21)
§ 98.076 OWNER/OCCUPANT AND RESPONSIBLE PARTY.
   Correction and abatement of violations shall be the responsibility of the
responsible party. Where an owner and/or occupant creates or permits a
violation of the N.C. State Building Codes, the owner and/or occupant shall be
held responsible for the abatement of such violations.
(Ord. passed 6-22-21)
§ 98.077 COMPLIANCE WITH ORDERS AND NOTICES OF VIOLATION.
   A notice of violation issued or served shall be complied with by the owner,
occupant, or responsible party responsible for the condition or violation to
which the notice of violation pertains.
(Ord. passed 6-22-21)
§ 98.078 PROSECUTION OF NON-COMPLIANCE.
   If the notice of violation is not complied with, in the specified period
instituted by this chapter, the case will be turned over to the Davidson County
Attorney’s Office. The County Attorney’s Office, in its discretion, may
initiate the appropriate legal proceedings at law or in equity to restrain,
correct or abate such violation or to require removal or termination of the
unlawful occupancy of the structure in violation of the provisions of the N.C.
State Building Codes or of the order or direction made pursuant thereto.
(Ord. passed 6-22-21)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 98.085 ENFORCEMENT OF VIOLATIONS OF N.C. STATE BUILDING CODES.
   (A)   Violations of State Building codes. When a violation is discovered
during an inspection, the Fire Code Official shall provide a notice of
violation to the responsible party in accordance with §
98.074. It shall be the responsibility of the responsible party to repair or
remedy the violation.
   (B)   Correction of violations. It shall be the responsible party’s
obligation to provide self-certification of correction of any violation by a
means suitable to the Code Official. If the violation is not self-certified,
and it is discovered that the same violation exists either during the following
scheduled periodic inspection or by subsequent inspections, a civil penalty
shall be assessed in accordance with
Appendix D of this chapter. If a specific violation is discovered to be a re-
occurring violation as defined in §
98.005, a civil penalty may be assessed in accordance with
Appendix D of this chapter.
   (C)   Unsafe buildings and conditions. If a premises, a building or
structure, or any service system, in whole or in part, constitutes a clear and
inimical threat to human life, safety, or health, the Code Official shall issue
orders for the responsible party to remedy the condition within a specified
time frame, and temporary sanctions may be placed in effect that are suitable
to the Code Official, to minimize exposure or subjection to the unsafe
condition.
      (1)   Initial inspection. The responsible party shall be given a
specific, reasonable time period to repair or remedy the unsafe condition. A
first compliance inspection shall be scheduled for a time period of no less
than 30 days from the initial inspection.
      (2)   First compliance inspection. If, upon completion of the first
compliance inspection, the unsafe condition is not corrected or remedied, a
civil penalty shall be assessed in accordance with
Appendix D of this chapter, and a second compliance inspection shall be
scheduled for a time period of no less than 15 days from the first compliance
inspection.
      (3)   Second compliance inspection. If, upon completion of the second
compliance inspection, the unsafe condition is not corrected or remedied, a
civil penalty shall be assessed in accordance with
Appendix D of this chapter, and a third compliance inspection shall be
scheduled for a time period of no less than seven days from the second
compliance inspection.
      (4)   Third compliance inspection. If upon completion of the third
compliance inspection, the unsafe condition is not corrected or remedied, a
civil penalty shall be assessed in accordance with
Appendix D of this chapter, and the case will be turned over to the Davidson
County Attorney in accordance with §
98.077. Civil penalties shall continue to accrue every seven days until the
unsafe condition is corrected and notification is made to the Code Official by
the responsible party or determined by the County Attorney. It shall be the
responsibility of the responsible party to contact the Code Official for a
compliance inspection.
      (5)   Approved plan of action. The Fire Code Official shall have the
authority to approve an extended time frame for abating a violation and/or
unsafe condition at the responsible party’s request. The responsible party
shall make such request in writing and specify a reasonable time frame and
specific measures to be enacted to meet compliance. The responsible party shall
demonstrate good cause as to the reason for the request. If approved, the plan
of action shall be followed as specified, and temporary sanctions may be placed
in effect that are suitable to the Code Official to permit continued use of the
building, structure, or service system. If the approved plan of action is not
followed as specified, a civil penalty, with a fee as listed in
Appendix D, shall be assessed, and the case will be turned over to the Davidson
County Attorney in accordance with §
98.077.
      (6)   Extension of an approved plan of action. The Fire Code Official is
authorized to permit one extension of an approved plan of action if extenuating
circumstances arise that make the abatement of the violation not possible to
remedy. This will require proof of hardship, or circumstances beyond the
control of the responsible party.
   (D)   Imminent danger and/or imminent threat of. If a condition is
discovered of an imminent danger, and/or the imminent threat of danger that
poses immediate threat or hazard to the safety, or heath of persons, a
building, structure, space within a building or structure, or premises,
immediate evacuation of the affected building, structure, or space within a
building or structure shall be ordered immediately. If an imminent threat or a
dangerous condition is discovered, the building shall be evacuated immediately.
   (E)   Structural hazards. Where an apparent structural hazard is caused by
the faulty installation, operation, or malfunction of any of the items or
devices governed by the N.C. State Building Code, the Fire Code Official shall
immediately notify the Building Code Official.
   (F)   Evacuation. The Fire Code Official or the Fire Department official in
charge of an incident shall be authorized to order the immediate evacuation of
any occupied building, structure, or space within a building deemed unsafe or
have hazardous conditions that present an imminent danger to building
occupants. Persons so notified shall immediately leave the structure or
premises, and they shall not enter or re-enter until authorized to do so by the
Fire Code Official or the Fire Department official in charge of the incident.
   (G)   Summary abatement. Where conditions exist that are deemed hazardous to
life and property, the Fire Code Official or Fire Department official in charge
of an incident is authorized to abate summarily such hazardous conditions or
require a responsible party to abate such conditions that are in violation of
the North Carolina State Building Codes.
   (H)   Service utilities. The Fire Code Official shall have the authority to
authorize disconnection of utility service to the building, structure, or
service system in order to safely execute emergency operations or to eliminate
an immediate hazard that constitutes an imminent danger. The Fire Code Official
shall notify the serving utility and, where possible, the owner, occupant, or
responsible party of the building, structure or service system of the decision
to disconnect before taking such action. When the responsible party is not
available, or cannot be located, then notification shall be made in writing and
mailed as soon as practical thereafter.
   (I)   Overcrowding. Overcrowding or admittance of any person beyond the
approved capacity of a building or a portion thereof shall not be allowed. The
Fire Code Official, upon finding any overcrowding conditions or obstructions in
aisles, passageways, or other means of egress, or upon finding any condition
that constitutes a life safety hazard, shall be authorized to cause the event
or business to be stopped until such condition or obstruction is corrected.
(Ord. passed 6-22-21)
FIRE PROTECTION & SERVICE FEATURES FOR COMMERCIAL BUILDINGS
§ 98.095 KEY BOXES FOR EMERGENCY ENTRY BY FIRE DEPARTMENTS.
   (A)   There shall be provided a key box that conforms to UL 1037 in the
following situations: any newly constructed structure or facility; an existing
structure or facility that undergoes a change in use or occupancy
classification; or if travel along a fire apparatus access road is restricted
because of a secured doors, gates, or other type of barricade; and the
associated structure of facility has a means of automatically initiating a fire
department response. The location of the key box shall be suitable to the Fire
Chief of the district in which the structure or facility is located.
   (B)   The key box shall be listed UL 1037, and shall be located in a
location approved by the Fire Chief of the district to which it is located.
(Ord. passed 6-22-21)
§ 98.096 REQUIRED, APPROVED WATER SUPPLY.
   An adequate water supply, approved by the Fire Code Official, capable of
supplying the required fire flow for fire protection shall be provided to
premises upon which facilities, buildings, or portions of buildings are
hereafter constructed or changes occupancy or use take place within the
jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed 6-22-21)
§ 98.097 LOCATION OF FIRE HYDRANTS.
   Public fire hydrants shall be located along an apparatus access within 1,000
feet of any newly constructed building or structure. Where a building or
structure is situated on a property and is located more than 400 feet from a
fire hydrant along an apparatus access, the Fire Code Official is authorized to
require a private fire hydrant to be installed on the property. The
installation of a public fire hydrant shall be contracted with the responsible
water purveyor. Where it is not feasible or possible to install a fire hydrant,
the Fire Code Official is authorized to permit alternative methods of supplying
water, such as a Fire Department water tanker.
(Ord. passed 6-22-21)
§ 98.098 POSTING OF OCCUPANT LOAD IN COMMERCIAL BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES USED
FOR ASSEMBLY PURPOSES.
   Commercial buildings and structures, or portions of buildings and structures
that carry an occupancy classification as a Group A, assembly occupancy, shall
be required to post an occupant load posting, signed by a Fire Code Official.
The occupant load shall be based on the interior design and layout and egress
features associated with the same, notwithstanding the design occupant load
required for building construction as required by the N.C. Building Code.
(Ord. passed 6-22-21)
§ 98.099 FIRE DEPARTMENT CONNECTIONS.
   Where a building or structure has an automatic sprinkler system installed
that requires a demand of greater than .25 over 2,500 square feet, the Fire
Department connection shall be a large diameter hose (L.D.H., Storz) connection
that is suitable to the Fire Chief of the Fire Department that provides fire
protection for that district. Fire Department connections shall be so located
that fire apparatuses and hoses connected to supply the system will not
obstruct access to the buildings for other fire apparatuses. The location of
Fire Department connections shall be approved by the Fire Chief of the Fire
Department that serves that district.
(Ord. passed 6-22-21)
AGENCIES CONTRACTED FOR FIRE PROTECTION
§ 98.110 COUNTY FIRE PROTECTION AND CONTRACTS FOR FIRE PROTECTION SERVICES.
   (A)   Davidson County may establish, organize, equip, support, and maintain
a Fire Department; may prescribe the duties of that Fire Department; may
provide financial assistance to incorporated volunteer Fire Departments; may
contract for firefighting or prevention services with one or more counties,
cities, or other units of local government or with an agency of the state
government, or with one or more incorporated volunteer Fire Departments; and
may for these purposes appropriate funds not otherwise limited as to use by
law. The Davidson County Board of Commissioners may also designate fire
districts or parts of existing districts and prescribe the boundaries thereof
for purpose of insurance grading, fire service districts, and response
districts.
   (B)   A contract for services with entities prescribed hereinabove shall not
exceed five years in duration. Parties to said contracts shall be notified at
least 180 calendar days prior to the expiration of any current contract for
services of the need to either prepare a new contract for services to be
considered by the Davidson County Board of Commissioners or prepare a
transition plan for alternative service delivery following expiration or
termination of the contract in effect at the time. Draft contract documents
shall be duly submitted for review not less than 120 calendar days prior to the
expiration of any current contract for services. The Board of Commissioners may
authorize an extension upon showing cause for additional time to prepare a
proposed draft contract. Failure by a party under the contract shall be deemed
a violation of this chapter and subject to penalties as provided herein unless
notice of intent not to enter into a subsequent contract is received by the
Office of the Davidson County Clerk on or before the due date for draft
contract document submittal described above.
   (C)   In the event of a merger and/or dissolution of any one or more
entities under contract with Davidson County as prescribed hereinabove, said
merger and/or dissolution shall not become effective without having first been
approved by the Davidson County Board of Commissioners. Failure to receive
approval of such merger and/or dissolution shall result in the forfeiture of
assets acquired and/or funded through the County's distribution of public
monies as provided in §
98.111.
(Ord. passed 6-22-21)
§ 98.111 USE OF PUBLIC FUNDS FOR PURCHASE OF FACILITIES AND/OR EQUIPMENT.
   The use of any monies distributed by the Davidson County Board of
Commissioners to entities established and/or contracted to provide fire
protection services as authorized in §
98.110 from and after the effective date of this chapter shall be subject to
reclamation by Davidson County in the event of a merger and/or dissolution of
the said entity unless otherwise agreed to by both the Board of Commissioners
and the governing board/body of the said entity. Reclamation may be in the form
of cash, title to real and/or personal property, and/or equipment, and/or other
equitable interest as may be determined by Davidson County.
(Ord. passed 6-22-21)
§ 98.112 CONSTRUCTION OR USE OF A STRUCTURE FOR FIRE PROTECTION.
   Prior to the use, construction, erection, relocation of any building,
structure, or property as a fire department or fire station to which public
funds provided through property tax assessments are utilized to secure, erect,
finance, or otherwise encumber, the Fire Marshal and the North Carolina
Department of Insurance shall be consulted and be participating parties in the
planning of such. The Fire Chief of the Fire District shall present such plans
to the Davidson County Board of Commissioners and receive approval prior to
proceeding to bids for contract purposes.
(Ord. passed 6-22-21)
LEGAL PROVISIONS
§ 98.120 JURISDICTION AND VENUE.
   (A)   Jurisdiction. Jurisdiction over any legal action or proceeding
instituted and maintained by or against Davidson County or any of its
Commissioners, agents, officers and employees and any law enforcement officer
of Davidson County shall be only in the appropriate division of the General
Court of Justice of the State of North Carolina.
   (B)   Venue. Venue of all legal actions and proceedings except for appeals
of decisions of the Fire Marshal shall be only in Davidson County. Pursuant to
G.S. § 143-141(d), an appeal of a decision of the Fire Marshal may be taken to
the Superior Court of either Davidson County or Wake County.
(Ord. passed 6-22-21)
§ 98.121 NO LIABILITY AGAINST COUNTY.
   Neither Davidson County nor any of its Commissioner’s, agents, employees, or
officers shall be liable for any damage to persons or property arising from any
inspection or re-inspection authorized or required by this chapter or from the
failure to inspect or re-inspect or from the issuance or denial of a permit or
the approval or disapproval of any equipment as authorized in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-22-21)
§ 98.122 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   In computing any period of time prescribed by this chapter for performing an
act, the day of the act, or event upon which the designated period of time
begins to run is not to be included. The last day of the period is to be
included unless the last day is a Saturday, Sunday, a day recognized by
resolution of the Board of Commissioners as a holiday for employees of Davidson
County Government, or a day on which weather or other conditions have caused
Davidson County to close its offices for the transaction of business, in which
event the period to perform an act runs until the end of the next day which is
not one of the days mentioned in this sentence for which the last day of the
period is not included.
(Ord. passed 6-22-21)
§ 98.123 CONFLICT WITH LAWS AND REGULATIONS OF NORTH CAROLINA.
   This chapter shall be construed and enforced to the extent possible to be
consistent with state laws and regulations. If a conflict exists between
interpreting a provision of this chapter and state laws and regulations, the
state laws and regulations shall supersede this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-22-21)
§ 98.124 SEVERABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
   If any provision of this chapter is declared invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remaining valid provisions shall have full force and effect.
(Ord. passed 6-22-21)
§ 98.125 GOVERNMENTAL FUNCTION.
   Davidson County hereby declares that all actions, functions, duties,
inspections, and enforcement are provided by this chapter and declared
essential activities of Davidson County. Consequently, Davidson County, its
officers, agents, employees and personnel are immune from any suit for any
action in executing this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-22-21)
§ 98.100 JURISDICTION AND VENUE.
   (A)   Jurisdiction. Jurisdiction over any legal action or proceeding
instituted and maintained by or against Davidson County or any of its
Commissioners, agents, officers, and employees and any law enforcement officer
of Davidson County shall be only in the appropriate division of the General
Court of Justice of the State of North Carolina.
   (B)   Venue. Venue of all legal actions and proceedings except for appeals
of decisions of the Fire Marshal shall be only in Davidson County. Pursuant to
G.S. § 143-141(d), an appeal of a decision of the Fire Marshal may be taken to
the Superior Court of Davidson County or Wake County.
(Ord. passed 6-28-05)
§ 98.101 NO LIABILITY AGAINST COUNTY.
   Neither Davidson County nor any of its Commissioners, agents, employees, or
officers shall be liable for any damage to persons or property arising from any
inspection or reinspection authorized or required by this chapter or from the
failure to inspect or reinspect or from the issuance or denial of a permit or
from the approval or disapproval of any equipment as authorized in this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-28-05)
§ 98.102 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   In computing any period of time prescribed by this chapter for performing an
act, the day of the act or event upon which the designated period of time
begins to run is not to be included. The last day of the period is to be
included unless the last day is a Saturday, Sunday, a day recognized by
resolution of the Board of Commissioners as a holiday for employees of Davidson
County Government, or a day on which weather or other conditions have caused
Davidson County to close its offices for the transaction of business, in which
event the period to perform an act runs until the end of the next day which is
not one of the days mentioned in this sentence for which the last day of the
period is not included.
(Ord. passed 6-28-05)
§ 98.103 NO CONFLICT WITH LAWS AND REGULATIONS OF NORTH CAROLINA.
   This chapter shall be construed and enforced to the extent possible to be
consistent with state laws and regulations. If a conflict exists between the
interpretation of a provision of this chapter and state laws and regulations,
the provisions of the state laws and regulations shall control.
(Ord. passed 6-28-05)
§ 98.104 GOVERNMENTAL FUNCTION.
   Davidson County hereby declares that all actions, functions, duties,
inspections, and enforcement provided by this chapter are declared to be
essential activities of Davidson County. Consequently, Davidson County, its
officers, agents, employees, and personnel are immune from any suit for any
action in executing this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-28-05)
§ 98.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Civil penalties. As permitted by G.S. § 153A-123(c), such civil
penalty may be recovered by Davidson County in a civil action in the nature of
debt if the offender does not pay the civil penalty any later than 30 business
days after assessment of the civil penalty. The correction of a violation does
not cancel or relieve the violator of any civil penalty assessed.
   (B)   Equitable remedies. As authorized by G.S § 153A- 123(d), Davidson
County may enforce this chapter by seeking any appropriate equitable remedy in
the appropriate division of the General Court of Justice of Davidson County. It
shall not be a defense to any action or application for equitable relief that
there is an adequate remedy at law.
   (C)   Injunctive relief. As authorized by G.S. § 153A-123(e), Davidson
County may enforce this chapter through an action in the appropriate division
of the General Court of Justice in Davidson County to restrain any violation of
this chapter and to compel compliance with any provision of this chapter.
Davidson County may seek a mandatory or prohibitory injunction and an abatement
order commanding the violator to correct the unlawful condition or cease the
unlawful use of the property. In any such action, Davidson County may seek an
order to direct that any building or other structure on the property which
causes or contributes to or is used in any violation of this chapter be closed,
demolished or removed; that fixtures, furniture, or other movable property that
causes or contributes or facilitates a violation be removed from buildings on
the property; and that any other action necessary to allow the property to be
used in conformity with this chapter be taken. Davidson County may seek a
citation for contempt of court against a person who refuses to comply with a
court order to cease or abate a use in violation of this chapter. Upon
execution of the contempt citation, Davidson County shall have a mechanic’s and
materialman’s lien upon the property where the violation exists. Such lien
shall be for the costs to Davidson County in executing the contempt citation.
Cancellation of an order of abatement does not suspend or cancel an injunction
issued in conjunction with the abatement order. In an appropriate case,
Davidson County may seek from a court a temporary restraining order and
preliminary injunction against violations of this chapter pending a final
hearing on the merits.
   (D)   Remedies not exclusive. This chapter may be enforced by one or more of
the remedies provided in this section and this chapter. Such remedies shall be
deemed non-exclusive and may be sought for the same violation of this chapter.
This chapter shall not be construed to preclude any remedy provided by law to a
private person, nor the enforcement of any other applicable law, rule, or
regulation by any governmental entity or agency authorized, permitted, or
directed to enforce such law, rule, or regulation. The use of any remedy herein
shall not excuse or relieve a person against whom such remedy is sought of any
duty to correct or abate any violation.
(Ord. passed 6-22-21)
APPENDIX A: Commercial Plan Review Fees
Commercial Construction Plan Review
Occupancy Size Square Feet Applicable Fee
Commercial Construction Plan Review
Occupancy Size Square Feet       Applicable Fee
Up to 5,000 square feet          $50.00
5,001 to 12,500 square feet      $100.00
12,501 to 20,000 square feet     $150.00
20,001 to 100,000 square feet    $200.00
100,001 to 500,000 square feet   $300.00
500,001 to 1,000,000 square feet $400.00
> 1,000,000 square feet          $500.00
(Ord. passed 6-22-21)
APPENDIX B - Required Operational Permits and Fees
Operational
Operational
$25 Amusement Buildings
$25 Carnivals and Fairs
$25 Combustible Dust Producing Operations
$25 Combustible Fibers
$25 Compressed Gases
$25 Covered Mall Buildings
$25 Cryogenic Fluids
$25 Exhibits and Trade Shows
$25 Explosives
    Flammable and Combustible Liquids for the Following Mandatory Permits Only:
    1.   To operate tank vehicles, equipment, tanks, plants, terminals, wells, fuel-
    dispensing stations, refineries, distilleries, and similar facilities where
    flammable and combustible liquids are produced, processed, transported, stored,
    dispensed, or used.
    2.   To place temporarily out of service (for more than 90 days) an underground,
    protected above-ground or above-ground flammable or combustible liquid tank.
    3.   To change the type of contents stored in a flammable or combustible liquid
$25 tank to a material that poses a more significant hazard than that for which the
    tank was designed and constructed.
    4.   To manufacture, process, blend or refine flammable or combustible liquids.
    5.   To engage in the dispensing of liquid fuels into the fuel tanks of motor
    vehicles at commercial, industrial, governmental, or manufacturing
    establishments.
    6.   To utilize a site for dispensing liquid fuels from tank vehicles into the
    fuel tanks of motor vehicles, marine craft, and other special equipment at
    commercial, industrial, governmental, or manufacturing establishments.
$25 Fumigation and insecticidal fogging
$25 Hazardous Materials
$25 H.P.M. Facilities
$25 High-Piled Combustible Storage Facilities
$25 Liquefied or Gas-Fueled Vehicles or Equipment in Assembly Buildings
$25 Private Fire Hydrants
$75 Pyrotechnic Special Effects Materials (including Fireworks) Per display.
$25 Spraying or Dipping
$25 Temporary Membrane Structures and Tents
(Ord. passed 6-22-21)
APPENDIX C - Required Construction Permits and Fees (continued)
Construction
Construction
$100 Auto Extinguishing System
$100 Battery Systems
$100 Compressed Gases
$100 Cryogenic Fluids
$100 Emergency Responder Radio Coverage System
$100 Fire Alarms Detection System and Related Equipment
$100 Fire Pumps & Related equipment
$100 Flammable and Combustible Liquid
$100 Gates and Barricades across Fire Department Access Roads
$100 Hazardous Materials
$100 Industrial Ovens
$100 Private Fire Hydrants
$100 Smoke Control or Smoke Exhaust System
$100 Solar and Photovoltaic Power Systems
$100 Spraying/Dipping Operations
$100 Standpipe System
$100 Temporary Membrane Structures & Tents
(Ord. passed 6-22-21)
APPENDIX D - Civil Penalty Schedule
   Civil penalties are assessed upon the completion of a non-compliant
inspection.
Violations
Violations
$100   Uncorrected Violation after Self-Certification
$100   Re-Occurring violations of §
       98.085(B)
$500   Failure to follow a plan of action
Unsafe Buildings & Conditions
$100   First Compliance Inspection
$300   Second Compliance Inspection
$500   Third Compliance Inspection
$1,000 Re-Occurring violation of §
       98.085(C)
(Ord. passed 6-22-21)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
111.   MASSAGE BUSINESSES
      
112.   CABLE COMMUNICATIONS
      
113.   ADULT ORIENTED BUSINESSES
CHAPTER 110: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
110.01   Public consumption of malt beverages and unfortified wine on county
property prohibited
§ 110.01 PUBLIC CONSUMPTION OF MALT BEVERAGES AND UNFORTIFIED WINE ON COUNTY
PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume malt beverages or
unfortified wine on all property owned or occupied by the county.
   (B)   Penalty. Any person violating this chapter shall be punished as
provided in §
10.99.
(Ord. passed 9-6-83; Ord. passed 4-22-24) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 111: MASSAGE BUSINESSES
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Intent; exceptions
   
111.02   Definitions
Licensing
   
111.10   Annual privilege licenses
   
111.11   Licensing of massage business operations
   
111.12   Licensing of massagist
   
111.13   Employer to use only licensed employees
   
111.14   Posting of license
   
111.15   Notice of hearing prior to revocation of license required
Standards of Operation
   
111.20   Hours of operation
   
111.21   Patronage of massage businesses by minors; employment of minors
   
111.22   Massage of persons of opposite sex prohibited
   
111.23   Massage of private parts prohibited
 
   
111.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Unlicensed massage of private parts for hire prohibited, see
130.04
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 INTENT; EXCEPTIONS.
   To protect public health, safety, welfare and morals, the following
privilege license provisions and regulations are ordained for the privilege of
carrying on the business, trade, or profession of massagist and for the
operation or carrying on of the businesses, trades, or professions commonly
known as massage parlors, health salons, physical culture studios, or similar
establishments wherein massage or physical manipulation of the human body is
carried on or practiced. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to a
regularly established and licensed hospital, sanitarium, nursing home, nor to
an office or clinic operated and regularly used by a duly qualified and
licensed medical practitioner, licensed psychologist, osteopath, or
chiropractor in connection with the practice of medicine, chiropractic or
osteopathy, nor shall it apply to licensed medical practitioner, licensed
psychologist, osteopath, or chiropractor, registered physical therapist, or
persons operating at their directions, in connection with the practice of
medicine, chiropractic or osteopathy.
(Ord. passed 5-17-76; Am. Ord. passed 10-11-88)
§ 111.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS or PROFESSION OF MASSAGE. The massage or treatment of any person
for fee or in expectation of a gratuity, from the person massaged.
   MASSAGE. The manipulation of body muscle or tissue by rubbing, stroking,
kneading, or tapping, by hand or other body part or member or mechanical
device.
   MASSAGIST. Any person engaged in the business or profession of massage.
   MASSAGE BUSINESS. Any establishment or business wherein massage is
practiced, including establishments commonly known as health clubs, physical
culture studios, and massage studios.
(Ord. passed 5-17-76)
LICENSING
§ 111.10 ANNUAL PRIVILEGE LICENSES.
   The licenses required under this chapter are Annual Privilege Licenses. Such
licenses shall be due and payable in the same manner as prescribed for other
privilege licenses issued by the county pursuant to applicable law.
(Ord. passed 5-17-76)
§ 111.11 LICENSING OF MASSAGE BUSINESS OPERATIONS.
   (A)   No person, partnership, corporation, or association shall operate a
massage business as herein defined unless such person, partnership, corporation
or association shall have first applied for and received the privilege license
provided by this section.
   (B)   Every application for the privilege license prescribed herein shall be
upon a form approved by the County Manager and shall be filed with the County
Clerk. Every such application shall be made under oath and shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   If the applicant is a person, the name and residence address of
such person. If the applicant is a partnership, corporation, or association,
the name and residence address of all persons having any legal or beneficial
interest in such applicant;
      (2)   The address of the premises where the massage business shall be
located;
      (3)   A complete statement of all convictions of any person whose name is
required to be given in division (B)(1) above for any felony, or prostitution
or any violation of any law relative to prostitution;
      (4)   A complete statement of any revocation, by any governmental unit of
any license to operate a massage business or to engage in the business or
profession of massage held by any person whose name is required to be given in
division (B)(1) above;
      (5)   A complete statement of any conviction of any person whose name is
required to be given in division (B)(1) above, for violation of any statute,
law, ordinance or regulation of any government concerning the operation of a
massage business or the business or profession of massage;
      (6)   The name and address of any massage business or other establishment
owned or operated by any person whose name is required to be given in division
(B)(1) above wherein the business or profession of massage is carried on; and
      (7)   A description of any other business to be operated on the same
premises or on adjoining premises owned or controlled by the applicant.
   (C)   The County Clerk shall transmit a copy of the application to the
Sheriff's Department for an investigative report; to the Inspections Department
to determine compliance with all zoning and building regulations and
ordinances; and to the appropriate Fire Department to determine compliance with
any law relative to fire protection. The Sheriff's, Inspections and Fire
Departments shall, within a reasonable time not to exceed 45 days, report the
results of their examination to the County Clerk.
   (D)   An application in proper form, accompanied by all reports required by
this section, shall be submitted to the Board of Commissioners, which shall
approve such application if the Board determines that:
      (1)   The application contains no misstatement of facts;
      (2)   The applicant, or any person having any legal or beneficial
ownership interest in the applicant, has not been convicted of any crime
involving sexual misconduct, including but not limited to G.S. §§ 14-177
through 14-202.1, Article 26 (offenses against public morality and decency) and
G.S. §§ 14-203 through 14-208, Article 27 (Prostitution), or this county's
ordinance relating to the Massage of Private Parts or this county's ordinance
relating to Heterosexual Massage, or any federal statute relating to
prostitution, or any violation of any law or ordinance of any governmental unit
concerning or related to the business or profession of massage;
      (3)   The applicant conforms to all requirements of applicable zoning,
building, and fire prevention codes; and
      (4)   The applicant or any person having a legal or beneficial ownership
interest in the applicant has not, for the three year period preceding the
application, had a previously issued license for engaging in the business or
profession of massage revoked.
   (E)   Upon approval of the application by the Board, and upon the receipt of
a $100 license fee, the Tax Collector shall issue a privilege license to
applicant.
   (F)   A license issued pursuant to this section shall be revoked by action
of the Board if the Board determines that:
      (1)   The licensee has violated any provision of this chapter;
      (2)   The licensee, or any agent of the licensee, employs or permits to
be on the premises of the applicant's massage business any person practicing
the business or profession of massage who has not been issued the privilege
license required by §
111.12, or whose license under §
111.12 has been revoked;
      (3)   The licensee, or the legal or beneficial owner of any interest in
the licensee is convicted of any crime involving sexual misconduct, including
but not limited to G.S. §§ 14-177 through 14-202.1, Article 26 (offenses
against public morality and decency) and G.S. §§ 14-203 through 14-208, Article
27 (prostitution);
      (4)   Any employee of the licensee is convicted of any felony in
connection with his or her employment, or is convicted of any crime involving
sexual misconduct, including but not limited to G.S. §§ 14-177 through 14-
202.1, Article 26 (offenses against public morality and decency) and G.S. §§
14-203 through 14-208, Article 27 (prostitution) or this county's ordinance
regarding Massage of Private Parts for Hire or this county's ordinance relating
to Heterosexual Massage, or
      (5)   The licensee violates any zoning, building or fire prevention
ordinance.
   (G)   A license issued pursuant to this chapter is void if the licensee
moves or ceases operating a massage parlor at the location required to be
stated in the application for license pursuant to §
111.11(B)(2).
(Ord. passed 5-17-76) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.12 LICENSING OF MASSAGIST.
   (A)   No person shall engage in the business or profession of massage unless
such person shall have first applied for and received the privilege license
provided by this section.
   (B)   The application for the license required by this section shall be upon
a form approved by the County Manager and shall be filed with the County Clerk.
Such application shall be given under oath and shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   The name, age and residence address of the applicant;
      (2)   A complete statement of the previous business or occupation of the
applicant for the two years immediately preceding the date of application,
including any massage establishment experience;
      (3)   A complete statement of all convictions of the applicant for any
felony or misdemeanor or violation of a local ordinance;
      (4)   A complete statement of any revocation of any license granted by
any governmental unit to the applicant to engage in the business or profession
of massage; and
      (5)   The date and place of applicant's birth, the name of applicants
parents, and the residence address or addresses of the applicant for the five
years immediately preceding the date of application.
   (C)   The applicant shall submit, as part of the application required in
division (B) hereof, the following:
      (1)   Fingerprints of the applicant taken by the Sheriff's Department;
      (2)   Two recent photographs of the applicant's head and shoulders, of a
size and quality prescribed by the County Manager; and
      (3)   A medical certificate signed by a physician, licensed to practice
in North Carolina, within seven days of the date of the application. The
certificate shall state that the applicant was examined by the certifying
physician and that the applicant is free of communicable diseases. The
additional information required by this division shall be provided at the
applicant's expense.
   (D)   The County Clerk shall transmit a copy of the application to the
Sheriff's Department for an investigative report. The Sheriff's Department
shall, within a reasonable time, not to exceed 45 days, report the results of
its investigation to the County Clerk.
   (E)   An application in proper form shall be submitted to the Board of
Commissioners together with all reports required by this section. The Board
shall approve such application if the Board determines:
      (1)   That the applicant is at least 18 years of age;
      (2)   The applicant contains no misstatement of facts;
      (3)   The applicant has not been convicted of any crime involving sexual
misconduct, including but not limited to G.S. §§ 14-177 through 14-202.1,
Article 26 (offenses against public morality and decency) and G.S. §§ 14-203
through 14-208, Article 27 (prostitution), or this county's ordinance relating
to Massage of Private Parts for Hire or this county's ordinance regarding
Heterosexual Massage, or any federal statute relating to prostitution, or for
violation of any law or ordinance of any governmental unit concerning or
related to the business or profession of massage;
      (4)   The applicant has not, for the three-year period preceding the
application, had a previously issued license for engaging in the business or
profession of massage revoked;
      (5)   The applicant is free from communicable diseases as evidenced by
the medical certificate required herein; and
      (6)   The applicant has not been previously convicted of any violation of
any provision of this chapter.
   (F)   Upon approval of the application by the Board and upon receipt of a
$50 license fee, the Tax Collector shall issue a privilege license to the
applicant.
   (G)   The Board shall have authority to direct that any person licensed
under this section submit to a medical examination by a licensed physician
approved by the Board. This authority shall be exercised only when the Board
has reason to believe that any such person has contracted a communicable
disease. Refusal to submit to such an examination shall be grounds for
revocation of such license as provided in division (H) of this section. Not
withstanding the provisions of this division every person licensed under this
section shall file and continue to file with the County Clerk a new medical
certificate with each application for renewal of the license proscribed by this
section. Failure to file such up-dated certificates shall be grounds for
revocation of such license as provided in division (H) of this section.
   (H)   A license issued pursuant to this section shall be revoked by action
of the Board if the Board determines:
      (1)   The licensee has violated any provision of this chapter;
      (2)   The licensee is afflicted with a communicable disease;
      (3)   The licensee has failed to be examined by a licensed physician when
required by the Board pursuant to division (G) of this section or has failed to
file any medical certificate required by said division (G); or
      (4)   The licensee has been convicted of a felony, or any crime involving
sexual misconduct, including but not limited to G.S. §§ 14-177 through 14-
202.1, Article 26 (offenses against public morality and decency) and G.S. §§
14-203 through 14-208, Article 27 (prostitution), or violating this county's
ordinance relating to Massage of Private Parts for Hire, or this county's
ordinance regarding Heterosexual Massage, or violation of any law or ordinance
of any governmental unit related to the business or profession of massage.
(Ord. passed 5-17-76) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.13 EMPLOYER TO USE ONLY LICENSED EMPLOYEES.
   No person, corporation, partnership, or association licensed under §
111.11 hereof shall allow or permit any person to massage or treat any person
upon the premises operated by the licensee unless the person giving such
massage or treatment has complied with all requirements of licensing under §
111.12, including periodic medical examinations by a licensed physician.
Violation of this section shall be grounds for revocation of the license issued
to such violator pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-17-76) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.14 POSTING OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Every massagist shall post the license required by this chapter in his
or her work area.
   (B)   Every person, corporation, partnership, or association licensed under
§
111.11 shall display such license in a prominent place.
(Ord. passed 5-17-76) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.15 NOTICE OF HEARING PRIOR TO REVOCATION OF LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Before the Board of Commissioner revokes a license issued pursuant to this
chapter, or if the Board determines reasonable grounds exist to deny an
application for a license pursuant to this chapter, the Board shall cause a
written notice to be sent by certified mail to the licensee affected or
applicant affected, at the address stated in the license or application. The
notice shall advise the affected party of a right to appear before the Board,
with or without legal counsel, at a stated time and place, for the purpose of
presenting any evidence relevant to such revocation or denial, and for the
purpose of hearing all evidence submitted and examining or cross-examining any
person providing such evidence.
(Ord. passed 5-17-76)
STANDARDS OF OPERATION
§ 111.20 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   No person licensed as a massagist under §
111.12 shall massage or treat any person, or engage in the business or
profession of massage, before 8:00 a.m. or after 12:00 p.m. prevailing time.
   (B)   No person, corporation, partnership, or association licensed under §
111.11 shall admit customers or prospective customers, or remain open for
business, or allow, permit or condone any massage or treatment of any person
upon the premises before 8:00 a.m. or after 12:00 p.m., prevailing time.
   (C)   No person in charge of managing a massage business upon the premises
shall allow, permit or condone any massage or treatment of any person before 8:
00 a.m. or after 12:00 p.m. prevailing time.
(Ord. passed 5-17-76) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.21 PATRONAGE OF MASSAGE BUSINESSES BY MINORS; EMPLOYMENT OF MINORS.
   (A)   No person licensed as a masseur or masseuse under §
111.12 hereof shall massage or treat any person under the age of 18 upon the
licensed premises, except upon written order by a licensed physician,
osteopath, chiropractor, or registered physical therapist, such order being
dated and in the possession of the masseur or masseuse giving the massage or
treatment. A violation of this subsection shall be grounds for revocation of
any license issued to such violator pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   No person, corporation, partnership or association licensed under §
111.11 hereof shall allow, permit or condone the massage or treatment of any
person under the age of 18 upon the licensed premises, except upon written
order by a licensed physician, osteopath, chiropractor, or registered physical
therapist, such order being dated, and a true copy of such order being in the
possession of the licensee before administration of any massage or treatment. A
violation of this subsection shall be grounds for revocation of any license
issued to such violator pursuant to this chapter.
   (C)   No person, corporation, partnership or association licensed pursuant
to §
111.11 of this chapter shall employ any person under the age of 18 years in the
operation of a massage business.
(Ord. passed 5-17-76) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.22 MASSAGE OF PERSONS OF OPPOSITE SEX PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person licensed as a masseur or masseuse under §
111.12 shall massage or treat a person of the opposite sex upon the licensed
premises.
   (B)   No person, corporation, partnership or association licensed under §
111.11 shall allow, permit or condone any masseur or masseuse to massage or
treat a person of the opposite sex of said masseur or masseuse upon the
licensed premises.
(Ord. passed 5-17-76; Am. Ord. passed 10-11-88) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.23 MASSAGE OF PRIVATE PARTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person licensed as a masseur or masseuse under §
111.12 shall massage or offer to massage the private parts of another person
upon the licensed premises. PRIVATE PARTS means the penis, scrotum, mons
veneris, vulva or vaginal area.
   (B)   No person, corporation, partnership or association licensed under §
111.11 shall allow, permit or condone any person to massage or offer to massage
the private parts of another person upon the licensed premises. PRIVATE PARTS
means the penis, scrotum, mons veneris, vulva or vaginal area.
(Ord. passed 5-17-76; Am. Ord. passed 10-11-88) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of violating any provisions of this article shall be
punished by fine or imprisoned as provided by G.S. §§ 14-4.
CHAPTER 112: CABLE COMMUNICATIONS
Section
   
112.01   Adoption by reference
§ 112.01 CABLE COMMUNICATIONS.
   There is hereby adopted by reference the “Cable Communications and
Regulatory Ordinance for the County of Davidson, North Carolina,” adopted 2-14-
89, as fully as if set forth herein. Copies of the ordinance are available for
public inspection in the office of the County Manager.
(Ord. passed 2-14-89; Am. Ord. passed 9-28-04)
CHAPTER 113: ADULT ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
General Provisions
   
113.01   Title
   
113.02   Purpose and intent
   
113.03   Applicability
   
113.04   Definitions
   
113.05   Prohibitions and other regulations
   
113.06   Inspections
Permits
   
113.15   Permit required
   
113.16   Application
   
113.17   Issuance
   
113.18   Permit fee
   
113.19   Term of permit
   
113.20   Suspension
   
113.21   Revocation
 
   
113.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 113.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Davidson County Adult
Establishments Ordinance.”
(Ord. passed 9-22-98)
§ 113.02 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose and intent of this chapter is to provide for the public health,
safety and welfare of the citizenry of the county, to promote the peace and
dignity of Davidson County and provide for an orderly regulation of the
location of adult establishments and to eliminate the undesired secondary
effects of adult establishments, including but not limited to, illegal sexual
activity and other criminal conduct occurring on or in the immediate proximity
of such establishments, as well as unsanitary and unhealthy conditions on or
within such establishments. This chapter is adopted and enacted pursuant to the
authority granted by G.S. Chapter 153A to regulate the health, safety and
welfare of the citizens of Davidson County. Furthermore, it is the express
intent of the Board of Commissioners that the provisions of this chapter are to
be interpreted, applied and enforced in a manner not inconsistent with the
First Amendment of the United States Constitution.
(Ord. passed 9-22-98)
§ 113.03 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall apply to all of Davidson County outside of any
municipality; provided, however that this chapter shall apply within the limits
of any municipality located within Davidson County upon adoption of this
chapter by a resolution of the governing board of such municipality.
(Ord. passed 9-22-98)
§ 113.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein
coin-operated or slug-operated or electronically, electrically, or mechanically
controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors, or other image-
producing devices are maintained to show images to five or fewer persons per
machine at any one time, and where the images so displayed are distinguished or
characterized by the emphasis of matter depicting or describing specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE. A bookstore:
      (1)   Which receives a majority of its gross income during any calendar
month from the sale or rental for any form of consideration of publications
(including books, magazines, other periodicals, videotapes, compact disks,
other photographic, electronic, magnetic, digital or other imaging medium)
which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis of matter depicting,
describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas; or
      (2)   Having as a preponderance (either in terms of the weight and
importance of the material or in terms of greater volume of materials) of its
publications (including books, magazines, other periodicals, videotapes,
compact disks, other photographic, electronic, magnetic, digital or other
imaging medium) which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on
matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, restaurant or similar commercial
establishment that regularly features:
      (1)   Performances and/or services rendered by persons who appear in a
state of nudity or semi- nudity, as defined in this chapter; or
      (2)   Live performances that are characterized by the emphasis of the
exposure of specified anatomical areas or of specific sexual activities; or
      (3)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other
photographic reproductions that are characterized by their emphasis of the
depiction or description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas; or
      (4)   Persons who engage in lewd, lascivious or erotic dancing or
performances that are intended for sexual or prurient interests or titillation
of an audience or customers.
   ADULT ESTABLISHMENT. That definition as identified in G.S. § 14-202.10, or
as hereafter amended or recodified, including but not limited to adult arcades,
adult bookstores, adult video stores, adult cabarets, adult motels, adult
motion picture theaters, adult theaters, adult mini motion picture theaters and
massage businesses.
   ADULT MINI MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An enclosed building with viewing booths
designed to hold patrons which is used for presenting motion pictures, a
preponderance of which are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons therein.
   ADULT MOTEL. A hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment that:
      (1)   Offers accommodations to the public for any form of consideration
and provides patrons with films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides,
closed-circuit television transmissions or other photographic reproductions
that are characterized by the depiction or description of specific sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas; and has a sign visible from the
public right-of-way that advertises the availability of this adult type of
photographic reproductions; or
      (2)   Offers a sleeping room for rent or other form of occupancy for a
period of time that is less than 24 hours; or
      (3)   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to sub-rent or
permit another to occupy the room for any form of consideration for a period of
time that is less than 24 hours.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An enclosed building or premises used for
presenting motion pictures, a preponderance of which are distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating to
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, as defined in this
section, for observation by patrons therein. ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER does
not include any adult mini motion picture theater.
   ADULT THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar commercial
establishment that regularly features persons who appear in a state of nudity,
as defined in this chapter, or live performances that are characterized by the
exposure of specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities.
   ADULT VIDEO STORE. A commercial establishment that receives a majority of
its gross income during any calendar month from the sale or rental for any form
of consideration any one or more of the following:
      (1)   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes or video productions,
slides, or other visual representations that are characterized or distinguished
by their emphasis on matter that depicts or describes specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas; or
      (2)   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia that are designed
principally for use in connection with specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas; provided, however, that such instruments, devices or
paraphernalia shall not mean any contraceptive device.
   BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS. The Davidson County Board of Commissioners.
   BUILDING INSPECTOR. The Building Inspector for Davidson County or his
designee.
   CHAPTER. This Adult Establishment Chapter and any amendments hereto.
   COUNTY. Davidson County, a body politic and corporate of the State of North
Carolina.
   COUNTY MANAGER. The County Manager for Davidson County or his designee.
   FIRE MARSHAL. The duly appointed Fire Marshal of the county, or his
designee.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The Davidson County Health Department.
   MASSAGE BUSINESS. Any establishment or business wherein massage is
practiced, including establishments commonly known as health clubs, physical
culture studios, massage studios, or massage parlors. Provided, however, that
this definition shall not include and that the provisions of this chapter shall
not apply to a regularly established and licensed hospital, sanitarium, nursing
home, nor to an office or clinic operated and regularly used by a duly
qualified and licensed medical practitioner, licensed psychologist, osteopath,
or chiropractor in connection with the practice of medicine, chiropractic or
osteopathy, nor shall it apply to a licensed medical practitioner, licensed
psychologist, osteopath, or chiropractor, registered physical therapist, or
persons operating at their directions, in connection with the practice of
medicine, chiropractic or osteopathy.
   NUDITY or STATE OF NUDITY. The appearance of a human bare buttocks, anus,
male genitals, female genitals, or female breast without a fully opaque
complete covering of the breast below a point immediately above the top of the
areola, or human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state even if completely
and opaquely covered.
   PERMITTEE. Any person granted a permit under the provisions of this chapter,
and his employees and agents.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, partnership or any other entity.
   SEMI-NUDITY or STATE OF SEMI-NUDITY. A state of dress in which clothing
covers no more than the human bare buttock, anus, male genitals, female
genitals, female breast without a fully opaque complete covering of the breast
below a point immediately above the top of the areola, and completely and
opaquely covered human male genitals not in a discernibly turgid state.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered: human genitals, pubic
region; buttock, or female breast below a point immediately above the top of
the areola; or
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
      (1)   Human genitals in state of sexual stimulation or arousal; or
      (2)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy; or
      (3)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic regions,
buttocks or female breasts.
(Ord. passed 9-22-98)
§ 113.05 PROHIBITIONS AND OTHER REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to knowingly, recklessly or negligently allow any
person younger than 18 years of age to enter, or be on, the premises of an
adult establishment at any time.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the operator and permittee of each adult
establishment to ensure that an attendant is stationed at each public entrance
to the adult establishment at all times during regular business hours. It shall
be the duty of the attendant to prohibit any person under the age of 18 years
from entering the adult establishment and it shall be unlawful to not prohibit
such entry by such person.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the attendant to ask for, obtain and
reasonably rely upon a valid driver's license or other valid and certified
means of personal identification prior to permitting the entry of a person
younger than 18 years of age on the premises of an adult establishment. It
shall be the duty of the operator and permittee of each adult establishment to
adequately supervise and ensure that any attendant and/or other person under
such operator and permittee's control complies with the duties as set forth in
this division of this section.
   (D)   In any criminal prosecution, civil proceeding or other action taken
pursuant to this chapter for violation of division (A) or (B) of this chapter,
lack of knowledge of the fact that a person so hired by an adult establishment
was under the age of 18 years shall not constitute a defense to any such
prosecution, proceeding or action unless the attendant and/or operator and
permittee complied with the requirements of division (C) of this section.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful to hire as an independent contractor, employee or
other agent any person under the age of 18 years for any position with an adult
establishment. It shall further be the duty of the operator and permittee of
each adult establishment to verify the age of any such independent contractor,
employee or other agent by asking for, obtaining and reasonably relying upon a
valid driver's license or other valid and certified means of identification. In
any criminal prosecution, civil proceeding or other action taken pursuant to
this chapter for violation of this division, lack of knowledge of the fact that
a person so hired by an adult establishment was under the age of 18 years shall
not constitute a defense to any such prosecution, proceeding or action unless
the attendant and/or operator and permittee complied with the requirements of
this division.
   (F)   Any adult establishment which exhibits on its premises in a viewing
room of less than 150 square feet of floor space, a film, video cassette, or
other video and/or aural reproduction that depicts specified sexual activities
or specified anatomical areas, as those terms are defined by North Carolina
General Statutes and this chapter, shall comply with the following
requirements:
      (1)   Upon application for an adult establishment permit, the application
shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan thereof
specifying the location of one or more manager's stations in the location of
all overhead lighting fixtures, and designating any portion of the premises in
which patrons will not be permitted. A manager's station may not exceed 32
square feet of floor area. The diagram should also designate the place at which
the permit will be conspicuously posted, if granted. A diagram prepared
pursuant to this subdivision shall conform to those requirements set forth in §
113.16(B) of this chapter.
      (2)   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager's
station may be made without the proper approval of the County Manager.
      (3)   It is the duty of the permittee and operator of the premises to
ensure that at least one employee is on duty and situated at each manager's
station at all times that any patron is present inside the premises.
      (4)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from a manager's station of every area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose excluding
rest rooms. Restrooms may not contain any video reproduction equipment. If the
premises has two or more manager's stations designated, then the interior of
the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an unobstructed
view of each area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for
any purpose, from at least one of the manager's stations. The view required in
this paragraph must be by direct line of sight from the manager's station.
      (5)   It shall be the duty of the permittee and operator to ensure that
the view area specified in subdivision (4) remains unobstructed by any doors,
walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials at all times and to ensure
that no patron is permitted access to any area of the premises that has been
designated as an area in which patrons will not be permitted in the application
filed pursuant to this chapter.
      (6)   No viewing room may be occupied by more than one person at a time.
      (7)   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than one foot- candle as measured at the
floor level.
      (8)   It shall be the duty of the permittee and operator to ensure that
the illumination described above is maintained at all times that any patron is
present in the adult establishment.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any adult establishment to operate as a
massage business, as that term is defined in G.S. § 14-202.10 or amended
hereafter, where any physical contact with the recipient of such services is
provided by a person of the opposite sex.
   (H)   In addition to the foregoing, all adult establishments shall comply
with provisions of the Davidson County Zoning Ordinance relative to adult uses,
including applications for a special use district and standards of evaluation.
Further, nothing in this chapter is intended to authorize any use or operation
in violation of the Davidson County Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. passed 9-22-98) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.06 INSPECTIONS.
   The applicant and/or permittee shall permit representatives of the County
Manager, County Sheriff's Department, Fire Marshal, Building Inspector or any
other state agency or county department or agency to inspect the premises of an
adult establishment, and at any time it is occupied or open for business, for
the purpose of insuring compliance with all applicable laws.
(Ord. passed 9-22-98)
PERMITS
§ 113.15 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, from and after the effective
date of this chapter, it shall be unlawful for any person or entity to operate
an adult establishment without first securing and having a valid permit from
the County Manager and any person or entity who operates an adult establishment
without having a valid permit shall be subject to criminal and civil remedies
as provided herein.
   (B)   All adult establishments existing at the time of the effective date of
this chapter must submit an application for a permit within 90 days of the
effective date of this chapter. If an application is not received within said
90-day period, then such existing adult establishment shall cease operations.
Any adult establishment existing at the time of the effective date of this
chapter which files and application for a permit within the said 90-day period
shall be permitted to operate during the pendency of the application for a
permit, including the appeal of denial of a permit as provided in §
113.17(E) of this chapter. No criminal prosecution or other civil action as
provided for in this chapter shall be maintained against any such existing
adult establishment for failure to obtain and have a permit during the
aforementioned 90-day period or during the pendency of the aforementioned
application, including any appeal of denial of a permit as provided for in §
113.17(E) of this chapter. Provided, however, that nothing in this division
shall prevent or prohibit the county from enforcing or seeking enforcement of
any applicable law, ordinance or regulation in effect prior to the time of the
effective date of this chapter. Furthermore, this division shall not prevent
the county or any other individual from maintaining any actions or seeking any
remedies allowed by law for violations of any law, ordinance or regulation in
effect prior to the effective date of this chapter.
   (C)   A permit may be issued for only one adult establishment located at a
fixed and certain place. Any person which desires to operate more than one
adult establishment must obtain and have a permit for each.
   (D)   The permit granted pursuant to this chapter shall grant permission to
operate an adult establishment only to the applicant and no permit or interest
in a permit may be transferred, whether by gift, inheritance, devise, for
consideration or by any other means, to any individual, partnership,
corporation or any other entity.
(Ord. passed 9-22-98) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.16 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Any person or entity desiring to secure a permit shall make
application to the Clerk of the Board of Commissioners. The application shall
be filed in triplicate and dated by the Clerk. A copy of the application shall
be distributed promptly by the Clerk to the Office of the County Manager and to
the applicant.
   (B)   An application for a permit must be made on a form provided by the
county, and available at the Office of the County Manager, Davidson County
Governmental Center (4th Floor). The application must be accompanied by a
sketch or a diagram showing the configuration of the premises, including a
statement of total floor space occupied by the business. The sketch or diagram
need not be professionally prepared, but must be drawn to a designated scale or
drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of
plus or minus 12 inches.
   (C)   The applicant shall be required to give all required information on
the application form in accordance with this division, including:
      (1)   The name, street address (and mailing address, if different) of the
intended operator(s) of the adult establishment. For purposes of this division,
OPERATOR shall mean the individual(s) responsible for the day-to-day operations
of the business;
      (2)   The name, street address (and mailing address, if different) of all
applicants signing the application; the name, street address (and mailing
address, if different) of any person or entity that is the legal or beneficial
owner of a 50% or greater interest in the applicant.
      (3)   Written proof that all applicants signing the application are at
least 18 years of age;
      (4)   The name under which the adult establishment is to be operated and
a general description of the nature of the services to be provided by the
business;
      (5)   The telephone number of the adult establishment, a telephone number
at which the intended operator, and all applicants signing the application, may
be contacted during normal business hours.
      (6)   Whether the applicant previously operated in this or any other
county, city or state under an adult-oriented establishment permit or similar
business license; whether the applicant has ever had such a license revoked or
suspended, the reason therefor, and the business entity or trade name under
which the applicant operated that was subject to the suspension or revocation;
      (7)   A criminal history of the applicant, which shall consist of
convictions of any and all federal and state criminal laws; convictions of
violations of any county or municipal ordinances; forfeitures of bond and
pleadings of nolo contendere on all charges; as to the aforementioned, the
applicant shall state the date of the conviction, forfeiture or nolo contendere
charge; the name and location of the court; the specific charge(s) involved and
the amount of punishment/fine or other disposition; provided, however, that for
purposes of this subdivision, the terms CRIMINAL LAWS and ORDINANCE shall not
mean traffic violations for which the jurisdiction that entered the conviction
against the applicant does not consider such traffic violation a felony under
its laws;
      (8)   The address, and legal description of the tract of land on which
the adult establishment is, or will be, located; a copy of a deed duly recorded
in the Office of the Register of Deeds of Davidson County shall satisfy the
requirements of this subdivision;
      (9)   If the adult establishment is already in operation, the date on
which the applicant(s) acquired the adult establishment for which the permit is
sought, and the date on which the establishment began operations as an adult
establishment at the location for which the permit is sought;
      (10)   If the adult establishment is not currently in operation, the
expected date the establishment will open for business (which shall be
expressed in number of days from the issuance of the permit). If the expected
initial date is to be more than ten days following the issuance of the permit,
then the applicant must provide a detailed explanation of the construction,
repair or remodeling work, or other cause of the expected delay and a statement
of the owner's time schedule and plan for accomplishing the same.
   (D)   If the applicant intending to operate an adult establishment is an
individual, he or she must sign the application for a permit as “applicant.” If
an applicant intending to operate an adult establishment is other than an
individual, each individual who owns a 50% or greater legal or beneficial
interest in the applicant must sign the application for a permit as
“applicant.” In the event that no individual owns a 50% or greater legal or
beneficial interest in the applicant, that individual who owns the highest
ownership interest in the applicant must sign the application as “applicant.”
   (E)   The possession by the applicant of other federal, state or local
permits and/or licenses does not exempt the applicant from obtaining a license
in accordance with this chapter.
   (F)   The application shall be accompanied by the following:
      (1)   Application fee paid in full.
      (2)   If the adult establishment is a North Carolina corporation, a
certified copy of the Articles of Incorporation, together with any and all
amendments thereto.
      (3)   If the adult establishment is a foreign corporation, a certified
copy of the certificate of authority to transact business in the State of North
Carolina, together with all amendments thereto.
      (4)   If the adult establishment is a partnership, either general or
limited, a certified copy of any partnership agreement, together with all
amendments thereto.
      (5)   If the adult establishment is a limited liability company of the
State of North Carolina a certified copy of the Articles of Incorporation
together with all amendments thereto.
      (6)   If the adult establishment is a foreign limited liability company,
a certified copy of the certificate of authority to transact business in the
State of North Carolina, together with all amendments thereto.
      (7)   Proof of the current fee ownership of the tract of land on which
the adult establishment is, or will be, situated in the form of a copy of the
deed recorded in the Office of the Register of Deeds of Davidson County.
      (8)   If the owners identified as the fee owners of the tract of land in
subdivision (7) are not also the owners of the adult establishment, then a copy
of the lease, purchase contract, option or other documents evidencing the
legally enforceable right of the owners or proposed owners of the adult
establishment to have or obtain the use and possession of the tract or portion
thereof that is to be used for the adult establishment; furthermore, the
application shall include a copy of any of the aforementioned documents that
are recorded in the Office of the Register of Deeds of Davidson County.
      (9)   Any of the items identified in subdivisions (2) through (8) above,
shall not be required for a renewal application if the applicant states that
the documents previously furnished the County Manager with the original
application or previous renewals thereof are correct and current.
   (G)   The application shall require the applicant(s) to sign, under oath or
affirmation, an acknowledgment confirming that:
      (1)   The applicant has personal knowledge of the information contained
in the application and that the information contained therein and furnished
therewith is true and accurate; and
      (2)   The applicant has read and understands the contents of this
chapter.
   (H)   Any application submitted in accordance with this section must be
found to be in accordance with this chapter and the premises must be inspected
and found to be in compliance with all applicable statutes and regulations by
the Health Department, Fire Marshal and Building Inspector.
(Ord. passed 9-22-98)
§ 113.17 ISSUANCE.
   (A)   The County Manager shall approve the issuance of a permit to an
applicant within 30 days after receipt of an application, unless he finds one
or more of the following conditions or events:
      (1)   Any applicant is under 18 years of age.
      (2)   Any applicant is delinquent to the county of any tax, fine or
penalty assessed against him or imposed upon him in relation to an adult
establishment.
      (3)   Any applicant has failed to provide information reasonably
necessary for issuance of the permit, or has falsely answered a question or
request for information on the application.
      (4)   The premises to be used for the adult entertainment establishment
have not been approved by the Fire Marshal and Building Inspector as being in
compliance with all applicable laws and ordinances.
      (5)   The permit fee required by this chapter has not been paid.
      (6)   An application for the proposed adult establishment is in violation
of, or is not in compliance with, any of the provisions of this chapter.
      (7)   The applicant has been convicted of any crime involving sexual
misconduct (including but not limited to G.S. §§ 14-177 through 14-202.1
(Chapter 14, Article 26 - Offenses Against Public Morality), G.S. §§ 14-203
through 14-208 (Chapter 14, Article 27 - Prostitution), or of any federal
statute relating to prostitution or for any violation of any law or ordinance
of any governmental unit concerning or related to adult-oriented businesses or
establishments or the business or profession of massage. Provided, however,
that this subdivision shall not apply to any such crime for which the date of
conviction is more than three years after the date of filing of this
application.
   (B)   The permit, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the person
to whom it is granted, the expiration date, and the address of the adult
establishment. The permit shall be posted in a conspicuous place at or near the
entrance to the adult establishment so that it may be easily read at any time.
   (C)   The Fire Marshal and Building Inspector shall complete their
certification that the premises are in compliance or not in compliance within
20 days of receipt of the application by the County Manager.
   (D)   In the event that the County Manager determines that an applicant is
not eligible for a permit, the applicant shall be given notice in writing of
the reasons for said denial within 45 days of the receipt of its application by
the County Manager; provided that the applicant may request, in writing, that
such period be extended for an additional period of not more than ten days at
any time before the notice of denial is issued, in order to make modifications
necessary to comply with this chapter.
   (E)   An applicant may appeal the decision of the County Manager regarding a
denial to the Board of Commissioners by filing a written notice of appeal with
the Clerk to the Board of Commissioners within 15 days after the applicant is
given notice of the County Manager's decision. The notice of appeal shall be
accompanied by a memorandum or other writing setting out fully the grounds for
said appeal and all arguments in support thereof. The County Manager may submit
a response to the memorandum filed by the applicant on appeal to the Board of
Commissioners. After reviewing all the information submitted to it, including
the County Manager's response, if any, the Board of Commissioners shall vote to
either uphold or overrule the County Manager's decision. This vote shall be
taken at the second regularly scheduled Commissioners' meeting after the date
on which the Clerk receives the notice of appeal. During the pendency of any
appeal, the County Manager's decision will be binding on all parties, and no
permit will be considered issued. Provided, however, that any adult
establishment existing as of the effective date of this chapter shall be
allowed to continue operation pending the decision or result of an appeal filed
pursuant to this division. An applicant may seek appropriate judicial remedies
as provided in the North Carolina General Statutes and other applicable law
following exhaustion of appeals before the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 9-22-98)
§ 113.18 PERMIT FEE.
   The annual fee for an adult establishment permit is $500. This fee is to be
used to assist the cost of the administration and enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 9-22-98)
§ 113.19 TERM OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Each permit shall expire one year from the date of issuance and may be
renewed only by making application as provided for in §
113.16. Application for renewal must be made at least 30 days before the
expiration date. If the application for renewal is made less than 30 days
before the expiration date, the application shall be treated as a new
application. Provided, however, that during the pendency of the application,
whether treated as a renewal or new application, and during any timely appeal
before the Board of Commissioners, the permittee shall be allowed to continue
operation of the adult establishment.
   (B)   In the event the County Manager denies renewal of a permit, the
applicant shall be entitled to an appeals procedure as set forth in §
113.17(E). Provided, however, that during the pendency of any timely appeal
before the Board of Commissioners, the permittee shall be allowed to continue
operation of the adult establishment. If the County Manager's denial of permit
renewal is upheld, or if not timely appealed by the applicant, the applicant
shall not be issued a permit for one year from the date of the said denial. If
subsequent to denial the County Manager finds that the basis for the denial of
the renewal permit has been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a
permit by the County Manager, and the County Manager shall have the discretion
to deem the grant of the permit as a new permit or a renewal permit.
(Ord. passed 9-22-98)
§ 113.20 SUSPENSION.
   (A)   The County Manager shall suspend a permit for a period not to exceed
30 days, at his discretion, if he determines that the permittee has:
      (1)   Violated or is not in compliance with any provisions of this
chapter.
      (2)   Refused to allow an inspection of the adult establishment premises
as authorized by this chapter.
      (3)   Knowingly permitted gambling by any persons on the premises of the
adult establishment.
      (4)   Knowingly permitted illegal consumption or possession of alcoholic
beverages on the premises of the adult establishment.
   (B)   Upon suspension of a permit by the County Manager, the permittee may
appeal the same in accordance with the provisions of §
113.17(E) of this chapter. Provided, however, that during the pendency of any
timely appeal before the Board of Commissioners, the permittee shall be allowed
to continue operation of the adult establishment.
(Ord. passed 9-22-98)
§ 113.21 REVOCATION.
   (A)   The County Manager shall revoke a permit if a cause of suspension in §
113.20 occurs and the permit has been suspended previously within the preceding
12 months.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
113.20 relative to grounds for suspension of permits, the County Manager shall
revoke a permit if he determines that:
      (1)   A permittee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted during the application process.
      (2)   A permittee has knowingly allowed possession, use or sale of
controlled substances on the premises.
      (3)   A permittee has knowingly allowed prostitution on the premises.
      (4)   A permittee has knowingly operated the adult establishment during a
period of time when the permittee's permit was suspended.
      (5)   A permittee has knowingly allowed any act of sexual conduct to
occur in or on the premises of the adult establishment.
      (6)   A permittee is delinquent in payment to the county or state of any
taxes, fees or fines.
      (7)   A permittee has knowingly allowed a person under the age of 18
years to enter the premises of the adult establishment. For purposes of this
subdivision, a permittee shall be presumed to have known the age of an person
under the age of 18 years who enters the premises of the adult establishment
unless the attendant or other employee and/or agent of the permittee requested
and received identification of such entrant and reasonably relied upon such
identification.
      (8)   There was a change of owner or operator for which a transfer
application was not timely filed.
      (9)   The permittee has been convicted, during the duration of the permit
period, of any crime involving sexual misconduct (including but not limited to
G.S. §§ 14-177 through 14-202.1 (Chapter 14, Article 26 - Offenses Against
Public Morality), G.S. §§ 14-203 through 14-208 (Chapter 14, Article 27 -
Prostitution), or of any federal statute relating to prostitution or for any
violation of any law or ordinance of any governmental unit concerning or
related to adult-oriented business or establishments or the business or
profession of massage.
   (C)   When the County Manager revokes a permit, the revocation shall
continue for a period of one year, and the permittee shall not be issued a
permit under this chapter during the period of revocation. If, subsequent to
revocation but during the period of revocation, the County Manager finds that
the basis for the revocation has been corrected or abated, the County Manager
may, but is not required to grant a new permit. Provided, however, in the event
that revocation is for any of the grounds specified in subdivision (B)(9) of
this section, such revocation shall last three years from the date of the
conviction upon which the revocation was based.
   (D)   Upon revocation of a permit by the County Manager, the permittee may
appeal the same in accordance with the provisions of §
113.17(E) of this chapter. Provided, however, that during the pendency of any
timely appeal before the Board of Commissioners, the permittee shall be allowed
to continue operation of the adult establishment.
(Ord. passed 9-22-98)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The violation of any provision of this chapter shall be punished as
provided in §
10.99.
   (B)   In addition to criminal penalties as set forth in division (A) of this
section, the county may seek enforcement of this chapter through any and all
remedies as provided in G.S. § 153A-123 and all amendments thereto.
   (C)   The remedies provided in this section are not exclusive and may be
sought by the county for the same acts to the extent allowed by applicable law.
The remedies provided in this section are intended to be in addition to, and
not in lieu, of the provisions of this chapter relative to revocation and
suspension of permits to the extent allowed by applicable law. Further, it
shall not constitute a defense to any injunctive or other equitable action that
a remedy at law may exist.
   (D)   Each continuing day of a violation of any provision of this chapter
shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. passed 9-22-98; Ord. passed 4-22-24)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST COUNTY REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST COUNTY REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   Disturbing the peace
   
130.02   Discharge of firearm or pellet gun
   
130.03   Exposing minors to harmful materials
   
130.04   Massage of private parts for hire prohibited
Drug Paraphernalia
   
130.10   Definition
   
130.11   Possession of drug paraphernalia
   
130.12   Manufacture or delivery of drug paraphernalia
   
130.13   Delivery of drug paraphernalia to minor
 
   
130.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.01 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful in Davidson County to disturb the peace and if
any person shall be found guilty of disturbing the peace, he shall, upon
conviction, be punished as provided in this chapter.
   (B)   Disturbing the peace is doing any of the following in such a manner as
would foreseeably disturb or alarm the public:
      (1)   Engaging in a fistic encounter;
      (2)   Using any unnecessarily loud, offensive, or insulting language;
      (3)   Engaging in any act in a violent and tumultuous manner by any three
or more persons;
      (4)   Holding of an unlawful assembly; or
      (5)   Commission of any other act in such a manner as to unreasonably
disturb or alarm the public.
(Ord. passed 11-1-83) Penalty, see §
130.99 
§ 130.02 DISCHARGE OF FIREARM OR PELLET GUN.
   (A)   No person shall discharge any firearm (rifle, shotgun, or pistol) or
pellet gun from or on any roadway or right-of-way of any public road, street,
or highway in Davidson County, except when such firearm is discharged in
defense of person or property, or when used pursuant to lawful directions of
law enforcement officers.
   (B)   This chapter shall be enforceable by law enforcement officers of the
Wildlife Resources Commission, by sheriffs and deputy sheriffs, and by other
peace officers with general subject matter jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed 8-28-90) Penalty, see §
130.99 
§ 130.03 EXPOSING MINORS TO HARMFUL MATERIALS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      HARMFUL TO MINORS. That quality of any description or representation, in
whatever form, of nudity, sexual conduct, sexual excitement or sado-masochistic
abuse when it:
         (1)   Predominantly appeals to the prurient, shameful or morbid
interest of minors;
         (2)   Is patently offensive to prevailing standards in the adult
community as a whole with respect to what is suitable material for minors; and
         (3)   Is utterly without redeeming social importance for minors.
      KNOWINGLY. Having general knowledge of, or reason to know, or a belief or
ground for belief which warrants further inspection or inquiry of both:
         (1)   The character and content of any material described herein which
is reasonably susceptible of examination by the defendant; and
         (2)   The age of the minor, provided however, that an honest mistake
shall constitute an excuse from liability hereunder if the defendant made a
reasonable bona fide attempt to ascertain the true age of such minor.
      NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female genitals, pubic area or
buttocks with less than a full opaque covering, or the showing of the female
breast with less than a fully opaque covering of any portion thereof below the
top of the nipple, or the depiction of covered male genitals in a discernibly
turgid state.
      SADO-MASOCHISTIC ABUSE. Flagellation or torture by or upon a person clad
in undergarments, a mask or bizarre costume, or the condition of being
battered, bound or otherwise physically restrained on the part of one so
clothed.
      SEXUAL CONDUCT. Acts of masturbation, homosexuality, sexual intercourse,
or physical contact with a person's clothed or unclothed genitals, pubic area,
buttocks or, if such person be a female, breast.
      SEXUAL EXCITEMENT. The condition of human male or female genitals when in
a state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
   (B)   Prohibited representations. It shall be unlawful for any person
knowingly to sell or loan for monetary consideration to a minor:
      (1)   Any picture, photograph, drawing, sculpture, motion picture film,
or similar visual representation or image of a person or portion of the human
body which depicts nudity, sexual conduct or sado-masochistic abuse and which
is harmful to minors; or
      (2)   Any book, pamphlet, magazine, printed matter however reproduced, or
sound recording which contains any matter enumerated in division (1) above, or
explicit and detailed verbal descriptions or narrative accounts of sexual
excitement, sexual conduct or sado-masochistic abuse and which, taken as a
whole, is harmful to minors.
   (C)   Prohibited performances. It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly
to exhibit for a monetary consideration to a minor or knowingly to sell to a
minor an admission ticket or pass or knowingly to admit a minor for a monetary
consideration to premises whereon there is exhibited a motion picture show or
other presentation which, in whole or in part, depicts nudity, sexual conduct
or sado-masochistic abuse and which is harmful to minors.
   (D)   Penalty. Any violation of this chapter shall be punished as provided
in §
10.99.
(Ord. passed - - -; Ord. passed 4-22-24)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 MASSAGE OF PRIVATE PARTS FOR HIRE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      MASSAGE. The manipulation of body muscle or tissue by rubbing, stroking,
kneading, or tapping, by hand or other body part or member or by mechanical
device.
      PRIVATE PARTS. The penis, scrotum, mons veneris, vulva, or vaginal area.
   (B)   Prohibition. It shall be unlawful for any person to massage or to
offer to massage the private parts of another for hire.
   (C)   Exemption. The provisions of this section shall not apply to licensed
medical practitioners, osteopaths, or chiropractors, or persons operating at
their directions, in connection with the practice of medicine, chiropractic, or
osteopathy.
(Ord. passed, 5-17-76) Penalty, see §
130.99
Cross-reference:
   Licensed massage businesses, see
Ch. 111
DRUG PARAPHERNALIA
§ 130.10 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA. All equipment, products and materials of any kind which
are used, intended for use, or designed for use, in planting, propagating,
cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting,
producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging,
storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise
introducing into the human body a controlled substance, the possession of which
would constitute a violation of the laws of the state. It includes, but is not
limited to:
      (1)   Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use in planting,
propagating, cultivating, growing, or harvesting of any species of plants which
is a controlled substance or from which a controlled substance can be derived;
      (2)   Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use in manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, processing, or preparing controlled
substances;
      (3)   Isomerization devices used, intended for use, or designed for use
in increasing the potency of any species of plant which is a controlled
substance;
      (4)   Testing equipment used, intended for use or designed for use in
identifying, or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of
controlled substances;
      (5)   Scales and balances used, intended for use or designed for use in
weighing or measuring controlled substances;
      (6)   Diluents and adulterants, such as quinine, hydrochloride, mannitol,
mannite, dextrose and lactose, used, intended for use, or designed for use in
cutting controlled substances;
      (7)   Separation gins and sniffers used, intended for use, or designed
for use in removing twigs and seeds from, or in otherwise cleaning or refining,
marihuana;
      (8)   Blenders, bowls, containers, spoons and mixing devices used,
intended for use, or designed for use in compounding controlled substances;
      (9)   Capsules, balloons, envelopes and other containers used, intended
for use, or designed for use in packaging small quantities of controlled
substances;
      (10)   Containers and other objects used, intended for use, or designed
for use in storing or concealing controlled substances;
      (11)   Hypodermic syringes, needles and other objects used, intended for
use, or designed for use in parenterally injecting controlled substances into
the human body;
      (12)   Objects used, intended for use, or designed for use in ingesting,
inhaling, or otherwise introducing marihuana, cocaine, hashish, or hashish oil
into the human body, such as:
         (a)   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or ceramic pipes
with or without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads, or punctured metal
bowls;
         (b)   Water pipes;
         (c)   Carburetion tubes and devices;
         (d)   Smoking and carburetion masks;
         (e)   Roach clips, meaning objects used to hold burning materials,
such as a marihuana cigarette, that has become too small or too short to be
held in the hand;
         (f)   Miniature cocaine spoons, and cocaine vials;
         (g)   Chamber pipes;
         (h)   Carburetor pipes;
         (i)   Electric pipes;
         (j)   Air-driven pipes;
         (k)   Chillums;
         (l)   Bongs;
         (m)   Ice pipes or chillers.
      (13)   In determining whether an object is drug paraphernalia, the
following factors, in addition to all other logically relevant factors, should
be considered:
         (a)   Statements by an owner or by anyone in control of the object
concerning its use;
         (b)   Prior convictions, if any, of an owner, or of anyone in control
of the object, under any state of federal law relating to any controlled
substance;
         (c)   The proximity of the object, in time and space, to a direct
violation of this subchapter;
         (d)   The proximity of the object to controlled substances;
         (e)   The existence of any residue of controlled substances on the
object;
         (f)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of an owner, or
of anyone in control of the object, to deliver it to persons whom he knows,
intend to use the object to facilitate a violation of the laws of the state,
relating to controlled substances; the innocence of an owner, or of anyone in
control of the object, as to a direct violation of this chapter shall not
prevent a finding that the object is intended for use, or designed for use as
drug paraphernalia;
         (g)   Instructions, oral or written, provided with the object
concerning its use;
         (h)   Descriptive materials accompanying the object which explain or
depict its use;
         (i)   National and local advertising concerning its use;
         (j)   The manner in which the object is displayed for sale;
         (k)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of sales of the
object(s) to the total sales of the business enterprise;
         (l)   The existence and scope of legitimate use for the object in the
community;
         (m)   Expert testimony concerning its use.
(Ord. passed 12-18-80)
§ 130.11 POSSESSION OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly use, or to possess with intent to
use, drug paraphernalia to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest,
manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack,
repack, store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale or otherwise introduce
in the human body, a controlled substance, the possession of which would be a
violation of the laws of the state. Each separate and distinct item of drug
paraphernalia unlawfully possessed shall constitute a separate violation.
(Ord. passed 12-18-80) Penalty, see §
130.99 
§ 130.12 MANUFACTURE OR DELIVERY OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly deliver, possess, with intent to
deliver, or manufacture with intent to deliver, drug paraphernalia, knowing
that it will be used to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest,
manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack,
repack, store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce
into the human body, a controlled substance, the possession of which would be a
violation of the laws of the state. Each separate and distinct item of drug
paraphernalia unlawfully delivered or possessed with intent to deliver shall
constitute a separate violation.
(Ord. passed 12-18-80) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.13 DELIVERY OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA TO MINOR.
   It shall be unlawful and constitute an additional violation for any person
18 years of age or over, who violates §
130.12 of this chapter, to knowingly deliver drug paraphernalia to a person
under 18 years of age who is at least three years his junior.
(Ord. passed 12-18-80) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Upon conviction, punishment shall be a fine of not more than $50, or
imprisonment as provided in G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. passed 11-1-83)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   TECHNICAL CODES AND LEGISLATION ADOPTED BY REFERENCE
      
151.   RESERVED
      
152.   WATERSHED PROTECTION
      
153.   VOLUNTARY AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
CHAPTER 150: TECHNICAL CODES AND LEGISLATION
ADOPTED BY REFERENCE
Section
   
150.01   Building regulations
   
150.02   Hazardous waste low-level radioactive waste management
   
150.03   Flood damage prevention
   
150.04   Subdivision code
   
150.05   Zoning code
Statutory reference:
   Authority to adopt technical ordinances by reference and publish them
separately, see G.S. § 153A-49
§ 150.01 BUILDING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Omnibus regulatory codes. There is hereby adopted by reference the
“Ordinance Providing for the Adoption, Administration, and Enforcement of
Regulatory Codes, and Specifying Other Duties of Inspection Officials,” adopted
3-14-89, as fully as if set forth herein. Copies of the ordinance are available
for public inspection in the office of the County Manager.
(Ord. passed 3-14-89)
   (B)   Insulation and conservation. There is hereby adopted by reference the
“Ordinance to License Insulation Contractors and Others When Installing
Materials and Equipment Designed to Meet the Energy Conservation Standards of
the State Building Code,” adopted 2-6-78, as fully as if set forth herein.
Copies of the ordinance are available for public inspection in the office of
the County Manager.
(Ord. passed 2-6-78)
§ 150.02 HAZARDOUS WASTE LOW-LEVEL RADIOACTIVE WASTE MANAGEMENT.
   There is hereby adopted by reference the “Hazardous Waste Low-Level
Radioactive Waste Management Ordinance, adopted 3-10-88, as fully as if set
forth herein. Copies of the ordinance are available for public inspection in
the office of the County Manager.
(Ord. passed 3-10-88)
§ 150.03 FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION.
   There is hereby adopted by reference the “Flood Damage Prevention
Ordinance,” adopted 9-13-16, as fully as if set forth herein. Copies of the
ordinance are available for public inspection in the office of the County
Manager.
(Ord. passed 3-10-87; Am. Ord. passed 3-16-09; Am. Ord. passed 9-13-16)
§ 150.04 SUBDIVISION CODE.
   There is hereby adopted by reference the “Subdivision Regulations for
Davidson County,” adopted 3-7-86, and as currently amended, as fully as if set
forth herein. Copies of the ordinance are available for public inspection in
the office of the County Manager.
(Ord. passed 3-7-86; Am. Ord. 12-14-93)
§ 150.05 ZONING CODE.
   There is hereby adopted by reference the "Zoning Ordinance for Davidson
County," adopted 12-14-93, as fully as if set forth herein. Copies of the
ordinance are available for public inspection in the office of the County
Manager. A copy can also be found at http://www.co.davidson.nc.us/
DocumentCenter/View/978/Davison-County-Z_oning-Ordinance-PDF.
Ord. passed 12-14-93)
CHAPTER 151: RESERVED
CHAPTER 152: WATERSHED PROTECTION
Section
Authority and General Regulations
   
152.01   Definitions
   
152.02   Authority and enactment
   
152.03   Jurisdiction
   
152.04   Exceptions to applicability
Subdivision regulations
   
152.15   General provision
   
152.16   Subdivision application and review
   
152.17   Subdivision standards and required improvements
   
152.18   Construction procedures
Development Regulations
   
152.25   Establishment of watershed areas
   
152.26   Watershed area described
   
152.27   Cluster development
   
152.28   Buffer areas required
   
152.29   Rules governing the interpretation of watershed area boundaries
   
152.30   Application of regulations
   
152.31   Existing development
   
152.32   Watershed protection permit
   
152.33   Building permit required
   
152.34   Watershed protection occupancy permit
Public Health Regulations
   
152.50   Public health in general
   
152.51   Abatement
Watershed Review Board
   
152.60   Appeal from the Watershed Administrator
   
152.61    Establishment of Watershed Review Board
   
152.62   Rules of conduct for members
   
152.63   Powers and duties of the Watershed Review Board
   
152.64   Appeals from the Watershed Review Board
   
152.65   Changes and amendments to the watershed protection ordinance
   
152.66   Public notice and hearing required
 
   
152.99   Penalty
AUTHORITY AND GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 152.01 DEFINITIONS.
   ACRE. For the purposes of this chapter one acre is equivalent to 40,000
square feet.
   AGRICULTURAL USE. The use of waters for stock watering, irrigation, and
other farm purposes.
   ANIMAL UNIT. A unit of measurement developed by the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency that is used to compare different types of animal operations.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP). A structural or nonstructural management-
based practice used singularly or in combination to reduce nonpoint source
inputs to receiving waters in order to achieve water quality protection goals.
   BUFFER. An area of natural or planted vegetation through which stormwater
runoff flows in a diffuse manner so that the runoff does not become channelized
and which provides for infiltration of the runoff and filtering of pollutants.
The buffer is measured landward from the normal pool elevation of impounded
structures and from the bank of each side of streams or rivers.
   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or by walls, and
intended for shelter, housing or enclosure of persons, animals or property. The
connection of two buildings by means of an open structure, with or without a
roof, shall not be deemed to make them one building.
   BUILT-UPON AREA. Built-upon areas shall include that portion of a
development project that is covered by impervious or partially impervious cover
including buildings, pavement, gravel roads, recreation facilities (e.g. tennis
courts), etc. (Note: Wooden slatted decks and the water area of a swimming pool
are considered pervious).
   CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT. The grouping of buildings in order to conserve land
resources and provide for innovation in the design of the project. This term
includes non-residential development as well as single-family developments that
do not involve the subdivision of land.
   COMPOSTING FACILITY. A facility in which only stumps, limbs, leaves, grass
and untreated wood collection from land clearing or landscaping operations is
deposited.
   CRITICAL AREA. The area adjacent to a water supply intake or reservoir where
risk associated with pollution is greater than from the remaining portions of -
the watershed. The critical area is defined as extending either one-half mile
from the normal pool elevation of the reservoir in which the intake is located
or to the ridge line of the watershed (whichever comes first); or one-half mile
upstream from the intake located directly in the stream or river (run-of-the-
river), or the ridge line of the watershed (whichever comes first). Since WS-
I watersheds are essentially undeveloped, establishment of a critical area is
not required. Local governments may extend the critical area as needed. Major
landmarks such as highways or property lines may be used to delineate the outer
boundary of the critical area if these landmarks are immediately adjacent to
the appropriate outer boundary of one-half mile.
   CUSTOMARY HOME OCCUPATIONS. Any use conducted entirely within a dwelling and
carried on by the occupants thereof, which use is clearly incidental and
secondary to the use of the dwelling for residential purposes and does not
change the character thereof. Provided further that no mechanical equipment is
installed or used except as is normally used for domestic or professional
purposes, and that not over 25% of the total floor space of any structure is
used for the occupation. No home occupation shall be conducted in any accessory
building except for the storage and service of a vehicle that is driven off
site, such as a service repair truck, delivery truck, etc.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any land disturbing activity which adds to or changes the
amount of impervious or partially impervious cover on a land area or which
otherwise decreases the infiltration of precipitation into the soil.
   DISCHARGING LANDFILL. A facility with liners, monitoring equipment and other
measures to detect and/or prevent leachate from entering the environment and in
which the leachate is treated on site and discharged to a receiving stream.
   DWELLING UNIT. A building, or portion thereof, providing complete and
permanent living facilities for one family.
   EXISTING DEVELOPMENT. Those projects that are built or those projects that
at a minimum have established a vested right under North Carolina zoning law as
of the effective date of this chapter based on at least one of the following
criteria:
      (1)   Substantial expenditures of resources (time, labor, money) based on
a good faith reliance upon having received a valid local government approval to
proceed with the project;
      (2)   Having an outstanding valid building permit as authorized by state
law; or
      (3)   Having expended substantial resources (time, labor, money) and
having an approved site specific or phased development plan as authorized by
the General Statutes.
   EXISTING LOT (LOT OF RECORD). A lot which is part of a subdivision, a plat
of which has been recorded in the Office of the Register of Deeds prior to the
adoption of this chapter, or a lot described by metes and bounds, the
description of which has been so recorded prior to the adoption of this
chapter.
   FAMILY. One or more persons occupying a single dwelling unit, provided that
unless all members are related by blood or marriage or adoption, no such family
shall contain over five persons, but further provided that domestic servants
employed or living on the premises may be housed on the premises without being
counted as a family or families.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any substance listed as such in: SARA section 302,
Extremely Hazardous Substances, CERCLA Hazardous Substances, or Section 311 of
CWA (oil and hazardous substances).
   INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT. Any non-residential development that requires an
NPDES permit for an industrial discharge and/or requires the use or storage of
any hazardous material for the purpose of manufacturing, assembling, finishing,
cleaning or developing any product or commodity.
   LANDFILL. A facility for the disposal of solid waste on land in a sanitary
manner in accordance with C. S. Ch. 130A, Art. 9. For the purpose of this
chapter this term does not include composting facilities.
   LOT. A parcel of contiguous land occupied or capable of being occupied by a
building or group of buildings devoted to a common use, together with the
customary accessories and open spaces belonging to the same.
   MAJOR VARIANCE. A variance that results in any one or more of the following:
      (1)   The complete waiver of a management requirement;
      (2)   The relaxation, by a factor of more than 10%, of any management
requirement that takes the form of a numerical standard;
      (3)   The relaxation of any management requirement that applies to a
development proposal intended to qualify under the high density option; or
      (4)   All requests for increased density or built-upon area.
   MINOR VARIANCE. A variance that does not qualify as a major variance.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT. All development other than residential
development, agriculture and silviculture.
   PLAT. A map or plan of a parcel of land which is to be, or has been
subdivided.
   RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT.  Buildings for residence such as attached and
detached single-family dwellings, apartment complexes, condominiums,
townhouses, cottages, etc. and their associated outbuildings such as garages,
storage buildings, gazebos, etc. and customary home occupations.
   SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL. Any development where: 1) no building contains
more than one dwelling unit, 2) every dwelling unit is on a separate lot, and
3) where no lot contains more than one dwelling unit.
   STREET (ROAD). A right-of-way for vehicular traffic which affords the
principal means of access to abutting properties.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, including but not limited to
buildings, which requires location on the land or attachment to something
having permanent location on the land.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person, firm or corporation who subdivides or develops any
land deemed to be a subdivision as herein defined.
   SUBDIVISION. All divisions of a tract or parcel of land into two or more
lots, building sites, or other divisions for the purpose of sale or building
development (whether immediate or future) and shall include all division of
land involving the dedication of a new street or a change in existing streets;
but the following shall not be included within this definition nor be subject
to the regulations authorized by this chapter:
      (1)   The combination or recombination of portions of previously
subdivided and recorded lots where the total number of lots is not increased
and the resultant lots are equal to or exceed the standards of this chapter;
      (2)   The division of land into parcels greater than 10 acres where no
street right-of-way dedication is involved;
      (3)   The public acquisition by purchase of strips of land for the
widening or opening of streets;
      (4)   The division of a tract in single ownership whose entire area is no
greater than two acres into not more than three lots, where no street right-of-
way dedication is involved and where the resultant lots are equal to or exceed
the standards of the this chapter; or
      (5)   The division of a tract into plots or lots used as a cemetery.
   TOXIC SUBSTANCE. Any substance or combination of substances (including
disease causing agents), which after discharge and upon exposure, ingestion,
inhalation, or assimilation into any organism, either directly from the
environment or indirectly by ingestion through food chains, has the potential
to cause death, disease, behavioral abnormalities, cancer, genetic mutations,
physiological malfunctions (including malfunctions or suppression in
reproduction or growth) or physical deformities in such organisms or their off
spring or other adverse health effects.
   VARIANCE. A permission to develop or use property granted by the Watershed
Review Board relaxing or waiving a water supply watershed management
requirement adopted by the Environmental Management Commission that is
incorporated into this chapter.
   WATER DEPENDENT STRUCTURE. Any structure for which the use requires access
to or proximity to or siting within surface waters to fulfill its basic
purpose, such as boat ramps, boat houses, docks and bulkheads. Ancillary
facilities such as restaurants, outlets for boat supplies, parking lots and
commercial boat storage areas are not water dependent structures.
   WATERSHED. The entire land area contributing surface drainage to a specific
point (e.g. the water supply intake).
   WATERSHED ADMINISTRATOR. An official or designated person of Davidson County
responsible for administration and enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord., passed 12-14-93)
§ 152.02 AUTHORITY AND ENACTMENT.
   The Legislature of the State of North Carolina has, in G.S. §§ 153A, 160A,
Article 6, 8, and §§ 121, 174, General Ordinance Authority; and in Chapter 143,
Article 21, Watershed Protection Rules, delegated the responsibility or
directed local governmental units to adopt regulations designed to promote the
public health, safety, and general welfare of its citizenry. The Governing
Board of Davidson County does hereby ordain and enact into law the following
articles as the Watershed Protection Ordinance of Davidson County.
(Ord., passed 12-14-93)
§ 152.03 JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply within the areas designated as a
Public Water Supply Watershed by the N.C. Environmental Management Commission
and shall be defined on the map entitled, "Watershed Protection Map of Davidson
County, North Carolina." The Watershed Map is hereby made a part of this
chapter. The ordinance enacting this chapter shall be permanently kept on file
in the office of the Davidson County Clerk.
(Ord., passed 12-14-93)
§ 152.04 EXCEPTIONS TO APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   This chapter will not affect existing ordinances or agreements between
parties unless those ordinances or agreements are less restrictive than the
Watershed Protection chapter. In those situations the Watershed Protection
chapter will take precedence.
   (B)   It is not intended that these regulations interfere with any easement,
covenants or other agreements between parties. However, if the provisions of
these regulations impose greater restrictions for the use of a building or
land, then the provisions of these regulations shall control.
   (C)   Existing development, as defined in this chapter, is not subject to
the requirements of this chapter. Expansions to existing development must meet
the requirements of this chapter, however, the built-upon area of the existing
development is not required to be included in the density calculations.
   (D)   A pre-existing recorded lot owned by an individual prior to the
effective date of this chapter, regardless of whether or not a vested right has
been established, may be developed for single family residential purposes
without being subject to the regulations of this chapter. However, this
exemption is not applicable to multiple contiguous lots under single ownership.
(Ord., passed 12-14-93)
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
§ 152.15 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   No subdivision plat of land within the Public Water Supply Watershed shall
be filed or recorded by the Register of Deeds until it has been approved in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord., passed 12-14-93) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.16 SUBDIVISION APPLICATION AND REVIEW.
   (A)   All proposed subdivisions shall be reviewed prior to recording with
the Register of Deeds by submitting a vicinity map to the Watershed
Administrator to determine whether or not the property is located within the
designated Public Water Supply Watershed. Subdivisions that are not within the
designated watershed area shall not be subject to the provisions of this
chapter and may be recorded provided the Watershed Administrator initials the
vicinity map. Subdivisions within the designated watershed area shall comply
with the provisions of this Article and all other state and local requirements
that may apply.
   (B)   If the Watershed Administrator or the Watershed Review Board approves
the application, such approval shall be indicated on both copies of the plat by
the following certificate and signed by the Chairman or other authorized member
of the Board:
Certificate of Approval for Recording
I certify that the plat shown hereon complies with the Watershed Protection
ordinance and is approved by the Watershed Administrator for recording in the
Register of Deeds office.
                                                                                  
   Date      Watershed Administrator/Chairman, Review Board
   (C)   If the Watershed Administrator or Review Board approves or disapproves
the application conditionally, the reasons for such action shall be stated in
writing for the applicant and entered in the minutes. The subdivider may make
changes and submit a revised plan which shall constitute a separate request for
the purpose of review.
   (D)   All subdivision plats shall comply with the requirements for recording
of the Davidson County Register of Deeds.
   (E)   All subdivision plats shall comply with the requirements of the
Davidson County subdivision ordinance.
(Ord., passed 12-14-93)
§ 152.17 SUBDIVISION STANDARDS AND REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Lots which are smaller than the minimum required for residential lots
shall be identified on the plat as, "NOT FOR RESIDENTIAL PURPOSES."
   (B)   For the purpose of calculating built-upon area, total project area
shall include total acreage in the tract on which the project is to be
developed.
   (C)   Storm water drainage facilities. The application shall be accompanied
by a description of the proposed method of providing storm water drainage. The
subdivider shall provide a drainage system that diverts stormwater runoff away
from surface waters and incorporates best management practices to minimize
water quality impacts.
   (D)   Roads constructed in critical areas and watershed buffer areas. Where
possible, roads should be located outside of critical areas and watershed
buffer areas. Roads constructed within these areas shall be designed and
constructed so to minimize their impact on water quality.
(Ord., passed 12-14-93) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.18 CONSTRUCTION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   No construction or installation or improvements shall commence in a
proposed subdivision until a subdivision plat has been approved by the
Watershed Review Board.
   (B)   No building or other permit shall be issued for erection of a
structure on any lot not of record at the time of adoption of this chapter
until all requirements of this chapter have been met.
(Ord., passed 12-14-93) Penalty, see §
152.99
DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS
§ 152.25 ESTABLISHMENT OF WATERSHED AREAS.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to list and describe the watershed areas
herein adopted. For purposes of this subchapter, Davidson County is hereby
divided into the following areas:
   WS-III, CA (CRITICAL AREA), BW (BALANCE OF WATERSHED)
   (LAKE THOM-A-LEX WATERSHED)
   (UWHARRIE RIVER WATERSHED)
   WS-IV, CA (CRITICAL AREA), BW (BALANCE OF WATERSHED)
   (YADKIN RIVER WATERSHED)
   (LAKE TUCKERTOWN WATERSHED)
(Ord., passed 12-14-99) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.26 WATERSHED AREA DESCRIBED.
   (A)   WS-III Watershed Areas - Critical Area (WS-III-CA)
      (1)   Allowed Uses:
         (a)   Agriculture, subject to the provisions of the Food Security Act
of 1985 and the Food, Agriculture, Conservation and Trade Act of 1990 and the
rules and regulations of the Soil and Water Conservation Commission.
         (b)   Silviculture, subject to the provisions of the Forest Practices
Guidelines Related to Water Quality (15 NCAC 11.6101-.0209).
         (c)   Residential.
         (d)   Non-residential development, excluding:
            1.   The storage of toxic and hazardous materials unless a spill
containment plan is implemented;
            2.   Landfills; and
            3.   Sites for land application of sludge/ residuals or petroleum
contaminated soils. New industrial development is required to incorporate
adequately designed, constructed and maintained spill containment structures if
hazardous materials are either used, stored or manufactured on the premises.
      (2)   Density and Built-Upon Limits.
         (a)   Single Family Residential. Development shall not exceed one
dwelling unit per one acre (40,000 square feet excluding roadway right-of-way)
         (b)   All Other Residential and Non-Residential. Development shall not
exceed 12% built-upon area on a project by project basis. For the purpose of
calculating built-upon area, the total amount of impervious surface in the
tract on which the project is to be developed shall be included.
   B)   WS-III Watershed Areas - Balance of Watershed (WS-III-BW)
      (1)    Allowed Uses:
         (a)   Agriculture, subject to the provisions of the Food Security Act
of 1985 and the Food, Agricultural, Conservation and Trade Act of 1990.
         (b)   Silviculture, subject to the provisions of the Forest Practices
Guidelines Related to Water Quality (15 NCAC 11.6101.0209).
         (c)   Residential development.
         (d)   Non-residential development excluding discharging landfills and
the storage of toxic and hazardous materials.
         (e)   Non-discharging landfills and storage application sites.
      (2)   Density and Built-Upon Limits:
         (a)   Single Family Residential development shall not exceed one
dwelling unit per acre, as defined on a project by project basis. No
residential lot shall be less than one acre (or 40,000 square feet excluding
roadway right-of-way).
         (b)   All Other Residential and Non-Residential development shall not
exceed 24% built- upon area on a project by project basis except that up to 10%
of the balance of the watershed may be developed for nonresidential uses to 70%
built upon area when approved as a special nonresidential intensity allocation
(SNIA). The Watershed Administrator is authorized to approve SNIAs consistent
with the provisions of this chapter. The 70% built-upon option will be
allocated on a project by project basis until the 10% balance is fulfilled.
Projects must minimize built-upon surface area, direct stormwater away from
surface waters and incorporate Best Management Practices to minimize water
quality impacts. For the purpose of calculating built-upon area, the total
amount of impervious surface in the tract on which the project is to be
developed shall be included. (Amended on December 12, 1995)
   (C)   WS-IV Watershed Areas - Critical Area (WS-IV-CA).
      (1)   Allowed Uses:
         (a)   Agriculture subject to the provisions of the Food Security Act
of 1985 and the Food, Agriculture, Conservation and Trade Act of 1990 and the
rules and regulations of the Soil and Water Conservation Commission.
         (b)   Silviculture, subject to the provisions of the Forest Practices
Guidelines Related to Water Quality (15 NCAC 11.6101-.0209).
         (c)   Residential.
         (d)   Non-residential development, excluding: 1) the storage of toxic
and hazardous materials; 2) landfills; and 3) sites for land application of
sludge/residuals or petroleum contaminated soils.
      (2)   Density and Built-Upon Limits:
         (a)   Single Family Residential development shall not exceed one
dwelling unit per acre on a project by project basis. No residential lot shall
be less than one acre (or 40,000 square feet excluding roadway right-of-way).
         (b)   All Other Residential and Non-Residential-development shall not
exceed twenty-four percent (24%) built-upon area on a project by project basis.
For the purpose of calculating the built upon area, the total amount of
impervious surface in the tract on which the project is to be developed shall
be included.
   (D)   WS-IV Watershed Areas - Balance of Watershed (WS-IV-BW).
      (1)   Uses Allowed:
         (a)   Agriculture, subject to the provisions of the Food Security Act
of 1985 and the Food, Agricultural, Conservation and Trade Act of 1990.
         (b)   Silviculture, subject to the provisions of the Forest Practices
Guidelines Related to Water Quality (15 NCAC 11.6101-.0209).
         (c)   Residential development.
         (d)   Non-residential development, excluding the storage of toxic and
hazardous materials.
      (2)   Density and Built-Upon Limits:
         (a)   Single Family Residential. development shall not exceed one
dwelling unit per acre, as defined on a project by project basis. No
residential lot shall be less than one acre (or 40,000 square feet excluding
roadway right-of-way).
         (b)   All Other Residential and Non-Residential. Development shall not
exceed 24% built upon area on a project by project basis except that up to 10%
of the balance of the watershed may be developed for nonresidential uses to 70%
built upon area when approved as a special nonresidential intensity allocation
(SNIA). The Watershed Administrator is authorized to approve SNIAs consistent
with the provisions of this chapter. The 70% built upon option will be
allocated on a project by project basis until the 10% balance is fulfilled.
Projects must minimize built upon surface area, direct stormwater away from
surface waters and incorporate Best Management Practices to minimize water
quality impacts. For the purpose of calculating built upon area, the total
amount of impervious surface in the tract on which the project is to be
developed shall be included.
(Ord., passed 12-14-93) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.27 CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT.
   Clustering of development is not allowed in any of the watersheds of the
county.
(Ord., passed 12-14-93) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.28 BUFFER AREAS REQUIRED.
   (A)   A minimum 50 foot vegetative buffer for development activities is
required along all perennial waters indicated on the most recent versions of
U.S.G.S 1:24,000 (7.5 Minute) scale topographic maps.
   (B)   No new development is allowed in the buffer except for water dependent
structures, other structures such as flag poles, signs and security lights
which result in only diminimus increases in impervious areas and public
projects such as road crossings and greenways where no practical alternative
exists.
(Ord., passed 12-14-93) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.29 RULES GOVERNING THE INTERPRETATION OF WATERSHED AREA BOUNDARIES.
   Where area boundaries are indicated as approximately following either
street, alley, railroad or lot lines, such lines shall be construed to be said
boundaries.
(Ord., passed 12-14-93)
§ 152.30 APPLICATIONS OF REGULATIONS
   (A)   No building or land shall hereafter be used and no development shall
take place except in conformity with the regulations herein specified for the
watershed area in which it is located.
   (B)   Every residential building hereafter erected, moved or structurally
altered shall be located on a lot which conforms to the regulations herein
specified, except as permitted in §
152.31.
(Ord., passed 12-14-93) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.31 EXISTING DEVELOPMENT.
   Any existing development as defined in this chapter, may be continued and
maintained subject to the provisions provided herein. Expansions to structures
classified as existing development must meet the requirements of this chapter,
however, the built-upon area of the existing development is not required to be
included in the density calculation.
   (A)   Vacant lots. This category consists of vacant lots for which plats or
deeds have been recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds (Davidson
County). Lots may be used for any of the uses allowed in the watershed area in
which it is located, provided the following:
      (1)   Where the lot area is below the minimum specified in this chapter,
the Watershed Administrator is authorized to issue a watershed protection
permit; and
      (2)   Whenever two or more contiguous residential vacant lots of record
are in single ownership at any time after the adoption of this chapter and such
lots individually have less area than the minimum requirements for residential
purposes for the watershed area in which such lots are located, such lots shall
be combined to create one or more lots that meet the standards of this chapter,
or if this is not possible, reduce to the extent possible the nonconformity of
the lots. (Lots of record depicting 20,000 square feet and valid approved
preliminary plats are excluded).
   (B)   Occupied lots. This category consists of lots, occupied for
residential purposes at the time of the adoption of this chapter. These lots
may continue to be used provided that whenever two or more adjoining lots of
record, one of which is occupied, are in single ownership at any time after the
adoption of this chapter, and such lots individually or together have less area
than the minimum requirements for residential purposes for the watershed area
in which they are located, such lots shall be combined to create lots which
meet the minimum size requirements or which minimize the degree of
nonconformity.
   (C)   Uses of land.   This consists of uses existing at the time of adoption
of this chapter where such use of the land is not permitted to be established
hereafter in the watershed area in which it is located. Such uses may be
continued except as follows:
      (1)   When such use of land has been changed to an allowed use, it shall
not revert to any prohibited use;
      (2)   Such use of land shall be changed only to an allowed use; and
      (3)   When such use ceases for a period of at least six months, it shall
not be reestablished.
   (D)   Reconstruction of buildings or built-upon areas. Any existing building
or built-upon area not in conformance with the restrictions of this chapter
that has been damaged or removed may be repaired and/or reconstructed, provided
that:
      (1)   Reconstruction is initiated within six months and completed within
two years of such damage; and
      (2)   The total amount of space devoted to built-upon area may not be
increased unless stormwater control that equals or exceeds the previous
development is provided.
(Ord., passed 12-14-93) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.32 WATERSHED PROTECTION PERMIT.
   (A)   Except where a single family residence is constructed on a lot deeded
prior to the effective date of this chapter, no building or built-upon area
shall be erected, moved, enlarged or structurally altered, nor shall any
building permit be issued nor shall any change in the use of any building or
land be made until a Watershed Protection Permit has been issued by the
Watershed Administrator.
   (B)   No Watershed Protection Permit shall be issued except in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord., passed 12-14-93)
§ 152.33 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Except for a single family residence constructed on a lot deeded prior to
the effective date of this chapter, no permit required under the North Carolina
State Building Code shall be issued for any activity in a designated watershed
until a Watershed Protection Permit has been issued.
(Ord., passed 12-14-93) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.34 WATERSHED PROTECTION OCCUPANCY PERMIT.
   (A)   The Watershed Administrator shall issue a Watershed Protection
Occupancy Permit certifying that all requirements of this chapter have been met
prior to the occupancy or use of a building hereafter erected, altered or moved
and/or prior to the change of use of any building or land.
   (B)   A Watershed Protection Occupancy Permit, either for the whole or part,
of a building, shall be applied for coincident with the application for a
Watershed Protection Permit and shall be issued or denied within ten days after
the erection or structural alterations of the building.
   (C)   When only a change in use of land or existing building occurs, the
Watershed Administrator shall issue a Watershed Protection Occupancy Permit
certifying that all requirements of this chapter have been met coincident with
the Watershed Protection Permit.
   (D)   If the Watershed Protection Occupancy Permit is denied, the Watershed
Administrator shall notify the applicant in writing stating the reasons for
denial.
   (E)   No building or structure which has been erected, moved, or
structurally altered may be occupied until the Watershed Administrator has
approved and issued a Watershed Protection Occupancy Permit.
(Ord., passed 12-14-93)
PUBLIC HEALTH REGULATIONS
§ 152.50 PUBLIC HEALTH, IN GENERAL.
   No activity, situation, structure or land use shall be allowed within the
watershed which poses a threat to water quality and the public health, safety
and welfare. Such conditions may arise from inadequate sedimentation and
erosion control measures; the improper storage or disposal of junk, trash or
other refuse within a buffer area, the absence or improper implementation of a
spill containment plan for toxic and hazardous materials; the improper
management of stormwater runoff; or any other situation found to pose a threat
to water quality.
(Ord., passed 12-14-93) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.51 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   The Watershed Administrator shall monitor the land use activities
within the watershed areas to identify situations that may pose a threat to
water quality.
   (B)   The Watershed Administrator shall report all findings to the Watershed
Review Board. The Watershed Administrator may consult with any public agency or
official and request recommendations.
   (C)   The Watershed Administrator shall keep records of all amendments to
the local Water Supply Watershed Protection chapter and shall provide copies of
all amendments upon adoption to the Supervisor of the Classification and
Standards Group, Water Quality Section, Division of Environmental Management.
   (D)    The Watershed Administrator shall keep records of the provision that
a maximum of 10% of the non-critical area of WS-III-BW and WS-IV-BW watersheds
may be developed with non-residential development to a maximum of 70% built
upon surface area. Records for each watershed shall include the total acres of
non-critical watershed option, total acres eligible to be developed under this
option, and individual records for each project with the following information:
location, acres, site plan, use, stormwater management plan as applicable and
inventory of hazardous materials as applicable.
   (E)    The Watershed Administrator is granted the authority to administer
and enforce the provisions of this chapter, exercising the full police power of
the County. The Watershed Administrator, or his duly authorized representative,
may enter any building, structure, or premises, as provided by law, to perform
any duty imposed upon him by this chapter.
   (F)    The Watershed Administrator shall keep a record of variances to the
local Water Supply Watershed Protection Ordinance. This record shall be
submitted to the Superior of the Classification and Standards Group, Water
Quality Section, Division of Environmental Management on an annual basis and
shall provide a description of each project receiving a variance and the
reasons for granting the variance.
(Ord., passed 12-14-93) Penalty, see §
152.99
WATERSHED REVIEW BOARD
§ 152.60 APPEAL FROM THE WATERSHED ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the
Watershed Administrator may be appealed to and decided by the Watershed Review
Board.
   (B)   An appeal from a decision of the Watershed Administrator must be
submitted to the Watershed Review Board within thirty (30) days from the date
the decision was made. All appeals must be made in writing stating the reasons
for appeal.
   (C)   The Board shall fix a reasonable time for hearing the appeal and give
notice thereof to the parties and shall decide the same within a reasonable
time. At the hearing, any party may appear in person, by agent or by attorney.
(Ord., passed 12-14-93)
§ 152.61 ESTABLISHMENT OF WATERSHED REVIEW BOARD.
   (A)   There shall be and hereby is created the Watershed Review Board
consisting of five members and two alternates. All of whom shall be residents
of the County.
   (B)   All members shall be appointed for three year terms.
   (C)   In order to hear and act on all variances or appeals of this Watershed
Protection Ordinance, the Davidson County Zoning Board of Adjustment shall
hereby be declared the Watershed Review Board.
(Ord., passed 12-14-93)
§ 152.62 RULES OF CONDUCT FOR MEMBERS.
   Members of the Board may be removed by the Davidson County Governing Board
for cause, including violation of the rules stated below:
   (A)   Faithful attendance at meetings of the Board and conscientious
performance of the duties required of members of the Board shall be considered
a prerequisite for continuing membership on the Board.
   (B)   No board member shall take part in the hearing, consideration, or
determination of any case in which he is personally or financially interested.
A Board member shall not have a financial interest in a case when a decision in
the case will cause him or his spouse to experience a direct financial benefit
or loss; or will cause a business in which he or his spouse owns a 10 percent
or greater interest, or is involved in a decision making role, to experience a
direct financial benefit or loss. A Board member shall not have a "personal
interest" in a case when it involves a member of his immediate family (i.e.,
parent, spouse, or child).
   (C)   No Board member shall discuss any case with any parties thereto prior
to the public hearing on that case, provided, however, that members may receive
and/or seek information pertaining to the case from the Watershed Administrator
or any other member of the Board, its secretary or clerk prior to the hearing.
   (D)   Members of the Board shall not express individual opinions on the
proper judgement of any case prior to its determination on that case.
   (E)   No Board member shall vote on any matter that decides an application
or appeal unless he had attended the public hearing on that application or
appeal.
(Ord., passed 12-14-93)
§ 152.63 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE WATERSHED REVIEW BOARD.
   (A)   Administrative Review. The Watershed Review Board shall hear and
decide upon all appeals from any decisions made by the Watershed Administrator
in the enforcement of this ordinance.
   (B)   Variances. The Watershed Review Board shall have the power to
authorize minor variances as described in this chapter as long as it is not
contrary to the public health, safety
and welfare and can show substantial justice being done. In addition, the
county shall notify and allow a reasonable comment period for all other local
governments having jurisdiction in the designated watershed where the variance
is being considered.
   (C)   Applications for a variance shall be made on the proper form
obtainable from the Watershed Administrator in the Planning Department and
shall include the following information:
      (1)   A site plan indicating the property lines of the parcel upon which
the use is proposed; any existing or proposed structures, parking areas and
other built-upon areas. The site plan shall show the north arrow, name and
address of person who prepared the plan, and the date of the original drawing;
      (2)   A complete and detailed description of the proposed variance,
together with any other pertinent information which the applicant feels would
be helpful to the Watershed Review Board in considering the application; and
      (3)   The Watershed Administrator shall notify in writing each local
government having jurisdiction in the watershed. Such notice shall include a
description of the variance being requested. Upon receiving notice of the
variance request, local governments may submit commands to the Watershed
Administrator prior to a decision by the Watershed Review Board.
   (D)   Before the Watershed Review Board may grant a variance, it shall make
the following three findings, and record them in the permanent record. The
findings shall include the reasons or facts on which they are based.
      (1)   There are practical difficulties or hardships in the way of
carrying out the letter of the chapter. In order to determine that there are
practical difficulties or hardships, the Board must find that the five
following conditions exist:
         (a)   If the applicant complies with the provisions of the chapter, he
can no longer secure a reasonable return from, nor make reasonable use of, his
property;
         (b)   The hardship is a result from the enforcement of the chapter to
the property rather than from other factors such as deed restrictions or other
hardships;
         (c)   The hardship is due to the physical nature of the applicants'
property, such as its size, shape, or topography, which is different from that
of neighboring property;
         (d)   The-hardship is not the result of the actions of an applicant
who knowingly or unknowingly violates the chapter, or who purchases the
property after the effective date of the chapter, and then comes to the Board
for relief; and
         (e)   The hardship is peculiar to the applicants property, rather than
the result of conditions that are widespread. If other properties are equally
subject to the hardship created in the restriction, then granting a variance
would be a special privilege denied to others, and would not promote equal
justice.
      (2)   The variance is in harmony with the general purpose and intent of
the chapter and preserves the spirit.
      (3)   In the granting of the variance, the public safety and welfare have
been assured and substantial justice has been done. The Board shall not grant a
variance if it finds that doing so would in any respect impair the public
health, safety, or general welfare.
   (E)   In granting the variance, the Board may attach conditions regarding
the location, character, and other features of the proposed building,
structure, or use as it may deem advisable to further promote the purpose of
this chapter. If a variance for the construction, alteration or use of property
is granted, such construction, alteration or use shall be in accordance with
the approved site plan.
   (F)   The Watershed Review Board shall refuse to hear an appeal of an
application for a variance previously denied if it finds that there have been
no substantial changes in conditions bearing on the appeal or application.
   (G)   A variance issued in accordance with this section shall be considered
a Watershed Protection Permit and shall expire if a Building Permit for such
use is not obtained by the applicant within six (6) months from the date of the
decision.
   (H)   If the application calls for the granting of a major variance, and if
the Watershed Review Board decides in favor of granting the variance, the Board
shall prepare a preliminary record of the hearing which shall include
      (1)   The variance application;
      (2)   The hearing notices;
      (3)   The evidence presented;
      (4)   Motions, offers of proof, objections to evidence, and rulings on
them;
      (5)   Proposed findings and exceptions; and
      (6)   The proposed decision, including all conditions proposed to be
added to the permit.
   (I)   The preliminary record shall be sent to the Environmental Management
Commission for its review as follows:
      (1)   If the Commission concludes from the preliminary record that the
variance qualifies as a major variance and that (1) the property owner can
secure no reasonable return from, nor make any reasonable use of the property
unless the proposed variance is granted, and (2) the variance, if granted, will
not result in a serious threat to the water supply, then the Commission shall
approve the variance as proposed or approve the proposed variance with
conditions and stipulations. The Commission shall prepare a commission decision
and send it to the Watershed Review Board. If the Commission approves the
variance as proposed, the Board shall prepare a final decision granting the
proposed variance. If the Commission approves the variance with conditions and
stipulations, the Board shall prepare a final decision, including such
conditions and stipulations, granting the proposed variance.
      (2)   If the Commission concluded from the preliminary record that the
variance qualifies as a major variance and that the property owner can secure a
reasonable return from or make a reasonable use of the property without the
variance, or the variance, if granted, will result in a serious threat to the
water supply, then the commission shall deny approval of the variance as
proposed. The Commission shall prepare a commission decision and send it to the
Watershed Review Board. The Board shall prepare a final decision denying the
variance as proposed.
   (J)   Subdivision Approval. See G.S. § 152.01
   (K)   Public Health. See G.S. §§ 152.50, 152.51.
(Ord., passed 12-14-93)
§ 152.64 APPEALS FROM THE WATERSHED REVIEW BOARD.
   Appeals from the Watershed Review Board must be filled with the Superior
Court within 30 days from the date of the decision. The decisions by the
Superior Court will be in the manner of certiorari.
(Ord., passed 12-14-93)
§ 152.65 CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS TO THE WATERSHED PROTECTION ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The Davidson County Board of Commissioners may, on its own motion or
petition, after public notice and hearing, amend, supplement, change or modify
the watershed regulations as described herein.
   (B)   No action shall be taken until the proposal has been submitted to the
Watershed Review Board for review and recommendations. If no recommendations
has been received from the Watershed Review Board within 45 days after
submission of the proposal, the Davidson County Board of Commissioners may
proceed as though a favorable report had been received.
   (C)   Under no circumstances shall the Davidson County Board adopt such
amendments, supplements or changes that would cause this chapter to violate the
watershed protection rules as adopted by the N.C. Environmental Management
Commission. All amendments must be filed with the N.C. Division of
Environmental Management, N.C. Division of Environmental Health, and the N.C.
Division of Community Assistance.
(Ord., passed 12-14-93)
§ 152.66 PUBLIC NOTICE AND HEARING REQUIRED.
   Before amending this chapter, the Davidson County Board of Commissioners
shall hold a public hearing on the proposed changes. A notice of the public
hearing shall be given once a week for two successive calendar weeks in a
newspaper having general circulation in the area. The notice shall be published
for the first time not less than ten nor more than 25 days before the date
fixed for the hearing.
(Ord., passed 12-14-93)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)    If any subdivision, development and/or land use is found to be in
violation of this chapter, the Davidson County Governing Board may institute a
civil penalty in the amount of $100.00, action or proceedings to restrain,
correct, or abate the violation; to prevent occupancy of the building,
structure, or land; or to prevent any illegal act, conduct, business, or use in
or about the premises. In addition, the N.C.E.M.C. may assess civil penalties
in accordance with G.S. § 143-215.6A.
   (B)   If the Watershed Administrator finds that any of the provisions of
this chapter are being violated, he shall notify in writing the person
responsible for such violation, indicating the nature of the violation, and
ordering the action necessary to correct it. He shall order discontinuance of
the illegal use of land, buildings or structures, removal of illegal buildings
or structures, or of additions, alterations or structural changes thereto;
discontinuance of any illegal work being done; or shall take any action
authorized by this chapter to ensure compliance with or to prevent violation of
its provisions. If a ruling of the Watershed Administrator is questioned, the
aggrieved party or parties may appeal such ruling to the Watershed Review
Board.
(Ord., passed 12-14-93; Ord. passed 4-22-24)
CHAPTER 153: VOLUNTARY AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Title
   
153.002   Authority
   
153.003   Purpose
   
153.004   Definitions
Agricultural Advisory Board
   
153.015   Creation
   
153.016   Membership
   
153.017   Membership requirements
   
153.018   Tenure
   
153.019   Vacancies
   
153.020   Removal
   
153.021   Funding
   
153.022   Procedure
   
153.023   Duties
Creation of Voluntary Agricultural District
   
153.035   Regions
   
153.036   Implementation
   
153.037   Education
   
153.038   Addition and withdrawal
Certification and Qualification of Farmland
   
153.045   Requirements
Application, Approval and Appeal
   
153.055   Application procedure
   
153.056   Approval process
   
153.057   Appeal procedure
Revocation and Renewal of Conservation Agreement
   
153.065   Revocation
   
153.066   Renewal
Public Hearings
   
153.075   Purpose
   
153.076   Procedure
Notification: Record Notice of Proximity to Voluntary Agricultural District
   153.085   Procedure
   
153.086   Limit of liability
   
153.087   No cause of action
Subdivision Ordinance and Zoning Ordinance Review
   
153.095   Designation on preliminary development plans.
Abeyances Related to Water and Sewer Assessments
   
153.105   No connection required
   
153.106   Abeyance
   
153.107   Termination of abeyance
   
153.108   Suspension of statute of limitations
   
153.109   Other statutory abeyance procedures
   
153.110   Conflict with water and/or sewer system construction and improvement
grants
County Land Use Planning
   
153.120   County land use planning
Consultation Authority
   
153.130   Consultation authority
North Carolina Agency Notification
   
153.140   Annual report to the North Carolina Department of Agricultural and
Consumer Services
Legal Provisions
   
153.150   Conflict with other ordinances and statutes
   
153.151   Amendments
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 TITLE.
   This chapter may be known and cited as “the Voluntary Agricultural District
Ordinance of Davidson County.”
(Ord. passed 2-14-12)
§ 153.002 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted pursuant to authority conferred by the G.S. §§ 106-
735 through 106-744 and G.S. Chapter 153A.
(Ord. passed 2-14-12)
§ 153.003 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to promote agricultural values and the
general welfare of the county, and more specifically, increase identity and
pride in the agricultural community and its way of life; encourage the economic
and financial health of agriculture; and increase protection from non-farm
development and other negative impacts on properly managed farms.
(Ord. passed 2-14-12)
§ 153.004 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADVISORY BOARD. The Davidson County Agricultural Advisory Board
   AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT. The Davidson County Voluntary Agricultural District
as established by this chapter.
   AGRICULTURE. Farming, forestry and horticulture.
   BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS. The Davidson County Board of Commissioners.
   CHAIRPERSON. The chairperson of the Davidson County Agricultural Advisory
Board.
   REGIONS.  The Davidson County Voluntary Agricultural District is divided
into five regions for
purposes of board representation and administration.
(Ord. passed 2-14-12)
AGRICULTURAL ADVISORY BOARD
§ 153.015 CREATION.
   The Board of Commissioners shall establish an Agricultural Advisory Board to
implement the provisions of this Program.
(Ord. passed 2-14-12)
§ 153.016 MEMBERSHIP.
   The Advisory Board shall consist of at least ten members appointed by the
Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 2-14-12)
§ 153.017 MEMBERSHIP REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Each Advisory Board member shall be a Davidson County resident and
landowner.
   (B)   The Advisory Board shall be comprised of five members (one
representing each region), and at least two at-large members. In addition,
three ex officio, non-voting members, one each from the Cooperative Extension,
the Soil and Water Conservation District/Natural Resource Conservation Service,
and Planning Department, shall serve on the Board.
   (C)   The five regional Advisory Board members shall be engaged in
agriculture (i.e., farming, forestry or horticulture) with land in the Present
Use Value Tax Program.
   (D)   At-large members are not restricted to, but may include,
representatives from the County Planning Board, Farm Bureau, Farm Service
Agency Advisory Board, Economic Development, and the like.
   (E)   The members actively engaged in agriculture, as well as other members,
shall be selected for appointment by the Board of Commissioners, including the
names of individuals submitted to the Board of Commissioners by the Soil and
Water Conservation District Board of Supervisors/Soil and Water Conservation
District, the county office of the North Carolina Cooperative Extension
Service, the U.S. Farm Service Agency County Committee, nonprofit agricultural
organizations, conservation organizations, agribusiness, and the public at
large.
(Ord. passed 2-14-12)
§ 153.018 TENURE.
   The initial Board is to consist of two appointees for terms of one year; two
appointees for terms of two years: and three appointees for terms of three
years. Thereafter, all appointments are to be for terms of three years, with
reappointment permitted. The three Cooperative Extension Service, Natural
Resource and Conservation Service, and Planning Department ex officio
appointments serve on an ongoing basis.
(Ord. passed 2-14-12)
§ 153.019 VACANCIES.
   Any vacancy on the Advisory Board is to be filled by the Board of
Commissioners for the remainder of the unexpired term.
(Ord. passed 2-14-12)
§ 153.020 REMOVAL.
   Any member of the Advisory Board may be removed by the Board of
Commissioners upon a two-thirds vote of the Commissioners. No cause for removal
shall be required.
(Ord. passed 2-14-12)
§ 153.021 FUNDING.
   The per diem compensation or travel reimbursement, if any, for the members
of the Advisory Board may be fixed by the Board of Commissioners, and funds may
be appropriated to the Advisory Board to perform its duties.
(Ord. passed 2-14-12)
§ 153.022 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Chairperson. The Advisory Board shall elect a chairperson and vice-
chairperson each year at its first meeting of the fiscal year. The chairperson
shall preside over all regular or special meetings of the Advisory Board. In
the absence or disability of the chairperson, the vice-chairperson shall
preside and shall exercise all the powers of the chairperson. Additional
officers may be elected as needed.
(Ord. passed 2-14-12)
   (B)   Jurisdiction. The Advisory Board may adopt rules of procedure not
inconsistent with this chapter or with other provisions of state law.
   (C)   Advisory Board year. The Advisory Board shall use the county fiscal
year as its meeting year.
   (D)   Meetings. Meetings of the Advisory Board shall be held every other
month at the call of the chairperson, and at such other times as the Advisory
Board may specify in its rules of procedure, or upon the request of at least a
majority of the Advisory Board membership. Meeting dates and times shall be
posted as far in advance as possible on the county government website, and by
notice in local newspapers. All meetings shall be open to the public. Meetings
may be cancelled if there is no business to conduct.
   (E)   Majority vote. All issues shall be decided by a majority vote of the
members of the Advisory Board present, except as otherwise stated herein. A
quorum is required to vote on issues.
   (F)   Records. The Advisory Board shall keep minutes of the proceedings,
showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to
vote, indicating such fact. The Advisory Board shall keep records of its
examinations and other official actions, all of which shall be filed in the
office of the Advisory Board and shall be a public record.
   (G)   Administration.  The Advisory Board may contract with the Soil and
Water Conservation District office to serve the Board for record keeping,
correspondence, application procedures under this chapter, and whatever
services the Board needs to complete its duties.
   (H)   Operating procedures. The current version of Robert's Rules of Order
shall govern operating procedures.
(Ord. passed 2-14-12)
§ 153.023 DUTIES.
   The Advisory Board shall:
   (A)   Review and approve applications for qualified farmland to enroll in
the Voluntary Agricultural District, and make recommendations concerning the
establishment and modification of the Agricultural District;
   (B)   Conduct public hearings;
   (C)   Advise the Board of Commissioners on projects, programs or issues
affecting the agricultural economy or activities within the county that will
affect the Agricultural District;
   (D)   Review and make recommendations concerning proposed amendments to this
chapter;
   (E)   Shall develop a draft county-wide farmland protection plan, as defined
in G.S. § 106-744(e)(1), for presentation to the Board of Commissioners;
   (F)   Study additional methods of farmland preservation and make
recommendations to the Board of Commissioners;
   (G)   Serve as liaison to municipal Agricultural District Program
representatives; and
   (H)   Perform other agriculture-related tasks or duties assigned by the
Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 2-14-12)
CREATION OF VOLUNTARY AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
§ 153.035 REGIONS.
   Davidson County is hereby divided into five regions as defined below:
   (A)   Townships of Arcadia, Hampton, Midway and Abbotts Creek;
   (B)   Townships of Boone, Reedy Creek, Tyro and Yadkin College;
   (C)   Townships of Lexington and Thomasville;
   (D)   Townships of Conrad Hill, Cotton Grove and Silver Hill;
   (E)   Townships of Alleghany, Emmons, Healing Springs and Jackson Hill.
(Ord. passed 2-14-12)
§ 153.036 IMPLEMENTATION.
   (A)   In order to implement the purposes stated in §
153.003, this Program provides for the creation of the county-wide Voluntary
Agricultural District, which meets the following standards: the District shall
contain two or more qualifying farms, or a minimum of 50 contiguous acres of
qualified farmland to initiate a voluntary agricultural district.
   (B)   All land enrolled in a region, defined in §
153.035 above, shall be part of a single region. If a single farm has acreage
in two or more regions, the farm shall participate in the region where the
largest acreage is found.
(Ord. passed 2-14-12)
§ 153.037 EDUCATION.
   The county may take such action as it deems appropriate through the Advisory
Board or other entities or individuals to encourage the formation of the
District, and to further its purposes and objectives, including the
implementation of a public information program to inform landowners of the
Agricultural District Program.
(Ord. passed 2-14-12)
§ 153.038 ADDITION AND WITHDRAWAL.
   (A)   Qualifying farmland in a region within an existing district shall be
added to the District as herein provided.
   (B)   In the event that one or more participants in the District withdraw
and the acreage in the District becomes less than the minimum acreage required
or results in the remaining land being noncontiguous, a voluntary agricultural
district will continue to exist so long as there is one qualifying farm.
(Ord. passed 2-14-12)
CERTIFICATION AND QUALIFICATION OF FARMLAND
§ 153.045 REQUIREMENTS.
   In order for farmland to qualify for inclusion in a voluntary agricultural
district, it must be real property that:
   (A)   Is engaged in agriculture as defined by G.S. § 106-581.1. To verify
that the property meets this definition, the following forms of documentation
will be considered:
      (1)   Property tax records showing that the property is participating in
or eligible to participate in the Present Use Value Tax Program;
      (2)   A farm sales tax exemption certificate issued by the North Carolina
Department of Revenue;
      (3)   A copy of the farm owner's or operator's Schedule F form from their
most recent federal income tax return;
      (4)   A sound forest management plan that demonstrates the plan is being
applied; and
   (B)   Is managed in accordance with erosion control practices defined by the
Natural Resources Soil Conservation Service and addressed to highly erodible
land; and
   (C)   Is the subject of a conservation agreement, as defined in G.S. § 121-
35, between the county and the owner of such land, that prohibits non-farm use
or development of such land for a period of at least ten years, except for the
creation of not more than three lots that meet applicable county and municipal
zoning and subdivision regulations.
(Ord. passed 2-14-12)
APPLICATION, APPROVAL AND APPEAL
§ 153.055 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   A landowner may apply to participate in the Program by making
application to the chairperson of the Advisory Board or a designated staff
person. The application shall be on forms provided by the Advisory Board. The
application to participate in a district may be filed with the certification
for qualifying farmland.
   (B)   A conservation agreement to sustain, encourage and promote agriculture
must be executed by the landowner and recorded with the Advisory Board.
Permitted uses include agriculture, horticulture, forestry, outdoor recreation,
aquaculture, agri-tourism, packaging and processing of agricultural products.
(Ord. passed 2-14-12)
§ 153.056 APPROVAL PROCESS.
   (A)   Upon its receipt of an application, the Advisory Board shall meet
within 60 days to approve or disapprove the application. The chairperson shall
notify the applicant by first class mail of approval or disapproval of
participation in the District.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an application, the chairperson will forward copies
immediately to the following offices, which shall be asked to provide comments,
if any, to the Advisory Board prior to the date set for the Advisory Board vote
on the application:
      (1)   The County Tax Administrator;
      (2)   The County Soil and Water Conservation District office; and
      (3)   The Natural Resources Conservation Service.
   (C)    The County Planning Department will then review the application and
the process to assure that the actions are reasonable and consistent with the
county land development plan.
   (D)   When approved, the application with parcel information will be
presented to the Planning and Geographic Information System Departments so the
information can be posted on the web-based Geographic Information System
Program. The voluntary agricultural district information and overlay can then
be used by departments (primarily the Register of Deeds, and the Tax and
Planning Departments).
(Ord. passed 2-14-12)
§ 153.057 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   If an application is denied by the Advisory Board, the petitioner shall have
30 days to appeal the decision to the Board of Commissioners. Such appeal shall
be presented in writing. The decision of the Board of Commissioners is final.
(Ord. passed 2-14-12)
REVOCATION AND RENEWAL OF CONSERVATION AGREEMENT
§ 153.065 REVOCATION.
   By providing 30 days advance written notice to the Advisory Board, a
landowner of qualifying farmland may revoke the conservation agreement, or the
Advisory Board may revoke the same conservation agreement based on
noncompliance by the landowner, subject to the same provisions as contained in
§
153.057 for appeal of denials. Such revocation shall result in loss of
qualifying farm status and loss of eligibility to participate in a district.
Absent noncompliance by the landowner, neither the Advisory Board nor the Board
of Commissioners shall revoke any conservation agreements prior to their
expiration.
(Ord. passed 2-14-12)
§ 153.066 RENEWAL.
   Conservation agreements shall be deemed automatically renewed for an
additional term of ten years, unless either the Advisory Board or the landowner
gives written notice to the contrary no later than 30 days prior to the
termination date.
(Ord. passed 2-14-12)
PUBLIC HEARINGS
§ 153.075 PURPOSE.
   Pursuant to G.S. § 106-740, which provides that no state or local public
agency or governmental unit may formally initiate any action to condemn any
interest in qualifying farmland within a district until such agency or unit has
requested the Advisory Board to hold a public hearing on the proposed
condemnation, this chapter provides for such hearing.
(Ord. passed 2-14-12)
§ 153.076 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Upon receiving a request, the Advisory Board shall publish notice,
describing the proposed action in the appropriate newspapers of the county
within five business days of the request, and will in the same notice notify
the public of a public hearing on the proposed condemnation, to be held within
ten days of receipt of the request.
   (B)   The Advisory Board shall meet to review:
      (1)   Whether the need for the project has been satisfactorily
established by the agency or unit of government involved, including a review of
any fiscal impact analysis conducted by the agency involved; and
      (2)   Whether there are alternatives to the proposed action that have
less impact and are less disruptive to the agricultural activities of the
District within which the proposed action is to take place.
   (C)   The Advisory Board shall consult with the County Agricultural
Extension Agent, the Natural Resources Conservation Service District
Conservationist, and any other individuals, agencies, or organizations deemed
by the Advisory Board to be necessary for its review of the proposed action.
   (D)   Within five days after the hearing, the Advisory Board shall make a
report containing its findings and recommendations regarding the proposed
action. The report shall be made available to the public prior to its being
conveyed to the decision-making body of the agency proposing the acquisition.
   (E)   There will be a period of ten days allowed for public comment on the
report of the Advisory Board.
   (F)   After the ten-day period for public comment has expired, the Advisory
Board shall submit a final report, containing all of its findings and
recommendations regarding the proposed action, to the decision-making body of
the agency proposing the acquisition.
   (G)   The total time period, from the day that a request for a hearing has
been received to the day that a final report is issued to the decision-making
body of the agency proposing the acquisition, shall not exceed 30 days. If the
agency agrees to an extension, the agency and the Advisory Board shall mutually
agree upon a schedule to be set forth in writing and made available to the
public.
   (H)   Pursuant to G.S. § 106-740, the Board of Commissioners shall not
permit any formal initiation of condemnation by local agencies while the
proposed condemnation is properly before the Advisory Board.
(Ord. passed 2-14-12)
NOTIFICATION: RECORD NOTICE OF PROXIMITY TO
VOLUNTARY AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
§ 153.085 PROCEDURE.
   The following efforts will be made to alert a person inquiring about
purchasing real property (real estate), or inquiring about voluntary
agricultural districts or farmlands within the Voluntary Agricultural District
throughout the county. Specific efforts will include:
   (A)   Signs identifying approved farms within the Agricultural District
shall be placed along the rights-of-way of major roads that pass through or
next to the farms enrolled in the Agricultural District.
There shall be at least one sign posted for every farm, or as deemed
appropriate by the Advisory Board, or its administrative agent for the county's
Agricultural District Program. Placement of signage shall be coordinated with
the North Carolina Department of Transportation and local utility departments.
   (B)   Maps identifying approved agricultural districts shall be provided by
the Planning Department to the following agencies or offices, and placed on
websites within the respective agencies, depending upon respective technology
being used:
      (1)   Lexington, Thomasville, Denton and Davidson County Planning
Departments;
      (2)   Wallburg and Midway incorporated public buildings;
      (3)   Register of Deeds;
      (4)   Natural Resources Conservation Service, Soil and Water Conservation
District;
      (5)   North Carolina Cooperative Extension Service; and
      (6)   Any other such agency or office the Advisory Board deems
appropriate.
   (C)   The following notice, of a size and form suitable for posting, shall
be posted in the office of the Register of Deeds, and any other office or
agency the Advisory Board deems necessary:
      Davidson County has established an Agricultural District to protect and
preserve agricultural lands and activities. The District has been developed and
mapped by the county to inform all purchasers of real property that certain
agricultural and forestry activities, including but not limited to, pesticide
spraying, manure spreading, machinery and truck operation, livestock
operations, sawing, controlled burning and other common farming activities, may
occur in the District any time during the day or night. Maps and information on
the location and establishment of the District can be viewed at the North
Carolina Cooperative Extension Service office, Natural Resources Conservation,
Soil and Water Conservation District, Geographic Information System Department,
the office of the Register of Deeds, and the County Planning Department.
   (D)   The County Planning Department shall maintain maps of approved
district within the county geographic information mapping system database. This
mapping information may be viewed by accessing the county website at
www.co.davidson.nc.us, or at the County Planning Department.
   (E)   The County Tax Department shall add a special notice to the Tax
Inquiry Land Records System so that anyone doing title searches and record
searches for outstanding tax bills will be advised to contact the County
Planning Department concerning the location of the Voluntary Agricultural
District prior to a change of parcel ownership.
   (F)   Notice of these methods of District notification and identification
shall be included in all County Voluntary Agricultural District Program
information brochures, which are made available to the public by the
Cooperative Extension Service, County Planning Department, Natural Resources
Conservation, Soil and Water Conservation District. Geographic Information
System Department, the County Tax Department, and Register of Deeds.
(Ord. passed 2-14-12)
§ 153.086 LIMIT OF LIABILITY.
   In no event shall the county or any of its officers, employees, members of
the Advisory Board, or agents be held liable in damages for any misfeasance,
malfeasance or nonfeasance occurring in good faith in connection with the
duties or obligations imposed by this chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-14-12)
§ 153.087 NO CAUSE OF ACTION.
   In no event shall any cause of action arise out of the failure of a person
researching the title of a particular tract to report to any person the
proximity of the tract to a qualifying farm or Voluntary Agricultural District
as defined in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-14-12)
SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE AND ZONING ORDINANCE REVIEW
§ 153.095 DESIGNATION ON PRELIMINARY DEVELOPMENT PLANS.
   Developers of major subdivisions or planned unit developments shall
designate on preliminary development plans the existence of the land enrolled
in the District within one-half aerial mile of the proposed development.
(Ord. passed 2-14-12)
ABEYANCES RELATED TO WATER AND SEWER ASSESSMENTS
§ 153.105 NO CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   A landowner belonging to the District shall not be required to connect to
any utility company serving the county with water and/or sewer systems.
(Ord. passed 2-14-12)
§ 153.106 ABEYANCE.
   Water and sewer assessments shall be held in abeyance, without interest, for
farms in an Agricultural District, until improvements on such property are
connected to the water or sewer system for which the assessment was made.
(Ord. passed 2-14-12)
§ 153.107 TERMINATION OF ABEYANCE.
   When the period of abeyance ends, the assessment is payable in accordance
with the terms set out in the assessment resolution.
(Ord. passed 2-14-12)
§ 153.108 SUSPENSION OF STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.
   Statutes of limitations are suspended during the time that any assessment is
held in abeyance without interest.
(Ord. passed 2-14-12)
§ 153.109 OTHER STATUTORY ABEYANCE PROCEDURES.
   Nothing in this section is intended to diminish the authority of the county
to hold assessments in abeyance under G.S. § 153A-201 or other applicable law.
(Ord. passed 2-14-12)
§ 153.110 CONFLICT WITH WATER AND/OR SEWER SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION AND IMPROVEMENTS
GRANTS.
   To the extent that it conflicts with the terms of federal, state or other
grants under which county water and/or sewer systems are constructed, this
chapter shall not apply.
(Ord. passed 2-14-12)
COUNTY LAND USE PLANNING
§ 153.120 COUNTY LAND USE PLANNING.
   It shall be the duty of the Advisory Board to advise the Board of
Commissioners, or the agency or office to which the Board of Commissioners has
delegated authority to oversee county land use planning, on the status,
progress and activities of the county's Agricultural District Program, and to
also coordinate the formation and maintenance of the Agricultural District with
the county's land use planning activities and the county's land use plan.
(Ord. passed 2-14-12)
CONSULTATION AUTHORITY
 § 153.130 CONSULTATION AUTHORITY.
   The Advisory Board may consult with the North Carolina Cooperative Extension
Service, the Natural Resources Conservation Service office, the North Carolina
Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services, and with any other individual,
agency or organization the Advisory Board deems necessary to properly conduct
its business.
(Ord. passed 2-14-12)
NORTH CAROLINA AGENCY NOTIFICATION
§ 153.140 ANNUAL REPORT TO THE NORTH CAROLINA DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE AND
CONSUMER SERVICES.
   After its adoption, a copy of this chapter shall be sent to the office of
the North Carolina Commissioner of Agriculture and Consumer Services, the Board
of Commissioners, the county office of the North Carolina Cooperative Extension
Service, and the Soil and Water Conservation District office. Annually, the
County Voluntary Agricultural Board shall submit a written report on the
county's Agricultural District Program to the County Commissioners and to the
Commissioner of Agriculture and Consumer Services, including the following
information:
   (A)   Number of landowners enrolled;
   (B)   Number of acres enrolled;
   (C)   Number of acres certified during the reporting period;
   (D)   Number of acres denied during the reporting period;
   (E)   Number of acres for which applications are pending;
   (F)   Copies of any amendments to the chapter; and
   (G)   Any other information the Advisory Board deems useful.
(Ord. passed 2-14-12)
LEGAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.150 CONFLICT WITH OTHER ORDINANCES AND STATUTES.
   Where there is a conflict between the provisions of this chapter and the
provisions of any other county ordinance, the provisions of any other county
ordinance shall govern. Whenever the provisions of any federal or state statute
require more restrictive provisions than are required by this chapter, the
provisions of such statute shall govern.
(Ord. passed 2-14-12)
§ 153.151 AMENDMENTS.
   This chapter may be amended from time to time by the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 2-14-12)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I. FRANCHISES
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date     Description
                  Granting franchise to Piedmont Telephone Membership
—      7-21-81  Corporation for a community antenna television service within
                  portions of western Davidson County.
—      11-29-94 Granting a franchise to Char-Meck Ambulance Service, Inc. to
                  operate a non-emergency ambulance service in Davidson County.
                 
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
G.S. Section Code Section
G.S. Section                Code Section
1A-1                        50.08
Ch. 1, Art. 37              93.98
                            30.03,
                            30.99,
14-4                        50.99,
                            95.99,
                            111.99,
                            130.99
14-100                      97.12
                            111.11,
14-177 - 14-202.1           111.12,
                            113.17,
                            113.21
14-202.10                   113.04,
                            113.05
                            111.11,
14-203 - 14-208             111.12,
                            113.17,
                            113.21
14-288.1                    31.06
14-288.5                    30.03
14-399                      50.99
14-409.39(2)                31.06
19A-45                      90.04
19A-46                      90.04
19A-47                      90.04
58-79-1                     98.021
58-79-20                    98.023
74-46 - 74-68               50.01
105-271                     30.01
105-303(a)(1)               30.02
105-316                     30.01
Ch. 106, Art. 57            50.07
106-581.1                   153.045
106-735 - 106-744           153.002
106-740                     153.075,
                            153.076
106-744(e)(1)               153.023
Ch. 108A                    97.03
Ch. 110                     98.022
Ch. 111                     97.03
Ch. 115                     98.022
Ch. 115C                    97.02
115C-547                    97.04
115C-555                    97.04
115C-564                    97.04
Ch. 121                     152.02
121-35                      153.045
130A-17 to 130A-25          50.01
130A-290                    50.01
130A-290 to 130A-390.86     50.01
131E-155                    96.01
131E-157                    96.16
132-1                       97.06
Ch. 143, Art. 9A            30.01
Ch. 143, Art. 21A           50.01
143-138(e)                  98.004
143-139(b1)                 98.004
143-141(d)                  98.120
143-151.13                  98.023
143-213(18)                 51.02
143-215.1                   50.01,
                            51.58
143-215.1(b)                51.58
143-215.3(a)(14)            51.02
143-215.6A                  152.99
143-318.11(e)               97.06
143-508                     96.16
143B-290                    50.01
150-B14                     50.04
                            97.03,
Ch. 153A                    113.02,
                            152.02,
                            153.002
Ch. 153A, Art. 9            51.15
153A-1(1)                   50.04
153A-4                      97.03
153A-49                     10.14,
                            Ch. 150
153A-121                    98.004
                            10.99,
                            50.99,
153A-123                    90.08,
                            95.07,
                            113.99
153A-123(c)                 98.004,
                            98.999
153A-123(c1)                98.004
153A-123(d)                 98.004,
                            98.999
153A-123(e)                 98.004,
                            98.999
153A-140                    50.07
153A-186                    51.15
153A-201                    153.109
153A-234                    98.004
153A-255                    97.03
153A-344.1                  152.01
153A-449                    97.03
159-28                      97.13
160A                        152.02
160A-175(c)                 51.73
160A-176(c)                 51.73
160A-385.1                  152.01
160D-404(b)                 98.062
Ch. 160D, Art. 11           98.005
160D-1101 through 160D-1129 98.005
160D-1101(4)                98.005
160D-1103                   98.022,
                            98.023
160D-1110                   98.047
160D-1111                   98.054,
                            98.056
160D-1114                   98.062
160D-1117                   98.070
Ch. 166A, Art. 1A           31.01
Ch. 174                     152.02
                            
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
                     95.01 -
—      10-7-91     95.07,
                     95.99
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
—      - -         130.03
—      12- -74     30.01,
                     30.99
                     110.01,
                     111.02,
                     111.10 -
—      5-17-76     111.15,
                     111.20 -
                     111.23,
                     130.04
                     92.01 -
—      11-7-77     92.12,
                     92.99
—      2-6-78      150.01
                     93.01,
                     93.02,
                     93.10 -
—      4-17-80     93.13,
                     93.20 -
                     93.23,
                     93.98,
                     93.99
—      12-18-80    130.10 -
                     130.13
—      7-21-81     T.S.O. I
—      9-6-83      110.01
—      11-1-83     130.01,
                     130.99
—      3-7-86      150.05
—      3-10-88     150.02
—      3-10-88     150.03
                     111.01,
—      10-11-88    111.22,
                     111.23
—      2-14-89     112.01
—      3-14-89     150.01
                     94.01 -
                     94.03,
                     94.10,
—      7-10-90     94.12 -
                     94.14,
                     94.20 -
                     94.23
—      8-28-90     130.02
—      4-9-91      30.02
                     152.01 -
                     152.04,
                     152.15 -
                     152.18,
                     152.25 -
—      12-14-93    152.34,
                     152.50,
                     152.51,
                     152.60 -
                     152.66,
                     152.99
—      1-1-94      150.04
—      11-29-94    T.S.O. I
—      5-12-96     91.01 -
                     91.03
                     31.01 -
—      - -96       31.12,
                     31.99
                     113.01 -
                     113.06,
—      9-22-98     113.15 -
                     113.21,
                     113.99
                     50.01 -
—      6-26-01     50.09,
                     50.99
                     97.01 -
—      3-9-04      97.13,
                     97.99
—      9-28-04     112.01
                     98.001 -
                     98.006,
                     98.020 -
                     98.022,
                     98.035,
                     98.050 -
                     98.056,
—      6-28-05     98.070,
                     98.071,
                     98.085-
                     98.087,
                     98.100 -
                     98.104,
                     98.999,
                     Appendix A
                     97.02,
                     97.04,
—      4-22-08     97.05,
                     97.07 -
                     97.09 
                     51.01 -
                     51.05,
                     51.12 -
                     51.20,
                     51.31 -
                     51.37,
—      9-9-08      51.46 -
                     51.50,
                     51.57 -
                     51.64,
                     51.71 -
                     51.75,
                     51.81 -
                     51.89
—      3-16-09     150.03
                     153.001 -
                     153.004,
                     153.015 -
                     153.023,
                     153.035 -
                     153.038,
                     153.045,
                     153.055 -
                     153.057,
                     153.065,
                     153.066,
—      2-14-12     153.075,
                     153.076,
                     153.085 -
                     153.087,
                     153.095,
                     153.105 -
                     153.110,
                     153.120,
                     153.130,
                     153.140,
                     153.150,
                     153.151
                     31.01 -
—      11-26-13    31.13,
                     31.99
                     50.01 -
—      2-25-14     50.09,
                     50.99
                     96.01,
                     96.10 -
                     96.13,
—      10-28-14    96.15 -
                     96.20,
                     96.30 -
                     96.38,
                     96.99
—      8-25-15     97.01 -
                     97.13
—      9-13-16     150.03
—      1-10-17     97.01 -
                     97.13
                     90.01 -
—      12-12-17    90.17,
                     90.99
                     96.01,
                     96.10 -
                     96.13,
—      2-27-18     96.15 -
                     96.20,
                     96.30 -
                     96.38,
                     96.99
                     31.01 -
—      12-11-18    31.13,
                     31.99
                     96.01,
                     96.10 -
                     96.13,
—      11-12-19    96.15 -
                     96.20,
                     96.30 -
                     96.38,
                     96.99
—      1-12-21     30.03
                     98.001 -
                     98.006,
                     98.020 -
                     98.024,
                     98.035,
                     98.036,
                     98.045 -
                     98.062,
                     98.070 -
—      6-22-21     98.078,
                     98.085,
                     98.095 -
                     98.099,
                     98.110 -
                     98.112,
                     98.120 -
                     98.125,
                     98.999,
                     Ch. 98, Appendices A -
                     D
                     96.01,
                     96.10 -
—      2-27-23     96.20,
                     96.30 -
                     96.38,
                     96.99
                     10.99,
                     31.06,
                     31.99,
                     51.73,
                     90.99,
                     92.99,
—      4-22-24     93.99,
                     96.99,
                     97.99,
                     110.01,
                     113.99,
                     130.03,
                     152.99
                    
 
