DAVIE COUNTY, NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-9 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through an ordinance passed 2-5-2024, and
State legislation current through North Carolina Legislative Service,
2023 Acts, Pamphlet No. 6
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.19   Certain ordinances and resolutions not affected by code
   
10.20   Supplementation of code
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the County of Davie shall be
designated as the Code of Davie County or this code of ordinances and may be so
cited.
(1996 Code, § 10.01)
Statutory reference:
   Provisions authorizing county to adopt and issue a code of ordinances, see
G.S. § 153A-49
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
(1996 Code, § 10.02)
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
(1996 Code, § 10.03)
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
(1996 Code, § 10.04)
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Terms. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS, BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS, or BOARD. The
Board of Commissioners of Davie County, North Carolina.
      CODE, THIS CODE, or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This county code as modified
by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
      COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time within which an act is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first but including the last day; and if the last day
is Saturday, Sunday, or a legal holiday, that day shall be excluded.
      COUNTY. Davie County, North Carolina.
      G.S. or GENERAL STATUTES. The latest edition of the GENERAL STATUTES of
North Carolina, as amended.
      GENDER. Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine
and neuter.
      GOVERNOR. The Governor of North Carolina.
      JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving a joint authority to three or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority
of such persons or officers.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this county unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Whenever certain hours are named in this code,
they shall mean standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use
in this county.
      OWNER. Applied to any property, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant, or tenant by the entirety, of the whole
or a part of the property.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes PERSON, PERSONS, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Every species of property except real property.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property.
      REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of North Carolina.
      STREET. Any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard,
parkway, dedicated alley, lane, viaduct, bridge, and the approaches thereto
within the county and shall mean the entire width of the right-of-way between
abutting property lines.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT. When applied to a building or land, shall include any
person who occupies the whole or a part of the building or land, whether alone
or with others.
      TENSE. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well
as the past and present.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
      ZONING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. One designated by the Board.
(1996 Code, § 10.05)
Statutory reference:
   Computation of time, see G.S. § 1-593
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this county shall be by the following
rules, unless such construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the Board
of County Commissioners or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
(1996 Code, § 10.06)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
(1996 Code, § 10.07)
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
(1996 Code, § 10.08)
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this county exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
(1996 Code, § 10.09)
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express such intent, such spelling shall be corrected and such word
or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
such error.
(1996 Code, § 10.10)
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this county for the transaction of all county
business.
(1996 Code, § 10.11)
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is Saturday or Sunday, it shall be excluded.
(1996 Code, § 10.12)
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
(1996 Code, § 10.13)
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
(1996 Code, § 10.14)
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the County Board of Commissioners requiring
publication shall take effect from and after the due publication thereof,
unless otherwise expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall
take effect from their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(1996 Code, § 10.15)
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in anyway be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall by itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
(1996 Code, § 10.16)
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal, or
in any way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering
system hereof and printed for inclusion herein. When subsequent ordinances
repeal any chapter, section, or division, or any portion thereof, the repealed
portions may be excluded from this code by omission from reprinted pages. The
subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of
repeal, shall be prima facie evidence that the subsequent ordinances numbered
or omitted are readopted as a new code by the county.
   (B)   Amendments to any of the provisions of the code shall be made by
amending provisions by specific reference to the section number of this code in
language substantially similar to the following: “Section                of the
Code of Ordinances, Davie County, North Carolina, is hereby amended as follows:
[...].” The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (C)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be added,
language substantially similar to the following shall be used: “The Code of
Ordinances, Davie County, North Carolina, is hereby amended by adding a
section, to be numbered               , which section shall read as follows:
[...].” The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (D)   All divisions, sections, subchapters, chapters, or provisions desired
to be repealed must be specifically repealed by division, section, subchapter,
or chapter number, as the case may be.
   (E)   In addition to the indication thereof as may appear in the text of the
proposed ordinance, a caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the
ordinance.
(1996 Code, § 10.17)
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example:
(G.S. § 160A-11)
      (2)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   The county shall make available to any person for inspection or copying all
public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Inspection of public records, see G.S. §§ 132-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the prior code of ordinances
of the county, the prior code section number shall be indicated in the history
by “(1996 Code, §       ).” The history notes following sections and the
references scattered throughout the code are not part of the code, but are
merely for the benefit for the user of the code.
(1996 Code, § 10.18)
§ 10.19 CERTAIN ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS NOT AFFECTED BY CODE.
   (A)   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall be
construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
      (1)   Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture
incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective
date of this code;
      (2)   Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment
of money for the county or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the county
or any evidence of the county’s indebtedness;
      (3)   Any contract or obligation assumed by the county;
      (4)   Any ordinance fixing the salary of any county officer or employee;
      (5)   Any right or franchise granted by the county;
      (6)   Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating,
relocating, opening, widening, paving, and the like, any street or public way
in the county;
      (7)   Any appropriation ordinance;
      (8)   Any ordinance which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or
limited term;
      (9)   Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes
therefor;
      (10)   Any zoning ordinance or zoning map amendment;
      (11)   Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat;
      (12)   Any ordinance describing or altering the boundaries of the county;
      (13)   The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the county not in
conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this code;
      (14)   Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included herein;
      (15)   Any ordinance establishing or prescribing street grades in the
county;
      (16)   Any personnel ordinance; and/or
      (17)   Any ordinance or resolution approving, authorizing or otherwise
relating to any contract, agreement, lease, deed or other instrument.
   (B)   Nor shall any ordinance be construed to revive any ordinance or part
thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance which is repealed by
this chapter; and all ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full
force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length herein.
(1996 Code, § 10.19)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to omit ordinances of the types enumerated above from the code,
see G.S. § 153A-49
   Statutes not repealed by General Statutes, see G.S. § 164-7
§ 10.20 SUPPLEMENTATION OF CODE.
   (A)   By contract or by county personnel, supplements to this code shall be
prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the Board of County
Commissioners. A supplement to the code shall include all substantive permanent
and general parts of ordinances passed by the Board of County Commissioners
during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the
code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit
properly into the code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have
become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared
that, when they have been inserted, the code will be current through the date
of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
   (B)   In preparing a supplement to this code, all portions of the code which
have been repealed shall be excluded from the code by the omission thereof from
reprinted pages.
   (C)   When preparing a supplement to this code, the codifier (meaning the
person, agency, or organization authorized to prepare the supplement [i.e.,
American Legal Publishing Corporation]) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes
in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it
is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified code. For example, the
codifier may:
      (1)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
      (2)   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings, and titles of sections
and other subdivisions of the code printed in the supplement, and make changes
in such catchlines, headings, and titles;
      (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other divisions to be
inserted in the code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other division numbers;
      (4)   Change the words “this ordinance” or words of the same meaning to
“this chapter,” “this subchapter,” “this division,” and the like, as the case
may be, or to “sections      to      ” (inserting section numbers to indicate
the sections of the code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance
incorporated into the code); and
      (5)   Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the
original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the code; but, in no case,
shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance
material included in the supplement or already embodied in the code.
(1996 Code, § 10.20)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to maintain code by replacement pages, see G.S. § 153A-49
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Whenever in this code or in any ordinance of the county an act is
prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense or a
misdemeanor, or whenever in this code of ordinances the doing of an act is
required or the failure to do an act is declared to be unlawful or an offense
or a misdemeanor, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation
of such provision of this code of ordinances or of any such ordinance shall be
punished by a fine of not more than $500 or by imprisonment for not more than
30 days for each separate violation. Each day any violation of this code or any
ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense, unless otherwise
specified.
   (B)   In addition to the provisions of division (A) of this section, any
provision of this code or other ordinance of the county may be enforced by any
one or more of the remedies authorized by G.S. § 153A-123.
   (C)   Further, a violation of the above section of this code shall be a
violation of G.S. § 14-4 and such violation shall be classified as a Class 3
misdemeanor with a maximum fine of up to $450, except that any violations of §§
150.999,
154.99,
155.999, and
156.999 shall not be a violation of G.S. § 14-4 and shall not be considered a
misdemeanor.
(1996 Code, § 10.99)
Statutory reference:
   Provisions authorizing the county to punish ordinance violations as
misdemeanors, see G.S. § 14-4
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
      
31.   COUNTY MANAGER FORM OF GOVERNMENT
CHAPTER 30: PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
   
30.001   Purpose
   
30.002   Applicability
   
30.003   Role of Board of Commissioners
   
30.004   Role of County Manager
   
30.005   Role of Human Resources Department
   
30.006   Appointive powers and statutory limitations
   
30.007   Conflicting ordinances and policies repealed
   
30.008   Merit principle and equal employment opportunity
   
30.009   Residency clause
§ 30.001 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter shall be to ensure a uniform system of personnel
administration for all employees of the county.
(Am. Ord. passed 10-5-2015)
§ 30.002 APPLICABILITY.
   The County Manager shall appoint subordinate officers, agents and employees
for the general administration of county affairs, the positions and
compensation for whom have been established by the Board of County
Commissioners, except such officers, agents and employees as are required to be
elected by popular vote or whose appointment is otherwise provided for by law.
(Am. Ord. passed 10-5-2015)
§ 30.003 ROLE OF BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.
   In addition to approval and maintenance of the personnel ordinance, the
Board of Commissioners shall be responsible for establishing:
   (A)   The compensation plan which provides for minimum and maximum pay rates
for positions subject to this chapter.
   (B)   The hours and days of work, holidays, leave and other matters
pertaining to the conditions of employment.
   (C)   The parameters of the benefits and merit programs.
(Am. Ord. passed 10-5-2015)
§ 30.004 ROLE OF COUNTY MANAGER.
   In accordance with G.S. § 153A-81 and the policies stated in this chapter,
the County Manager shall have ultimate and final authority and responsibility
for appointments, except as provided in §
30.006, classifications, evaluations, recognition, discipline, dismissals,
grievances and appeals, reduction-in-force and all other employment procedures
and policies. To this end, the County Manager shall have the authority and duty
to establish regulations and procedures for the effective administration of the
personnel system, subject to the terms of this chapter and in accordance with
future policy directives of the Board of Commissioners. The County Manager has
the authority to implement, amend or modify policies at any time.
(Am. Ord. passed 10-5-2015)
§ 30.005 ROLE OF HUMAN RESOURCES DEPARTMENT.
   The Human Resources Director shall be responsible for the administration of
the personnel ordinance and shall have the primary responsibility for advising
the County Manager, department heads, supervisors and employees on personnel
policies and procedures. The Human Resources Department shall maintain all
official employee records in accordance with G.S. § 153A-98.
(Am. Ord. passed 10-5-2015)
§ 30.006 APPOINTIVE POWERS AND STATUTORY LIMITATIONS.
   (A)    As provided for by the General Statutes, the County Manager, County
Attorney, and the Clerk to the Board shall be appointed by and serve at the
pleasure of the Board. In addition, the General Statutes provide for the
following appointments:
      (1)   G.S. § 105-294(b) provides the Board of Commissioners' authority to
appoint a county assessor for an initial two-year term and subsequently every
four years.
      (2)   G.S. § 105-349(a) provides the Board of Commissioners the authority
to appoint a tax collector to serve for a period of time determined by the
Board.
      (3)   G.S. § 130A-40 provides that the local Board of Health shall
appoint the public Health Director after consultation with the Secretary of the
State Department of Human Resources and the Board of Commissioners.
      (4)   G.S. § 108A-9 provides that the Board of Social Services shall
appoint the director of the Department of Social Services.
      (5)   G.S. § 163-35 provides that, upon receipt of the nomination from
the County Board of Elections, the executive secretary-director of the state
Board of Elections shall appoint the supervisor of the Board of Elections.
      (6)   G.S. § 162-1 and G.S. § 161-2 provide for the election of the
sheriff and register of deeds, respectively. G.S. § 153A-103 gives them
exclusive rights to hire, supervise and discharge employees, although the
County Manager shall determine the classification and starting salary of each
new or rehired employee. The Board of Commissioners shall determine the number
of authorized positions by the amount of funding approved.
   (B)   A memorandum of understanding provides for a contractual agreement
between the Board of Commissioners and the state extension service to jointly
appoint the agricultural extension director, upon recommendation of the County
Manager and the state extension service.
   (C)   A cooperative agreement between the federal, state and county
governments provides for the establishment of the soil and water conservation
district.
   (D)   The County Manager shall appoint the directors of those county
departments not previously noted in this section.
(Am. Ord. passed 10-5-2015)
§ 30.007 CONFLICTING ORDINANCES AND POLICIES REPEALED.
   (A)   Former Chapter 31 of the Davie County Code of Ordinance is hereby
repealed effective upon the passage of this new
Chapter 30 of the Davie County Code of Ordinance. All previous ordinances,
policies and provisions which are inconsistent with the provisions of this
chapter are hereby repealed.
   (B)   Due to operational requirements of the various county departments,
each department shall be authorized to establish supplemental policies
applicable only to the personnel of that department. All such policies shall be
subject to the approval of the County Manager and shall not conflict with the
provisions of this chapter, but rather supplement them.
(Am. Ord. passed 10-5-2015)
§ 30.008 MERIT PRINCIPLE AND EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY.
   The county shall develop and adhere to hiring practices and other personnel
actions which reflect merit-based principles while fostering, promoting and
maintaining equal employment opportunity.
(Am. Ord. passed 10-5-2015)
§ 30.009 RESIDENCY CLAUSE.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority of G.S. § 153A-94 the county has the power
to establish a personnel system that will promote a fair and effective means of
employee recruitment, selection, and develop and maintain an effective and
responsible work force.
   (B)   In order to recruit and retain personnel with high qualifications and
ability, the county recognizes the need to modify its current policy relating
to residency requirements.
   (C)   The county officers, consisting of: County Manager, Assistant County
Manager, Finance Director and County Attorney shall be required to be citizens
and residents of Davie County, within 30 days of their appointment by the Davie
County Board of Commissioners. However, in the event the Board of Commissioners
desires to waive this requirement for the County Manager, they can do so by a
provision in the County Manager's written contract.
   (D)   All acting department heads of county departments shall reside within
the county or within a radius of 50 miles of the county boundaries, within 30
days of their hiring by the county to their position.
(Am. Ord. passed 10-5-2015; Am. Ord. passed 12-6-2021)
CHAPTER 31: COUNTY MANAGER FORM OF GOVERNMENT
Section
   
31.001   Purpose
   
31.002   Applicability
   
31.003   Role of County Manager
§ 31.001 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter shall be to insure the proper organization of
county government into a county manager plan under G.S. §§ 153A-76 and 153A-81
for the promotion of orderly and efficient administration of county affairs.
(Ord. passed 12-2-2019)
§ 31.002 APPLICABILITY.
   The Board of Commissioners hereby adopt the county manager plan of
government (also sometimes referred to as the council manager or commission
manager form of government) for Davie County, North Carolina pursuant to G.S. §
153A-81 and delegates to the County Manager powers and duties otherwise granted
to the Board of County Commissioners, (including but not limited to the
retaining of outside counsel), except as to those powers and duties not
otherwise authorized to be delegated by general statute.
(Ord. passed 12-2-2019)
§ 31.003 ROLE OF COUNTY MANAGER.
   The County Manager shall be the chief administrator of county government. He
or she shall be responsible to the Board of Commissioners for the
administration of all departments of county government under the Board's
general control and shall have all powers and duties as outlined in G.S. §
153A-82, and shall further have the authority to exercise the corporate
authority which can be exercised by the Board of Commissioners by general
statute, except as to those powers and duties not otherwise authorized to be
delegated by general statute.
(Ord. passed 12-2-2019)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SOLID WASTE
      
51.   HAZARDOUS AND LOW-LEVEL RADIOACTIVE WASTE MANAGEMENT
      
52.   WATER AND SEWER USE
      
53.   SEWER REGULATIONS
      
54.   WATER SHORTAGES
CHAPTER 50: SOLID WASTE
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Areas where exclusive collection permits may be granted
   
50.03   Collection rates and services
   
50.04   Collection and transportation requirements
   
50.05   Storage, accumulation, and disposal of solid waste
Licensing Requirements
   
50.20   Licenses and permits; application
   
50.21   Bond; permit fee
   
50.22   Transferability; compliance
   
50.23   Revocation
County Solid Waste Disposal Plan
   
50.35   Title
   
50.36   Preamble
   
50.37   Findings
   
50.38   Definitions
   
50.39   Purposes and intent
   
50.40   Administration and enforcement
   
50.41   Fees
   
50.42   Designation of facility site; exclusivity
   
50.43   Alternative requirement
   
50.44   Conflict with other regulations
   
50.45   Unlawful dumping
 
   
50.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Hazardous and low-level radioactive waste, see
Chapter 51
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BULKY WASTE. Large items of solid waste such as household appliances,
furniture, machinery, automobiles, large auto parts, trees, branches, stumps,
and other oversized waste, both combustible and noncombustible, whose large
size precludes or complicates their handling by normal waste collection and
disposal methods.
   COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any retail, wholesale, institutional, religious,
governmental, service establishment or other nonresidential establishment which
may generate garbage, litter or other solid waste.
   COMMERCIAL SOLID WASTE. Solid waste generated by stores, offices,
restaurants, warehouses, and other non-manufacturing activities.
   CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION WASTE. Solid waste resulting solely from
construction, remodeling, repair, or demolition operations on buildings, other
structures, but does not include inert debris, land-clearing debris, yard
debris, used asphalt, asphalt mixed with dirt, sand, gravel, rock, concrete, or
similar nonhazardous material.
   CONSTRUCTION OR DEMOLITION. When used in connection with waste or debris,
means solid waste resulting solely from construction, remodeling, repair or
demolition operations on pavement, buildings or other structures.
   CONVENIENCE CENTER. Facilities owned, leased, rented or otherwise operated
by Davie County at which refuse, garbage, other solid waste or recyclables are
collected, transported or disposed of. These centers are fenced and are
attended by County employees under set operational schedules for the disposal
of solid waste or acceptable recyclables from authorized households within
Davie County.
   DEBRIS. The remains of, or pieces and parts of destroyed buildings,
automobiles, machinery, furniture and other non-putrescible solid waste,
combustible and noncombustible.
   DEMOLITION PITS. A pit approved and licensed by the State Department of
Human Resources, Division of Health Services for stumps, limbs, and demolition
waste not acceptable or too large for the county landfill.
   DISPOSAL. The discharge, deposit, injection, dumping, spilling, leaking, or
placing of any solid waste into or on any land so that such solid waste or any
continuant thereof may enter the environment or be emitted into the air or
discharged into any waters, including groundwaters.
   GARBAGE. All putrescible solid waste, including vegetable matter, animal
offal, carcasses of animals, and recognizable industrial byproducts, but
excluding human body waste and animal manure. Used milk cartons or other
discarded food containers shall be included in this definition.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. A solid waste, or combination of solid wastes, which
because of its quantity, concentration, or physical, chemical, or infectious
characteristics may:
      (1)   Cause or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or an
increase in serious irreversible or incapacitating reversible illness; or
      (2)   Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or
the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, or disposed of,
or otherwise managed.
   HEALTH DIRECTOR. County Health Director or his or her duly authorized
representative.
   INDUSTRIAL SOLID WASTE. Solid waste generated by industrial processes or
manufacturing that is not hazardous waste.
   INERT DEBRIS. Solid waste that consists solely of material that is virtually
inert and that is likely to retain its physical and chemical structure under
expected conditions of disposal such as brick, concrete, rock and clean soil.
   INSTITUTIONAL SOLID WASTE. Solid waste generated by educational, health
care, correctional, and other institutional facilities.
   JUNK DEALER. Any person who is licensed to operate a junkyard as specified
in the Zoning Chapter regulating junkyards and JUNK DEALERS.
   LAND-CLEARING DEBRIS. Solid Waste that is generated solely from landclearing
activities such as stumps, trees, etc.
   MEDICAL WASTE. Any solid waste which is generated in the diagnosis,
treatment or immunization of human beings or animals, in research pertaining
hereto, or in the production or testing of biologicals, but does not include
any hazardous waste, radioactive waste or those substances excluded from the
definition of solid waste.
   OPEN BURNING. Any fire wherein the products of combustion are emitted
directly into the outdoor atmosphere and are not directed thereto through a
stack or chimney, incinerator, or other similar devices.
   OPEN DUMP. A solid waste disposal site which is not a sanitary landfill or
an incinerator.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, governmental unit, organization, partnership,
corporation, company, or other legal entity.
   PREMISES. Each single residential dwelling unit housed in a building used
for residential purposes, or mobile home, or a structure used for residential
purposes on any property. PREMISES also means each unit contained in any
structure serving a separate owner, tenant, or lessee, or used for any purpose
other than residential.
   PUTRESCIBLE. Solid waste capable of being decomposed by mirco-organisms with
sufficient rapidity as to cause nuisances from odors or gases, such as kitchen
wastes, offal and animal carcasses.
   RESIDENTIAL HOUSEHOLD GARBAGE. All putrescible waste, including food waste
and non-putrescible waste both combustible and non-combustible, originating
from residences, including paper, cardboard, plastic or metal food or household
chemical containers, wood objects, glass, bedding, crockery, metals, and other
similar objects or materials, but specifically excluding bulky waste, animal
offal and carcasses.
   RUBBISH. Non-putrescible solid wastes. Rubbish contains both combustible and
noncombustible materials such as paper, cardboard, tin cans, yard waste, wood,
glass, bedding, crockery, metals and similar objects and materials.
   REFUSE. Solid waste, other than garbage or ashes from residences, commercial
establishments and institutions.
   SANITARY LANDFILL. A method of disposing of solid waste on land in a
sanitary manner without creating nuisances or hazards to public health or
safety by utilizing the principles of engineering to confine the solid waste to
the smallest practical area, to reduce it to the smallest practical volume, and
to cover it with a layer of compacted earth at the conclusion of each day's
operation or at such more frequent intervals as may be necessary.
   SCRAP METAL. Discarded steel, ferrous, copper and other metallic articles
generated from residential, commercial, and industrial sources such as
bedsprings, machiner, auto parts, lighting fixtures, shelving units and similar
units.
   SCRAP TIRE. A tire that is no longer suitable for its original, intended
purpose because of wear, damage or defect.
   SHARPS. Needles, syringes and scalpel blades.
   SOLID WASTE. Any hazardous or non-hazardous garbage, refuse, sludge from a
waste treatment plant, water supply treatment plant, or air pollution control
facility and other discarded material, including solid, liquid, semisolid, or
containing gaseous material resulting from industrial, institutional,
commercial, and agricultural operations, and from community activities. Such
term does not include:
      (1)   Fowl and animal fecal waste;
      (2)   Solid or dissolved material in:
         (a)   Domestic sewage and sludges generated by the treatment thereof
in sanitary sewage disposal systems which have a design capacity of more than
3,000 gallons or which discharge effluents to the surface waters;
         (b)   Irrigation return flows; and
         (c)   Wastewater discharges and the sludges incidental thereto and
generated by the treatment thereof which are point sources subject to permits
granted under § 402 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended
(Pub. L. No. 92-500), being 33 U.S.C. § 1342, and permits granted under G.S. §
143-215.1 by the Environmental Management Commission.
      (3)   Oils and other liquid hydrocarbons controlled under G.S. Chapter
143, Article 21A;
      (4)   Any radioactive material as defined by the State Radiation
Protection Act, G.S. §§ 104E-1 through 104E-23; or
      (5)   Mining refuse covered by the State Mining Act, G.S. §§ 74-46
through 74-68, and regulated by the State Mining Commission (as defined under
G.S. § 143B-293.1).
   SOLID WASTE COLLECTOR. Any person who collects and transports solid waste.
   SPOILED FOOD. Any food which has been removed from sale by the U.S.
Department of Agriculture, State Department of Agriculture, Food and Drug
Administration, or any other regulatory agency having jurisdiction in
determining that food is unfit for consumption.
   UNSANITARY ACCUMULATION. Any amount of solid waste which is odoriferous,
pestiferous or otherwise threatening to human health as determined by the
Health Department.
   WHITE GOODS. Inoperative and discarded refrigerators, ranges, water heaters,
freezers and other similar domestic and commercial large appliances.
   YARD TRASH. Solid waste solely consisting of vegetative matter resulting
from landscaping maintenance, including glass clippings.
(1996 Code, § 50.01) (Ord. passed 5-6-1985; Ord. passed 10-3-2016)
§ 50.02 AREAS WHERE EXCLUSIVE COLLECTION PERMITS MAY BE GRANTED.
   For the purpose of providing for proper collection, transportation, and
disposal of solid waste within the county, the Board may create specific
geographic areas where exclusive collection permits may be granted.
(1996 Code, § 50.02) (Ord. passed 5-6-1985)
§ 50.03 COLLECTION RATES AND SERVICES.
   (A)   All residential service rates shall be approved by the Board.
   (B)   The licensee shall be responsible for the collection of all fees for
his or her services to be rendered to the citizens and customers within his or
her assigned area.
   (C)   The licensee shall collect and the customer shall pay a monthly fee,
approved by a resolution of the Board, for roadside collection and disposal of
solid waste from residential premises at least once a week, including a base
rate fee for collecting, transporting, and disposing of not exceeding three
conventional size garbage cans or containers or their equivalent in acceptable
conventional garbage bags and an additional charge per can and/or bag in excess
thereof. Such additional charge shall be considered additional services under
division (E) below.
   (D)   The licensee may provide special haul services to all persons within
the county, at a rate approved by the Board.
   (E)   For additional services, and for commercial customers, the customer
and the licensee may enter into agreements satisfactory to them as to fees and
the services to be rendered. In the event a licensee and customer are unable to
agree upon the special services to be rendered and the remuneration to be paid
therefor, the Board will, upon application of either the licensee or the
customer or both of them, mediate the dispute at a hearing of the matter at its
next regular meeting subsequent to the expiration of not less than ten days
after the applicant for a hearing has given the other party involved written
notice of his or her intent to present the matter to the Board, or as soon
after the expiration of the ten days as is convenient.
   (F)   Any change in residential hauling rates must be justified to the Board
and agreed to, and approved by, the Board.
   (G)   Billing to residential customers:
      (1)   Quarterly advance billing applies to all new customers and all
accounts that are reinstated, after having been stopped for nonpayment; and
      (2)   Service will be terminated on accounts which are 30 days or more in
arrears in payment.
(1996 Code, § 50.03) (Ord. passed 5-6-1985; Ord. passed 6-18-1990; Ord. passed
10-18-1993; Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 2-15-1999)
§ 50.04 COLLECTION AND TRANSPORTATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The licensee shall be responsible for the satisfactory collection and
transportation of all solid waste in his or her area to a county-operated
disposal site or facility.
   (B)   Vehicles or solid waste containers used by the licensee for the
collection and transportation of garbage, or refuse containing garbage, shall
be covered, leakproof, durable, and of easily cleanable construction. These
shall be cleaned as often as necessary but not less than twice a year to
prevent a nuisance or insect breeding, and shall be maintained in good repair.
The licensee shall have adequate solid waste container and vehicle cleaning
facilities. The licensee shall close all lids on solid waste containers after
the containers are emptied and shall plug all drains in solid waste containers
(where required by local and state regulations). Vehicles shall display, in
three-inch letters, the name and address of the hauler and the cubic yardage of
the vehicle.
   (C)   Vehicles or containers used for the collection and transportation of
any solid waste shall be loaded and moved in such a manner that the contents
will not fall, leak, or spill therefrom, and shall be adequately secured and/or
covered to prevent spillage therefrom. Should spillage occur, the material
shall be recovered immediately by the solid waste hauler and returned to the
vehicle or container, and the area properly cleaned.
   (D)   All trucks and other equipment and methods of disposal shall conform
with the State Department of Human Resources, Division of Health Services
Environmental Health Section Bulletin No. 411 establishing solid waste
management rules, or as amended or reprinted.
   (E)   The licensee shall maintain in his or her employment a sufficient
number of employees to adequately serve the area herein assigned to him or her
and shall own and control sufficient equipment and machinery to perform the
duties and services of collecting, transporting, and disposing of the solid
waste in the county.
   (F)   The licensee shall submit an annual report to the County Manager,
which shall contain but not be limited to the following:
      (1)   The total number of residential customers and the number of
residential customers added and dropped;
      (2)   The total number of industrial customers and the number of
industrial customers added and dropped;
      (3)   The number of complaints which are filed, organized in categories
such as districts or type of complaints but not limited to those with a report
on their final disposition;
      (4)   Changes in routes;
      (5)   New and replacement equipment;
      (6)   Any other information which the Board or the licensee believes to
be of importance; and
      (7)   Figures for the month in question of the previous year.
   (G)   The licensee shall be responsible for actively campaigning for new
customers by using all available sources and for working toward the goal of
100% collection in his or her designated area.
   (H)   The licensee(s) as designated by the Board shall be responsible for
keeping the county-owned solid waste containers sites in a clean and sanitary
condition and shall deposit the container solid waste at the county sanitary
landfill as often as necessary to eliminate unsanitary conditions at the
container sites.
(1996 Code, § 50.04) (Ord. passed 5-6-1985) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.05 STORAGE, ACCUMULATION, AND DISPOSAL OF SOLID WASTE.
   (A)   Prohibited.  No owner, occupant, tenant, or lessee of any property
shall deposit, store, or permit to accumulate any garbage or solid waste upon
such property that is not stored, or disposed of, in the following manner.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to store any garbage in any
container that is not durable, rust-resistant, nonabsorbent, watertight,
rodent-proof, and easily cleanable with a close-fitting, fly-tight cover in
place with adequate handles or bails to facilitate handling, not to exceed 35
gallons capacity, or other types of containers conforming to the intent of this
law. It shall also be unlawful for any person to store garbage of a perishable
or offensive nature for more than one week in any type of container.
      (2)   Solid waste or garbage shall not be deposited, stored, or permitted
to accumulate on any property in such a manner that it will provide food or
harborage for rodents and vermin or will create a fire or safety hazard.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any occupant of any dwelling or dwelling
unit to place or leave outside of any building longer than 72 hours any
dilapidated furniture, icebox, refrigerator, stove, or other appliance,
machinery, equipment, building material, or other item which is either in a
wholly or partially rusted, wrecked, junked, dismantled, or inoperative
condition, which in the opinion of the Health Director constitutes a potential
public health problem. This section shall not apply to a licensed junk dealer.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave outside of any
building or dwelling, in a place accessible to children, any abandoned,
unattended, or discarded icebox, refrigerator, or any other container of any
kind which has an airtight snap lock or other device thereon without first
removing the snap lock or doors from the icebox, refrigerator, or any other
container of any kind which is crated, strapped, or locked to such an extent
that it is impossible for a child to obtain access to any airtight compartment
thereof.
      (5)   No person shall throw, dump, deposit or cause to be thrown, dumped,
or deposited solid waste on property owned by himself, herself, or another
person, or on any public highway, street, or road, upon public parks or
recreation areas, or upon any other public property except that property
specifically designated for that use.
      (6)   It shall be unlawful for any person to dispose of garbage or solid
waste at any place other than in a manner approved by law. Acceptable means of
solid waste disposal includes the following:
         (a)   Contracting with franchised garbage service;
         (b)   Hauling garbage and solid waste to a public sanitary landfill
site;
         (c)   Burying garbage and solid waste on the property owners’ property
in a safe and sanitary manner and at a depth and with proper cover sufficient
to prevent the uncovering of the same by animals or fowl, and at a distance
from any body of water sufficient to prevent contamination;
         (d)   Burning solid waste in an incinerator that has all required
local, state, and federal air pollution control permits; and
         (e)   By any other method, including reclamation and recycling
processes, that has been approved by the State Division of Health Services.
      (7)   Where there is more than one premises located in a residential
building or mobile home park, it shall be the responsibility of the owner or
person in charge of each building or mobile home park to contract with the
licensed garbage collector and to pay for the regular collection of all garbage
from each premises. An owner of a multi-premises building or mobile home park
may apply to the Health Director for an exemption if he or she can show that he
or she is now disposing of garbage in a safe and sanitary manner as outlined in
this chapter. It is the responsibility of the owner or person managing rental
property to see that the residents dispose of their garbage in a lawful manner.
   (B)   Sanitary landfills.  Any landfill located in the county shall be
operated according to rules and regulations providing standards for solid waste
disposal adopted by the Commission for Health Services (Bulletin No. 411). The
operational requirements for a sanitary landfill as outlined in 15A NCAC 13B.
0505, or as amended, are made a part of this chapter by reference.
      (1)   The sanitary landfill of the county may be used for the disposal of
solid wastes by any person who is a resident of the county during regular hours
of operation of the landfill. Solid wastes shall be disposed of at the landfill
in the manner and according to the procedures required by the Landfill
Superintendent or his or her representative.
      (2)   The following waste may not be disposed of in the landfill:
         (a)   Radioactive wastes;
         (b)   Hazardous waste;
         (c)   Infectious wastes;
         (d)   Wet sludge;
         (e)   Bulky wastes;
         (f)   Any solid waste that creates a difficult operational problem at
the landfill;
         (g)   Burning material;
         (h)   Cable, wire, springs, steel, and similar materials in large
quantities or in lengths exceeding three feet; or
         (i)   Dead animals, unless with written permission of the County
Manager.
         (j)   Construction & demolition waste
   (C)   Illegal dump.  Any person or persons having an illegal solid waste
dump shall upon notification by the Health Director take the following action:
      (1)   Implement effective rat control measures for at least two weeks
after closing the dump to prevent rat migration to adjacent properties (if
determined necessary by the Health Director);
      (2)   Compact and cover existing solid waste with at least two feet or
more of compacted earth approximately two weeks after any necessary rat control
baiting;
      (3)   Implement erosion control measures by grading and seeding as
necessary; and
      (4)   Post signs indicating the dump site closure.
   (D)   New buildings. No building or buildings shall be erected on any land
or lands where there has been, or is being, any garbage or solid waste
deposited until tests are made of property showing there is no danger in future
of settling or explosion due to methane gas being formed from the solid waste
that has been deposited.
   (E)   Self-transport. Any person collecting and transporting solid waste
generated on his or her own property for disposal at an approved disposal site
shall comply with § 50.04(C) concerning vehicles and containers.
   (F)   Open burning prohibited. There shall be no open burning of garbage by
any person.
   (G)   Demolition pit. Anyone wishing to operate a demolition pit shall make
a written request to the Health Director, listing the names of persons who will
be using the pit, what type of solid waste is to be put into the pit, and to
what use will the land be put when filled. Demolition pits shall be operated in
accordance with solid waste rules and regulation of the State Department of
Human Resources, Division of Health Services, and shall be approved by the
Division of Health Services.
   (H)   Private container. It is unlawful for an person other than the county
to deposit solid waste in a private container without the owner's permission.
   (I)   Administration and enforcement. The Davie County Board of
Commissioners authorizes the administration and enforcement of this section.
The administration and enforcement of this section shall be vested with the
County Manager, the Solid Waste Director, the Health Director and shall be
administered in cooperation with the Environmental Health Division of the Davie
County Health Department and the Davie County Sheriff Department.
(1996 Code, § 50.05) (Ord. passed 5-6-1985; Ord. passed 10-3-2016) Penalty, see
§
50.99
LICENSING REQUIREMENTS
§ 50.20 LICENSES AND PERMITS; APPLICATION.
   (A)   Pursuant to G.S. § 153A-82, the County Manager, as agent, may prepare
a resolution for the Board granting a license to any person, firm, or
corporation to engage in the collection and disposal of solid waste. The Board
may grant to those licensed under this chapter the exclusive right to collect,
transport, and dispose of solid waste for compensation within the entire county
or within specified areas of the county and prohibit unauthorized persons,
firms, or corporations from engaging in the same service within the area where
the exclusive right has been granted. The permit shall be displayed at the
licensee’s place of business.
   (B)   All applicants for permits to collect, transport, and dispose of solid
waste for any fiscal year, commencing July 1, 1985, shall file written
application with the County Manager on or before the February 15 prior to the
year in question and shall furnish the following information:
      (1)   Name and address of the applicant and whether a sole
proprietorship, corporation, or partnership, with disclosure of the ownership
interests;
      (2)   A list of the equipment possessed, available, or to be obtained by
the applicant;
      (3)   Number of employees the applicant expects to use in the business;
      (4)   Experience of the applicant in solid waste collection;
      (5)   Balance sheet or equivalent financial statement prepared by a
certified public accountant or other person satisfactory to the Board as of the
close of the applicant’s last business year, showing the net worth of the
business. All financial data submitted in compliance with the requirements of
this division (B)(5) shall be confidential and shall not be regarded as public
information;
      (6)   Planned routes and areas of the county the application expects to
serve;
      (7)   Schedule of fees the applicant plans to charge; and
      (8)   Any information the Board may hereafter request.
   (C)   Existing contracts shall be subject to a yearly review with the
information designated in the above division (B) being presented to the County
Manager on or before February 15 of the year in question.
   (D)   The County Manager shall bring before the Board, in the month of
March, applications for permits and a review of existing contracts to collect,
transport, and dispose of solid waste for the fiscal year following the meeting
commencing July 1, and may grant to the applicants adjudged by the Board to be
most suitable an exclusive permit for the collection of solid waste in each of
the areas. The term of the permit(s) shall not exceed seven years from the
effective date and shall be renewable.
   (E)   The Board reserves the right to receive applications for permits and
the right to create additional areas out of any one or more of the areas
previously designated following the date for applications to be filed with the
County Manager. In such event all applicants with pending applications shall be
given ten days’ written notice by mail of such intent. The Board further
reserves the right to revoke any permit granted, upon satisfactory proof of the
inability or failure of the licensee to properly perform the duties covered by
the permit and contract in a satisfactory manner or for any of the grounds set
out in §
50.23 after the licensee has been given an opportunity for a hearing upon ten
days’ written notice by mail before the hearing setting forth the grounds for
revocation.
   (F)   In the event a permit has been granted to a licensee for any one or
more of the areas and the licensee, for any cause, ceases to perform the
services required of him or her, and it is determined that his or her license
shall be revoked, or in the event the licensee, otherwise for any cause, ceases
to perform the services required by the permit and contract, the Board shall,
at its first meeting, held subsequent to the expiration of 15 days after the
cessation of service or the surrender of the permit, receive applications for a
permit for the area involved and at the meeting or as soon thereafter as
practicable grant to the applicants who, in the judgment of the Board, are
suitable, a permit for the period commencing with the date of the meeting above
provided for and ending the June 13 subsequent thereto.
   (G)   The licensee shall serve every person who contracts with him or her
for solid waste collection in such a manner that the licensee does not cause
the person to be in violation of this chapter. The licensee shall not
discriminate against any person for contract purposes in violation of the Civil
Rights Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C. §§ 1981 et seq., on the basis of race, color,
creed, religion, national origin, physical impairment, or sex.
   (H)   Before the county issues a permit pursuant to this subchapter, the
County Manager or his or her duly authorized representative shall determine
that all facilities, equipment, and proposed operating methods the applicant
plans to use in the solid waste collection business are in compliance with this
chapter and applicable regulations of the State Commission for Health Services.
   (I)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to engage in
the business of collecting, transporting, and disposing of solid waste in the
county outside of any municipality, except under the authority in full force
and effect given by a permit as hereinabove provided for.
(1996 Code, § 50.20) (Ord. passed 5-6-1985) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.21 BOND; PERMIT FEE.
   (A)   The applicant, upon being awarded the right to collect and dispose of
solid waste by the Board as hereinabove provided for, shall secure and present
to the County Manager a good and sufficient surety bond or liability insurance
policy covering and insuring the payment of such damages as may be done by the
licensee to the premises or property upon which he or she may enter for the
purpose of collecting or disposing of solid waste, in the sum of not less than
$10,000 together with an insurance policy in an amount, determined by the
County Manager, not to be less than the amount the county carried upon itself,
insuring the licensee and his or her employees from personal injury and
property damages that may be occasioned by occupational hazards. Such policy
shall contain a “hold harmless clause” indemnifying the county against claims
made against the licensee.
   (B)   The licensee shall pay to the county the sum of $50 for the issuance
of each permit.
(1996 Code, § 50.21) (Ord. passed 5-6-1985)
§ 50.22 TRANSFERABILITY; COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   No license, now existing or hereafter granted under the provisions of
this chapter, shall be sold, assigned, pledged, or transferred, nor shall
control thereof be changed by stock transfer or otherwise, or any rights
thereunder leased nor shall any merger of combination affecting the license be
made through acquisition or control by stock purchase or otherwise, except
after application for and written approval, which shall be given if justified
by the facts then existing.
   (B)   Any and every license now existing or hereafter issued shall be
subject to the provisions of this chapter, as it may hereafter be amended from
time to time, except any amendment or amendments that may be made from time to
time affecting the duration of a license or licenses existing at the time of
the enactment of the amendment or amendments. Any license transferred or
assigned without the express written authority of the Board of County
Commissioners or its designee shall be void and no effect, and any collection
thereunder is in violation of this chapter.
(1996 Code, § 50.22) (Ord. passed 5-6-1985) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.23 REVOCATION.
   (A)   A permit or license granted under this chapter may be revoked after
notice and hearing as provided in §
50.20(E) upon the grounds set forth in that division and for the following
reasons:
      (1)   Loss of solid waste permit issued by the state;
      (2)   Noncompliance with the provisions of this chapter and the rate
schedule promulgated by the Board of Commissioners;
      (3)   Failure to render prompt and effective service to any person within
the area in which the licensee had a license or permit to operate; or
      (4)   Any failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
    (B)   Complaints or grievances may be brought to the Board’s attention by
submitting same in writing to the County Manager.
(1996 Code, § 50.23) (Ord. passed 5-6-1985)
COUNTY SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL PLAN
§ 50.35 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the County Disposal
Subchapter.
(1996 Code, § 50.35) (Ord. passed 1-18-1994)
§ 50.36 PREAMBLE.
   This subchapter has been enacted pursuant to the following reasons:
   (A)   The county is a body politic in the state and is able to operate solid
waste facilities in accordance with the General Statutes;
   (B)   The municipalities within the county by the execution of interlocal
solid waste management agreements have expressed their intent and desire to
have the regulation of solid waste generated and collected within their borders
subject to the control of the county;
   (C)   The county proposes to own, operate, and/or designate from time to
time solid waste disposal facilities which are to be used for the management of
solid waste generated within the county service area;
   (D)   It is the intent of the county that the existing landfill in the
county be closed and solid waste generated within the designated geographic
area be delivered to predetermined county solid waste disposal facilities;
   (E)   The municipalities within the service area have expressed their intent
to be included in a designated geographic area within which designated
geographic area the collection, transportation, storage, separation, treatment,
processing, recycling, resource recovery, composting, and management of all
solid waste shall be accomplished in accordance with a solid waste management
plan;
   (F)   It is necessary for the promotion of the health, safety, and welfare
of the citizens of the county and its municipalities comprising the designated
geographic area of the county to have an adequate system of solid waste
disposal and resource recovery which both comply with federal and state
environmental standards and afford the utmost protection against environmental
contamination caused by solid waste disposal;
   (G)   The county has proposed and proceeded with plans to build solid waste
disposal facilities in order to meet the requirements of the Federal Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.;
   (H)   It is necessary for the county to assure that solid waste disposal
facilities can be effectively managed and to control solid waste in a safe
manner within the designated geographic area of the county; and
   (I)   The county is given the power to issue ordinances, rules, regulations,
and fees relating to solid waste disposal and resource recovery within its
designated geographic area pursuant to state law.
(1996 Code, § 50.36) (Ord. passed 1-18-1994)
§ 50.37 FINDINGS.
   It is found and declared by the County Board of Commissioners, in regular
session duly convened:
   (A)   That the continuing technological progress and improvement in methods
of manufacture, packaging, and marketing of consumer products has resulted in
an ever-mounting increase in, and in a change in the characteristics of, the
mass material discarded by the purchaser of such products;
    (B)   That the economic and population growth of the county and the
improvements in the standard of living enjoyed by the county’s population have
required increased industrial production to meet county needs, and have made
necessary the demolition of old buildings, the construction of new buildings,
and the provision of highways and other avenues of transportation, which,
together with related industrial, commercial, and agricultural operations, have
resulted in a rising tide of scrap, discarded, and waste materials;
   (C)   That the continuing concentration of the county’s population in
expanding areas has presented communities within the service area with serious
financial, management, intergovernmental, and technical problems in the
disposal of solid wastes resulting from the industrial, commercial, domestic,
and other activities carried on in such areas;
   (D)   That the receiving and disposal of solid wastes should be primarily
the function of the county;
   (E)   That the problems of waste disposal as set forth above have become a
matter regional in scope and in concern and necessitate county action through
financial and technical assistance and leadership in the development,
demonstration, and application of new and improved methods and processes to
reduce the amount of waste and unsalvageable materials and to provide for
proper and economical solid waste disposal practices;
   (F)   That land is too valuable a regional resource to be needlessly
polluted by discarded materials, although most solid waste is disposed of on
land in open dumps and a sanitary landfill;
   (G)   That disposal of solid waste in, or on, the land without careful
planning and management can present a danger to human health and the
environment;
   (H)   That as a result of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq.), the
Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.), and other federal and
state laws respecting public health and environment, greater amounts of solid
waste (in the form of sludge and other pollution treatment residues) have been
created, and that similarly, inadequate and environmentally unsound practices
for the disposal or use of solid waste have created greater amounts of air and
water pollution and other problems for the environment and for health;
   (I)   That open dumping is particularly harmful to health, contaminates
drinking water from underground and surface supplies, and pollutes the air and
the land;
   (J)   That the placement of inadequate controls on solid waste management
will result in substantial risks to human health and the environment;
   (K)   That if solid waste management is improperly performed in the first
instance, corrective action is likely to be expensive, complex, and time
consuming;
   (L)   That certain classes of land disposal facilities are not capable of
assuring long-term containment of certain wastes, and to avoid risk to human
health and the environment, reliance on land disposal should be minimized or
eliminated, and land disposal, particularly landfill and surface impoundment,
should be the least favored method for managing hazardous waste;
   (M)   That tons of recoverable material which could be used are needlessly
buried each year;
   (N)   That methods are available to separate usable materials from solid
waste;
   (O)   That inefficient and improper methods of managing solid waste create
hazards to public health, cause pollution to air and water resources,
constitute a waste of natural resources, have an adverse effect on land values,
and create public nuisances;
   (P)   That the continuing technological progress and improvements in methods
of manufacture, packaging, and marketing of consumer products have resulted in
an ever-mounting increase of the mass of material discarded by the purchasers
of products;
    (Q)   That the economic growth and population growth of the service area
have required increased industrial production together with related commercial
and agricultural operations to meet county needs, resulting in a rising tide of
unwanted and discarded materials; and
   (R)   That the failure or inability to economically recover material and
energy resources from solid waste results in the unnecessary waste and
depletion of the county’s natural resources, such that maximum resource
recovery from solid waste and maximum recycling and reuse of the resources must
be considered goals of the county.
(1996 Code, § 50.37) (Ord. passed 1-18-1994)
§ 50.38 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AVAILABILITY FEE. Rates, fees, and charges imposed, or caused to be imposed,
by the county pursuant to the provisions of G.S. § 153A-292(b) for the
availability of the solid waste disposal facilities.
   COUNTY. Davie County, a political subdivision of the state.
   DESIGNATED FACILITY. A permitted solid waste disposal facility or facilities
serving the designated geographic area as more specifically set forth in §
50.42(A) and as the same may be amended from time to time by the county, and to
which it is required by this chapter that all solid waste generated within the
designated geographic area that is placed in the wastestream for disposal be
transported in order to be disposed of at such solid waste disposal facility.
   DESIGNATED GEOGRAPHIC AREA. An area approved and designated as the county’s
DESIGNATED GEOGRAPHIC AREA by the State Department of Environment, Health, and
Natural Resources, and as the same may be amended by the Department from time
to time, as a specified geographic area within which all solid waste generated
and placed in the wastestream for management is required to be delivered to the
designated facility.
   DISPOSAL. The discharge, deposit, injection, dumping, spilling, leaking, or
placing of any solid waste into, or on, any land so that such solid waste or
any constituent thereof may enter the environment or be emitted into the air or
discharged into any water, including groundwaters.
   INCORPORATED AREAS. The area located within the municipal boundaries of any
of the municipalities.
   INTERLOCAL SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT AGREEMENT. Agreements of the same title
entered into between the county and municipalities.
   MUNICIPALITY. A municipal corporation located within the county.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, company, association, partnership, unit
of local government, authority, state agency, federal agency, or other legal
entity.
   RECYCLING. The process by which recovered resources are transformed into new
products in such a manner that the original products lose their identity.
   SERVICE AREA. The incorporated areas and the unincorporated areas within the
county.
   SOLID WASTE. Any SOLID WASTE, as defined in G.S. Chapter 130A, resulting
from the operation of residential, commercial, industrial, federal, state,
special district, other governmental or institutional establishments that would
normally be collected, processed, and disposed of through a public or private
solid waste management service. SOLID WASTE does not include hazardous waste or
solid waste from mining or agricultural operations as defined in G.S. Chapter
130A. SOLID WASTE also does not include trees, shrubbery, bushes, or any other
like foliage, limbs, or any other portion of trees, shrubbery, bushes or any
like foliage, wood products of any sort, leaves, mulch, grass, and any similar
substance removed from commercial and residential yards, lots, and areas.
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITIES. Any and all facilities owned, operated, or
designated by county, permitted by the State Department of Environment, Health,
and Natural Resources, if applicable, and used in the collection,
transportation, management, processing, or disposal of solid waste, including
but not limited to recycling facilities, composting facilities, volume
reduction plants, sanitary landfills, resource recovery facilities, and
transfer stations. Subsequent to October 9, 1993, such facility, if a sanitary
landfill, must also meet the requirements of the regulations set forth in 40
C.F.R. § 258, including 258.40 (Subpart D), enacted pursuant to the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.
   SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT. Purposeful, systematic management control of the
storage, transport, separation, treatment, processing, recycling, recovery, and
disposal of solid waste.
   SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PLAN. A solid waste management plan approved by the
State Department of Environment, Health, and Natural Resources.
   TIPPING FEES. Rates, fees, and charges imposed by the authority for the use
of the solid waste disposal facilities, whether such rates, fees, or charges
are imposed at such solid waste disposal facilities or through other billing
mechanisms.
   UNINCORPORATED AREAS. The area lying within the boundaries of the county,
but does not include any area lying within the boundaries of any municipality
located within the county.
   UNIT OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT. A county, city, consolidated city-county, sanitary
district, or other local political subdivision, authority, or agency of local
government, within the county.
(1996 Code, § 50.38) (Ord. passed 1-18-1994)
§ 50.39 PURPOSES AND INTENT.
   The intent and purposes of this chapter are:
   (A)   To regulate in an environmentally safe manner the collection,
transport, separation, processing, recycling, and disposal of solid waste in
order to protect the public health, safety, and welfare; enhance the
environment for the citizens of the county service area; and recover resources
which have the potential for further usefulness;
   (B)   To adequately plan and provide efficient, environmentally acceptable
solid waste management programs;
   (C)   To utilize all means reasonably available to promote efficient and
proper methods of managing solid waste and to promote the economical recovery
of material and energy resources from solid waste;
   (D)   To promote the education of the general public and the training of
solid waste professionals to reduce the production of solid waste, to ensure
proper disposal of solid waste, and to encourage recycling; and
   (E)   To develop and implement recycling programs so that valuable materials
may be returned to productive use, energy and natural resources conserved, and
the useful life of solid waste disposal facilities extended.
(1996 Code, § 50.39) (Ord. passed 1-18-1994)
§ 50.40 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   This chapter shall govern the disposal of all solid waste generated
within the designated geographic area and placed in the wastestream for
disposal and shall also govern the disposition of all recyclable materials, if
requested by a municipality within such municipality’s jurisdictional
boundaries, within the designated geographic area of the county. This chapter
is made applicable within each municipality and the county service area by
virtue of separate interlocal solid waste management agreements entered into,
by, and between the county and the municipality.
   (B)   The county has authorized the operation of designated facilities to
serve the citizens of the designated geographic area. These designated
facilities shall be utilized in accordance with the provisions of this chapter
and in compliance with applicable state and federal regulations.
   (C)   The administration and enforcement of this chapter in both
incorporated areas and unincorporated areas shall be the duty of the county.
(1996 Code, § 50.40) (Ord. passed 1-18-1994)
§ 50.41 FEES.
   (A)   The cost of operation, maintenance, and debt service of the designated
facility shall be recovered by fees as set forth in regulations duly adopted by
the county.
   (B)   All solid waste disposed of pursuant to this chapter shall be weighed
upon arrival at the designated facility and a tipping fee shall be charged
based upon the weight. Unless prior arrangements have been made with the county
for periodic billing, all tipping fees must be paid at the time of delivery to
the landfill. Regular billing will be accomplished in a manner as authorized by
the county.
(1996 Code, § 50.41) (Ord. passed 1-18-1994)
§ 50.42 DESIGNATION OF FACILITY SITE; EXCLUSIVITY.
   (A)   Designation. The county shall designate the facilities to be used for
the disposal of solid waste collected within the service area. The county
designates the following facilities for the disposal of solid waste collected
within the designated geographic area:
      (1)   County landfill on Dalton Road (SR 1605); and
      (2)   Convenience centers owned or operated by, or on behalf of, the
county when available.
   (B)   Exclusivity.
      (1)   All solid waste generated within the designated geographic area of
the county and placed in the wastestream for disposal shall be transported to,
and disposed of, exclusively at the designated facilities specified in division
(A) above. No person shall dispose of any solid waste generated within the
designated geographic area and placed in the wastestream for disposal, except
at a designated facility. Any person disposing of solid waste generated within
the designated geographic area and placed in the wastestream for disposal shall
comply with the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Contracts for the disposal of solid waste at sites or facilities
other than the county’s designated facilities which were entered into before
the effective date of this chapter and which have an expiration date no later
than December 31, 1994 shall be exempted from this requirement until expiration
of such contracts or until December 31, 1994, whichever date is earlier.
(1996 Code, § 50.42) (Ord. passed 1-18-1994) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.43 ALTERNATIVE REQUIREMENT.
   In the event that the foregoing exclusivity requirement should be
determined, whether by preliminary injunction or otherwise, to violate the
provisions of the Commerce Clause as set forth in Article 1, § 8, cl. 3 of the
U.S. Constitution, then all solid waste must be disposed of as follows:
   (A)   If such solid waste is to be disposed of within the state, all solid
waste shall be delivered exclusively to the solid waste disposal facility
designated by the authority;
   (B)   If such solid waste is to be disposed of in a landfill in any state of
the U.S. other than North Carolina, the solid waste must be delivered to a
landfill which fulfills the requirements set forth in 40 C.F.R. § 258.40
(Subpart D) of the regulations enacted pursuant to the Federal Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.; or
   (C)   If such solid waste is to be disposed of in a solid waste management
facility in any state of the U.S. other than North Carolina other than such as
hereinabove specified and division (B) of this section, the solid waste must be
delivered to a solid waste management facility which complies with the
provisions of federal environmental laws, rules, and regulations.
(1996 Code, § 50.43) (Ord. passed 1-18-1994)
§ 50.44 CONFLICT WITH OTHER REGULATIONS.
   It is not intended that this chapter repeal, abrogate, annul, or in any way
impair or interfere with any existing ordinances or regulations adopted by the
county or by any municipalities within the county. However, to the extent that
it does conflict, the provisions of this chapter shall control.
(1996 Code, § 50.44) (Ord. passed 1-18-1994)
§ 50.45 UNLAWFUL DUMPING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, dump, or cause to be
dumped any solid waste generated within the designated geographic area anywhere
within the designated geographic area except as provided in this chapter.
   (B)   Penalties and remedies for violations of this chapter shall be as
hereinafter provided in this chapter.
(1996 Code, § 50.45) (Ord. passed 1-18-1994) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   In addition to, and separate and apart from, the specific remedies set
forth in this chapter, any person who violates any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine of not less
than $50 and cost and/or imprisonment for a minimum of 30 days, or both. A
separate and distinct violation shall be deemed to have occurred upon each and
every day during which such violation continues. Any violation may result in
the suspension or loss of license to the licensee.
   (B)   All persons failing to comply with §
50.05(B)(2) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined up to $100 on
first offense in the discretion of the court, with each day that the violation
continues to exist being considered a separate and distinct offense until the
dumping site has been corrected as requested.
   (C)   All persons using sanitary landfills or solid waste containers
operated by the county shall abide by the rules and regulations governing their
use, and a violation of such rules and regulations shall constitute a violation
of this chapter and violators may be fined up to $100 in the discretion of the
court, with each day a violation continues to exist being considered a separate
and distinct offense.
   (D)   Disposal of solid waste:
      (1)   Misdemeanor. A violation of any of the provisions of §§
50.35 through
50.45 shall constitute a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine not exceeding $500
or by imprisonment not to exceed 30 days, or both, in the discretion of the
court. Each day that a violation continues after the offender has been notified
of the violation shall constitute a separate offense;
      (2)   Civil penalty.
         (a)   A violation of §§
50.35 through
50.45 shall also subject the offender to a civil penalty of $300 for the first
violation, $400 for the second violation, and $500 for the third and subsequent
violations.
         (b)   After the effective date of §§
50.35 through
50.45, each delivery of solid waste to a facility other than the county’s
designated facility shall be considered a separate violation.
          (c)   If a person fails to pay this civil penalty within ten days
after being cited for a violation, the county may seek to recover the penalty
by filing a civil action.
      (3)   Equitable remedy. The provisions of §§
50.35 through
50.45 may be enforced by injunctive relief as provided in Rule 65 of the State
Rules of Civil Procedure, abatement, or other appropriate available remedy, and
it shall not be a defense thereto that there is an adequate remedy at law.
   (E)   Further, a violation of the above section of this code shall be a
violation of G.S. § 14-4 and such violation shall be classified as a Class 3
misdemeanor with a maximum fine of up to $450, except that any violations of §§
150.999,
154.99,
155.999, and
156.999 shall not be a violation of G.S. § 14-4 and shall not be considered a
misdemeanor.
(1996 Code, § 50.99) (Ord. passed 5-6-1985; Ord. passed 1-18-1994)
CHAPTER 51: HAZARDOUS AND LOW-LEVEL RADIOACTIVE WASTE MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Title
   
51.03   Purpose
   
51.04   County Hazardous and/or Low-Level Radioactive Waste Management Board
Permits
   
51.15   Hazardous waste and low-level radioactive waste permit required
   
51.16   Application
   
51.17   Application procedure
   
51.18   Conditions of the permit
   
51.19   Application and processing fees
Privilege License Tax
   
51.30   Privilege license tax
Waste Cleanup Fund
   
51.45   Waste Cleanup Fund
Administration and Enforcement
   
51.60   Monitoring and safety
   
51.61   Operation
   
51.62   Enforcement
   
51.63   Liability
   
51.64   Conflict
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACUTE HAZARDOUS WASTE. The same as defined in 40 C.F.R. § 261.
   BEST AVAILABLE TECHNOLOGY. Waste management and treatment technology equal
in performance to the best treatment technology available in the marketplace
which serves to render the waste to its least harmful form and most reduced
volume.
   DISPOSAL. The discharge, deposit, injection, dumping, spilling, leaking, or
placing of any hazardous and/or low-level radioactive waste into or on any land
so that such waste or any constituent thereof may enter the environment or be
emitted into the air or discharge into any waters, including groundwaters.
   FACILITY. All land, structures, personnel, and equipment used for the
treatment, storage for more than 90 days, or more than one month in the case of
acute hazardous waste, and/or disposal of hazardous and/or low-level
radioactive waste, whether on-site or off-site.
   GENERATOR. Any person, by site, whose act or process produces low-level
radioactive waste as defined below, or hazardous waste identified or listed in
40 C.F.R. § 261.
    HAZARDOUS AND/OR LOW-LEVEL RADIOACTIVE WASTE BOARD. County Waste Management
Board as described in §
51.04.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Solid or liquid waste, or a combination of solid and liquid
wastes, which because of its quantity, concentration, or physical, chemical, or
infectious characteristics may:
      (1)   Cause or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or an
increase in serious irreversible or incapacitating illness; or
      (2)   Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or
the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, or disposed of,
or otherwise managed.
   LONG-TERM STORAGE. For more than 50 years.
   LOW-LEVEL RADIOACTIVE WASTE. Radioactive waste not classified as high-level
radioactive waste, spent nuclear fuel as defined by the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory
Commission, transuranic waste, or byproduct material as defined in § 11E(2) of
the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, being 42 U.S.C. § 2014(e).
   MANAGEMENT PRACTICES. Methods of systematic collection, source separation,
storage, transportation, processing, treatment, recovery, and disposal of
hazardous and/or low-level radioactive wastes.
   NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE. Solid waste as defined in the county chapter governing
the collection, transportation, and disposal of solid waste other than
HAZARDOUS WASTE as defined herein.
   OFF-SITE. Not on-site within the environs of the county as the latter is
defined in 40 C.F.R. Part 260.
   ON-SITE. The same as defined in 40 C.F.R. Part 260.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, partnership, firm/association, trust,
estate, public or private institution, group, agency, or other entity,
governmental or non-governmental, or any successor, subsidiary, or division
thereof.
   STORAGE. Containment for a period of over 90 days (or over one month in the
case of acute hazardous waste) in such a manner as not to constitute disposal.
   TRANSFER. Handling significant amounts (greater than 1,000 kilograms per
month) of hazardous waste and/or low-level radioactive wastes that are not
generated on-site or stored over 90 days.
   TREATMENT. Any method, technique, or process, including neutralization,
designed to change the physical, chemical, or biological character or
composition of any hazardous and/or low-level radioactive waste so as to
neutralize such waste or so as to render such waste non-hazardous, safer for
transport, amenable for recovery, amenable for storage, or reduced in volume.
Such term includes any activity or processing designed to change the physical
form or chemical composition of hazardous waste or low-level radioactive waste
so as to render it non-hazardous.
(1996 Code, § 51.01) (Ord. passed 10-5-1987)
§ 51.02 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the County Hazardous Waste
and/or Low-Level Radioactive Waste Management Chapter.
(1996 Code, § 51.02) (Ord. passed 10-5-1987)
§ 51.03 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to:
   (A)   Regulate the location, operation, and care of hazardous and/or low-
level radioactive waste management facilities dealing with the storage,
transfer, treatment, or disposal of hazardous and/or low-level radioactive
waste within the county;
   (B)   Assure that the best management practices are used in handling such
hazardous and/or low-level radioactive waste;
    (C)   Assure that such hazardous and/or low-level radioactive waste is not
placed into permanent or long- term storage in the county;
   (D)   Assure that the treatment of such hazardous and/or low-level
radioactive waste including reuse, recycling, neutralization, detoxification,
and incineration will be permitted with proper regulation;
   (E)   Assure treatment of hazardous and/or low- level radioactive waste by
mass volume reduction must be accompanied by one of the above methods (division
(D) above) for the residual volume; and
   (F)   Assure that such hazardous and/or low-level radioactive waste does not
undergo disposal in the county without being rendered non-hazardous by prior
treatment.
(1996 Code, § 51.03) (Ord. passed 10-5-1987)
§ 51.04 COUNTY HAZARDOUS AND/OR LOW-LEVEL RADIOACTIVE WASTE MANAGEMENT BOARD.
   (A)   A County Hazardous and/or Low-Level Radioactive Waste Management Board
shall be formed and shall be composed of 11 members. The Waste Board shall be
constituted as follows:
      (1)   Two members from county government, the Health Director or his or
her designee, and the County Emergency Management Director;
      (2)   Four members to be appointed by the County Commissioners from the
following categories: two from the public at large representing citizens
involved in environmental matters, and two from industry; and
      (3)   Five at-large members to be selected by the County Commissioners
from residents of the county.
   (B)   Each member shall serve a three-year term, with three of the initial
Board members serving one- year terms, three members serving two-year terms,
and the remaining three serving for three years so as to stagger the terms.
Such initial terms shall be set by the County Commissioners.
   (C)   The Chairperson of the Hazardous and/or Low-Level Radioactive Waste
Board shall be selected by the Board at its first meeting.
   (D)   The Board shall meet at least twice a year but as often as necessary
at some central location in the county. The staff of the Planning Department
shall act as support staff for the Hazardous and/or Low-Level Radioactive Waste
Board.
   (E)   A majority of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction
of business.
   (F)   The functions and powers of the Hazardous and/or Low-Level Radioactive
Waste Board shall be as follows:
      (1)   To review the county’s hazardous waste and low-level radioactive
waste management program and make recommendations to the County Commissioners
on ways to improve the program;
      (2)   To carry out the functions designated in this chapter, including
but not limited to the application process (§
51.16), recommending management practices orders (§
51.61(B)), approving certificates of need (§
51.61(A)), and providing information to the public;
      (3)   To promote safety and health in the management of wastes;
      (4)   To maintain contact with the State Waste Management Board and other
bodies concerned with hazardous waste management;
      (5)   To provide a forum for citizens and industry in the regulatory
process;
      (6)   To keep itself informed about advances in the technology of
hazardous waste and low-level radioactive waste management and to make
recommendations to the County Commissioners about ways to keep the county’s
regulations and management practices in tune with the use of both best
available technology and best management practices in the field of hazardous
and low-level radioactive waste management;
      (7)   To review the practices of hazardous waste generators and low-level
radioactive waste generators in the county not currently covered by federal and
state regulations to determine if the county should require these generators to
obtain permits for continued production and management of these wastes; and
      (8)   The members of the Hazardous and/or Low-Level Radioactive Waste
Board shall be compensated at a rate to be determined by the County
Commissioners and shall be provided with insurance against liability for any
actions taken in performance of their duties, to the extent such insurance is
available.
(1996 Code, § 51.04) (Ord. passed 10-5-1987)
PERMITS
§ 51.15 HAZARDOUS WASTE AND LOW- LEVEL RADIOACTIVE WASTE PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No new proposed storage treatment, transfer, or disposal facility for
hazardous waste or low-level radioactive waste shall be permitted to be
located, erected, constructed, or otherwise established within the county prior
to satisfactory compliance with the procedures set forth herein and prior to
receiving a hazardous or low-level radioactive waste management permit as
specified herein and prior to the satisfactory compliance with each and every
condition as specified by the County Commissioners as designated herein.
   (B)   No existing storage treatment, transfer, or disposal facility for
hazardous waste or low-level radioactive waste shall be permitted to increase
its volume of hazardous waste or low-level radioactive waste or to accept waste
of a different nature to be stored, treated, handled, or disposed of within the
county prior to satisfactory compliance with the procedures set forth herein
and prior to receiving a hazardous or low-level radioactive waste management
permit as specified herein.
   (C)   No existing storage treatment, transfer, or disposal facility for
hazardous waste or low-level radioactive waste shall be permitted to continue
operations within the county after 365 days from the adoption of this chapter
without satisfactory compliance with the procedures set forth herein, including
the receiving of a hazardous or low-level radioactive waste management permit
as specified herein, and satisfactory compliance with each and every condition
specified by the County Commissioners as designated herein.
   (D)   No construction or site preparation for a new hazardous waste or low-
level radioactive waste management facility shall begin until a permit shall
have been issued by the county.
(1996 Code, § 51.20) (Ord. passed 10-5-1987)
§ 51.16 APPLICATION.
   (A)   A permit applicant shall prepare and file a hazardous waste permit
application with the County Commissioners for any hazardous waste and/or low-
level radioactive waste facility as described in §
51.15. The permit application shall include all related documents submitted to
the federal government and the state. Where divisions (B), (C), and (D) of this
section and §
51.18 are included in documents submitted to the federal and state governments,
these need not be duplicated for the county permit; however, additional
information as to how these items directly impact the county as well as cross-
references to state and federal documents shall be included.
   (B)   The application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   A description of the applicant, full information on its financial
capability and a detailed history of all its past activities in the field of
hazardous and/or low-level radioactive waste management, including a synopsis
of every other facility it has operated;
       (2)   Evidence of liability insurance, including environmental impact
liability insurance, and a history of any claims against the company at any
site, including the parent company or any subsidiaries of the parent company;
      (3)   Justification for, and anticipated benefits from, the project;
      (4)   A description of the scope of the proposed project, including a
schedule of how much and what kinds of hazardous and/or low-level radioactive
material the facility will accept, where the material will come from, what
pretreatment will be required of wastes unacceptable to the facility without
such pretreatment, and how long the facility is expected to operate;
      (5)   The estimated project costs, including information on the
construction cost for the facility, the yearly site operation expenses, and an
estimate of the costs for the lifetime of the project;
      (6)   The proposed method of financing the project, including
development, operation, and closure stages;
      (7)   The proposed number of employees and types of positions, including
information the training and experience required for each position, salaries to
be paid, and safety precautions to be undertaken;
      (8)   The anticipated date to begin construction;
      (9)   The anticipated date to begin operation;
      (10)   A detailed estimate of the types and amounts of municipal and
county services local government will need to provide each year for the
facility;
      (11)   A description of emergency procedures and safety and security
precautions that will be in place at the facility; this information should
include details on emergency assistance that will be required from the
surrounding community;
      (12)   A description of the environmental protection measures to be taken
by the applicant to prevent contamination on and around the facility site and a
description of planned monitoring systems, with an estimated annual budget for
each of these items;
      (13)   A description of environmental protection measures to be used
during transportation of materials to and from the facility, with an estimated
annual budget for these arrangements and an estimate of the volume of material
to be transported during each year of the facility’s operation;
      (14)   A description of the site closure plan for the facility, the
anticipated date of closure, and an estimate of the site closure costs; and
      (15)   A description of anticipated need for post-closure care.
   (C)   A map or maps attached to the application shall include but are not
limited to the following information:
      (1)   Ownership.
         (a)   Name, address, and telephone number of the legal owner and/or
agent of the property;
         (b)   Name, address, and telephone number of professional person(s)
responsible for design and for surveys;
         (c)   Description of any existing legal rights-of-way or easements
affecting the property; and
         (d)   Reference to existing restrictive covenants on the property, if
any.
      (2)   Description. Location of property by tax map and parcel number, and
the warranty deed book number and page reference or other evidence of title of
the current owner;
      (3)   Features. Each map shall have the following information:
          (a)   The map shall be drawn to a scale of not less than 200 feet to
an inch;
         (b)   Location sketch map showing relationship of the project site to
the surrounding area;
         (c)   Graphic scale, date, approximate north arrow, legend;
         (d)   The location of property with respect to surrounding property
and streets, the names of all adjacent developments. The name and address of
adjacent property owners according to the county tax records;
         (e)   Zoning, classification of proposed project, and adjacent
property;
         (f)   The location of all boundary lines of the property;
         (g)   The total acreage of land in the project in this county and any
other county, if applicable;
         (h)   The location of existing and/or platted streets, easements,
buildings (including mobile homes), railroads, parks, cemeteries, bridges,
sewers, water mains, culverts, water wells, and gas and electric lines;
         (i)   The location of water bodies, water courses (including
sinkholes, dry stream beds, and pond overflow streams), groundwater aquifers,
springs, and other pertinent features;
         (j)   The location and width of all existing and proposed street
rights-of-way and easements, and other public ways;
         (k)   The location, dimensions, and acreage of all property proposed
to be set aside for various uses on the applicant’s property;
         (l)   The location of all test wells and/or borings;
         (m)   The location of the 100-year floodplain, flood record, standard
project flood, and inundation due to a dam break; and
         (n)   The location of faults, dikes, sills, and other pertinent
geologic structures.
      (4)   Topographic map. A topographic map with contours at vertical
intervals of not more than five feet, at the same scale as the project site
map. The date and method of preparing the topographic survey shall be stated;
and
      (5)   Transportation route map. A map showing proposed transportation
route(s) to and from the facility site, including location of towns and
emergency and safety facilities, and an estimate of the volume of material to
travel on each route.
   (D)   The application shall address the following factors as they apply to
the specific type of facility. Because each facility is unique, the County
Commissioners may request, as it deems necessary, additional information,
similar to that addressed below to complete the application:
      (1)   Contaminant flow to the water table, including leachate monitoring,
collecting and withdrawal systems; clay and synthetic liners (extra thickness,
multiple liners); spill prevention and containment measures;
      (2)   Contaminant movement with groundwater, including groundwater
monitoring systems at the site and in potentially affected area; subsurface
“slurry wall” barrier controls on other groundwater withdrawals in area;
      (3)   Predictability of contaminant movement, based on preconstruction
borings and groundwater modeling;
      (4)   Potential effect on surface waters; planned collection systems for
surface water runoff; planned exclusion systems for surface water run-on;
      (5)   Potential effect on aquifers, planned provisions for alternate
water supply systems and facilities for immediate pumping and treatment of
contaminated water;
      (6)   Potential effect on public water supplies; planned runoff
collection and treatment and provisions for alternate supply systems;
      (7)   Possibility of site flooding; planned special facility design,
special control dikes, and buffer zone setback in area of standard project
flood area;
      (8)   Potential human exposure to treated wastewater, including planned
safety procedures, clothing, instruction, and practice for employees, planned
over-sized or redundant treatment capacity, effluent monitoring and automatic
shutdown systems;
      (9)   Nature and predictability of pollution movement, including planned
stack height for incinerators with continuous stack and plume monitoring and
recording until emission levels are predictable; planned segregation of
incompatible wastes;
      (10)   Potential human exposure to air pollution, including planned
pollution control equipment, special combustion monitoring and automatic
shutdown systems and special air monitoring arrangements;
      (11)   Safety of transportation route, including evacuation and re-
routing plans, planned training and certification of truck drivers and other
waste-handling personnel and truck safety features;
      (12)   Potential for noise impact, including limitations on hours for
delivery and muffler installation;
      (13)   Potential for impact on environmentally significant lands, planned
bonding, insurance, financial responsibility, and monitoring;
      (14)   Proximity to residential areas or sensitive sites, including
planned purchase of buffer zones on adjacent lands, reduction in facility size
and distance limitation between similar facilities;
      (15)   Compatibility with existing land uses, including orientation and
layout of site plans; planned buffer zone setback from use area to facility
owner’s exterior property line, referred to as “minimum interior buffer
setback,” planned aesthetic design of facility and landscaping;
      (16)   Compatibility with land use plans;
      (17)   Impact on existing or future economic activity, including
predicted tax base expansion and privilege license tax;
      (18)   Potential for earthquake activity, including special facility
design and evacuation plans to deal with such occurrences; and
      (19)   Post-use problems, including bonding, liability, financial
responsibility, and monitoring community and environmental health.
   (E)   Hazardous and/or low-level radioactive waste generators filing permit
applications to store and/or treat wastes on-site at the point of generation
shall submit to the County Commissioners an application that also includes the
following:
      (1)   A summary of all spills at the site and the resultant cleanup
operation;
      (2)   A detailed description of the company’s in-house monitoring and
safety programs; and
      (3)   Any additional information the County Commissioners may deem
relevant to assessing the facility’s impact on the health and welfare of the
county’s citizens.
(1996 Code, § 51.21) (Ord. passed 10-5-1987)
§ 51.17 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   (1)   The permit applicant shall submit to the County Commissioners
two copies of all information required by federal and state agencies for the
facility for which it requests a county permit at the same time such
information is submitted to the state and federal government except facilities
already located in the county which shall file such documents when they
initiate the application process.
      (2)   The review procedure shall not begin nor shall the application be
designated as complete until such time as all required data are submitted and
the appropriate fees are paid, or suitable arrange- ments for payment have been
approved by the County Commissioners.
   (B)   A designee of the County Commissioners shall compile copies of all
reports, applications, minutes of Planning Board and Hazardous and/or Low-Level
Radioactive Waste Board meetings, reports by consultants, and similar material.
These shall be placed in one location with free access by the public and
availability of copying any portion or all of any document at cost.
   (C)   Within 45 days of the submission of the application, the
Commissioners’ designee shall hold a public hearing so that the applicant can
present its plans to the public and answer questions.
   (D)   After the hearing, the Commissioners’ designee, after consultation
with the Hazardous and Low-Level Radioactive Waste Board, shall have 60 days in
which to determine if the application is complete and shall mail notice of its
determination to the applicant. If it is not complete, the applicant shall have
six months to complete the application. However, the applicant may at the end
of six months make a showing of cause to the County Commissioners, and if the
Commissioners find that the delay is justified and in good faith, they can
grant the applicant a maximum three-month extension.
   (E)   Each application shall require an analysis conducted by the county
staff and a consultant or consultants selected by the County Commissioners upon
the recommendation of the Hazardous and Low-Level Radioactive Waste Board. The
analysis shall be completed within 120 days from the day the application is
determined to be complete. In certain instances where the complexity of the
application required more than the usual 120 days, the county, staff and/or the
consultant may request an additional 60 days from the County Commissioners, and
the proponent has the option of requesting the County Commissioners to extend
the analysis period to allow time for responding to staff and/or consultant
requests for additional information on a completed application.
   (F)   The Commissioners’ designee and each consultant shall make reports on
the application to the Hazardous and/or Low-Level Radioactive Waste Board at
their meetings.
   (G)   The Hazardous and/or Low-Level Radioactive Waste Board shall call a
public meeting for public comment on the completed application along with the
analysis by county staff and consultants. The purpose of this meeting shall be
for public review of the application. The staff shall give notice by regular
mail of the time and place of the public meeting to the owner and adjacent
property owners as specified on the map. The notice shall be mailed not less
than 14 days prior to the date specified thereon. Notice of the public meeting
shall be posted by the applicant on the proposed facility property on each and
every street of access, not less than 14 days prior to the date specified
thereon. The posted notices shall be at intervals of not greater than 1,500
feet. Notice shall also be placed by the applicant in each of the local
newspapers not less than 14 days prior to the date specified thereon.
   (H)   Within 45 days after review of the final analysis, completed
application and public comment, the Hazardous and/or Low-Level Radioactive
Waste Board shall make a recommendation to the County Commissioners at a public
meeting whether to accept the application, deny it, or accept it with
modifications. This recommendation shall be made to the full Commission.
However, before making a recommendation to the County Commissioners to accept
the proposal or accept it with modifications, the Waste Board shall make the
following determinations:
      (1)   That the construction and operation of the facility will not pose
an unreasonable health or environmental risk to the surrounding locality;
      (2)   That the applicant (or facility operator) has the capability and
financial resources to construct, operate, and maintain the facility;
      (3)   That the applicant or operator has taken or consented in writing to
take any and all reasonable measures to comply with applicable federal, state,
and local regulations and ordinances; and
      (4)   That the applicant’s plan represents the best available technology
for handling the wastes for which the applicant will be permitted, and that the
applicant has demonstrated that it will employ the best management practices in
handling the wastes at the proposed facility to achieve the goal of maximizing
reuse, recycling, neutralization, detoxification, incineration, and volume
reduction before long-term storage. In the case of generators storing or
treating their wastes on-site at the point of generation in the county at the
time of adoption of this chapter, these facilities shall be held to the
standard of best management practices and may be exempted from the standard of
best available technology on that site until such time as they may file a
permit application as in §
51.16.
   (I)   At its next scheduled meeting, the County Commissioners shall make its
decision to grant the permit, deny it, or grant it with specified conditions.
   (J)   A permit shall be valid for no more than 18 months from the date it is
granted by the County Commissioners unless the applicant begins construction of
the facility prior to the expiration of the permit and continues to operate the
facility according to specified conditions. If a permit becomes invalid and the
application is unchanged from when the permit was granted, it shall follow the
procedure of this section and the filing fee of §
51.19.
(1996 Code, § 51.22) (Ord. passed 10-5-1987)
§ 51.18 CONDITIONS OF THE PERMIT.
   (A)   The County Commissioners, upon the recommendation of the Hazardous and
Low-Level Radioactive Waste Board, may specify conditions of granting a permit,
as will, in their opinion, assure that the facility in its proposed location
will meet the findings required in §
51.17(H). The Commissioners also may specify the level of liability insurance
that the facility operator must have in excess of levels required herein. All
such specified conditions shall be entered in the minutes of the meeting at
which the permit request is approved. All specified conditions shall run with
the permit and shall also be binding on the original applicants, their heirs,
successors, and assigns. Any noncompliance with the specified conditions
constitutes violation of this chapter and may invalidate the permit.
   (B)   The County Commissioners may limit or restrict the amounts and types
of wastes entering the proposed site, may limit or restrict the type of
treatment, handling, and/or disposal activities, or may require additional
treatment or handling of the waste(s) before entering, leaving, or being
disposed of on the site.
   (C)   In addition to conditions regarding the appropriateness of the
proposed waste management scheme to the nature of the waste(s) handled, certain
other conditions must be met by the proposed waste management facility. These
include but are not limited to:
      (1)   Low-level radioactive waste and hazardous waste shall not be stored
in the same facility;
      (2)   No two waste management facilities, either hazardous or low-level
radioactive waste management facilities, shall adjoin, and no more than one
facility of either type shall be located per township with the exception of on-
site storage and/or treatment at the point of generation; and
      (3)   All wastes, hazardous or low-level radioactive, placed into any
form of storage shall be retrievable and identifiable using best management
practices.
   (D)   In addition to such restrictions as may be imposed pursuant to
divisions (A), (B), and (C) above, the County Commissioners shall address the
factors set out in divisions (D)(1) through (21) below and may impose such
conditions on the permit as to the Commissioners shall seem appropriate,
including by way of illustration only the conditions set forth below each of
the factors.
      (1)   Contaminant flow period to water table.
         (a)   Leachate monitoring, collection, and withdrawal.
         (b)   Clay and synthetic liners; extra thickness, multiple liner.
         (c)   Spill prevention and containment measures.
      (2)   Contaminant movement with groundwater.
         (a)   Groundwater monitoring systems at site and in potentially
affected areas.
         (b)   Subsurface “slurry wall” barriers.
         (c)   Controls on groundwater withdrawals in area.
      (3)   Predictability of contaminant movement. Additional preconstruction
soil borings and groundwater modeling.
      (4)   Potential effect on surface water.
         (a)   Collection systems for surface water runoff.
         (b)   Liability insurance.
      (5)   Potential effect on aquifers.
         (a)   Provision of alternate water supply system.
         (b)   Liability insurance.
         (c)   County monitoring and inspection at applicant’s expense, both
on-site and in potentially affected areas.
         (d)   Contingency plan for sudden or non-sudden spills and an impact
of cleanup on the environment.
      (6)   Potential effect on (other).
         (a)   Special runoff collection and treatment.
         (b)   Provision of alternate water supply system.
      (7)   Possibility of site flooding.
         (a)   Special facility design.
         (b)   Special control dikes.
         (c)   Special liability insurance.
         (d)   Buffer zone setback in area of standard project flood area.
      (8)   Potential human exposure to treated wastewater.
         (a)   Oversized or redundant treatment capacity.
         (b)   Effluent monitoring and automatic shut-down systems.
         (c)   Liability insurance.
      (9)   Nature and predictability movement.
         (a)   Increased stack height.
         (b)   Modeling of groundwater movement.
      (10)   Potential human exposure to air pollution.
         (a)   Additional, oversized, or redundant pollution control equipment.
         (b)   Increased stack heights.
          (c)   Special combustion monitoring and automatic shutdown systems.
         (d)   Special air monitoring arrangement.
      (11)   Safety of transportation route.
         (a)   Evacuation plans and training.
         (b)   Transportation re-routing.
         (c)   Access road construction.
         (d)   Training of emergency fire and medical personnel.
         (e)   Truck safety features.
      (12)   Distance between sensitive sites and transportation route.
Relocation of schools or other sensitive facilities.
      (13)   Potential for noise impact.
         (a)   Limitation on hours for delivery.
         (b)   Muffler installation.
      (14)   Potential for impact on environmentally significant lands.
Monitoring and protection of environmentally significant lands.
      (15)   Proximity to residential areas or sensitive sites.
         (a)   Purchase of buffer zones adjacent lands.
         (b)   Reduction or limitation in facility size.
         (c)   Distance limitation between facilities.
      (16)   Compatibility with existing land uses.
         (a)   Orientation and layout of site plans.
         (b)   Buffer zone setback from use area to facility owner’s exterior
property line referred to as a minimum interior buffer setback.
         (c)   Aesthetic design of facility and landscaping.
         (d)   Volume reduction requirements.
         (e)   Regular reporting of types and volume of waste handled.
      (17)   Compatibility. Compatibility with land use plans.
      (18)   Property value. Potential effect on property value.
      (19)   Impact on existing economic activity. 
         (a)   Tax base expansion.
         (b)   Privilege license tax.
      (20)   Potential for earthquake activity.
         (a)   Special facility design.
         (b)   Evacuation plans.
      (21)   Inspection and monitoring. Employees and agents of the county have
the right at any time to go on the premises for purposes of inspection and
monitoring.
      (22)   Impact on historical and archeological sites. Historical and
archeological resources should be protected and preserved.
(1996 Code, § 51.23) (Ord. passed 10-5-1987)
§ 51.19 APPLICATION AND PROCESSING FEES.
   (A)   All applicants not presently operating in the county requesting a
hazardous waste and low-level radioactive waste permit for the storage,
transfer, treatment, or disposal of any hazardous waste and low-level
radioactive waste shall pay a non-refundable filing fee to the county in the
amount of $10,000,000 concurrently with the filing of the application.
    (B)   In addition to the non-refundable filing fee required by division (A)
above, the County Commissioners, upon the recommendation of the Hazardous Waste
and Low-Level Radioactive Waste Board shall from time to time assess
applicant’s fees in such amounts as the Commissioners shall find necessary and
sufficient to reimburse the county for the cost of any needed professional
assistance that may be required by the county to evaluate the permit
application and amendments, verify its content, and evaluate the impact of such
a permit on the community, public health, and the environment. This assistance
may include but shall not be limited to the assistance of lawyers, biologists,
geologists, engineers, chemists, hydrologists, physicists, emergency response
transportation and public health experts, land appraisers, and professional
testing laboratories.
   (C)   Failure to provide the funds required within 30 days of demand shall
result in termination of the permit process or cancellation of the permit. The
County Commissioners may take legal action against the applicant for any cost
incurred to the county up to the point of denial or termination.
(1996 Code, § 51.24) (Ord. passed 10-5-1987)
PRIVILEGE LICENSE TAX
§ 51.30 PRIVILEGE LICENSE TAX.
   (A)   Purpose of this section. The facility operator(s) shall be assessed
the following tax for such reasonable expenses that the county may incur for
the following emergency services.
      (1)   Equipment acquisition. The acquisition of special emergency
equipment for dealing with hazardous and radioactive substances, to include
protective clothing, detoxification equipment, breathing apparatus, collection
apparatus, alarm systems, direct telephone or radio connection equipment,
Geiger counters, special medical vehicles, and other such equipment as the
county may reasonably require.
      (2)   Equipment maintenance. The cost of necessary maintenance and
replacement of equipment as described in division (A)(1) above.
      (3)   Evacuation plans. The cost of preparing, testing, disseminating,
and implementing both on-site and off-site emergency evacuation plans, the cost
of keeping such plans current, and the cost of carrying them out should the
need arise.
      (4)   Initial training. The cost of initial training for the county’s
emergency response personnel, to include psychological preparedness training,
to deal with emergency situations involving hazardous or low-level radioactive
waste, and the cost of expanding such training as necessary.
      (5)   Updating training. The cost of updating such training as described
in division (A)(4) above from time to time, and the cost of training new
personnel.
      (6)   Hospital preparedness. Additional costs of the county’s hospitals
as a result of the need for special emergency units at those hospitals to
handle hazardous and low-level radioactive waste emergencies.
      (7)   Transportation Emergency Fund. An additional amount to purchase
insurance to cover the costs of emergencies caused by accidents involving the
transportation of hazardous or low-level radioactive waste to, or from, such
facilities, for accidents occurring between the site boundary and the county
line.
      (8)   Post-Closure Emergency Fund. An additional amount to purchase
insurance to cover the costs of emergency services required to handle
emergencies caused by hazardous or low-level radioactive waste facilities after
such facilities have closed.
       (9)   Other. The cost of other emergency services and preparedness which
shall be required from time to time.
   (B)   Monitoring.
      (1)   Purpose of section. The purpose of this division (B) is to ensure
that adequate funds are available to fully monitor the environmental and health
effects of the location of hazardous or low-level radioactive waste facilities
in the county, and to ensure that such monitoring is in fact carried out. The
County Commissioners recognize that the state and federal governments have
primary responsibility in this area, but they also recognize that the resources
of these governments are limited, and that the data generated by this county
monitoring program is intended to supplement and complete the data generated by
the state and federal monitoring programs.
      (2)   Monitoring costs. The facility operator(s) shall be assessed a
privilege license tax to compensate for the monitoring functions undertaken by
the county pursuant to §
51.60. This tax shall include:
         (a)   Salaries of county personnel needed to carry out any of such
monitoring functions;
         (b)   Administrative support costs which are reasonably necessary to
fulfill the duties of the county monitoring personnel, to include office
supplies, secretarial time, maintenance of a public document room, and other
such costs;
         (c)   The costs of training inspection and monitoring personnel and of
updating such training from time to time;
         (d)   Costs incurred in hiring consultants to assist the county in
monitoring;
         (e)   An additional sum, to be agreed upon by the facility operator
and the Board of Commissioners, for maintaining monitoring of the environment
and human health effects for perpetuity. This money shall be placed into a non-
reverting fund, with interest to accrue to the fund, which shall be managed by
the County Finance Officer, who shall give an annual accounting of the fund to
the Board of Commissioners; and
         (f)   Other reasonable costs of monitoring as may be necessary.
   (C)   Other costs assessed under state law. The Board of Commissioners finds
that the following costs are associated with hazardous or low-level radioactive
waste facilities and their operations, that the county is not otherwise
compensated for such costs, and that such costs shall therefore properly be
assessed under state law to the facility operator(s).
      (1)   Recordation. It should be a matter of public record that property
is located within a five- mile radius of a hazardous or low-level radioactive
waste facility, operating or closed. The costs incurred by the Register of
Deeds for placing notations to that effect on all deeds, grant’s indexes,
plats, and other relevant affected documents shall therefore be assessed to the
facility operator(s).
      (2)   Public information. The location of a waste facility is a matter of
which the public should be completely informed, and concerning which the public
should have ready access to the relevant information. Therefore, the following
costs shall be assessed to the facility operator(s):
         (a)   Consultation with adjoining landowners. The cost of advising
adjoining landowners as to their legal rights with respect to the facility, and
as to health precautions;
         (b)   Consultation with farmers. The costs of advising farmers in the
surrounding area as to health precautionary measures, in the event of accidents
or spills, for their livestock and crops;
         (c)   School educational programs. Cost incurred, to the extent not
already provided for by county or state school budgets, in presenting
instructional materials to county school children on the facility, its
potential hazards, and emergency preparedness;
          (d)   Health information. Costs incurred by the County Health
Department in disseminating information concerning the facility and its effect
on the public health; and
         (e)   Construction and maintenance of roads. To the extent that the
county is not otherwise compensated therefor by the federal or state
governments, costs incurred in improving or maintaining existing roads and
rights-of-way, acquiring new rights-of-way, and constructing access roads,
building parking areas, erecting warning signs or signals, and other such
expenses as the county may demonstrate are associated with the facility and the
increased traffic associated with it.
      (3)   Loss of ad valorem taxes. To the extent that off-site
contamination, regardless of negligence on the part of the facility operator,
reduces ad valorem revenues to the county, the loss to the county shall be
compensated by the facility operator(s).
      (4)   Annual legal advice. The cost to the county of an annual review of
this chapter and other laws and regulations in the field of waste management.
      (5)   Attorney’s fees. The cost to the county of reasonable legal
representation in all cases arising out of the operation of the facilities in
the county, or arising out of challenges to this chapter, provided that:
         (a)   The county is the prevailing party; or
         (b)   The county has had substantial justification for its position
and has not litigated vexatiously.
      (6)   Bonding. The costs to the county of arranging suitable bonding or
insurance or other financial security arrangements to cover the costs arising
out of the location of facilities within the county.
      (7)   Other. Other costs the county may incur, and which the county may
demonstrate are associated with the operation of the facility(s), and for which
the county is not otherwise compensated.
   (D)   How tax calculated. The tax shall be calculated as follows.
      (1)   Annual. The annual tax shall be calculated by adding together the
above enumerated expenses at the end of the calendar year.
      (2)   Quarterly payments. The facility operator may arrange to make
estimated quarterly payments in advance.
      (3)   More than one facility. If there is more than one hazardous or low-
level radioactive waste facility in the county subject to this chapter, the
total tax for each facility shall be prorated among the various facility
operators according to the percentage of the total weight of such wastes each
operator has generated, treated, stored, or disposed of in the county for that
calendar year.
      (4)   Negotiation. Should the facility operator(s) have reason to believe
that this privilege license tax would prohibit or have the effect of
prohibiting the operation or continued operation of the facility(s), he or she
shall specify in writing in a report to the Hazardous and/or Low-Level
Radioactive Waste Board, setting forth the grounds for such belief with
particularity, and stating the level of tax which would enable such operation.
The Hazardous and/or Low-Level Radioactive Waste Board is empowered to
negotiate the total tax, provided that:
         (a)   All such negotiations shall include at least one public meeting;
         (b)   Any decision be reported in writing to the County Commissioners,
with the reason(s) therefor; and
         (c)   Such agreement must be approved by the County Commissioners
before becoming final.
       (5)   Yearly renegotiation. Such agreement must be renegotiated each
year thereafter.
(1996 Code, § 51.40) (Ord. passed 10-5-1987)
WASTE CLEANUP FUND
§ 51.45 WASTE CLEANUP FUND.
   (A)   Purpose. The County Commissioners share the State General Assembly’s
great concern for the safe and effective disposal of hazardous and low-level
radioactive waste, and have in addition a great concern for the economic and
public health costs resulting from inefficient cleanup of past accidents. The
County Commissioners recognize the benefit of speedy cleanup, manifested in
monetary savings and in the prevention of permanent damage to life and
property. The County Commissioners also recognize that the Cleanup Fund
established under G.S. Chapter 130A only covers on-site cleanup and care, and
that the federal response fund established under the Comprehensive Emergency
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, Pub. L. No. 96-510, 42 U.S.C. §§
9601 et seq. is inadequate to ensure speedy and adequate compensation,
particularly for damages to individuals. The purpose of this section is to
establish an emergency response fund, to be funded by an additional privilege
license tax, particularly for individual medical and property damage, off-site
contamination, and transportation accidents, and other costs arising out of the
location and operation of hazardous and low-level radioactive waste facilities
in the county.
   (B)   Establishment of fund. There is established, pursuant to the authority
vested in the County Commissioners by G.S. § 153A-121, a special Hazardous
Waste Cleanup Fund, to be disbursed liberally and speedily upon notification of
any dangerous spill or leakage that is not immediately remedied by the party
responsible or by the federal or state governments. The Fund will supplement
the state fund established under G.S. Chapter 130A, and it is the intent of the
County Commissioners that it should be used first to cover personal injury
costs and off-site contamination costs. Should the Fund be found to be invalid
for whatever reason, the monies collected and accrued interest shall be
returned to the facility operator(s) in the same shares as it was paid in;
otherwise, the Fund shall be non-reverting.
   (C)   How collected. The privilege license tax collected under this section
shall be 6% of the gross annual receipts of all hazardous and low-level
radioactive waste facilities in the county subject to this chapter, until the
principal of the Fund shall reach $25,000,000 with all interest to accrue to
the Fund.
   (D)   Management. The County Finance Officer and one member of the County
Commissioners shall be appointed managers of the Fund. They shall give an
annual accounting of the Fund to the County Commissioners and to all subject
facility operators in the county. The County Finance Officer shall pursuant to
this section prepare a report on the best means of investing these tax revenues
within 30 days of the receipt of an application for a major hazardous or low-
level radioactive waste facility in the county. It is the intent of the County
Commissioners that these revenues shall not be invested in the securities,
obligations, or other instruments of industries which are major producers of
hazardous or low-level radioactive waste.
   (E)   Procedure for disbursement. The County Attorney is directed to draw up
a plan and procedures for disbursement, which shall be designed to:
      (1)   Ensure prompt response to individual claims and cleanup actions;
      (2)   Ensure that all disbursements are made in accordance with state and
federal laws; and
      (3)   Ensure that there are provisions for periodic disbursements where
the nature of the injury so requires.
   (F)   Authority to disburse. The Hazardous and/or Low-Level Radioactive
Waste Board, by majority vote, shall be the disbursing authority for payment
made from the Fund. The Hazardous and/or Low-Level Radioactive Waste Board
shall prepare a written report of any meeting at which such vote is taken,
including the names of persons voting for and against, amount voted, and
reasons. The County Commissioners shall review such report at its next meeting.
   (G)   Collection of expenditures. The County attorney shall prepare a plan
for collecting expenditures from the Fund from parties responsible for
discharges requiring such expenditures.
   (H)   Procedure for closing of Fund. The County Finance Officer shall
prepare a plan for the closing of the Fund within a reasonable time after the
closure of the facility(s) in the county, but notwithstanding anything herein
to the contrary, it is ordained that the funds shall be retained until it is
determined by the Board of County Commissioners that no remote possibility of
potential damage exists to the health of the citizens of the county or to the
environment. This determination shall only be made by the County Commissioners
after a careful, scientific evaluation is made employing the best available
technology.
   (I)   Bond.
      (1)   Until the Fund set up under division (C) above reaches $25,000,000,
all hazardous and low- level radioactive waste facilities in the county subject
to this chapter shall jointly post a bond in favor of the county in an amount
which represents the difference between the balance in the Fund and $25,000,000
to guarantee the speedy and prompt performance of the terms of this section.
      (2)   All bonds required under this section shall be signed and executed
by the principal and guaranteed by a surety company duly licensed to do
business in the state and authorized to post and give bond to be received by
any department of the state government. Any person, firm, or corporation
presenting any indemnity or guaranty company as surety for the bond shall
accompany his or her bond with a statement of the Insurance Commissioner as to
the condition of such company, and the statement shall include but not be
limited to the following:
         (a)   That the bonding company is licensed to do business in the
state;
         (b)   That the bonding company is authorized to post bonds for any
department of state government in the amount for which the bond is sought and
that, in the opinion of the Insurance Commissioner, the financial condition of
the bonding company is such that it will be able to carry out and perform the
terms of the bond if it shall be required to do so; and
         (c)   If the bonds herein required shall lapse for any reason, then in
that event, in addition to the enforcement powers set out in §
51.62, the Hazardous and/or Low-Level Radioactive Waste Board may immediately
prohibit the delivery of any waste material to the plant’s site while the bond
is in a state of revocation and take such other action as may be necessary to
enforce compliance with this section, including but not limited to recommending
revocation of the permit and enjoining further operation during the violation.
(1996 Code, § 51.50) (Ord. passed 10-5-1987)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 51.60 MONITORING AND SAFETY.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to supplement and complete the
monitoring and safety activities of the federal and state governments. The
County Commissioners recognize the primary responsibility of the federal and
state governments in this area. However, they also recognize that
appropriations and manpower to fulfill this responsibility have often been
inadequate, and that county responsibility is therefore necessary and lawful.
The duties described herein shall begin upon receipt of a permit application.
   (B)   Duties of the Health Department (or the Commissioners’ designee,
hereafter referred to as the “Health Department”). The Health Department is
directed to undertake the following monitoring and safety duties:
       (1)   To monitor the air, surface water, and groundwater during the
operation of the facility(s);
      (2)   To monitor soil, plant, microbial, viral, and animal samples during
the operation of the facility(s);
      (3)   To conduct human health surveys and monitoring in the area around
the facility(s) including statistical surveys, blood samples, and other surveys
which may be necessary to determine the effect of exposure to trace any
accidental discharges of hazardous or low-level radioactive waste;
      (4)   To verify the content of shipments and storage of hazardous and/or
low-level radioactive waste against shipping manifests and other records;
      (5)   To inspect the interiors of structures located on the waste
facility site(s) for hazardous, unhealthy, or otherwise unlawful conditions;
      (6)   To inspect and take samples within the site boundaries of any
hazardous and/or low-level waste facility(s) in the county;
      (7)   To verify, by laboratory analysis, that samples taken by facility
operators are in fact what they are claimed to be, and to check the accuracy of
any laboratory facilities within the county which regularly test hazardous or
low-level radioactive waste samples;
      (8)   To prepare an emergency response plan, and prepare adequate
emergency medical equipment and personnel to handle emergencies arising out of
the transportation, storage, treatment, or disposal of hazardous or low-level
radioactive waste in the county, to the extent that such measures are not
otherwise undertaken by the facility operator(s) or the state and federal
governments;
      (9)   To monitor traffic flows near facilities and on approach routes
within the county, and design measures to minimize traffic disruption and
accidents, with special consideration for the routing of school buses and the
safety of the county’s school children; and
      (10)   To perform such other duties as the County Commissioners or the
Hazardous and/or Low- Level Radioactive Waste Board may find necessary from
time to time to safeguard the public health and welfare.
   (C)   Authorization of Health Department. In order to carry out the duties
specified in division (B) above, the Health Department is authorized to do the
following.
      (1)   Immediately upon issuance of the first permit in the county, the
Health Department may hire or designate an individual or individuals trained to
identify unsafe, unsanitary, or otherwise hazardous conditions in water
facility structures. This Building Inspector is charged with making periodic
inspections for such unsafe, unsanitary, or otherwise hazardous and unlawful
conditions during the construction and/or operation of any and all hazardous
and/or low-level radioactive waste management facilities in the county. The
Building Inspector shall also make unannounced inspections, by presenting his
or her credentials at a reasonable hour, when he or she has reason to believe
that hazardous or unlawful conditions may exist anywhere in such a structure.
      (2)   Immediately upon issuance of the first permit in the county, the
Health Department may hire or designate persons capable of performing a
background health study on the people of the county and of outlining before the
County Hazardous and/or Low-Level Radioactive Waste Board a plan for monitoring
the people of the county in order that health of any hazardous and/or low-level
radioactive waste management facility in the county could be detected
sufficiently early in their development and in order that appropriate legal
action could be taken. Personnel and laboratory facilities shall be available
to the county through the Health Department. The County Hazardous and/or Low-
Level Radioactive Waste Board shall recommend to the Board of Commissioners
plans it feels sufficient for this task within six months, and the Board of
Commissioners shall have one month thereafter to approve the plan and hire the
appropriate services.
       (3)   The Health Department may hire or designate an engineer to review
the certificates of need as specified in §
51.61(A).
      (4)   The Health Department may hire or designate a chemist or radiation
specialist qualified to sample wastes at the gate to the facility and to
visually inspect the truck, the manifest forms, and a copy of the certificate
of need and the condition of the waste before the waste enters the facility.
The County Commissioners shall provide contract lab services sufficient to
analyze such within a four-day period from the time of sample collection.
      (5)   The Health Department may hire or designate an individual or
individuals trained to safely handle and sample hazardous waste and low-level
radioactive wastes and also to collect and safely handle and transport
environmental samples for site monitoring and also for environmental monitoring
off- site. This person shall make regular announced and unannounced
inspections, by presenting his or her credentials at a reasonable hour, for the
purpose of collecting such samples as the Health Department following the
recommendations of the County Hazardous and/or Low-Level Radioactive Waste
Board shall deem necessary to adequately monitor the site.
      (6)   The Health Department is authorized to hire or designate an
emergency medical technician who shall be fully trained to deal with emergency
medical situations arising out of the operation of hazardous and low-level
radioactive waste facilities and transportation of waste to, and from, such
facilities.
      (7)   The Health Department is authorized to require from the facility
operator a list of trained emergency personnel at the facility, particularly
persons trained in emergency response to spills or discharges of ultrahazardous
wastes.
      (8)   The Health Department is authorized to request administrative
support from the county, including secretarial time, paper, telephone time,
copying, and other support as may be necessary to carry out these functions.
      (9)   The Health Department is authorized to purchase such equipment as
may be necessary to carry out the monitoring and emergency preparedness duties
of this section.
      (10)   The Health Department is authorized to prepare and disseminate
educational materials and consult with adjoining landowners to the facility(s),
farmers, schools, and other groups which may be affected concerning health
effects of hazardous or low-level radioactive waste.
      (11)   The Health Department is authorized to carry out such other duties
as it or the Hazardous and/or Low-Level Radioactive Waste Board may find
necessary from time to time to ensure the public health, safety, and welfare.
   (D)   Duties of the County Finance Officer. The County Finance Officer is
directed to arrange suitable bonding, insurance, and other protective measures
as described in §§
51.30(C)(6), (C)(7), and
51.45, and to report such arrangements to the County Commissioners.
   (E)   Duties of County Attorney. The County Attorney is directed to provide
legal advice, drafting, and other assistance as described in §
51.30(C)(2), (4), and (5).
   (F)   Other duties. The County Commissioners shall direct responsible
officials of the county to undertake such other monitoring and safety actions
as may be required by this and other sections of this chapter.
(1996 Code, § 51.60) (Ord. passed 10-5-1987)
§ 51.61 OPERATION.
   (A)   Certificate of need.
      (1)   All persons who operate facilities to handle, treat, transfer,
store, or dispose of hazardous or low-level radioactive waste in the county,
other than on-site storage and/or treatment at the point of generation, must
provide the Hazardous and/or Low- Level Radioactive Waste Board or its designee
a certificate of need for each shipment of waste. This certificate must detail
the generator’s effort to reuse, recycle, reduce in volume, detoxify,
neutralize, incinerate, or appropriately dispose of the waste at the point of
generation, or subsequent efforts at some other waste management facility,
before shipment to the county or within the county to such facilities. Such
persons must also specify how treatment, handling, or disposal in the county
employs best available technology for the disposal of such waste. The
certificate must also include information regarding the condition and contents
of the shipment, and proper visible labelling of acute hazardous wastes on the
vehicle, before the shipment enters the county. This certificate must be on
file with the county and a reply from the Hazardous and/or Low-Level
Radioactive Waste Board or its designee must be received by the facility
operator before the shipment may enter the county. If, upon recommendation of
its designee, the Hazardous and/or Low-Level Radioactive Waste Board finds by
majority vote that the shipment of waste does not conform to the waste
management practices for which the county facility is permitted, the Hazardous
and/or Low-Level Radioactive Waste Board is empowered to deny the shipment
admittance to the facility. The facility operator may request a hearing before
the County Commissioners to challenge the Hazardous and/or Low-Level
Radioactive Waste Board’s decision. The County Commissioners shall schedule a
public hearing within ten days to hear such challenge. The facility operator
shall have the burden of proof in any such hearing.
      (2)   All incoming waste must be stored on the facility site, in an area
utilizing best management practices for the proper storage of such wastes, for
four days while laboratory analysis as described in §
51.60(B)(4) is being performed. No waste may be otherwise handled, treated, or
disposed of on-site until the laboratory analysis is complete and the chemist
verifies in writing to the site manager that the shipment may be processed.
   (B)   Management practices orders.
      (1)   The Hazardous and/or Low-Level Radioactive Waste Board as described
in §
51.04 above, shall keep abreast of developments in waste management technology
and developing management practices. If the Hazardous and/or Low-Level
Radioactive Waste Board discovers a new management practice, not currently in
use at facilities within the county covered by this chapter, which could be
employed to recycle, reuse, neutralize, detoxify, incinerate, or reduce the
volume of hazardous or low- level radioactive waste generated, stored,
disposed, or transferred in the county, it shall prepare a report to that
effect. It shall include in the report a summary of the benefits and costs of
the practice, the wastes affected by the practice, and a proposal for
implementing it at facilities within the county. It shall then submit the
report to all affected facility operators within the county. The facility shall
reply in writing to the Hazardous and/or Low-Level Radioactive Waste Board
within 45 days, specifying plans to implement the practice, or reasons why the
facility operator(s) believe(s) the practice should not be implemented.
   (2)   If after the exchange of reports, the Hazardous and/or Low-Level
Radioactive Waste Board, by majority vote, finds that the practice should be
implemented at facilities in the county, it shall prepare a report and order to
that effect and submit them to the Board of Commissioners. The Board of
Commissioners shall approve and publish the order, which shall be effective as
an amendment to the permit(s). The facility operator(s) may appeal the order
within 30 days, by so requesting in writing to the County Commissioners. The
Commissioners shall announce a public hearing within 30 days thereafter at
which the Hazardous and/or Low-Level Radioactive Waste Board and the facility
operator(s) shall present their cases, and at which the facility operator(s)
shall be assigned the burden of proof. The County Commissioners shall then
either reaffirm the order or remit the matter to the Hazardous and/or Low-Level
Radioactive Waste Board for further study.
   (C)   Other duties. The County Commissioners shall direct responsible
officials of the county to undertake such other duties as may be required by
this or other sections of this chapter.
(1996 Code, § 51.61) (Ord. passed 10-5-1987)
§ 51.62 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   In general. Pursuant to the power vested in the County Commissioners
by G.S. §§ 153A-121 and 153A-123, the county through its responsible officers
shall enforce the provisions of this chapter to ensure and safeguard the public
health, safety, and welfare.
   (B)   Injunction. The county may seek injunctions in the appropriate court
of competent jurisdiction, when the operation of a hazardous or low-level
radioactive waste facility is, in the judgment of the Health Department,
creating an imminent hazard to the health, safety, and welfare of the public.
The county may also seek any appropriate equitable relief that it deems
necessary to ensure the public health and welfare.
   (C)   Management practice enforcement. Any waste facility operator who,
having received a final order from the County Commissioners to implement a
management practice as described in §
51.61, fails to implement such a practice within the time prescribed, shall pay
a management practices fee of 10% of the gross receipts accepted by such
facility operator for such wastes as are covered by the order. The facility
operator shall continue to pay such fee until such time as he or she can
satisfactorily demonstrate to the Hazardous and/or Low-Level Radioactive Waste
Board that the management practice in question has indeed been implemented.
   (D)   Permit revocation. For any facility operator who has committed a
violation, as defined in §
51.99(A), or for whom the continued operation of the facility poses an
unreasonable hazard to the health and welfare of the public, the Hazardous and/
or Low- Level Radioactive Waste Board may publicly announce its intention to
recommend revocation of its permit. The facility operator may request a
hearing, and the Hazardous and/or Low-Level Radioactive Waste Board in
mitigation, to demonstrate subsequent remedial action, and the like. If the
Hazardous and/or Low-Level Radioactive Waste Board recommends that the permit
be revoked, it shall so report to the Board of Commissioners in writing. Within
ten days of the receipt of the recommendation, the County Commissioners shall
hold a public hearing after which they shall continue or revoke the permit. The
Board of Commissioners may continue the permit upon finding that:
      (1)   The facility operator has made a good- faith effort to comply with
the permit and to remedy violations;
      (2)   Reinstatement of the permit would not endanger the public health
and welfare; and
      (3)   The facility operator has proposed a plan to remedy any other
hazardous conditions on the facility site as expeditiously as possible.
(1996 Code, § 51.62) (Ord. passed 10-5-1987)
§ 51.63 LIABILITY.
   (A)   Standards. By authority vested in it in G.S. § 153A-136, the Board of
County Commissioners does ordain that all persons storing, treating, or
disposing of hazardous waste or low-level radioactive waste in the county shall
be held to a standard of strict liability for spills, accidents, contamination,
or other discharges and hazards arising from this facility.
   (B)   Strict liability. Persons storing, transferring, treating, or
disposing of hazardous waste or low-level radioactive waste shall be liable for
all emergency cleanup costs, cleanup costs in general, damages to persons and
property, and other costs resulting from discharges or contamination as the
result of intentional or negligent conduct, accident, or other cause.
   (C)   Duration. It is the intent of the County Board of Commissioners that
this section shall be temporary in nature, to remain in effect until such time
as the General Assembly addresses the issue directly, as it is its stated
intention to do.
   (D)   Transportation. It is further ordained that persons transporting
hazardous waste or low-level radioactive waste to destinations in this county
shall be held to the same standard of strict liability for all emergency
cleanup costs, cleanup costs in general, damages, and other costs resulting
from discharges or contamination caused by spills or accidents of intentional
or unintentional releases during transportation within the county, or such
discharges or contamination occurring while the transportation vehicle is
anywhere within the county except within the boundaries of the actual facility
site for which it is destined, at which time it shall be considered stored by
the facility operator.
(1996 Code, § 51.63) (Ord. passed 10-5-1987)
§ 51.64 CONFLICT.
   In the event of a conflict between the provisions of this chapter and the
provisions of
Chapter 50 of this code to the extent this chapter governs and regulates
hazardous and low-level radioactive materials or waste as defined herein, the
provisions of this chapter shall control and govern the regulation thereof.
(1996 Code, § 51.64) (Ord. passed 10-5-1987)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation. Any noncompliance with conditions of a county permit or
operation of a facility without a permit, any release of hazardous or low-
level radioactive waste in amounts sufficient to constitute a hazard to the
public health and safety; any noncompliance with the procedural requirements of
this chapter or refusal to permit county officials designated under this
chapter to enter buildings, structures, enclosed areas, or other areas in the
performance of their lawful duties; any refusal to pay taxes and fees as
provided for by this chapter; and any failure or refusal to provide information
or apply for amendment to permit(s) as may be required by this chapter upon
proper notice shall be a misdemeanor, which may be punished as indicated in
G.S. Chapter 14 and as provided in §
10.99.
   (B)   Every day a separate violation. Each day of violation of this chapter
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   Further, a violation of the above section of this code shall be a
violation of G.S. § 14-4 and such violation shall be classified as a Class 3
misdemeanor with a maximum fine of up to $450, except that any violations of §§
150.999,
154.99,
155.999, and
156.999 shall not be a violation of G.S. § 14-4 and shall not be considered a
misdemeanor.
(1996 Code, § 51.99) (Ord. passed 10-5-1987)
CHAPTER 52: WATER AND SEWER USE
Section
General Provisions
   
52.001   Authority
   
52.002   Definitions
   
52.003   Protection of water supply
   
52.004   Line extension
   
52.005   Unlawful removal of water
Connections and Meters
   
52.020   Application for connection
   
52.021   Separate water and sewer connections and meter required
   
52.022   Connections and meters remain property of the county
   
52.023   Maintenance of meters and connections
   
52.024   Connections to other water systems restricted
   
52.025   Meter reading
   
52.026   Water for temporary users
   
52.027   Tampering with meters and stopcocks
   
52.028   County’s responsibility and liability
   
52.029   Consumer’s responsibility
Rates and Charges; Billing Procedures
   
52.040   Adjustment of overcharges
   
52.041   Service and payment procedures; delinquency
   
52.042   Initial or minimum charge
   
52.043   Classification of services; rate schedule
Administration; Discontinuing Service
   
52.055   County liability; notice of water cutoff
   
52.056   Access to premises
   
52.057   Change of occupancy
   
52.058   Suspension of service
   
52.059   Compliance adjustments
   
52.060   Attachment, garnishment, and liens for county water and sewer service
Backflow Prevention
   
52.075   Objectives
   
52.076   Definitions
   
52.077   Elimination of cross-connections
   
52.078   Installation, testing, and maintenance of backflow prevention
assemblies
   
52.079   High hazard facilities and methods of correction
   
52.080   Moderate hazard facilities and methods of correction
   
52.081   Lawn irrigation systems
   
52.082   Fire sprinkler systems
   
52.083   Imminent hazards
   
52.084   Right of entry
   
52.085   Responsibility of customer
   
52.086   Unapproved source of supply
   
52.087   Violations
   
52.088   Right of appeal
 
   
52.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.001 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted pursuant to G.S. § 153A-275 and for the purpose of
providing adequate and reasonable rules and regulations to protect and regulate
water supply and distribution systems owned or operated by the county. The
chapter is also adopted pursuant to G.S. § 153A-277 for the purpose of
establishing a use of, and services furnished by, the water supply and
distribution systems owned or operated by the county.
(1996 Code, § 52.01) (Ord. passed 9-20-1993)
§ 52.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING. A structure as defined in the Building Code.
   CONNECTION. Part of the water service line which runs from the main to the
property line, including all appurtenances to make the service complete and
ready to use.
   CONSUMER. The person legally or equitably responsible for the payment of
charges for water or sewer rent on any premises. The term USER is
interchangeable with CONSUMER.
   CONTROLLED. Owned, operated, or leased by.
   COUNTY PUBLIC UTILITIES. The authority having jurisdiction over the water
and sewer system for the county and all appurtenances thereof.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   HIS. Shall also mean HERS.
   MAIN. Water pipe usually laid in a street running parallel to the property
line which distributes water or collects sewage.
   MAY. The action referred to is permissive.
   OCCUPANT. The consumer who is actually in possession of, or control of, any
premises.
   OWNER. The person having legal or equitable title to any premises.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, association, partnership, or corporation.
   PREMISES. Land, building, or other structure and appurtenances thereof.
   SERVICE LINE. A water line which may service a house, business, apartments,
and the like, which runs from the street to the establishment being served.
   SHALL. The action referred to is mandatory.
   UNIT. Separate dwelling and living quarters.
   UNUSUAL CONDITIONS. Delays in acquiring materials, parts, and/or supplies,
or rock encountered in construction and other items which might cause delays
not under the control of the county.
(1996 Code, § 52.02) (Ord. passed 9-20-1993; Ord. passed 10-2-2006)
§ 52.003 PROTECTION OF WATER SUPPLY.
   No person shall contaminate any portion of the county’s water supply,
whether the same is in a reservoir, tank, or pipe.
(1996 Code, § 52.03) (Ord. passed 9-20-1993) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.004 LINE EXTENSION.
   (A)   All water and sewer lines and appurtenances shall meet the minimum
standards of the county and the state if tied into the county system.
      (1)   All water sewer lines shall be designed by a licensed/registered
engineer by the state and installed by a state licensed utility contractor.
      (2)   A hydraulic study shall be required on all water main extensions at
the developer’s expense. The results of the study shall meet minimum flow and
pressure as set forth by the county. The study shall include all of the
following variables:
         (a)   Domestic water usage;
         (b)   Fire services; and
         (c)   Yard irrigation.
      (3)   The minimum size water line in any case shall be six inches.
   (B)   All water and sewer systems serving developments shall tie into the
county system if any portion of the development is within 500 linear feet of
any portion of the county system. All engineering and construction expenses
shall be borne by the developer or individual seeking a tap. All other
developments are encouraged to tap into the county system under the same
arrangement.
   (C)   Before work commences the developer shall provide all construction
documents, including but not limited to applicable state permits, construction
drawings, and specifications. Work may commence only after the approval of the
County Public Utilities Department and receipt of all applicable permits.
    (D)   Any new water and/or sewer system connected to the county system
shall be immediately dedicated to the county upon completion of installation
and all required inspections have been performed. The developer shall hold a
minimum one-year warranty on the new system(s). Any defects in material,
workmanship, and installation discovered within time period will be repaired at
the developer’s expense. The developer shall provide the following information
upon completion of the system(s):
      (1)   All required test results (required before system is activated);
      (2)   As-built drawings; and
      (3)   Cost of installation and length of system.
(1996 Code, § 52.04) (Ord. passed 9-20-1993; Ord. passed 10-2-2006)
§ 52.005 UNLAWFUL REMOVAL OF WATER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to take and remove any water from the
county water system except through a regular metered outlet secured as provided
in this chapter or by temporary use as provided in §
52.026 hereof or by authority of the Public Utilities Director or other
designated county official.
(1996 Code, § 52.05) (Ord. passed 9-20-1993; Ord. passed 10-2-2006) Penalty,
see §
52.999
CONNECTIONS AND METERS
§ 52.020 APPLICATION FOR CONNECTION.
   (A)   Application to be made by county only upon application. The setting of
meters within the street right-of-way shall be the responsibility of the
county. Setting of such meters shall be done only after the written application
has been approved. The only exception to this provision will be when the meter
yokes are installed by a developer’s contractor in new subdivisions in
compliance with the rules and regulations as shall be established by the county
from time to time.
   (B)   Application for connection. Every application for water service shall
list on forms provided by the county the property owner, the applicant’s name,
the street on which the lot is located, and the number of the house or a
description of the lot location. This application shall be filed not less than
ten days before the proposed connection is desired. Unusual conditions may be
just cause for additional time in providing the services required. When the
size of the service and the cost of the connection have been determined, the
applicant shall deposit the previously determined cost and shall be issued a
permit for the desired connection. The county shall have responsibility for the
approval of a sprinkler or other fire protection system, subject to compliance
with applicable building codes.
   (C)   Disapproval of application. If, in the opinion of the county through
its duly constituted Water Supervisor or other person designated by the county,
the water connection applied for will be of such size or character as to put
too great a demand on any part of the systems and disrupt the county’s ordinary
water service, it shall disapprove the application until such time as adequate
means are provided by the applicant to eliminate the service requirements so as
to create an unsatisfactory condition in the county’s water service, the county
shall require the consumer to adopt remedial measures to eliminate the
unsatisfactory conditions. The county shall not in any way be responsible for
any cost or inconvenience caused by a change in service requirements after an
application has been approved, or by an installation before the application has
been approved.
(1996 Code, § 52.20) (Ord. passed 9-20-1993)
§ 52.021 SEPARATE WATER AND SEWER CONNECTIONS AND METER REQUIRED.
   (A)   Each building shall have a separate water meter. In the case of group
mobile home or apartment developments and where the ownership is in one party,
one meter may be used for the entire project unless additional meters are
deemed necessary by the proper county authority, and the following conditions
shall be met:
      (1)   Bills will be rendered to the owner of the property or to the
renter of the property;
      (2)   The bill will be calculated by a minimum charge for the master
meter and for each of the total number of units included thereafter, and
calculating the remaining bill based on total consumption passing through the
master meter above the minimum; provided, however, owners of ten or fewer
multiple units may elect to have water metered directly to each unit and the
charge therefor billed to the user in each unit; and
      (3)   Should any portion of the developments be sold, the new owners
shall be responsible for paying whatever additional costs would be involved in
bringing the divided development into compliance with this subchapter.
   (B)   In the case of group mobile homes or apartment developments where ten
or fewer units are involved, and where ownership is in one party, the owner may
elect to have a single meter used for the entire project. Where such election
is made, the owner shall comply with the conditions set forth as divisions (A)
(1), (2), and (3), set forth above.
(1996 Code, § 52.21) (Ord. passed 9-20-1993)
§ 52.022 CONNECTIONS AND METERS REMAIN PROPERTY OF THE COUNTY.
   All meters, boxes, pipes, and other equipment furnished and installed by the
county in a water or sewer connection shall remain the property of the county.
If, after an installation is completed, the property owner requests that a
meter be changed in size and this request is approved by the county, the
property owner shall pay for the change as though it were a new connection and
shall pay the difference of the cost of meters in the original and new
installation according to the then current price of the two meters.
(1996 Code, § 52.22) (Ord. passed 9-20-1993)
§ 52.023 MAINTENANCE OF METERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   All meters shall be maintained by the county at the county’s expense.
(1996 Code, § 52.23) (Ord. passed 9-20-1993)
§ 52.024 CONNECTIONS TO OTHER WATER SYSTEMS RESTRICTED.
   No part of the county’s water system shall be connected to any source of
water supply other than those authorized by official action of the County Board
of Commissioners. If, on any premises, both county water and water from any
other source are used, the piping shall be completely separate.
(1996 Code, § 52.24) (Ord. passed 9-20-1993)
§ 52.025 METER READING.
   All water meters on water systems controlled by the county shall be read at
least every two months.
(1996 Code, § 52.25) (Ord. passed 9-20-1993)
§ 52.026 WATER FOR TEMPORARY USERS.
   Water from a hydrant will be furnished to any circus, road show, carnival,
fair, or other similar temporary user at a per diem rate to be paid in advance
and to be determined by the county upon the basis of the estimated quantity
needed. When water is thus to be furnished, a temporary metered connection (all
provisions apply) will record the usage during the hours specified by the
county at the service designated for such purposes. The service period expires
when notification is given the county department head who manages the water
system. The meters will be read, and a bill rendered for any unpaid balance or
refund made to the consumer for any overpayment.
(1996 Code, § 52.26) (Ord. passed 9-20-1993)
§ 52.027 TAMPERING WITH METERS AND STOPCOCKS.
   No person, except a duly authorized employee of the county, shall turn the
stopcock installed in each meter box, nor shall any person construct or have
constructed any bypass around any meter except as may be installed and sealed
by the county. The fact that water is cut onto any premises by an occupant
thereof without the knowledge of either the county or the owner shall not
relieve such occupant of liability for such unauthorized use of water.
(1996 Code, § 52.27) (Ord. passed 9-20-1993) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.028 COUNTY’S RESPONSIBILITY AND LIABILITY.
   (A)   The county shall run a service line from its distribution line to the
property line where the distribution runs immediately adjacent and parallel to
the property to be served, and for which a tap-on fee, fee-in-lieu-of
assessment, and acreage charge, if applicable, in effect for each size of meter
will be charged.
   (B)   The county may install a meter at the property line or, at the
county’s option, on the consumer’s property or in a location mutually agreed
upon.
   (C)   When two or more meters are to be installed on the same premises for
different consumers, they shall be closely grouped and each clearly designated
to which consumer it applies.
   (D)   The county does not assume the responsibility of inspecting the
consumer’s piping or apparatus and will not be responsible therefor.
   (E)   The county reserves the right to refuse service unless the consumer’s
lines or piping are installed in such manner as to prevent cross- connections
or backflow.
   (F)   The county shall not be liable for damage of any kind whatsoever
resulting from water or the use of water on the consumer’s premises, unless
such damage results directly from negligence on the part of the county. The
county shall not be responsible for any damage done by, or resulting from, any
defect in the piping, fixtures, or appliances on the consumer’s premises. The
county shall not be responsible for negligence of third parties.
   (G)   Under normal conditions, the consumer will be notified of any
anticipated interruptions of service.
(1996 Code, § 52.28) (Ord. passed 9-20-1993)
§ 52.029 CONSUMER’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Piping on the consumer’s premises must be so arranged that the
connections are conveniently located with respect to the county’s lines or
mains.
   (B)   If the consumer’s piping on the consumer’s premises is so arranged
that the county is called upon to provide additional meters, each place of
metering will be considered as a separate and individual account.
   (C)   Where meter is placed on premises of a consumer, a suitable place
shall be provided by consumer for placing such meter, unobstructed and
accessible at all times to the meter reader.
   (D)   (1)   The consumer shall furnish and maintain the service line on the
consumer’s side of the meter; the county to provide a like service on the
county’s side of such meter. However, in any case where existing or future
meters have been placed contrary to the policy, the user shall be responsible
for the maintenance of the piping from the property line.
      (2)   Installation, maintenance, and upkeep of a building sewer service
line will be the responsibility of the consumer of the sewer services served by
the line. The consumer will be responsible for all maintenance and upkeep of a
building service line beginning at the point where the building sewer service
line is joined to the mainline sewer system, and extending along the sewer line
to the building served by the sewer line. The consumer will be solely
responsible for the cost of maintenance and cleaning of the sewer system, and
the sewer lines, beginning from the branch wye at the mainline sewer.
Additionally, the customer will be solely responsible for the building lateral
where the connection is made to the sewer main. The consumer is solely
responsible for the maintenance and upkeep of every part of the sanitary
service system that serves only the consumer’s site.
   (E)   The consumer’s piping and apparatus shall be installed and maintained
by the consumer at the consumer’s expense in a safe and efficient manner and in
accordance with the county’s rules and regulations and ordinances and in full
compliance with the sanitary regulations of the State Board of Health.
   (F)   The consumer shall guarantee proper protection for all property
controlled by the county and placed on the consumer’s premises by the county or
any predecessor in interest to the county and shall permit access to it only by
authorized representatives of the county.
   (G)   In the event that any loss or damage to such property or any accident
or injury to persons or property is caused by, or results from, the negligence
or wrongful act of the consumer, or his or her agents or employees, the cost of
the necessary repairs or replacements shall be paid by the consumer to the
county according to the fee schedule in §
52.043.
   (H)   The amount of such loss or damage on the cost of repairs shall be
added to the consumer’s bill; and if not paid, service may be discontinued by
the county.
(1996 Code, § 52.29) (Ord. passed 9-20-1993; Ord. passed 6-7-2010)
RATES AND CHARGES; BILLING PROCEDURES
§ 52.040 ADJUSTMENT OF OVERCHARGES.
   Davie County Public Utilities may allow an adjustment for utility charges
resulting from leaks on the customer’s side of the meter. All of the following
apply:
   (A)   Leak adjustments. Customers are responsible for the service lines on
the customer side of the meter. This is defined as that point at which the
customer’s plumbing connects to the meter box. The county does not maintain
lines or repair leaks on the customer’s side of the water meter. The customer
is responsible for all metered usage, including usage caused by leaks.
   (B)   An adjustment may be extended to the customer’s account only once
every 12 months.
   (C)   Leak adjustments will be calculated by using an average of three
prior, normal, water and sewer (if applicable) bills, subtract the average bill
amount from leak amount, then divide the balance in half, subtract this amount
from the leak amount to get what the customer will pay. If determined that the
leak runs through two billing cycles we will be allowed to adjust two bills if
the leak event was determined by staff to include two billing cycles. If
previous consumption is less than 12 months, the county may require up to an
additional three months of billed usage before an adjustment will be processed.
Leak adjustment will be applied to the customer account as a credit.
   (D)   When a customer has a leak and their service has water and sewer and
their leak does not run through the sewer system, staff will do a regular leak
adjustment on their water, and adjust their sewer by using an average of three
prior, normal, sewer bills, and subtracting it from their leak sewer bill, and
this will be what the customer will pay.
   (E)   If staff is unable to determine that the abnormal usage has been
resolved or the leak has been repaired the adjustment may be denied. The
customer is responsible for all charges related to abnormal usage. Staff will
review meter usage data to determine the correction of the leak.
   (F)   Customers are responsible for paying the entire amount due within the
normal payment period or enter into payment arrangements for the billed amount
to remain in good standing on all current billings. If payment is not received
on time, the customer is subject to all current and applicable procedures,
including but not limited to disconnection of service.
(1996 Code, § 52.40) (Ord. passed 9-20-1993; Ord. passed 2-5-2024)
§ 52.041 SERVICE AND PAYMENT PROCEDURES; DELINQUENCY.
   (A)   Service will be supplied only to those who apply.
   (B)   Users will make application for service, in person, at the office of
the County Department managing the water system and at the same time make the
deposit guarantee required below.
   (C)   The county may reject any application for service when the applicant
is delinquent in payment of any bills incurred for service or connection fees
previously supplied at any location, provided that when the owner of the
premises has been served water and has not paid for the same, the county shall
not be required to render service to anyone at the location where the water was
used until the water bill has been paid.
(1996 Code, § 52.41) (Ord. passed 9-20-1993)
§ 52.042 INITIAL OR MINIMUM CHARGE.
   (A)   The initial or minimum charge, as provided in the rate schedule, shall
be made for each meter installed, regardless of location. Each meter requires a
separate meter reading sheet, and each meter reading sheet shall cover a
separate and individual account.
   (B)   In seasonal areas where service is furnished to a consumer during
certain months only, the minimum charge per service for the period of non-use
shall be the regular minimum as set out in the published rates of the county.
   (C)   Water furnished for a given lot shall be used on that lot only. Each
consumer’s service must be separately metered at a single delivery and metering
point. All commercial use including storerooms and stalls for business purposes
shall be metered separately from any residential use and vice versa, whether
now in service or to be installed in the future.
(1996 Code, § 52.42) (Ord. passed 9-20-1993)
§ 52.043 CLASSIFICATION OF SERVICES; RATE SCHEDULE.
Editor’s note:  
   All rates and fees have been removed from this code of ordinances. A
reasonable fee and rate, as determined from time to time by the Board of
Commissioners, shall be collected for such services.
(1996 Code, § 52.43) (Res. passed - - )
ADMINISTRATION; DISCONTINUING SERVICE
§ 52.055 COUNTY LIABILITY; NOTICE OF WATER CUTOFF.
   The county does not guarantee the quality, quantity, or pressure of its
water supply. It is made a portion of the terms upon which the county furnishes
water to consumers that the county shall in no case be liable to any consumer
for any defect on quality or any deficiency in quantity or pressure; that the
county shall not be liable to any consumer for damages resulting from the
complete or partial cutting-off of water; and no deduction shall be made from
any water bill by reason of any such defect or deficiency. In every case where
practicable, adequate notice by the best means available shall be given when
the water is to be cut off from any portion of a water system controlled by the
county. No county employee shall take responsibility for telling a property
owner or occupant how best to care for his or her boiler, heater, or other
equipment which is affected by the discontinuance, either temporary or
permanent, or his or her water supply. The owner or occupant shall be entirely
responsible for his or her equipment and shall hold the county in no way
responsible for damage thereof. The county reserves the right to make
adjustments to water bills when deemed appropriate.
(1996 Code, § 52.55) (Ord. passed 9-20-1993)
§ 52.056 ACCESS TO PREMISES.
   Duly authorized agents of the county shall have access at all reasonable
hours to the premises of the consumer for the purpose of installing or removing
property controlled by the county, inspecting piping, reading or testing
meters, or for any other purpose in connection with the county’s service and
facilities.
(1996 Code, § 52.56) (Ord. passed 9-20-1993)
§ 52.057 CHANGE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Not less than three days’ notice must be given in person or in writing
to discontinue service for a change in occupancy. Such notice shall be given at
the county office which has responsibility for management of water and sewer
systems.
   (B)   The outgoing party shall be responsible for all water consumed up to
the time of departure or the time specified for departure, whichever period is
longest.
(1996 Code, § 52.57) (Ord. passed 9-20-1993)
§ 52.058 SUSPENSION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Services may be discontinued at the request of the consumer. When
services are discontinued and all bills paid, the deposit will be refunded in
accordance with these rules and regulations, unless already refunded.
   (B)   Services may also be discontinued by the county, subject to the
provisions of division (I) of this section, to any customer whose account
remains delinquent for more than ten days. The deposit will be applied by the
county toward settlement of the account. Any balance will be refunded to the
consumer, but if the deposit is not sufficient to cover the bill, the county
may proceed to collect the balance in the usual way provided by law for the
collection of debts.
   (C)   Service discontinued for non-payment of bills will be restored only
after bills are paid in full, and a service charge paid for each meter
reconnected except as set forth hereafter. The consumer being reconnected must
also make the required deposit. A late payment fee shall also be charged. Bills
may be held by the Water Department, upon receipt of a fee, until the last day
of the month following the cutoff date.
   (D)   After a connection has been discontinued for a period of 12
consecutive months, the county reserves the right to remove the meter base,
meter, curb stop valve, meter box, and service line for use elsewhere or for
salvage.
   (E)   At any time after the meter base, meter, curb stop valve, and meter
box have been removed in addition to the service charge set forth in division
(C) above, an additional service charge equal to the then current tap-on fee
shall be paid as a reconnection fee. Also the consumer must make the required
deposit.
   (F)   The county reserves the right to discontinue its service without
notice for the following additional reasons:
      (1)   To prevent fraud or abuse;
      (2)   Consumer’s willful disregard for the county’s rules and ordinances;
      (3)   Emergency repairs;
      (4)   Insufficiency of the water supply;
      (5)   Legal processes;
      (6)   Direction of public authorities; and
      (7)   Strike, riot, fire, flood, accident, or any unavoidable cause.
   (G)   The county may, in addition to prosecution by law, permanently refuse
service to any consumer who tampers with a meter or other measuring device.
   (H)   From time to time the county may give privileges for connections at
reduced amounts in order to encourage additional hookups to increase revenue.
Any consumer who takes advantage of a reduced connection will be responsible
for paying minimum monthly water bills whether or not water is actually used
until such time as the bill charge equals the then current charge for tap-on
connection (including fee-in- lieu-of assessment charges). The consumer shall
remain liable for minimum monthly bills thereafter until the consumer has
notified the county in accordance with other provisions of this chapter that he
or she desires to stop service.
   (I)   Disconnection for late payment.
      (1)   It is the policy of the county to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The county’s form for application
for utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title,
address, room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of
billing, clearly visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
         (a)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set
forth on the bill;
         (b)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second
bill will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid
within ten days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued
for nonpayment; and
         (c)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill
shall have a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in
person and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may
present orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the town
official in charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to
order that the customer’s service not be discontinued and shall have the
authority to make a final determination of the customer’s complaint.
      (2)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained;
only questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence
of payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
      (3)   When it becomes necessary for the county to discontinue utility
service to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only
after all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on
charge in the sum of $20.
(1996 Code, § 52.58) (Ord. passed 9-20-1993; Ord. passed 4-5-1999; Ord. passed
- -)
§ 52.059 COMPLIANCE ADJUSTMENTS.
   (A)   If the consumer believes his or her bill to be in error, he or she
shall present a claim in person at the office of the county department managing
the water system before the bill becomes delinquent. Such claim, if made after
the bill has become delinquent, shall not be effective in preventing
discontinuance of service as heretofore provided. The consumer may pay such
bill under protest, and the payment shall not prejudice his or her claim.
   (B)   The county will make special meter readings at the request of the
customer.
   (C)   If the seal of the meter is broken by other than the county’s
representative, or if the meter fails to register correctly, or is stopped for
any cause, the consumer shall pay an amount estimated from the record of his or
her previous bills and/or from other proper data.
   (D)   No modification of rates or any of the rules and regulations shall be
made by any agent or employee of the county.
(1996 Code, § 52.59) (Ord. passed 6-23-1994)
§ 52.060 ATTACHMENT, GARNISHMENT, AND LIENS FOR COUNTY WATER AND SEWER SERVICE.
   (A)   A fee charged by the county for water or sewer services and remaining
unpaid for a period of 90 days may be collected in any manner by which
delinquent personal or real property taxes can be collected.
   (B)   The delinquent fees shall be a lien on real property from the time of
filing in the office of the Clerk of Superior Court a statement containing the
name and address of the person against whom the lien is claimed, that the
county is claiming the lien, the specific service provided, the amount of the
unpaid charge for that service, and the date and place of furnishing that
service.
   (C)   The lien shall not be valid unless filed within 180 days of the
failure to pay for the service.
   (D)   An individual may appeal the filing of a lien on real property by
filing a written request for a hearing with the county, Attention: Debt Setoff
Officer, 123 South Main Street, Mocksville, NC 27028
(1996 Code, § 52.60) (Ord. passed 2-16-2004)
BACKFLOW PREVENTION
§ 52.075 OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   It is the intent of this subchapter to recognize that there are
varying degrees of hazard to potable water within the public water system. It
is also the intent to ensure the degree of protection be the same as the degree
of hazard.
   (B)   The purpose of this subchapter is:
      (1)   To protect the county public potable water supply against actual or
potential cross-connections, backflow, and backsiphonage by isolating, within
the premises or private property, contamination or pollution that has occurred
or may occur because of an undiscovered or unauthorized cross-connection on the
premises or private property;
      (2)   To eliminate or control cross-connections, backflow, and
backsiphonage or any other source of water or process water used for any
purpose whatsoever which may jeopardize the safety of the public potable water
supply of the county; and
      (3)   To provide a continuing inspection program of cross-connection
control which will systematically and effectively control all actual or
potential cross-connections which may be installed in the future.
(1996 Code, § 52.70) (Ord. passed 8-4-2008)
§ 52.076 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
    AIR GAP SEPARATION. The unobstructed vertical distance through the
atmosphere between the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet supplying water
to a tank, plumbing fixture, or other device and the flood level rim of the
receptacle. An approved AIR GAP SEPARATION shall be at least double the
diameter of the supply pipe. In no case shall the AIR GAP SEPARATION be less
than one inch.
   APPROVED. In reference to backflow prevention assemblies or methods, those
assemblies or methods which have been accepted by the Director or his or her
designee as an effective means or method to prevent backflow.
   BACKFLOW. Any flow of water, liquid, gas, or other substances, or any
combination thereof, into the distribution piping of a potable water supply
from any source or sources.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY. An approved assembly or method used to prevent
backflow from occurring in the potable water supply.
   BACK-PRESSURE BACKFLOW. Backflow caused by a pump, elevated tank, boiler, or
other means that could create pressure with the system greater than the supply
pressure.
   BACKSIPHONAGE BACKFLOW. A reversal of the normal direction flow in the
pipeline due to a negative pressure (vacuum) being created in the supply line
with the backflow source subject atmospheric pressure.
   CERTIFIED TESTER. A person who has proven his or her competency to test,
repair, overhaul, and prepare reports on backflow prevention assemblies as
evidenced by certification of successful completion of a training program
approved by this state. Each person who is certified to make competent tests,
or to repair, overhaul, and make reports on backflow prevention assemblies
shall be knowledgeable of applicable laws, rules, and regulations. The County
Public Utilities Department must approve all CERTIFIED TESTERS prior to use of
their services.
   CONSUMER/CUSTOMER. Any person, firm, or corporation using or receiving water
from County Public Utilities Department.
   CONTAINMENT. Prevention of possible contamination from a private water
system by installing an approved backflow prevention assembly.
   CONTAMINATION. The degradation of the quality of water so as to constitute a
hazard or impair the usefulness of water.
   COUNTY PUBLIC UTILITIES DEPARTMENT. The authority having the jurisdiction of
the county water and sewer system for this county and related appurtenances.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical connection between the county’s water supply
system and any other source. This includes piping systems, sewer fixtures,
containers, or devices whereby water or other liquids, mixtures, or substances
may flow into or enter the county’s water supply system.
   CROSS-CONNECTION INSPECTOR/ORC. An employee of the County Public Utilities
Department designated by the Director to administer and enforce the provisions
of this subchapter.
   DEGREE OF HAZARD. Derived from an evaluation of the health, hazard, system,
plumbing, or pollution hazards.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the County Public Utilities Department.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY. An assembly composed of two single,
independently acting approved check valves, including tightly closing shut-off
valves located at each end of the assembly, and suitable connections for
testing the watertightness of each check valve.
   DOUBLE CHECK DETECTOR CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY. An assembly composed of an
approved double check valve assembly with a bypass water meter and a meter-
sized, approved double check valve device. The meter shall register accurately
for very low flow rates and shall register all flow rates.
    HIGH HAZARD. An actual or potential threat of contamination to the public
water system or to a private water system to such a degree or intensity that
there could be a danger to health.
   IMMINENT HAZARD. An actual threat of contamination that presents a danger to
the public health with consequences of serious illness or death.
   MODERATE HAZARD. One that presents foreseeable and significant potential for
pollution, nuisance, aesthetically objectionable, or other undesirable
alterations of the drinking water supply.
   PLUMBING INSPECTOR. The duly authorized Plumbing Inspector for the county as
certified by the State Code Qualifications Board.
   POINT OF DELIVERY. The terminal end of a service connection from the public
potable water system, i.e., where the County Public Utilities Department loses
sole jurisdiction over the water; the point where water leaves the public water
system and enters a private water system.
   POTABLE WATER. Water from any source which has been approved for human
consumption by the appropriate agency of this state.
   PRIVATE WATER SYSTEM. A system of pipes or other associated facilities that
is not part of the county’s public water system and is used to move or receive
water, regardless of the source of water in such system.
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE ASSEMBLY. An assembly containing within its
structure a minimum of two independently acting, approved check valves,
together with an automatically operating pressure differential relief valve
located between the check valves. The first check valve reduces the supply
pressure by a predetermined amount so that, during normal flow and at cessation
of normal flow, the pressure between the checks shall be less than the supply
pressures. In case of leakage of either check valve, the differential relief
valve, by discharge to the atmosphere, shall operate to maintain the pressure
between the checks less than the supply pressure. The assembly must include
properly located test cocks and tightly closing shut-off valves at each end of
the assembly.
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE DETECTOR ASSEMBLY. An assembly composed of an
approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assembly with a bypass
water meter and a meter-sized, approved reduced pressure principle device. The
meter shall register accurately for very low flow rates and shall register all
flow rates.
   WATER SUPPLY (APPROVED). Any public potable water supply which has been
investigated and approved by the appropriate agency of this state. The system
must be operating under a valid health permit.
(1996 Code, § 52.71) (Ord. passed 8-4-2008)
§ 52.077 ELIMINATION OF CROSS-CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No private water system may be connected in any manner to the public
water system unless the requirements of this subchapter and other applicable
laws have been satisfied.
   (B)   Only an approved device can be installed to meet the requirements of
this subchapter. The installation of any backflow prevention assembly which is
not approved must be replaced with an approved backflow prevention assembly.
(1996 Code, § 52.72) (Ord. passed 8-4-2008)
§ 52.078 INSTALLATION, TESTING, AND MAINTENANCE OF BACKFLOW PREVENTION
ASSEMBLIES.
   (A)   All backflow prevention assemblies shall be installed in accordance
with the manufacturer’s instructions. Only backflow preventers approved by the
County Public Utilities Department and meeting the North Carolina State
Plumbing Code shall be installed.
   (B)   All backflow prevention assemblies required by this subchapter must be
installed and maintained above ground on the customer’s premises as part of the
customer’s water system.
   (C)   Ownership, testing, and maintenance of the backflow prevention
assembly will be the responsibility of the customer. Each assembly required in
this subchapter must be functioning properly at all times.
   (D)   Testing of backflow prevention assemblies shall be conducted by a
certified tester (approved by the County Public Utilities Department) at the
customer’s expense. Tests shall be conducted upon installation and annually
thereafter with a record of all testing and repairs retained by the customer. A
copy of the certified record for each test or repair must be sent to the County
Public Utilities Department by such customer within 30 days after the
completion of each test or repair. Such records must be maintained on forms
provided by the County Public Utilities Department.
   (E)   Each backflow prevention assembly required under this subchapter must
be accessible (above ground) to the County Public Utilities Department.
   (F)   When it is not possible to interrupt water service, the customer shall
provide for the parallel installation of an approved backflow prevention
assembly. The Cross-Connection Inspector will not accept an unprotected bypass
around a backflow prevented when the assembly is in need of testing, repair, or
replacement.
   (G)   Any time that repairs to backflow assemblies are deemed necessary,
whether through annual testing or routine inspection by the owner, these
repairs must be completed within a time specified in accordance with the degree
of hazard. Repairs on a private water system considered to be an imminent
hazard shall be completed within 24 hours, a high hazard shall be completed
within ten days, and all other repairs within 20 days for any other private
water system. Failure to comply can result in termination of a customer’s water
service.
   (H)   Upon determination that a backflow prevention assembly is required to
be installed on a customer’s private water system, the customer will be
notified in writing of the approved backflow prevention assembly which is
required. On existing systems, the customer will have the following time
periods within which to install the specified backflow prevention assembly:
      (1)   Air gap separation, 30 days;
      (2)   Reduced pressure principle assembly (three-fourths inch times two),
30 days;
      (3)   Reduced pressure principle assembly (two and one-half inches and
larger), 60 days; and
      (4)   Other approved backflow prevention assembly, 30 days.
   (I)   The Director or his or her designee may require the installation of
the required backflow prevention assembly immediately or within a shorter time
period than specified above if he or she determines that any condition poses an
unreasonable threat of contamination to the public water supply system. All
devices required for new construction shall be installed and inspected by the
County Plumbing Inspector prior to occupancy. All new construction plans and
specifications shall be made available to the Director for approval and to
determine the degree of hazard.
   (J)   Before a backflow preventer is placed in service, it will require a
permit and inspection by the County Plumbing Inspector. The Plumbing
Inspector’s responsibility begins at the point of delivery downstream of the
customer side of the meter and continues throughout the entire length of the
consumer’s water system. When cross-connections or potential cross-connections
are discovered by the Plumbing Inspector, they shall require a backflow
prevention assembly approved by the North Carolina State Plumbing Code and the
County Public Utilities Department. These incidents shall be reported to the
County Public Utilities Department.
    (K)   The Director shall be notified by the customer when the nature of the
use of property changes so as to change the hazard classification of the
property if necessary.
(1996 Code, § 52.73) (Ord. passed 8-4-2008)
§ 52.079 HIGH HAZARD FACILITIES AND METHODS OF CORRECTION.
   (A)   All high hazard facilities must have an approved reduced pressure
principle assembly as a minimum containment device.
   (B)   High hazard facilities include but are not limited to any private
water system used or designed to pump or which may become pressurized for use
with a booster for any reason to the extent that back- pressure may occur; any
private water system which contains water which has been or is being
recirculated; a building with five or more stories above ground level; brewery;
car wash with recycling system; bottling plant; chemical plant; dentist’s
office; dry cleaning plant; fertilizer plant; film laboratory; fire sprinkler
or standpipe system with chemical additives; hospital, clinic, medical
building; irrigation system with chemical additives; laboratory; commercial
laundry (except self-service laundry); metal processing plant; morgue or
mortuary; nursing home; pharmaceutical plant; power plant; swimming pool;
sewage treatment plant; tire manufacturer; veterinary hospital or clinic;
restaurants; battery manufacturers; exterminators and lawn care companies;
dairies; canneries; dye works; and recycling facilities.
   (C)   If a Cross-Connection Inspector does not have sufficient access to
every portion of a private water system to permit the complete evaluation of
the degree of hazard associated with such private water system, an approved
reduced pressure principle assembly must be installed.
(1996 Code, § 52.74) (Ord. passed 8-4-2008)
§ 52.080 MODERATE HAZARD FACILITIES AND METHODS OF CORRECTION.
   (A)   Moderate hazard facilities include but are not limited to fire
sprinkler systems without booster pump facilities or chemical additives;
connections to tanks, lines, and vessels that handle nontoxic substances; lawn
sprinkler systems without chemical injection or booster pumps; and all
industrial and most commercial facilities not identified as high hazard
facilities.
   (B)   All moderate hazard facilities must have a reduced pressure principle
assembly as a minimum containment device.
(1996 Code, § 52.75) (Ord. passed 8-4-2008)
§ 52.081 LAWN IRRIGATION SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Minimum requirement. All existing lawn irrigation systems must have a
reduced pressure principal assembly as a minimum containment device.
   (B)   Water supply. All proposed in-ground irrigation systems that will be
supplied with water through connection to the water system must have an
approved above-ground reduced pressure zone backflow preventer as a minimum
container device.
   (C)   Meters.  All proposed in-ground irrigation systems that will be
supplied with water through connection to the water system will be measured
through a separate meter serving the irrigation system.
   (D)   Methods of connection and payment.
      (1)   An irrigation system service line may be installed by a direct tap
into the main (dedicated tap) or by a tee off the non-irrigation (domestic)
service line at a point between the main and the non-irrigation meter. Either
method of connection, and the water meter, must be installed by the County
Public Utilities Department.
      (2)   Customers will be required to pay all fees in advance of the
installation of the taps and meter. The customer will also be required to pay
the current monthly minimum and rate for any water used for the irrigation
system, in addition to domestic or other water fees. Failure to make payment
when due will result in having both irrigation and domestic water supplies
disconnected for non-payment.
   (E)   Technical and other requirements. All irrigation service lines, meters
and all related appurtenances will be installed in accordance with the same
regulations, policies, and procedures as govern the installation of non-
irrigation water systems; provided, however, that all irrigation meters will
have an approved above-ground reduced pressure zone backflow preventer
installed on the line after the meter and before any yard hydrants, control
valves, tees, and the like. This backflow device will be installed, maintained
and tested annually, at the customer’s expense, in accordance with the State
Department of Environment and Natural Resources Public Water Supply Guidelines
for Cross-Connection Control in Water Distribution Systems.
(1996 Code, § 52.76) (Ord. passed 8-4-2008; Ord. passed 6-7-2010)
§ 52.082 FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEMS.
   (A)   All unmetered fire sprinkler systems without booster facilities or
chemical additives must have a reduced pressure principle assembly check valve
assembly as a minimum containment device.
   (B)   All unmetered fire sprinkler systems with a booster facility or
chemical additives must have a reduced pressure principle detector assembly as
a minimum containment device.
(1996 Code, § 52.77) (Ord. passed 8-4-2008)
§ 52.083 IMMINENT HAZARDS.
   If the Director and/or Cross-Connection Inspector determines that a
customer’s private water system constitutes an imminent hazard, such customer
shall install a backflow prevention assembly as may be specified by the County
Public Utilities Department within 24 hours after notice of the determination.
If the customer fails to take corrective measures in a timely manner, or
refuses to install the specified assembly, water service to the customer’s
private water system may be terminated. If the Director and/or Cross-Connection
Inspector is unable to give notice to such customer or his or her
representative within 24 hours after the determination that an imminent hazard
exists, despite reasonable efforts to provide such notice, the County Public
Utilities Department may terminate water service to the private water system
until the specified corrected measures are taken. Upon correction of the
existing problem and with the Inspector’s approval, water service will be
continued.
(1996 Code, § 52.78) (Ord. passed 8-4-2008)
§ 52.084 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   The Director or his or her authorized agent shall have the right to
enter any building, structure, or premises during normal working hours to
perform any duty imposed upon him or her by this subchapter. Duties may include
sampling and testing water, or inspections and observations of all piping
systems connected to the public water supply. Prior notice will be given unless
an imminent hazard has been reported. Refusal to allow entry for these purposes
may result in termination of the water service.
   (B)   At the request of the Director and/or Cross-Connection Inspector, the
customer shall furnish any pertinent information regarding the piping and
chemical storage on such property where cross-connections are deemed possible.
(1996 Code, § 52.79) (Ord. passed 8-4-0208)
§ 52.085 RESPONSIBILITY OF CUSTOMER.
   (A)   The customer shall be responsible for the elimination of or protection
against all cross-connections on his or her premises.
   (B)   The customer shall maintain any backflow prevention assembly within
his or her premises in good operating condition. The customer shall correct any
malfunction of the backflow prevention which is revealed by periodic testing.
   (C)   The customer shall be responsible for the payment of all fees for
annual testing, re-testing in the case that the assembly fails to operate
correctly, and repairs.
   (D)   A customer must immediately notify the County Public Utilities
Department if the customer has reason to believe that backflow has occurred
from the customer’s private water system to the public water system.
   (E)   A customer shall send a copy of all tests within 30 days to the County
Public Utilities.
(1996 Code, § 52.80) (Ord. passed 8-4-2008)
§ 52.086 UNAPPROVED SOURCE OF SUPPLY.
   (A)   No person shall connect or cause to be connected any supply of water
not approved by the state to the public water supply system.
   (B)   Where a connection to a county water line is made, and the property
owner continues to have a well or other source of water, it shall be unlawful
for the plumbing servicing any building upon such property to be so connected
that any water outlet within the building may be served with water from any
source other than the county connection; and it shall also be unlawful to have
plumbing cross-connected or so installed that water from the county water
system or the private water system may in any way become intermingled.
(1996 Code, § 52.81) (Ord. passed 8-4-2008) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.087 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   A written notice of violation shall be given to any person who is
determined to be in violation of any provision of this subchapter.
   (B)   Such notice shall set forth the violation and the time period within
which the violation must be corrected. The violation must be corrected within a
reasonable time, as specified in the notice, not to exceed 30 days from receipt
of the violation notice. If the Director and/or Cross-Connection Inspector
determines that the violation is occurring on a customer’s private water system
and that such violation has created or contributed to the existence of an
imminent hazard, the customer may be required to correct the violation
immediately.
   (C)   Water service may be terminated to a customer if the customer fails to
correct a violation or to pay any civil penalty or expense assessed under this
section. Termination of water service will be without prejudice to the county’s
ability to assert any other remedy available to the county against the customer
or any other person responsible for the violation.
(1996 Code, § 52.82) (Ord. passed 8-4-2008) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.088 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   Upon notice of the backflow prevention method required, the owner may
request a hearing to review the selection process with the County Public
Utilities Department personnel. If the owner is dissatisfied with the results
of this review, a written request for a hearing must be sent to the Director
within ten days of the Departmental review. Within ten days, a formal hearing
with the Director will be scheduled. A written response will be issued within
ten days after the hearing. The owner shall thereafter have the right of
further appeal to the County Commissioners.
(1996 Code, § 52.83) (Ord. passed 8-4-2008)
§ 52.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who shall unlawfully take and remove any water from the
county water system in violation of the provisions of this chapter or tamper
with a stopcock in violation of §
52.027 shall:
      (1)   Be guilty of a misdemeanor and fined or imprisoned as provided by
G.S. § 14-4; or
      (2)   Pay a civil penalty of $500 to the county for each separate
violation of either §
52.004(A) or §
52.027.
(1996 Code, § 52.99)
   (C)   (1)   The violation of any provision of §§
52.075 through
52.088 shall subject the violator to a civil penalty. Each subsequent day that
a violation listed in divisions (C)(1)(a) through (d) below continues shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense according to the following schedule:
         (a)   Unprotected cross-connection involving a private water system
which is an imminent hazard, $1,000/day;
         (b)   Unprotected cross-connection involving a private water system
which is high hazard, $750/day;
         (c)   Unprotected cross-connection involving a private water system
which is a moderate hazard, $500/day; and
         (d)   Unprotected cross-connection for which no other civil penalty is
prescribed, $250/day.
      (2)   Each violation listed in divisions (C)(2)(a) through (e) below
shall be considered a one-time violation subject to the following schedule:
         (a)   Any tester who falsifies records will lose his or her approved
tester status and/or be subject to a $500 penalty;
          (b)   Submitting incomplete records or failing to submit records may
cause the tester to be removed from the approved tester list and/or $250
penalty;
         (c)   Failing to test backflow prevention assemblies as required,
$100;
         (d)   Failing to maintain backflow prevention assemblies as required,
$100; and
         (e)   Any other violation of this subchapter, $100.
      (3)   The Director may increase any civil penalty assessed under this
division (C) by $100 or 50% of the maximum civil penalty associated with the
violation, whichever is greater, for a second violation of the same provision
within a two-year period. Water service may be terminated after a third
violation of the same provision within a two-year period. Any person violating
any provision of this subchapter shall pay to the county all expenses incurred
by the county in repairing any damage to the public water system caused in
whole or in part by such violation and any expense incurred by the county in
investigating such violation. All such expenses are deemed to be a part of the
civil penalty assessed with the violation.
(1996 Code, § 52.82)
   (D)   Further, a violation of the above section of this code shall be a
violation of G.S. § 14-4 and such violation shall be classified as a Class 3
misdemeanor with a maximum fine of up to $450, except that any violations of §§
150.999,
154.99,
155.999, and
156.999 shall not be a violation of G.S. § 14-4 and shall not be considered a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 9-20-1993; Ord. passed 8-4-2008)
CHAPTER 53: SEWER REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
53.001   Purpose and policy
   
53.002   Definitions and abbreviations
General Sewer Use Requirements
   
53.013   Capacity certification
   
53.014   Construction standards
   
53.015   Prohibited discharge standards
   
53.016   National categorical pretreatment standards
   
53.017   Local limits
   
53.018   State requirements   
   
53.019   Right of revision
   
53.020   Dilution
   
53.021   Pretreatment of wastewater
   
53.022   Accidental discharge/slug control plans
   
53.023   Hauled wastewater
Fees
   
53.035   Purpose of fees
   
53.036   User charges
   
53.037   Surcharges
   
53.038   Pretreatment program administration charges
Wastewater Discharge Permit
Application and Issuance
   
53.050   Wastewater dischargers
   
53.051   Wastewater permits
Reporting Requirements
   
53.065   Baseline monitoring reports
   
53.066   Compliance schedule progress reports
   
53.067   Reports on compliance with categorical pretreatment standard, deadline
   
53.068   Periodic compliance reports
   
53.069   Reports of changed conditions
   
53.070   Reports of potential problems
   
53.071   Reports from unpermitted users
   
53.072   Notice of violation/repeat sampling and reporting
   
53.073   Notification of the discharge of hazardous waste
   
53.074   Analytical requirements
   
53.075   Grab and composite sample collection and surcharges
   
53.076   Timing
   
53.077   Record keeping
   
53.078   Electronic reporting
   
53.079   Special reporting requirements for IUs in satellite POTWs
Compliance Monitoring
   
53.090   Monitoring facilities
   
53.091   Inspection and sampling
   
53.092   Search warrants
Administration and Enforcement
   
53.105   Confidential information
   
53.106   Administrative remedies
   
53.107   Civil penalties
   
53.108   Other available remedies
   
53.109   Remedies nonexclusive
   
53.110   Annual publication of significant noncompliance
   
53.111   Adjudicatory hearings
   
53.112   Upset
   
53.113   Prohibited discharge standards defense
   
53.114   Bypass
   
53.115   Capacity fees; Eastern Davie Sewer
   
53.116   Surcharges
   
53.117   Charges for monitoring
   
53.118   Grease control
   
53.119   Severability
   
53.120   Conflict
   
53.121   Effective date
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.001 PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   (1)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for direct and
indirect contributors into the wastewater collection and treatment system for
the county, and enables the county to comply with all applicable state and
federal laws, including the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.) and the
General Pretreatment Regulations (40 C.F.R. Part 403).
      (2)   Any industrial discharge tributary to the Eastern Davie wastewater
collection system and transported to the Winston-Salem/Forsyth City County
Sewer Use Resolution Part B, Articles 1 and 4-13, in all matters pertaining to
industrial wastewater permitting, reporting, compliance and enforcement.
Contact the CCUC Utility Director’s designee for Industrial Waste Control, 2799
Griffith Road, Winston-Salem, NC 27101.
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the public
wastewater system which will interfere with the operation of the system or
contaminate the resulting sludge;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the public
wastewater system which will pass through the system, inadequately treated,
into any waters of the state or otherwise be incompatible with the system;
      (3)   To promote reuse and recycling of industrial wastewater and sludges
from the public system;
      (4)   To protect both public personnel who may be affected by sewage,
sludge, and effluent in the course of their employment as well as protecting
the general public;
      (5)   To provide for equitable distribution of the cost of operation,
maintenance, and improvement of the public wastewater system; and
      (6)   To ensure that the municipality complies with its NPDES or non-
discharge permit conditions, sludge use and disposal requirements, and any
other federal or state laws to which the public wastewater system is subject.
   (C)   This chapter provides for the regulation of direct and indirect
contributors to the publicwastewater system, through the issuance of permits to
certain non-domestic users and through enforcement of general requirements for
the other users, authorizes monitoring and enforcement activities, requires
user reporting and provides for the setting of fees for the equitable
distribution of costs resulting from the program established herein.
   (D)   This chapter shall apply to all users of the county wastewater system,
as authorized by G.S. § 153A-275. The county’s Public Utilities Director shall
be the administrator of the POTW and pretreatment program, hereafter referred
to as the POTW Director. Except as otherwise provided herein, the POTW Director
shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this chapter. Any
powers granted to or imposed upon the POTW Director may be delegated by the
POTW Director to other county personnel. By discharging wastewater into the
public wastewater system, industrial users located inside or outside the county
limits agree to comply with the terms and conditions established in this
chapter, as well as any permits, enforcement actions, or orders issued
hereunder.
(1996 Code, § 53.001) (Ord. passed 5-7-2007; Ord. passed 9-3-2013; Ord. passed
12-4-2017)
§ 53.002 DEFINITIONS AND ABBREVIATIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   ACT or THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known
as the Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
      (2)   APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The Director of the Division of Water Quality
of the State of Environment and Natural Resources or his or her designee.
      (3)   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE INDUSTRIAL USER.  
         (a)   If the industrial user is a corporation, AUTHORIZED
REPRESENTATIVE shall mean:
            1.   The president, secretary, or a vice president of the
corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who
performs similar policy or decision- making functions for the corporation; or
            2.   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production, or
operation facilities employing more than 250 persons or having gross annual
sales or expenditures exceeding $25,000,000 (in second-quarter 1980 dollars),
if authority to sign documents has been assigned or delegated to the manager in
accordance with corporate procedures.
         (b)   If the industrial user is a partnership or sole proprietorship,
an AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE shall mean a general partner or the proprietor,
respectively.
         (c)   If the industrial user is a federal, state, or local government
facility, an AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE shall mean a director or highest
official appointed or designated to oversee the operation and performance of
the activities of the government facility, or his or her designee.
         (d)   The individuals described in divisions (a) through (c) of this
definition may designate another AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE if the authorization
is in writing, the authorization specifies the individual or position
responsible for the overall operation of the facility from which the discharge
originates or having overall responsibility for environmental matters for the
company, and the written authorization is submitted to the county.
         (e)   If the designation of an AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE is no longer
accurate because a different individual or position has responsibility for the
overall operation of the facility, or overall responsibility for environmental
matters for the company, a new authorization satisfying the requirements of
this section must be submitted to POTW Director prior to or together with any
reports to be signed by an AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE.
      (4)   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory
procedures for five days at 20°C, usually expressed as a concentration (e.g.,
mg/l).
      (5)   BUILDING SEWER. A sewer conveying wastewater from the premises of a
user to the POTW.
      (6)    BYPASS. The intentional diversion of wastestreams from any portion
of a user’s treatment facility.
      (7)   CATEGORICAL STANDARDS. National categorical pretreatment standards
or pretreatment standard.
      (8)   CONTROL AUTHORITY. Refers to Davie County.
      (9)   COUNTY. Davie County, North Carolina, including the area within the
corporate boundaries of the Town of Bermuda Run, but not including areas of the
Town of Mocksville served by the Dutchmans Creek POTW.
      (10)   DEVELOPER. An individual or a group of individuals who seeks to
construct new facilities on a property.
      (11)   DIRECTOR. The Director of Utilities of Davie County, or his or her
authorized representative(s).
      (12)   DOMESTIC SEPTAGE. The liquid or solid material removed from a
septic tank, cesspool, portable toilet or similar treatment works receiving
only domestic sewage. DOMESTIC SEWAGE does not include liquid or solid material
removed from a septic tank, cesspool, or similar treatment works receiving
either commercial wastewater or industrial wastewater and does not include
grease removed from a grease trap at a restaurant.
      (13)   DOMESTIC WASTEWATER. Wastewater from bathrooms, toilet rooms,
kitchens and home laundries, including the contents of septic tanks from
residential dwellings.
      (14)   EFFLUENT. Sewage, water or other liquid flowing out of any basin,
treatment device, or facility.
      (15)   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY, or EPA. The U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency, or where appropriate the term may also be used as a
designation for the Administrator or other duly authorized official of said
agency.
      (16)   FEDERAL REGISTER. A federal government periodical dealing with
federal legislation, published weekdays by the National Archives and Records
Service.
      (17)   FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS. Any commercial facility discharging
kitchen or food preparation wastewater including restaurants, motels, hotels,
cafeterias, hospitals, schools, nightclubs, delicatessen, meat cutting-
preparation, bakeries, etc. and any other facility which, in the opinion of the
Director, would require a grease trap installation by virtue of its operation.
      (18)   GRAB SAMPLE. A sample which is taken from a wastestream on a one-
time basis without regard to the flow in the wastestream and over a period of
time not to exceed 15 minutes.
      (19)   GREASE. The accumulation of oils (animal or vegetable), fats,
cellulose, starch, proteins, wax, lipids, or grease, whether emulsified or not,
in the sanitary sewer system. These are substances that may solidify or become
viscous at temperatures between 32°F and 150°F.
      (20)   GREASE INTERCEPTOR or GREASE TRAP. A device utilized to effect the
separation of grease and oils in wastewater effluent from a food service
establishment. Such traps or interceptors may be of the “outdoor” or
“underground” type normally of a 1,000-gallon capacity or more, or the “under-
the-counter” or “point of use” package units, which are typically less than
100-gallon capacity. For the purpose of this definition, the words TRAP and
INTERCEPTOR are used interchangeably.
      (21)   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Any material that would be identified as
hazardous wastes according to 40 C.F.R., Part 261 if not disposed of in a
sewer.
      (22)   HYDROCARBON OIL AND GREASE. Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable
cutting oil, or products of mineral oil origin.
      (23)   HOLDING TANK WASTE. Any waste from holding tanks, including but
not limited to such holding tanks as vessels, chemical toilets, campers,
trailers, septic tanks, and vacuum- pump tank trucks.
      (24)   INDIRECT DISCHARGE or DISCHARGE. The discharge or the introduction
from any non-domestic source regulated under § 307(b), (c), or (d) of the Act
(33 U.S.C. § 1317), into the POTW (including holding tank waste discharged into
the system).
      (25)   INDUSTRIAL USER or USER. Any person which is a source of indirect
discharge.
      (26)   INFLOW/INFILTRATION. Inflow is the result of extraneous water
entering into the sewer system. Inflow includes water discharged into service
connections and sewer pipes from foundation and roof drains, outdoor paved
areas, unpolluted cooling water from air conditioners, and unpolluted
discharges from businesses and industries. Infiltration is the entry of water
into the sewer system from surrounding soil. Common points of entry include
broken pipe and defective joints in the pipe or walls of manholes. Infiltration
may result from sewers being laid below the groundwater table or from
saturation of the soil by rain or irrigation water.
      (27)   INFLUENT. Sewage, water or other liquid flowing into any basin,
treatment device, or facility.
      (28)   INTERFERENCE. The inhibition or disruption of the POTW treatment
processes, operations, or its sludge process, use, or disposal, which causes or
contributes to a violation of any requirement of the POTW’s NPDES or non-
discharge permit or prevents sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with
specified applicable state and federal statutes, regulations, or permits. The
term includes prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal by the POTW in
accordance with § 405 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1345) or any criteria,
guidelines, or regulations developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act
(SWDA) (42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.), the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et
seq.), the Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq.), the Marine
Protection Research and Sanctuary Act (MPRSA) (16 U.S.C. §§ 1431 et seq. and 33
U.S.C. §§ 1401 et seq.), or more stringent state criteria (including those
contained in any state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to 42 U.S.C. §§
6941 et seq., Title IV of SWDA) applicable to the method of disposal or use
employed by the POTW.
      (29)   MAY. Is permissive.
      (30)   MEDICAL WASTE. Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood
and blood products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated
bedding, surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes, and
dialysis wastes.
      (31)   NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRE-TREATMENT STANDARD or CATEGORICAL
STANDARD. Any regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by
the EPA in accordance with §§ 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317)
which applies to a specific category of industrial users, and which appears in
40 C.F.R. Chapter 1, Subchapter N, Parts 405-471.
      (32)   NATIONAL PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD or PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE
STANDARD. Absolute prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances;
these prohibitions appear in §
53.015 and are developed under the authority of § 307(b) of the Act and 40
C.F.R. § 403.5.
      (33)   NEW SOURCE.
         (a)   Any building, structure, facility, or installation from which
there may be a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced
after the publication of proposed categorical pretreatment standards under §
307(c) of the Act which will be applicable to such source if such standards are
thereafter promulgated in accordance with § 307(c), provided that:
            1.   The building, structure, facility, or installation is
constructed at a site at which no other source is located;
            2.   The building, structure, facility, or installation totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source; or
            3.   The production or wastewater generating processes of the
building, structure, facility, or installation are substantially independent of
an existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source should
be considered.
         (b)   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located
results in a modification rather than a NEW SOURCE if the construction does not
create a new building, structure, facility, or installation meeting the
criteria of divisions (a)2. or 3. of this definition but otherwise alters,
replaces, or adds to existing process or production equipment.
         (c)   For purposes of this definition, construction of a NEW SOURCE
has commenced if the owner or operator has either:
            1.   Begun, or caused to begin, as part of a continuous on-site
construction program:
               a.   Any placement, assembly, or installation of facilities or
equipment; or
               b.    Significant site preparation work including clearing,
excavation, or removal of existing buildings, structures, or facilities, which
is necessary for the placement, assembly, or installation of new source
facilities or equipment.
            2.   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase
of facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation
within a reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be
terminated or modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility,
engineering, and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation
under this definition.
      (34)   NATIONAL POLLUTION DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) PERMIT. A
permit issued pursuant to § 402 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1342), or pursuant to
G.S. § 143-215.1 by the state under delegation from EPA.
      (35)   NONCONTACT COOLING WATER. Water used for cooling which does not
come into direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste
product, or finished product.
      (36)   NON-DISCHARGE PERMIT. A disposal system permit issued by the state
pursuant to G.S. § 143-215.1.
      (37)   NORTH CAROLINA PLUMBING CODE. The most recent edition of the North
Carolina State Building Code, entitled “plumbing,” published by the North
Carolina Building Code Council and the North Carolina Department of Insurance.
      (38)   OWNER. An individual, person, firm, company, association, society,
corporation, trust, or group upon whose property the building or structure
containing the food service establishment is located or will be constructed.
OWNERS shall also include the owner of a food service establishment who may
lease the building, structure, or a portion thereof, containing the food
service establishment.
      (39)   PASS-THROUGH. A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the
state in quantities or concentrations which, alone or with discharges from
other sources, causes a violation, including an increase in the magnitude or
duration of a violation, of the POTW’s NPDES or non-discharge permit, or a
downstream water quality standard.
      (40)   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm,
company, corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate,
governmental entity or any other legal entity, or their legal representatives,
agents or assigns. This definition includes all federal, state, and local
government entities.
      (41)   pH. A measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a substance,
expressed as standard units, and calculated as the logarithm (base 10) of the
reciprocal of the concentration of hydrogen ions expressed in grams per liter
of solution.
      (42)   POLLUTANT. Any “waste” as defined in G.S. § 143-213(18) and
dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage, garbage, sewage
sludge, munitions, medical wastes, chemical wastes, biological materials,
radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discarded equipment, rock, sand, cellar
dirt; industrial, municipal, and agricultural waste; and certain
characteristics of wastewater (e.g., pH, temperature, TSS, turbidity, color,
BOD, COD, toxicity, or odor).
      (43)    POTW DIRECTOR. The county administrator designated with the
responsibility for the pretreatment program and enforcement of this chapter.
      (44)   POTW TREATMENT PLANT. The portion of the POTW designed to provide
treatment to wastewater.
      (45)   PRETREATMENT or TREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of
pollutants, the elimination of pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of
pollutant properties in wastewater prior to or in lieu of discharging or
otherwise introducing such pollution into a POTW. The reduction or alteration
can be obtained by physical, chemical, or biological processes, or process
changes or other means, except by diluting the concentration of the pollutants
unless allowed by an applicable pretreatment standard.
      (46)   PRETREATMENT PROGRAM. The program for the control of pollutants
introduced into the POTW from non- domestic sources which was developed by the
county in compliance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.8 and approved by the approval
authority as authorized by G.S. § 143- 215.3(a)(14) in accordance with 40
C.F.R. § 403.11.
      (47)   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural
requirement related to pretreatment, other than a pretreatment standard.
      (48)   PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. Prohibited discharge standards,
categorical standards, and local limits.
      (49)   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural
requirement related to pretreatment, other than a pretreatment standard.
      (50)   PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. Prohibited discharge standards,
categorical standards, local limits and any other regulation containing
pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the State of North Carolina or local
agencies or by EPA in accordance with § 307(b) and (c) of the Act.
      (51)   PRIVIES. Latrines, outhouses, or any other permanently installed
outdoor water closets.
      (52)   PROPER CONNECTIONS. Those sewer pipe connections made in
accordance with the North Carolina Plumbing Code or as stipulated by the
director.
      (53)   PROCESS WASTEWATER FLOW. That portion of the facility discharge
that is attributable to the function(s) that define(s) the facilities purpose
(s).
      (54)   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW) or PUBLIC WASTEWATER SYSTEM.
A treatment works as defined by § 212 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1292) which is
owned in this instance by the county. This definition includes any devices or
systems used in the collection, storage, treatment, recycling, and reclamation
of public sewage or industrial wastes of a liquid nature. It also includes
sewers, pipes, and other conveyances only if they convey wastewater to the POTW
treatment plant. For the purposes of this chapter, POTW shall also include any
sewers that convey wastewaters to the POTW from persons outside the county who
are, by contractor agreement with the county, or in any other way, users of the
POTW of the county.
      (55)   RESIDUALS. The solid or semi-solid waste generated from a
biological wastewater treatment facility with an NPDES permit which is owned or
operated by the commission.
      (56)   SANITARY SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries domestic waste and/
or industrial wastes and to which storm, surface, ground waters, and unpolluted
waters are not intentionally admitted.
      (57)   SEPTAGE. The sludge produced in individual domestic on-site
wastewater disposal systems, such as septic tanks and cesspools.
      (58)   SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE. Substantial physical damage to property,
damage to the user’s treatment facilities which causes them to become
inoperable, or substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can
reasonably be expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. SEVERE PROPERTY
DAMAGE does not mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
      (59)   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences,
business buildings, institutions and industrial establishments.
      (60)   SEWER CONNECTION. A sewer pipeline, normally a four-inch, cast-
iron soil pipe, running laterally from a street sewer, an off-street sewer or a
trunk sewer to an individual tract, lot or parcel of land to serve one or more
houses or other buildings, whether or not connected to any house or building.
      (61)   SHALL. Is mandatory.
      (62)   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER. Any industrial user of the wastewater
disposal system who:
         (a)   Has an average daily process wastewater flow of 25,000 gallons
or more;
         (b)   Contributes more than 5% of any design or treatment capacity
(i.e., allowable pollutant load) of the wastewater treatment plant receiving
the indirect discharge;
         (c)   Is required to meet a national categorical pretreatment
standard; or
         (d)   Is found by the county, the Division of Water Quality, or the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to have the potential for impact,
either singly or in combination with other contributing industrial users, on
the wastewater treatment system, the quality of sludge, the system’s effluent
quality, or compliance with any pretreatment standards or requirements.
      (63)   SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE or SNC. The status of noncompliance of a
significant industrial user when one or more of the following criteria are met.
Additionally, any industrial user which meets the criteria in divisions (c),
(d) or (h) shall also be SNC.
         (a)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here
as those in which 66% or more of all the measurements taken for the same
pollutant parameter (not including flow) during a six-month period exceed (by
any magnitude) a numeric pretreatment standard or requirement including
instantaneous limits, as defined by 40 C.F.R. Part 403.3(1);
         (b)   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as
those in which 33% or more of all the measurements taken for the same pollutant
parameter during a six-month period equal or exceed the product of the numeric
pretreatment standard or requirement including instantaneous limits, as defined
by 40 C.F.R. Part 403.3(1) multiplied by the applicable TRC; (TRC = 1.4 for
BOD, TSS, fats, oil and grease, 1.2 for all other pollutants (except flow and
pH);
         (c)   Any other violation of a pretreatment standard or requirement as
defined by 40 C.F.R. Part 403.3(1) (daily maximum, long-term average,
instantaneous limit, or narrative standard) that the Control Authority and/or
POTW determines has caused, alone or in combination with other discharges,
interference or pass through (including endangering the health of POTW
personnel or the general public);
         (d)   Any discharge of a pollutant or wastewater that has caused
imminent endangerment to human health, welfare or to the environment or has
resulted in either the Control Authority’s or the POTW’s, if different from the
Control Authority, exercise of its emergency authority under 40 C.F.R. Part
403.8(f)(l)(vi)(B) and this chapter to halt or prevent such a discharge;
         (e)   Violations of compliance schedule milestones, contained in a
pretreatment permit or enforcement order, for starting construction, completing
construction, and attaining final compliance by 90 days or more after the
schedule date;
         (f)   Failure to provide reports for compliance schedule, self-
monitoring data, baseline monitoring reports, 90-day compliance reports, and
periodic compliance reports within 30 days from the due date;
         (g)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance;
         (h)   Any other violation or group of violations that the Control
Authority and/or POTW determines will adversely affect the operation or
implementation of the local pretreatment program.
      (64)   SLUDGE OR BIOSOLIDS. The solid or semi-solid waste resulting from
chemical treatment, coagulation, flocculation, sedimentation, flotation,
precipitation, filtration, and/or biological oxidation of water or wastewater.
      (65)   SLUG LOAD OR DISCHARGE. Any discharge at a flow rate or
concentration which has a reasonable potential to cause interference or pass-
through, or in any other way violates the POTW’s regulations, local limits, or
industrial user permit conditions. This can include but is not limited to
spills and other accidental discharges; discharges of a non-routine, episodic
nature; a non- customary batch discharge; or any other discharges that can
cause a violation of the prohibited discharge standards.
      (66)   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC). A classification
pursuant to the Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the
Executive Office of the President, Office of Management and Budget, 1987.
      (67)   STORM WATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of
natural precipitation and resulting therefrom.
      (68)   SUBMIT. The term SUBMIT, or the terms NOTIFY or REQUEST, when used
in the context of a written rather than oral submission, shall mean to place
the written report or document into the U.S. Mail, postage prepaid, such that
it is postmarked on the date it is required to be submitted under this chapter.
For writings not submitted via the U.S. Mail, it shall mean delivery to the
Director.
      (69)   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter that floats on the
surface of, or is suspended in, water, wastewater, or other liquids, and which
is removable by laboratory filtering.
      (70)   TOXIC SUBSTANCES. Any substance or mixture, whether gaseous,
liquid or solid, which, when discharged into the sewer system, may tend to
interfere with any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to human
beings or animals, inhibit aquatic life, or create a hazard to recreation in
the receiving waters of the effluent from the sewage treatment plant.
      (71)   TRUNK SEWER. A major outfall or intercepting sewer installed along
the valley line of a watershed to serve as a collector for street sewers and
minor outfall lines serving subdivisions and developed property within an
entire watershed.
      (72)   UPSET. An exceptional incident in which there is unintentional and
temporary noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards because of
factors beyond the reasonable control of the user. An UPSET does not include
noncompliance to the extent caused by operational error, improperly designed
treatment facilities, inadequate treatment facilities, lack of preventive
maintenance, or careless or improper operation.
      (73)   USER. Any person, establishment, industry, firm, corporation,
company, association, society, or trust who contributes, causes or permits the
contribution of wastewater into the POTW.
      (74)   WASTEWATER. The liquid and water-carried industrial or domestic
wastes from dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities, mobile
sources, treatment facilities, and institutions, together with any groundwater,
surface water, and storm water that may be present, whether treated or
untreated, which are contributed into or permitted to enter the POTW.
      (75)   WASTEWATER PERMIT. As set forth in §
53.051.
      (76)   WATER CLOSETS. Any self- contained toilets, including those in
recreational vehicles and portable units.
      (77)   WATERS OF THE STATE. All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, water
course, waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems,
drainage systems and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface or
underground, natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained
within, flow through, or border upon the state or any portion thereof.
   (B)   This chapter is gender neutral and the masculine gender shall include
the feminine and vice-versa.
   (C)   Shall is mandatory; may is permissive or discretionary.
   (D)   The use of the singular shall be construed to include the plural and
the plural shall include the singular as indicated by the context of its use.
   (E)   The following abbreviations, when used in this chapter, shall have the
designated meanings.
      (1)   BOD. Biochemical oxygen demand.
      (2)   C.F.R. Code of Federal Regulations.
      (3)   COD. Chemical oxygen demand.
      (4)   EPA. Environment Protection Agency.
      (5)   G.S. North Carolina General Statutes.
      (6)   gpd. Gallons per day.
       (7)   l. Liter.
      (8)   mg. Milligrams.
      (9)   mg/l. Milligrams per liter.
      (10)   I/I. Inflow and infiltration.
      (11)   IWC. Industrial waste control.
      (12)   NCGS. North Carolina General Statutes.
      (13)   NPDES. National pollution discharge elimination system.
      (14)   O&G. Oil and grease.
      (15)   O&M. Operation and maintenance.
      (16)   POTW. Publicly owned treatment works.
      (17)   RCRA. Resource Conservation and Recovery Act.
      (18)   SIC. Standard industrial classification.
      (19)   SIU. Significant industrial user.
      (20)   SS. Suspended solids.
      (21)   SWDA. Solid Waste Disposal Act.
      (22)   TSS. Total suspended solids.
      (23)   TKN. Total Kjeldahl nitrogen.
      (24)   U.S.C. United States Code.
(1996 Code, § 53.002) (Ord. passed 5-7-2007; Ord. passed 9-3-2013; Ord. passed
12-4-2017)
GENERAL SEWER USE REQUIREMENTS
§ 53.013 CAPACITY CERTIFICATIONS.
   Unless otherwise advised by the Director, a capacity certification with
evidence of fee payment shall be required or all new or additional connections
prior to initiation of sewer service.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2017)
§ 53.014 CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   All new sewer construction shall be designed and constructed in accordance
with Davie County Utility Standards and approved by the Director.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2017)
§ 53.015 PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS.
   (A)   General prohibitions. No user shall contribute or cause to be
contributed into the POTW, directly or indirectly, any pollutant or wastewater
which causes interference or pass-through. These general prohibitions apply to
all users of a POTW whether or not the user is a significant industrial user or
subject to any national, state, or local pretreatment standards or
requirements.
   (B)   Specific prohibitions. No user shall contribute or cause to be
contributed into the POTW the following pollutants, substances, or wastewater:
      (1)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW,
including but not limited to wastestreams with a closed cup flashpoint of less
than 140°F (60°C) using the test methods specified in 40 C.F.R. § 261.21;
      (2)   Solid or viscous substances in amounts which will cause obstruction
of the flow in the POTW resulting in interference but in no case solids greater
than one-half inch in any dimension;
      (3)   Petroleum oil, non- biodegradable cutting oil, or products of
mineral oil origin, in amounts that will cause interference or pass- through;
      (4)   Any wastewater having a pH less than 5.0 or more than 12.0 or
wastewater having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage to the
POTW or equipment;
      (5)   Any wastewater containing pollutants, including oxygen-demanding
pollutants (BOD and the like) in sufficient quantity (flow or concentration),
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to cause interference
with the POTW;
      (6)   Any wastewater having a temperature greater than 150°F (66°C), or
which will inhibit biological activity in the POTW treatment plant resulting in
interference, but in no case wastewater which causes the temperature at the
introduction into the treatment plant to exceed 104°F (40°C);
      (7)   Any pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors,
or fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems;
      (8)   Any trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points
designated by the POTW Director in accordance with §
53.023;
      (9)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, or solids or other
wastewater which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are
sufficient to create a public nuisance or hazard to life or are sufficient to
prevent entry into the sewers for maintenance and repair;
      (10)   Any substance which may cause the POTW’s effluent or any other
product of the POTW, such as residues, sludges, or scums, to be unsuitable for
reclamation and reuse or to interfere with the reclamation process. In no case
shall a substance discharged to the POTW cause the POTW to be in noncompliance
with sludge use or disposal regulations or permits issued under § 405 of the
Act; the Solid Waste Disposal Act, the Clean Air Act, the Toxic Substances
Control Act, or state criteria applicable to the sludge management method being
used;
      (11)   Any wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by the
treatment process, including but not limited to dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions, which consequently imparts sufficient color to the treatment
plant’s effluent to render the waters injurious to public health or secondary
recreation or to aquatic life and wildlife or to adversely affect the
palatability of fish or aesthetic quality or impair the receiving waters for
any designated uses;
      (12)   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes
except as specifically approved by the POTW Director in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulations;
      (13)   Storm water, surface water, ground water, artesian well water,
roof runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, deionized
water, noncontact cooling water and unpolluted industrial wastewater, unless
specifically authorized by the POTW Director;
      (14)   Fats, oils, or greases of animal or vegetable origin in
concentrations greater than 100 mg/l unless authorized by the POTW Director;
      (15)   Any sludges, screenings, or other residues from the pretreatment
of industrial wastes;
      (16)   Any medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the POTW
Director in a wastewater discharge permit;
      (17)   Any material containing ammonia, ammonia salts, or other chelating
agents which will produce metallic complexes that interfere with the public
wastewater system;
      (18)   Any material that would be identified as hazardous waste according
to 40 C.F.R. Part 261 if not disposed of in a sewer, except as may be
specifically authorized by the POTW Director;
      (19)   Any wastewater causing the treatment plant effluent to violate
State Water Quality Standards for toxic substances as described in 15A NCAC
2B.0200;
      (20)   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources,
the treatment plant’s effluent to fail a toxicity test;
      (21)   Recognizable portions of the human or animal anatomy;
      (22)   Any medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the
Director;
      (23)   Any silver-rich solution from a photographic processing facility
without treatment;
      (24)   Any wastes containing detergents, surface active agents, or other
substances which may cause excessive foaming in the public wastewater system;
and/or
      (25)   At no time, shall two successive readings on an explosion hazard
meter, at the point of discharge into the system (or at any point in the
system), be more than 5% nor any single reading over 10% of the lower explosive
limit (LEL) of the meter.
   (C)   Processing/storage. Pollutants, substances, wastewater, or other
wastes prohibited by this section shall not be processed or stored in such a
manner that they could be discharged to the public wastewater system. All floor
drains located in process or materials storage areas must discharge to the
industrial user’s pretreatment facility before connecting with the system.
   (D)   Users in violation. When the POTW Director determines that a user(s)
is contributing to the POTW any of the above enumerated substances in such
amounts which may cause or contribute to interference of POTW operation or
pass-through, the POTW Director shall:
      (1)   Advise the user(s) of the potential impact of the contribution on
the POTW; and
      (2)   Take appropriate actions in accordance with §§
53.050 and
53.051 for such user to protect the POTW from interference or pass- through.
(1996 Code, § 53.010) (Ord. passed 5-7-2007; Ord. passed 9-3-2013; Ord. passed
12-4-2017) Penalty, see §
53.107
§ 53.016 NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   Users subject to categorical pretreatment standards are required to comply
with applicable standards as set out in 40 C.F.R. Chapter 1, Subchapter N,
Parts 405-471 and incorporated herein.
    (A)   Where a categorical pretreatment standard is expressed only in terms
of either the mass or the concentration of a pollutant in wastewater, the POTW
Director may impose equivalent concentration or mass limits in accordance with
40 C.F.R. § 403.6(c).
   (B)   When wastewater subject to a categorical pretreatment standard is
mixed with wastewater not regulated by the same standard, the POTW Director
shall impose an alternate limit using the combined wastestream formula in 40
C.F.R. § 403.6(e).
   (C)   A user may obtain a variance from a categorical pretreatment standard
if the user can prove, pursuant to the procedural and substantive provisions in
40 C.F.R. § 403.13, that factors relating to its discharge are fundamentally
different from the factors considered by the EPA when developing the
categorical pretreatment standard.
   (D)   A user may obtain a net gross adjustment to a categorical standard in
accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.15.
(1996 Code, § 53.011) (Ord. passed 5-7-2007; Ord. passed 9-3-2013; Ord. passed
12-4-2017)
§ 53.017 LOCAL LIMITS.
   (A)   An industrial waste survey is required prior to a user discharging
wastewater containing in excess of the following average discharge limits.
Pollutant Limit (mg/l)
Pollutant                 Limit (mg/l)
Arsenic                   0.003
BOD                       200.00
Cadmium                   0.003
Chromium (total chromium) 0.020
Copper                    0.061
Cyanide                   0.005
Lead                      0.020
Mercury                   0.0002
NH3                       25.00
Nickel                    0.021
Silver                    0.005
TSS                       200.00
Zinc                      0.175
 
   (B)   Industrial waste survey information will be used to develop user-
specific local limits when necessary to ensure that the POTW’s maximum
allowable headworks loading are not exceeded for particular pollutants of
concern. User-specific local limits for appropriate pollutants of concern shall
be included in wastewater permits. The POTW Director may impose mass-based
limits in addition to, or in place of, concentration-based limits.
(1996 Code, § 53.012) (Ord. passed 5-7-2007; Ord. passed 9-3-2013; Ord. passed
12-4-2017)
§ 53.018 STATE REQUIREMENTS.
   State requirements and limitations on discharges shall apply in any case
where they are more stringent than federal requirements and limitations or
those in this chapter.
(1996 Code, § 53.013) (Ord. passed 5-7-2007; Ord. passed 9-3-2013; Ord. passed
12-4-2017)
§ 53.019 RIGHT OF REVISION.
   The county reserves the right to establish limitations and requirements
which are more stringent than those required by either state or federal
regulation if deemed necessary to comply with the objectives presented in §
53.001 or the general and specific prohibitions in §
53.015, as is allowed by 40 C.F.R. § 403.4.
(1996 Code, § 53.014) (Ord. passed 5-7-2007; Ord. passed 9-3-2013; Ord. passed
12-4-2017)
§ 53.020 DILUTION.
   No user shall ever increase the use of process water or, in any way, attempt
to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in the national
categorical pretreatment standards, unless expressly authorized by an
applicable pretreatment standard, or in any other pollutant-specific limitation
developed by the county or state.
(1996 Code, § 53.015) (Ord. passed 5-7-2007; Ord. passed 9-3-2013; Ord. passed
12-4-2017) Penalty, see §
53.107
§ 53.021 PRETREATMENT OF WASTEWATER.
   (A)   Pretreatment facilities. Users shall provide wastewater treatment as
necessary to comply with this chapter and wastewater permits issued under §
53.051 and shall achieve compliance with all national categorical pretreatment
standards, local limits, and the prohibitions set out in §
53.015 within the time limitations as specified by EPA, the state, or the POTW
Director, whichever is more stringent. Any facilities necessary for compliance
shall be provided, operated, and maintained at the user’s expense. Detailed
plans showing the pretreatment facilities and operating procedures shall be
submitted to the county for review, and shall be approved by the POTW Director
before construction of the facility. The review of such plans and operating
procedures shall in no way relieve the user from the responsibility of
modifying the facility as necessary to produce an effluent acceptable to the
county under the provisions of this chapter. Any subsequent changes in the
pretreatment facilities or method of operation shall be reported to and be
approved by the POTW Director prior to the user’s initiation of the changes.
   (B)   Additional pretreatment measures.
      (1)   Specific restrictions.  Whenever deemed necessary, the POTW
Director may require users to restrict their discharge during peak flow
periods, designate that certain wastewater be discharged only into specific
sewers, relocate, and/or consolidate points of discharge, separate sewage
wastestreams from industrial wastestreams, and such other conditions as may be
necessary to protect the POTW and determine the user’s compliance with the
requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   Flow storage/equalization. The POTW Director may require any
persons discharging into the POTW to install and maintain, on their property
and at their expense, a suitable storage and flow-control facility to ensure
equalization of flow. A wastewater discharge permit may be issued solely for
flow equalization.
      (3)   Oil, grease and sand separator and interceptors.
         (a)   Purpose and scope. The goal of this section is to prevent
excessive introduction of oil, grease, sand, and other harmful or hazardous
substances into the sewer system and wastewater treatment plant. These
substances have the potential for creating sanitary sewer overflows, hazardous
conditions in the collection system, treatment plant inhibitions, increased
treatment costs, fines, and other costs for the county.
         (b)   Overview. All food establishments and other users shall provide
a means of preventing grease and oil or sand discharges to the sewer collection
system. Where a separator or interceptor currently exists or is required by the
county, it shall be maintained for continuous, satisfactory, and effective
operation by the owner, leaseholder, or operator, at his or her expense.
Separators and interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the
county and shall be located so as to be readily accessible for cleaning and
inspections. All users are encouraged to use proper handling procedures. All
interception units shall be of type and capacity approved by the Director and
shall be so located as to be easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
Such interceptors shall be inspected, maintained, cleaned, and repaired
regularly, as needed, by the user at their own expense. The user shall be
responsible for maintaining records (manifest) detailing the dates of service,
quantity of waste removed, end disposal site of waste, and hauler. These
records shall be kept on site at the user’s location and subject to the
Director’s review without prior notification. It is unlawful for any facility
producing oil, grease, sand or other harmful or hazardous waste to discharge it
into the county’s collection system. See also the Grease Control Policy
beginning at §
53.118.
         (c)   Users with the potential to discharge flammable substances may
be required to install and maintain an approved combustible gas detection
meter.
(1996 Code, § 53.016) (Ord. passed 5-7-2007; Ord. passed 2-7-2011; Ord. passed
9-3-2013; Ord. passed 12-4-2017) Penalty, see §
53.107
§ 53.022 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE/SLUG CONTROL PLANS.
   (A)   The POTW Director shall evaluate whether each significant industrial
user needs a plan or other action to control and prevent slug discharges and
accidental discharges as defined in §
53.002. All SIUs must be evaluated within one year of being designated an SIU.
The POTW Director may require any user to develop, submit for approval, and
implement such a plan or other specific action. Alternatively, the POTW
Director may develop such a plan for any user.
   (B)   All SIUs are required to notify the POTW immediately of any changes at
its facility affecting the potential for spills and other accidental discharge,
discharge of a non-routine, episodic nature, a non-customary batch discharge,
or a slug load. Also see §§
53.069 and
53.070.
   (C)   An accidental discharge/slug control plan shall address, at a minimum,
the following:
      (1)   Description of discharge practices, including non-routine batch
discharges;
      (2)   Description of stored chemicals;
      (3)   Procedures for immediately notifying the POTW Director of any
accidental or slug discharge, as required by §
53.070; and
      (4)   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge. Such procedures include but are not limited to inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants, including solvents, and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response.
(1996 Code, § 53.017) (Ord. passed 5-7-2007; Ord. passed 9-3-2013; Ord. passed
12-4-2017)
§ 53.023 HAULED WASTEWATER.
   Any person who hauls wastewater or employs others to haul wastewater to a
public sewer system shall be referred to as contractors. Contractors may be
permitted to empty domestic septage into the POTW designated to receive such
waste only at locations designated by the Director. Septic tank discharges
shall not contain grease trap wastes, storm water, or industrial waste. The
contractors are subject to the following conditions:
   (A)   Contractors must apply for and be permitted by the county and the
North Carolina Division of Solid Waste Management, Septage Management Branch as
required under G.S.§ 130A, prior to pumping, hauling and discharging into the
POTW.
   (B)   Wastewater discharged by a contractor into the POTW shall not violate
any section of this chapter or any other requirements established by the
Commission.
   (C)   Contractors must submit an accurate, complete and signed waste-
tracking form for every load. This form shall include, at a minimum, the name
and address of the septage contractor, permit number, truck identification,
names and addresses of sources of waste, and volume and characteristics of
waste. The form shall certify that the waste is domestic septage and contains
no industrial, commercial, or grease trap waste. All forms shall be approved by
the Director.
   (D)   Contractors shall supply, with every load of septage, a representative
sample of the waste, if requested.
   (E)   The Director may require the contractor to provide and/or pay for any
laboratory tests necessary to verify that the hauled wastewater complies with
the requirements of this section.
   (F)   Contractors shall display decals or lettering on each side of every
pumper vehicle operated by the contractor. The decals or lettering shall
include the name, address (town name), phone number, and septage management
firm permit number. Each truck shall include a septage management permit
identifier number. All decals or lettering on the pumper vehicle shall be no
less than three inches in height and plainly visible. Identification shall be
permanently attached (i.e. no removal signs).
   (G)   Each contractor shall be responsible for the cleanliness and safety
practices at the point of disposal. The contractor shall discharge wastes in
such a manner as to keep the area clean from spills or other debris. The
contractor shall promptly clean up any spills.
   (H)   Any contractor violating any condition of this section shall be
subject to the enforcement actions as outlined in §
53.107.
   (I)   Contractors shall provide any information as requested by the Director
to ascertain compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (J)   No permit or fee shall be required to discharge domestic waste from a
recreation vehicle holding tank provided such discharge is made at an approved
site.
   (K)   Contractors shall pay such fees as required in this chapter. The
Director may revoke the permit at any time for failure to pay sewer charges.
   (L)   Upon failure to maintain structures in a proper condition of
cleanliness, failure to have currently valid documents from the pertinent
government agency, failure to pay charges due to the Commission as herein
provided, or failure to abide by all of the requirements of this chapter, the
Commission may deny a contractor permission to dispose of septic tank sludge
and waste from chemical toilets into the public sewer system. The North East
Davie Sewer District Director will notify the pertinent government agency of
such denial of permission to any contractor.
(1996 Code, § 53.018) (Ord. passed 5-7-2007; Ord. passed 9-3-2013; Ord. passed
12-4-2017)
FEES
§ 53.035 PURPOSE OF FEES.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide for the recovery of costs from
users of the wastewater disposal system of the county for the implementation of
the program established herein. The applicable charges or fees shall be set
forth in a schedule of sewer use charges and fees by the POTW Director and
approved by the County Board. A copy of these charges and fees will be made
available from the POTW Director.
(1996 Code, § 53.030) (Ord. passed 5-7-2007; Ord. passed 9-3-2013; Ord. passed
12-4-2017)
§ 53.036 USER CHARGES.
   A user charge shall be levied on all users including but not limited to
persons, firms, corporations, or governmental entities that discharge, cause,
or permit the discharge of sewage into the POTW.
   (A)   The user charge shall reflect, at least, the cost of debt service,
operation, and maintenance (including replacement) of the POTW.
   (B)   Each user shall pay its proportionate cost based on volume of flow.
   (C)   The County Manager shall review annually the sewage contributions of
users, the total costs of debt service, operation, and maintenance of the POTW
and will make recommendations to the Board of Commissioners serving the county
for adjustments in the schedule of charges and fees as necessary.
   (D)   Charges for flow to the POTW not directly attributable to the users
shall be distributed among all users of the POTW based upon the volume of flow
of the users.
(1996 Code, § 53.031) (Ord. passed 5-7-2007; Ord. passed 9-3-2013; Ord. passed
12-4-2017)
§ 53.037 SURCHARGES.
   The amount of the surcharges will be based upon the volume of flow and the
character and concentration of the constituents of the wastewater.
   (A)   The volume of flow used in determining the total discharge of
wastewater for payment of user charges and surcharges shall be based on the
following:
      (1)   Metered water consumption as shown in the records of meter readings
maintained by the county;
      (2)   If required by the county or at the individual discharger’s option,
other flow monitoring devices which measure the actual volume of wastewater
discharged to the sewer. Such devices shall be accessible and safely located,
and the measuring system shall be installed in accordance with plans approved
by the county. The metering system shall be installed and maintained at the
user’s expense according to arrangements that may be made with the county; or
      (3)   Where any user procures all or part of his or her water supply from
sources other than the county, the user shall install and maintain at his or
her own expense a flow-measuring device of a type approved by the county.
   (B)   The character and concentration of the constituents of the wastewater
used in determining surcharges shall be determined by samples collected and
analyzed by the county. Samples shall be collected in such a manner as to be
representative of the actual discharge and shall be analyzed using procedures
set forth in 40 C.F.R. Part 136.
   (C)   The determination of the character and concentration of the
constituents of the wastewater discharge by the POTW Director or his or her
duly appointed representatives shall be binding as a basis for charges.
(1996 Code, § 53.032) (Ord. passed 5-7-2007; Ord. passed 9-3-2013; Ord. passed
12-4-2017)
§ 53.038 PRETREATMENT PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION CHARGES.
   The schedule of charges and fees adopted by the county may include charges
and fees for:
   (A)   Reimbursement of costs of setting up and operating the pretreatment
program;
   (B)   Monitoring, inspections, and surveillance procedures;
   (C)   Reviewing slug control plans, including accidental and/or slug load
discharge procedures and construction plans and specifications;
   (D)   Permitting; or
   (E)   Other fees as the county may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements of the pretreatment program.
(1996 Code, § 53.033) (Ord. passed 5-7-2007; Ord. passed 9-3-2013; Ord. passed
12-4-2017)
WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT
APPLICATION AND ISSUANCE
§ 53.050 WASTEWATER DISCHARGERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to connect or discharge to the POTW
without first obtaining the permission of the county. When requested by the
POTW Director, a user must submit information on the nature and characteristics
of its wastewater within 30 days of the request. The POTW Director is
authorized to prepare a form for this purpose and may periodically require
users to update this information.
(1996 Code, § 53.040) (Ord. passed 5-7-2007; Ord. passed 9-3-2013; Ord. passed
12-4-2017) Penalty, see §
53.107
§ 53.051 WASTEWATER PERMITS.
   All significant industrial users shall obtain a significant industrial user
permit prior to the commencement of discharge to the POTW. Existing industrial
users who are determined by the POTW Director to be significant industrial
users shall obtain a significant industrial user permit within 180 days of
receiving notification of the POTW Director’s determination. Industrial users
who do not fit the significant industrial user criteria may at the discretion
of the POTW Director be required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit for
non-significant industrial users.
   (A)   Significant industrial user determination. All persons proposing to
discharge non-domestic wastewater, or proposing to change the volume or
characteristics of an existing discharge of non-domestic wastewater shall
request from the POTW Director a significant industrial user determination. If
the POTW Director determines or suspects that the proposed discharge fits the
significant industrial user criteria, he or she will require that a significant
industrial user permit application be filed.
   (B)   Significant industrial user permit application. Users required to
obtain a significant industrial user permit shall complete and file with the
county an application in the form prescribed by the POTW Director, and
accompanied by an application fee in the amount prescribed in the schedule of
charges and fees. Significant industrial users shall apply for a significant
industrial user permit within 90 days after notification of the POTW Director’s
determination in division (A) above. The application shall include at a
minimum:
      (1)   Name of the industrial user;
      (2)   Address of the industrial user;
      (3)   Standard industrial classification (SIC) codes or expected
classification and industrial user category;
      (4)   Wastewater flow;
      (5)   Types and concentrations (or mass) of pollutants contained in the
discharge;
      (6)   Major products manufactured or services supplied;
      (7)   Description of existing on-site pretreatment facilities and
practices;
      (8)   Locations of discharge points;
      (9)   Raw materials used or stored at the site;
      (10)   Flow diagram or sewer map for the industrial user;
      (11)   Number of employees;
      (12)   Operation and production schedules; and
      (13)   Description of current and projected waste reduction activities in
accordance with G.S. § 143-215.1(g).
   (C)   Application signatories and certification. All wastewater discharge
permit applications and user reports must be signed by the current authorized
representative of the user on file with the Control Authority as defined in §
53.002 and contain the following certification statement:
   I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments were
prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed
to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information
submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system,
or those persons directly responsible for gathering the information, the
information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true,
accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for
submitting false information, including the possibility of fine and
imprisonment for knowing violations.
   (D)   Application review and evaluation. The POTW Director will evaluate the
data furnished by the user and may require additional information.
      (1)   The POTW Director is authorized to accept applications for the
county and shall refer all applications to the POTW staff for review and
evaluation.
      (2)   Within 60 days of receipt the POTW Director shall acknowledge and
accept the complete application; or if not complete, shall return the
application to the applicant with a statement of what additional information is
required.
   (E)   Tentative determination and draft permit.
      (1)   The POTW staff shall conduct a review of the application and an on-
site inspection of the significant industrial user, including any pretreatment
facilities, and shall prepare a written evaluation and tentative determination
to issue or deny the significant industrial user permit.
      (2)   If the staff’s tentative determination in division (E)(1) above is
to issue the permit, the following additional determinations shall be made in
writing:
         (a)   Proposed discharge limitations for those pollutants proposed to
be limited;
         (b)   A proposed schedule of compliance, including interim dates and
requirements, for meeting the proposed limitations; and
          (c)   A brief description of any other proposed special conditions
which will have significant impact upon the discharge described in the
application.
      (3)   The staff shall organize the determinations made pursuant to
divisions (E)(1) and (2) above and the general permit conditions of the county
into a significant industrial user permit.
   (F)   Permit supporting documentation. The Control Authority staff shall
prepare the following documents for all significant industrial user permits.
      (1)   An allocation table (AT) listing permit information for all
significant industrial users, including but not limited to permit limits,
permit effective and expiration dates, and a comparison of total permitted flow
and loads with division approved maximum allowable loadings of the POTW,
including flow, on forms or in a format approved by the Division. The AT shall
be updated as permits are issued or renewed, and as permits are modified where
the permitted limits or other AT information is revised.
      (2)   The basis, or rationale, for the pretreatment limitations,
including the following:
         (a)   Documentation of categorical determination, including
documentation of any calculations used in applying categorical pretreatment
standards; and
         (b)   Documentation of the rationale of any parameters for which has
been waived under 40 C.F.R. Part 403.12(e)(2).
   (G)   Final action on significant industrial user permit applications.
      (1)   The POTW Director shall take final action on all applications not
later than 90 days following receipt of a complete application.
      (2)   The POTW Director is authorized to:
         (a)   Issue a significant industrial user permit containing such
conditions as are necessary to effectuate the purposes of this chapter and G.S.
§ 143-215.1;
         (b)   Issue a significant industrial user permit containing time
schedules for achieving compliance with applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements;
         (c)   Modify any permit upon not less than 60 days’ notice and
pursuant to division (I) of this section;
         (d)   Revoke any permit pursuant to §
53.106;
         (e)   Suspend a permit pursuant to §
53.106; and
         (f)   Deny a permit application when in the opinion of the POTW
Director such discharge may cause or contribute to pass- through or
interference of the wastewater treatment plant, or where necessary to
effectuate the purposes of G.S. § 143-215.1.
   (H)   Permit modification.
      (1)   Modifications of permits shall be subject to the same procedural
requirements as the issuance of permits except as listed below. Any changes or
new conditions in the permit shall include a reasonable time schedule for
compliance:
         (a)   Changes in the ownership of the discharge when no other change
in the permit is indicated;
         (b)   A single modification of any compliance schedule not in excess
of four months; and
         (c)   Modification of compliance schedules (construction schedules) in
permits for new sources where the new source will not begin to discharge until
control facilities are operational.
      (2)   Within nine months of the promulgation of a national categorical
pretreatment standard, the wastewater discharge permit of users subject to such
standards shall be revised to require compliance with such standard within the
time frame prescribed by such standard. Where a user, subject to a national
categorical pretreatment standard, has not previously submitted an application
for a wastewater discharge permit as required by this section, the user shall
apply for a wastewater discharge permit within 180 days after the promulgation
of the applicable national categorical pretreatment standard.
       (3)   A request for a modification by the permittee shall constitute a
waiver of the 60- day notice required by G.S. § 143-215.1(b) for modifications.
   (I)   Permit conditions.
      (1)   The POTW Director shall have the authority to grant a permit with
such conditions attached as he or she believes necessary to achieve the purpose
of this chapter and G.S. § 143- 215.1. Wastewater permits shall contain but are
not limited to the following:
         (a)   A statement of duration (in no case more than five years);
         (b)   A statement of non- transferability;
         (c)   Applicable effluent limits based on categorical standards or
local limits or both;
         (d)   Applicable monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification, and
record keeping requirements. These requirements shall include an identification
of pollutants to be monitored, sampling location, sampling frequency, and
sample type based on federal, state, and local law;
         (e)   Requirements for notifying the POTW in the event of an
accidental discharge or slug load as defined in §
53.002;
         (f)   Requirements to implement a plan or other controls for
prevention of accidental discharges and/or slug loads as defined in §
53.002, if determined by the POTW Director to be necessary for the user;
         (g)   Requirements for immediately notifying the POTW of any changes
at its facility affecting the potential for spills and other accidental
discharges, or slug load as defined in §
53.002. Also see §§
53.069 and
53.070; and
         (h)   A statement of applicable civil and/or criminal penalties for
violation of pretreatment standards and requirements and any applicable
compliance schedule.
      (2)   In addition, permits may contain but are not limited to the
following:
         (a)   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge, and/or
requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
         (b)   Limits on the instantaneous, daily and/or monthly average, and/
or maximum concentration, mass, or other measure of identified wastewater
pollutants or properties;
         (c)   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology or
construction of appropriate containment devices and the like, designed to
reduce, eliminate, or prevent the introduction of pollutants into the treatment
works;
         (d)   Development and implementation of waste minimization plans to
reduce the amount of pollutants discharged to the municipal wastewater system;
         (e)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
management of the wastewater discharged to the system;
         (f)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities and equipment;
         (g)   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include
sampling locations, frequency of sampling, number, types, and standards for
tests, and reporting schedules;
         (h)   Requirements for immediate reporting of any instance of
noncompliance and for automatic resampling and reporting within 30 days where
self-monitoring indicates a violation(s);
         (i)   Compliance schedules for meeting pretreatment standards and
requirements;
         (j)   Requirements for submission of periodic self-monitoring or
special notification reports;
         (k)   Requirements for maintaining and retaining plans and records
relating to wastewater discharges as specified in §
53.077 and affording the POTW Director, or his or her representatives, access
thereto;
         (l)   Requirements for prior notification and approval by the POTW
Director of any new introduction of wastewater pollutants or of any significant
change in the volume or character of the wastewater prior to introduction in
the system;
         (m)   Requirements for the prior notification and approval by the POTW
Director of any change in the manufacturing and/or pretreatment process used by
the permittee;
         (n)   A statement that compliance with the permit does not relieve the
permittee of responsibility for compliance with all applicable federal and
state pretreatment standards, including those which become effective during the
terms of the permit; and
         (o)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the POTW Director to
ensure compliance with this chapter, and state and federal laws, rules, and
regulations.
   (J)   Permit duration. Permits shall be issued for a specified time period,
not to exceed five years. A permit may be issued for a period less than a year
or may be stated to expire on a specific date.
   (K)   Permit transfer. Wastewater permits are issued to a specific user for
a specific operation. A wastewater discharge permit shall not be reassigned or
transferred or sold to a new owner, new user, different premises, or a new or
changed operation.
   (L)   Permit reissuance. A significant industrial user shall apply for
permit reissuance by submitting a complete permit application in accordance
with §
53.051 a minimum of 180 days prior to the expiration of the existing permit.
(1996 Code, § 53.041) (Ord. passed 5-7-2007; Ord. passed 9-3-2013; Ord. passed
12-4-2017)
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
§ 53.065 BASELINE MONITORING REPORTS.
   (A)   Within either 180 days after the effective date of a categorical
pretreatment standard, or the final administrative decision on a category
determination under 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(a)(4), whichever is later, existing
categorical users currently discharging to or scheduled to discharge to the
POTW shall submit to the POTW Director a report which contains the information
listed in division (B) below. At least 90 days prior to commencement of their
discharge, new sources, and sources that become categorical users subsequent to
the promulgation of an applicable categorical standard, shall submit to the
POTW Director a report which contains the information listed in division (B)
below. A new source shall report the method of pretreatment it intends to use
to meet applicable categorical standards. A new source also shall give
estimates of its anticipated flow and quantity of pollutants to be discharged.
   (B)   Users described above shall submit the information set forth below:
      (1)   Identifying information. The name and address of the facility,
including the name of the operator and owner;
      (2)   Environmental permits. A list of any environmental control permits
held by or for the facility;
      (3)   Description of operations. A brief description of the nature,
average rate of production, and standard industrial classifications of the
operation(s) carried out by such user. This description should include a
schematic process diagram which indicates points of discharge to the POTW from
the regulated processes;
      (4)   Flow measurement. Information showing the measured average daily
and maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated process
streams and other streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined
wastestream formula set out in 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(e);
      (5)   Measurement of pollutants.
         (a)   The categorical pretreatment standards applicable to each
regulated process;
         (b)   The results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature and
concentration, and/or mass, where required by the standard or by the POTW
Director, of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each regulated process.
Instantaneous, daily maximum, and long- term average concentrations, or mass,
where required, shall be reported. The sample shall be representative of daily
operations and shall be analyzed in accordance with procedures set out in §
53.074; and
         (c)   Sampling must be performed in accordance with procedures set out
in §
53.075 and 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(b) and (g), including 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(g)(4);
      (6)   Certification. A statement, reviewed by the user’s current
authorized representative as defined in §
53.002 and certified by a qualified professional, indicating whether
pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis, and, if not,
whether additional operation and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional
pretreatment is required to meet the pretreatment standards and requirements;
      (7)   Compliance schedule. If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be
required to meet the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the
user will provide such additional pretreatment and/or O&M. The completion date
in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance date established for
the applicable pretreatment standard. A compliance schedule pursuant to this
section must meet the requirements set out in §
53.066; and
      (8)   Signature and certification. All baseline monitoring reports must
be signed and certified in accordance with §
53.066.
(1996 Code, § 53.050) (Ord. passed 5-7-2007; Ord. passed 9-3-2013; Ord. passed
12-4-2017)
§ 53.066 COMPLIANCE SCHEDULE PROGRESS REPORTS.
   The following conditions shall apply to the compliance schedule required by
§
53.065:
   (A)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction
and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable pretreatment standards (such events include but are not limited to
hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans, executing contracts
for major components, commencing and completing construction, and beginning and
conducting routine operation);
   (B)   No increment referred to above shall exceed nine months;
   (C)   The user shall submit a progress report to the POTW Director no later
than 14 days following each date in the schedule and the final date of
compliance including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress, the reason for any delay, and, if appropriate, the steps
being taken by the user to return to the established schedule; and
   (D)   In no event shall more than nine months elapse between such progress
reports to the POTW Director.
(1996 Code, § 53.051) (Ord. passed 5-7-2007; Ord. passed 9-3-2013; Ord. passed
12-4-2017) Penalty, see §
53.107
§ 53.067 REPORTS ON COMPLIANCE WITH CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD,
DEADLINE.
   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
categorical pretreatment standards, or in the case of a new source following
commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any user subject
to such pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the POTW
Director a report containing the information described in §
53.065. For users subject to equivalent mass or concentration limits
established in accordance with the procedures in 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(c), this
report shall contain a reasonable measure of the user’s long-term production
rate. For all other users subject to categorical pretreatment standards
expressed in terms of allowable pollutant discharge per unit of production (or
other measure of operation), this report shall include the user’s actual
production during the appropriate sampling period. All compliance reports must
be signed and certified in accordance with §
53.051.
(1996 Code, § 53.052) (Ord. passed 5-7-2007; Ord. passed 9-3-2013; Ord. passed
12-4-2017) Penalty, see §
53.107
§ 53.068 PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORTS.
   Municipalities may sample and analyze user discharges in lieu of requiring
the users to conduct sampling and analysis.
   (A)   All significant industrial users shall, at a frequency determined by
the POTW Director but in no case less than once every six months, submit a
report indicating the nature and concentration of pollutants in the discharge
which are limited by pretreatment standards and the applicable flows for the
reporting period. Sampling and analysis must be performed in accordance with
procedures set out in §§
53.074 and
53.075. All periodic compliance reports must be signed and certified in
accordance with §
53.051.
   (B)   If a user subject to the reporting requirement in this section
monitors any pollutant more frequently than required by the POTW Director,
using the procedures prescribed in §§
53.074 and
53.075, the results of this monitoring shall be included in the report.
(1996 Code, § 53.053) (Ord. passed 5-7-2007; Ord. passed 9-3-2013; Ord. passed
12-4-2017) Penalty, see §
53.107
§ 53.069 REPORTS OF CHANGED CONDITIONS.
   Each user must notify the POTW Director of any planned significant changes
to the user’s operations or system which might alter the nature, quality, or
volume of its wastewater at least 30 days before the change. The permittee
shall not begin the changes until receiving written approval from the Control
Authority and/or governmental unit. See §
53.070(D) for other reporting requirements.
   (A)   The POTW Director may require the user to submit such information as
may be deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition, including the
submission of a wastewater discharge permit application under §
53.051.
   (B)   The POTW Director may issue a wastewater discharge permit under §
53.051 or modify an existing wastewater discharge permit under §
53.051 in response to changed conditions or anticipated changed conditions.
   (C)   For purposes of this requirement, significant changes include but are
not limited to flow or pollutant increases of 20% or greater, and the discharge
of any previously unreported pollutants.
(1996 Code, § 53.054) (Ord. passed 5-7-2007; Ord. passed 9-3-2013; Ord. passed
12-4-2017) Penalty, see §
53.107
§ 53.070 REPORTS OF POTENTIAL PROBLEMS.
   (A)   In the case of any discharge, including but not limited to accidental
discharges, discharges of a non-routine, episodic nature, a non-customary batch
discharge, or a slug load as defined in §
53.002, that may cause potential problems for the POTW, the user shall
immediately telephone and notify the POTW Director of the incident. This
notification shall include the location of the discharge, type of waste,
concentration and volume, if known, and corrective actions taken by the user.
   (B)   Within five days following such discharge, the user shall, unless
waived by the POTW Director, submit a detailed written report describing the
cause(s) of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent
similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the user of any
expense, loss, damage, or other liability which may be incurred as a result of
damage to the POTW, natural resources, or any other damage to person or
property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of any fines, penalties,
or other liability which may be imposed pursuant to this chapter.
    (C)   A notice shall be permanently posted on the user’s bulletin board or
other prominent place advising employees whom to call in the event of a
discharge described in division (A) above. Employers shall ensure that all
employees who may cause such a discharge to occur are advised of the emergency
notification procedure.
   (D)   All SIUs are required to notify the POTW immediately of any changes at
its facility affecting the potential for spills and other accidental discharge,
discharge of a non-routine, episodic nature, a non-customary batch discharge,
or a slug load as defined in §
53.002.
(1996 Code, § 53.055) (Ord. passed 5-7-2007; Ord. passed 9-3-2013; Ord. passed
12-4-2017) Penalty, see §
53.107
§ 53.071 REPORTS FROM UNPERMITTED USERS.
   All users not required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit shall provide
appropriate reports to the POTW Director as the POTW Director may require.
(1996 Code, § 53.056) (Ord. passed 5-7-2007; Ord. passed 9-3-2013; Ord. passed
12-4-2017) Penalty, see §
53.107
§ 53.072 NOTICE OF VIOLATION/REPEAT SAMPLING AND REPORTING.
   (A)   If sampling performed by a user indicates a violation, the user must
notify the POTW Director within 24 hours of becoming aware of the violation.
The user shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the results of
the repeat analysis to the POTW Director within 30 days after becoming aware of
the violation. If allowed by the POTW Director, the user is not required to
resample:
      (1)   If the POTW Director monitors at the user’s facility at least once
a month; or
      (2)   If the POTW Director samples between the user’s initial sampling
and when the user receives the results of this sampling.
   (B)   If the POTW Director has performed the sampling and analysis in lieu
of the industrial user and the POTW sampling of the user indicates a violation,
the POTW Director shall repeat the sampling and obtain the results of the
repeat analysis within 30 days after becoming aware of the violations, unless
one of the following occurs:
      (1)   The POTW Director monitors at the user’s facility at least once a
month;
      (2)   The POTW Director samples the user between the initial sampling and
when the POTW receives the results of this initial sampling; or
      (3)   The POTW Director requires the user to perform sampling and submit
the results to the
POTW Director within the 30-day deadline of the POTW becoming aware of the
violation.
(1996 Code, § 53.057) (Ord. passed 5-7-2007; Ord. passed 9-3-2013; Ord. passed
12-4-2017) Penalty, see §
53.107
§ 53.073 NOTIFICATION OF THE DISCHARGE OF HAZARDOUS WASTE.
   The county prohibits the discharge of any hazardous wastes without
notification and approval of the POTW Director.
   (A)   Any user who commences the discharge of hazardous waste shall notify
the POTW, the EPA Regional Waste Management Division Director, and state
hazardous waste authorities, in writing, of any discharge into the POTW of a
substance which, if otherwise disposed of, would be a hazardous waste under 40
C.F.R. Part 261. Such notification must include the name of the hazardous waste
as set forth in 40 C.F.R. Part 261, the EPA hazardous waste number, and the
type of discharge (continuous, batch, or other). If the user discharges more
than 100 kilograms of such waste per calendar month to the POTW, the
notification also shall contain the following information to the extent such
information is known and readily available to the user: an identification of
the hazardous constituents contained in the wastes, an estimation of the mass
and concentration of such constituents in the wastestream discharge during the
calendar month, and an estimation of the mass and concentration of such
constituents in the wastestream expected to be discharged during the following
12 months. All notifications must take place no later than 180 days before the
discharge commences. The user shall not begin the discharge until receiving
written approval from the county. Any notification under this division (A) need
be submitted only once for each hazardous waste discharge. However,
notifications of changed conditions must be submitted under §
53.069. The notification requirement in this section does not apply to
pollutants already reported by users subject to categorical pretreatment
standards under the self- monitoring requirements of §§
53.065,
53.067, and
53.068.
   (B)   Dischargers are exempt from the requirements of division (A) above,
during a calendar month in which they discharge no more than 15 kilograms of
hazardous wastes, unless the wastes are acute hazardous wastes as specified in
40 C.F.R. §§ 261.30(d) and 261.33(e). Discharge of more than 15 kilograms of
nonacute hazardous wastes in a calendar month, or of any quantity of acute
hazardous wastes as specified in 40 C.F.R. §§ 261.30(d) and 261.33(e), requires
a one-time notification. Subsequent months during which the user discharges
more than such quantities of any hazardous waste do not require additional
notification.
   (C)   In the case of any new regulation under § 3001 of RCRA (42 U.S.C. §§
6291) identifying additional characteristics of hazardous waste or listing any
additional substance as a hazardous waste, the user must notify the POTW
Director, the EPA Regional Waste Management Waste Division Director, and state
hazardous waste authorities of the discharge of such substance within 90 days
of the effective date of such regulations.
   (D)   In the case of any notification made under this section, the user
shall certify that it has a program in place to reduce the volume and toxicity
of hazardous wastes generated to the degree it has determined to be
economically practical.
   (E)   This provision does not create a right to discharge any substance not
otherwise permitted to be discharged by this section, a permit issued
thereunder, or any applicable federal or state law.
(1996 Code, § 53.058) (Ord. passed 5-7-2007; Ord. passed 9-3-2013; Ord. passed
12-4-2017)
§ 53.074 ANALYTICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All pollutant analyses, including sampling techniques, to be submitted as
part of a wastewater discharge permit application or report shall be performed
by a laboratory certified by the state to perform the wastewater analyses in
accordance with the techniques prescribed in 40 C.F.R. Part 136, unless
otherwise specified in an applicable categorical pretreatment standard or
unless otherwise performed in accordance with procedures approved by EPA or the
county. If 40 C.F.R. Part 136 does not contain sampling or analytical
techniques for the pollutant in question, sampling and analyses must be
performed in accordance with procedures approved by EPA and the county.
Analyses must be performed by a state certified lab for each parameter
analyzed, if such certification exists for that parameter.
(1996 Code, § 53.059) (Ord. passed 5-7-2007; Ord. passed 9-3-2013; Ord. passed
12-4-2017)
§ 53.075 GRAB AND COMPOSITE SAMPLE COLLECTION.
   (A)   All wastewater samples must be representative of the user’s discharge.
Wastewater monitoring and flow measurement facilities shall be properly
operated, kept clean, and maintained in good working order at all times. The
failure of a user to keep its monitoring facility in good working order shall
not be grounds for the user to claim that sample results are unrepresentative
of its discharge.
   (B)   Grab samples must be used for pH, cyanide, total phenols, oil and
grease, sulfide, volatile organic compounds, and any other pollutants as
required by 40 C.F.R. Part 136. The POTW shall determine the number of grabs
necessary to be representative of the user’s discharge. See 40 C.F.R. § 403.12
(g)(5) for additional grab sample number requirements for BMR and 90-day
compliance reports. Additionally, the POTW Director may allow collection of
multiple grabs during a 24-hour period which are composited prior to analysis
as allowed under 40 C.F.R. Part 136.
   (C)   All wastewater composite samples shall be collected with a minimum of
hourly aliquots or grabs for each hour that there is a discharge. All
wastewater composite samples shall be collected using flow proportional
composite collection techniques, unless time-proportional composite sampling or
grab sampling is authorized by the POTW Director. When authorizing time-
proportional composites or grabs, the samples must be representative and the
decision to allow the alternative sampling must be documented.
   (D)   Surcharges. The result of biochemical oxygen demand and total
suspended solids from collected samples will be used as a basis for sewer
service surcharges. All users of the POTW are subject to surcharges. A
surcharge will be assessed on results that exceed a concentration of 200 mg/
l of biochemical oxygen demand and 200 mg/l of total suspended solids. Such
surcharge rates shall be established by the Director and can be found on file
in the utility administration office.
(1996 Code, § 53.060) (Ord. passed 5-7-2007; Ord. passed 9-3-2013; Ord. passed
12-4-2017) Penalty, see §
53.107
§ 53.076 TIMING.
   Written reports will be deemed to have been submitted on the date
postmarked. For reports which are not mailed, postage prepaid, into a mail
facility serviced by the U.S. Postal Service, the date of receipt of the report
shall govern.
(1996 Code, § 53.061) (Ord. passed 5-7-2007; Ord. passed 9-3-2013; Ord. passed
12-4-2017)
§ 53.077 RECORD KEEPING.
   Users subject to the reporting requirements of this chapter shall retain,
and make available for inspection and copying, all records of information
obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required by this chapter and any
additional records of information obtained pursuant to monitoring activities
undertaken by the user independent of such requirements. Records shall include
the date, exact place, method, and time of sampling, and the name of the person
(s) taking the samples; the dates analyses were performed; who performed the
analyses; the analytical techniques or methods used; and the results of such
analyses. These records shall remain available for a period of at least three
years. This period shall be automatically extended for the duration of any
litigation concerning the user or the county, or where the user has been
specifically notified of a longer retention period by the POTW Director.
(1996 Code, § 53.062) (Ord. passed 5-7-2007; Ord. passed 9-3-2013; Ord. passed
12-4-2017) Penalty, see §
53.107
§ 53.078 ELECTRONIC REPORTING.
   The POTW Director may develop procedures for receipt of electronic reports
for any reporting requirements of this chapter. Such procedures shall comply
with 40 C.F.R., Part 3. These procedures shall be enforceable under this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 9-3-2013; Ord. passed 12-4-2017)
§ 53.079 SPECIAL REPORTING REQUIREMENTS FOR IUS IN SATELLITE POTWS.
   In the case of industrial user located in a satellite POTW organization’s
jurisdiction, all information required to be reported to the industrial user’s
Pretreatment Program Control Authority by this chapter shall also be reported
to the POTW treatment plan organization promulgating this chapter.
(Ord. passed 9-3-2013; Ord. passed 12-4-2017)
COMPLIANCE MONITORING
§ 53.090 MONITORING FACILITIES.
   (A)   The county requires the user to provide and operate, at the user’s own
expense, monitoring facilities to allow inspection, sampling, and flow
measurement of the building sewer and/or internal drainage systems. The
monitoring facility should normally be situated on the user’s premises, but the
county may, when such a location would be impractical or cause undue hardship
on the user, allow the facility to be constructed in the public street or
sidewalk area and located so that it will not be obstructed by landscaping or
parked vehicles.
   (B)   There shall be ample room in or near such sampling manhole or facility
to allow accurate sampling and preparation of samples for analysis. The
facility, sampling, and measuring equipment shall be maintained at all times in
a safe and proper operating condition at the expense of the user.
   (C)   Whether constructed on public or private property, the sampling and
monitoring facilities shall be provided in accordance with the requirements of
the county and all applicable local construction standards and specifications.
Construction shall be completed within 90 days following written notification
by the county.
(1996 Code, § 53.070) (Ord. passed 5-7-2007; Ord. passed 9-3-2013; Ord. passed
12-4-2017)
§ 53.091 INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   (A)   The county will inspect the facilities of any user to ascertain
whether the purpose of this chapter is being met and all requirements are being
complied with. Persons or occupants of premises where wastewater is created or
discharged shall allow the county, approval authority, and EPA or their
representative ready access at all reasonable times to all parts of the
premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, records examination and
copying, or in the performance of any of their duties. The county, approval
authority, and EPA shall have the right to set up on the user’s property such
devices as are necessary to conduct sampling, inspection, compliance
monitoring, and/or metering operations. Where a user has security measures in
force which would require proper identification and clearance before entry into
his or her premises, the user shall make necessary arrangements with his or her
security guards so that upon presentation of suitable identification, personnel
from the county, approval authority, and EPA will be permitted to enter,
without delay, for the purposes of performing their specific responsibilities.
Denial of the county’s approval authority’s, or EPA’s access to the user’s
premises shall be a violation of this chapter. Unreasonable delays may
constitute denial of access.
   (B)   In order that user’s employees be informed of county requirements,
users shall make available to their employees copies of this chapter together
with such other wastewater information and notices as furnished by the county
which are directed toward improving water pollution control. Employers shall
ensure that all applicable employees who may cause prohibited discharges are
advised of the emergency notification procedures.
(1996 Code, § 53.071) (Ord. passed 5-7-2007; Ord. passed 9-3-2013; Ord. passed
12-4-2017) Penalty, see §
53.107
§ 53.092 SEARCH WARRANTS.
   (A)   If the POTW Director, approval authority, or EPA has been refused
access to a building, structure, or property, or any part thereof, and is able
to demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this
chapter, or that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine
inspection and sampling program of the county designed to verify compliance
with this chapter or any permit or order issued hereunder, or to protect the
overall public health, safety, and welfare of the community, then the POTW
Director, approval authority, or EPA may seek issuance of a search warrant from
the court having jurisdiction within the county.
   (B)   In order that user’s employees be informed of county requirements,
users shall make available to their employees copies of this chapter together
with such other wastewater information and notices as furnished by the county
which are directed toward improving water pollution control. Employers shall
ensure that all applicable employees who may cause prohibited discharges are
advised of the emergency notification procedures.
(1996 Code, § 53.072) (Ord. passed 5-7-2007; Ord. passed 9-3-2013; Ord. passed
12-4-2017)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 53.105 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, questionnaires,
permit applications, permits and monitoring programs, and from inspections
shall be available to the public or other governmental agency without
restriction, unless the user specifically requests and is able to demonstrate
to the satisfaction of the POTW Director that the release of such information
would divulge information, processes, or methods of production entitled to
protection as trade secrets of the user. Any such request must be asserted at
the time of submission of the information or data.
   (B)   When requested by the person furnishing a report, the portions of a
report which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made
available for inspection by the public, but shall be made available upon
written request to governmental agencies for uses related to this chapter, the
national pollutant discharge elimination system (NPDES) permit, non-discharge
permit, and/or the pretreatment programs; provided, however, that such portions
of a report shall be available for use by the state or any state agency in
judicial review or enforcement proceedings involving the person furnishing the
report. Wastewater constituents and characteristics will not be recognized as
confidential information.
   (C)   All records relating to compliance with pretreatment standards shall
be made available to officials of the approval authority and EPA upon request.
(1996 Code, § 53.080) (Ord. passed 5-7-2007; Ord. passed 9-3-2013; Ord. passed
12-4-2017)
§ 53.106 ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDIES.
   (A)   Notification of violation. Whenever the POTW Director finds that any
industrial user has violated or is violating this chapter, wastewater permit,
or any prohibition, limitation, or requirements contained therein or any other
pretreatment requirement, the POTW Director may serve upon such a person a
written notice stating the nature of the violation. Within 30 days from the
date of this notice, an explanation for the violation and a plan for the
satisfactory correction thereof shall be submitted to the county by the user.
Submission of this plan does not relieve the discharger of liability for any
violations occurring before or after receipt of the notice of violation.
   (B)   Consent orders. The POTW Director is hereby empowered to enter into
consent orders, assurances of voluntary compliance, or other similar documents
establishing an agreement with the person responsible for the noncompliance.
Such orders will include specific action to be taken by the discharger to
correct the noncompliance within a time period also specified by the order.
Consent orders shall have the same force and effect as an administrative order
issued pursuant to division (D) of this section.
   (C)   Show cause hearing.
      (1)   The POTW Director may order any industrial user who causes or is
responsible for an unauthorized discharge, has violated this chapter, or is in
noncompliance with a wastewater discharge permit to show cause why a proposed
enforcement action should not be taken. In the event the POTW Director
determines that a show cause order should be issued, a notice shall be served
on the user specifying the time and place for the hearing, the proposed
enforcement action, the reasons for such action, and a request that the user
show cause why this proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The notice
of the hearing shall be served personally or by registered or certified mail
(return receipt requested) at least ten days before the hearing. Service may be
made on any agent or officer of a corporation.
      (2)   The POTW Director shall review the evidence presented at the
hearing and determine whether the proposed enforcement action is appropriate.
      (3)   A show cause hearing under this section is not a prerequisite to
the assessment of a civil penalty under §
53.107, nor is any action or inaction taken by the POTW Director under this
section subject to an administrative appeal under §
53.051.
   (D)   Administrative orders. When the POTW Director finds that an industrial
user has violated or continues to violate this chapter, permits or orders
issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment requirement, the POTW Director may
issue an order to cease and desist all such violations and direct those persons
in noncompliance to do any of the following:
      (1)   Immediately comply with all requirements;
      (2)   Comply in accordance with a compliance time schedule set forth in
the order;
      (3)   Take appropriate remedial or preventive action in the event of a
continuing or threatened violation; or
      (4)   Disconnect unless adequate treatment facilities, devices, or other
related appurtenances are installed and properly operated within a specified
time period.
   (E)   Emergency suspensions.
      (1)   The POTW Director may suspend the wastewater treatment service and/
or wastewater permit when such suspension is necessary in order to stop an
actual or threatened discharge which presents or may present an imminent or
substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons or the
environment, interferes with the POTW, or causes the POTW to violate any
condition of its NPDES or non-discharge permit.
      (2)   Any user notified of a suspension of the wastewater treatment
service and/or the wastewater permit shall immediately stop or eliminate the
contribution. A hearing will be held within 15 days of the notice of suspension
to determine whether the suspension may be lifted or the user’s waste discharge
permit terminated. In the event of a failure to comply voluntarily with the
suspension order, the POTW Director shall take such steps as deemed necessary
including immediate severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize
damage to the POTW system or endangerment to any individuals. The POTW Director
shall reinstate the wastewater permit and the wastewater treatment service upon
proof of the elimination of the noncompliant discharge. The industrial user
shall submit a detailed written statement describing the causes of the harmful
contribution and the measures taken to prevent any future occurrence to the
POTW Director prior to the date of the above-described hearing.
   (F)   Termination of permit or permission to discharge.
      (1)   The POTW Director may revoke a wastewater discharge permit or
permission to discharge for good cause, including but not limited to the
following reasons:
          (a)   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of his or her discharge;
         (b)   Failure to report significant changes in operations, or
wastewater constituents and characteristics;
         (c)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for the
purpose of inspection or monitoring; or
         (d)   Violation of conditions of the permit or permission to
discharge, conditions of this chapter, or any applicable state and federal
regulations.
      (2)   Noncompliant industrial users will be notified of the proposed
termination of their wastewater permit and will be offered an opportunity to
show cause under this section why the proposed action should not be taken.
(1996 Code, § 53.081) (Ord. passed 5-7-2007; Ord. passed 9-3-2013; Ord. passed
12-4-2017)
§ 53.107 CIVIL PENALTIES.
   (A)   (1)   Any user who is found to have failed to comply with any
provision of this chapter, or the orders, rules, regulations, and permits
issued hereunder, may be fined up to $25,000 per day per violation.
      (2)   Penalties between $10,000 and $25,000 per day per violation may be
assessed against a violator only if:
         (a)   For any class of violation, only if a civil penalty has been
imposed against the violator within the five years preceding the violation; or
         (b)   In the case of failure to file, submit, or make available, as
the case may be, any documents, data, or reports required by this chapter, or
the orders, rules, regulations, and permits issued hereunder, only if the POTW
Director determines that the violation was intentional and a civil penalty has
been imposed against the violator within the five years preceding the
violation.
    (B)   In determining the amount of the civil penalty, the POTW Director
shall consider the following:
      (1)   The degree and extent of the harm to the natural resources, to the
public health, or to public or private property resulting from the violation;
      (2)   The duration and gravity of the violation;
      (3)   The effect on ground or surface water quantity or quality or on air
quality;
      (4)   The cost of rectifying the damage;
      (5)   The amount of money saved by noncompliance;
      (6)   Whether the violation was committed willfully or intentionally;
      (7)   The prior record of the violator is complying or failing to comply
with the pretreatment program; and
      (8)   The costs of enforcement to the county.
   (C)   Continuing violations of §
53.021 will be subject to fines of $500 per day until corrections are made and
there are no other violations of that division.
(1996 Code, § 53.016)
   (D)   Appeals of civil penalties assessed in accordance with this section
shall be as provided in §
53.051.
(1996 Code, § 53.999)
(Ord. passed 5-7-2007; Ord. passed 2-7-2011; Ord. passed 9-3-2013; Ord. passed
12-4-2017)
§ 53.108 OTHER AVAILABLE REMEDIES.
   Remedies, in addition to those previously mentioned in this chapter, are
available to the POTW Director who may use single one or combination against a
noncompliant user. Additional available remedies include but are not limited
to:
   (A)   Criminal violations. The District Attorney for the applicable judicial
district may, at the request of the county, prosecute noncompliant users who
violate the provisions of G.S. § 143-215.6B. [Note: Under state law, it is a
crime to negligently violate any term, condition, or requirement of a
pretreatment permit, or negligently fail to apply for a pretreatment permit,
issued by local governments (G.S. § 143-215.6B(f)); to knowingly and willfully
violate any term, condition, or requirement of a pretreatment permit, or
knowingly and willfully fail to apply for a pretreatment permit, issued by
local governments (G.S. § 143-215.6B(g)); to knowingly violate any term,
condition, or requirement of a pretreatment permit issued by local governments,
or knowingly fail to apply for a pretreatment permit, knowing at the time that
a person is placed in imminent danger of death or serious bodily injury (G.S. §
143-215.6B(h)); and to falsify information required under G.S. Chapter 143,
Article 21 (G.S. § 143-215.6B(i)).]
   (B)   Injunctive relief. Whenever a user is in violation of the provisions
of this chapter or an order or permit issued hereunder, the POTW Director,
through the County Attorney, may petition the Superior Court of Justice for the
issuance of a restraining order or a preliminary and permanent injunction which
restrains or compels the activities in question.
   (C)   Water supply severance. Whenever an industrial user is in violation of
the provisions of this chapter or an order or permit issued hereunder, water
service to the industrial user may be severed and service will only recommence,
at the user’s expense, after it has satisfactorily demonstrated ability to
comply.
   (D)   Public nuisances. Any violation of the prohibitions or effluent
limitations of this chapter or of a permit or order issued hereunder, is hereby
declared a public nuisance and shall be corrected or abated as directed by POTW
Director. Any person(s) creating a public shall be subject to the provisions of
the appropriate ordinances of the county governing such nuisances, including
reimbursing the POTW for any costs incurred in removing, abating, or remedying
said nuisance.
   (E)   Further, a violation of the above section of this code shall be a
violation of G.S. § 14-4 and such violation shall be classified as a Class 3
misdemeanor with a maximum fine of up to $450, except that any violations of §§
150.999,
154.99,
155.999, and
156.999 shall not be a violation of G.S. § 14-4 and shall not be considered a
misdemeanor.
(1996 Code, § 53.082) (Ord. passed 5-7-2007; Ord. passed 9-3-2013; Ord. passed
12-4-2017)
§ 53.109 REMEDIES NONEXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies provided for in this chapter are not exclusive. The POTW
Director may take any, all, or any combination of these actions against a
noncompliant user. Enforcement of pretreatment violations will generally be in
accordance with the county’s enforcement response plan. However, the POTW
Director may take other action against any user when the circumstances warrant.
Further, the POTW Director is empowered to take more than one enforcement
action against any noncompliant user.
(1996 Code, § 53.083) (Ord. passed 5-7-2007; Ord. passed 9-3-2013; Ord. passed
12-4-2017)
§ 53.110 ANNUAL PUBLICATION OF SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE.
   At least annually, the POTW Director shall publish in the largest daily
newspaper circulated in the service area, a list of those industrial users
which were found to be in significant noncompliance with applicable
pretreatment standards and requirements, during the previous 12 months.
(1996 Code, § 53.084) (Ord. passed 5-7-2007; Ord. passed 9-3-2013; Ord. passed
12-4-017)
§ 53.111 ADJUDICATORY HEARINGS.
   The local government may conduct hearings in accordance with its regular
hearing procedure.
   (A)   Adjudicatory hearing.  
      (1)   An applicant whose permit is denied, or is granted subject to
conditions he or she deems unacceptable, a permittee/user assessed a civil
penalty under §
53.107, or one issued an administrative order under §
53.107 shall have the right to an adjudicatory hearing before the POTW Director
or other hearing officer appointed by the POTW Director upon making written
demand, identifying the specific issues to be contested, to the POTW Director
within 30 days following receipt of the significant industrial user permit,
civil penalty assessment, or administrative order. Unless such written demand
is made within the time specified herein, the action shall be final and binding
and further appeal is barred. For modified permits, only those parts of the
permit being modified may be adjudicated.
      (2)   The hearing officer shall make a final decision on the contested
permit, penalty, or order within 45 days of the receipt of the written demand
for a hearing.
      (3)   The POTW Director shall transmit a copy of the hearing officer’s
decision by registered or certified mail as described in division (B) below.
The decision is a final decision for the purposes of seeking judicial review.
The terms and conditions of a permit under appeals shall be as follows:
         (a)   New permits. Upon appeal, including judicial review in the
General Courts of Justice, of the terms or conditions of a newly issued permit,
the terms and conditions of the entire permit are stayed and the permit is not
in effect until either the conclusion of judicial review or until the parties
reach a mutual resolution.
         (b)   Renewed permits. Upon appeal, including judicial review in the
General Courts of Justice, of the terms or conditions of a renewed permit, the
terms and conditions of the existing permit remain in effect until either the
conclusion of judicial review or until the parties reach a mutual resolution.
         (c)   Terminated permits. Upon appeal, including judicial review in
the General Courts of Justice, of a terminated permit, no permit is in effect
until either the conclusion of judicial review or until the parties reach a
mutual resolution.
   (B)   Official record. When a final decision is issued under division (A),
the Hearing Officer shall prepare an official record of the case that includes:
      (1)   All notices, motions, and other like pleadings;
      (2)   A copy of all documentary evidence introduced;
      (3)   A certified transcript of all testimony taken, if testimony is
transcribed. If testimony is taken and not transcribed, then a narrative
summary of any testimony taken; and
      (4)   A copy of the final decision of the Hearing Officer.
   (C)   Judicial review. Any person against whom a final order or decision of
the Hearing Officer is entered, pursuant to the hearing conducted under
division (A) above, may seek judicial review of the order or decision by filing
a written request for review by the Superior Court of Davie County within 30
days after receipt of notice by registered or certified mail of the order or
decision, but not thereafter, along with a copy to the county. Within 30 days
after receipt of the copy of the written request for review by the Court, the
Hearing Officer shall transmit to the reviewing court the original or a
certified copy of the official record.
(Ord. passed 9-3-2013; Ord. passed 12-4-2017)
§ 53.112 UPSET.
   (A)   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action brought
for noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards if the requirements
of division (B) below are met.
   (B)   A user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset shall
demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs or other
relevant evidence, that:
      (1)   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause(s) of the
upset;
      (2)   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workman-like manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures; and
      (3)   The user has submitted the following information to the POTW
Director within 24 hours of becoming aware of the upset (if this information is
provided orally, a written submission must be provided within five days):
         (a)   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of
noncompliance;
         (b)   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times or,
if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue; and
         (c)   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate, and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.
   (C)   In any enforcement proceeding, the user seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
   (D)   Users will have the opportunity for a judicial determination on any
claim of upset only in an enforcement action brought for noncompliance with
categorical pretreatment standards.
   (E)   Users shall control production of all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with categorical pretreatment standards upon
reduction, loss, or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost, or fails.
(1996 Code, § 53.085) (Ord. passed 5-7-2007; Ord. passed 9-3-2013; Ord. passed
12-4-2017)
§ 53.113 PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS DEFENSE.
   A user shall have an affirmative defense to an enforcement action brought
against it for noncompliance with the general prohibitions in §
53.015 or the specific prohibitions in §
53.015(B)(2), (3), and (5) through (7) if it can prove that it did not know, or
have reason to know, that its discharge, alone or in conjunction with
discharges from other sources, would cause pass-through or interference, and
that either:
   (A)   A local limit exists for each pollutant discharged and the user was in
compliance with each limit directly prior to, and during, the pass-through or
interference; or
    (B)   No local limit exists, but the discharge did not change substantially
in nature or constituents from the user’s prior discharge when the county was
regularly in compliance with its NPDES permit, and in the case of interference,
was in compliance with applicable sludge use or disposal requirements.
(1996 Code, § 53.086) (Ord. passed 5-7-2007; Ord. passed 9-3-2013; Ord. passed
12-4-2017)
§ 53.114 BYPASS.
   (A)   A user may allow any bypass to occur which does not cause pretreatment
standards or requirements to be violated, but only if it also is for essential
maintenance to assure efficient operation. These bypasses are not subject to
the provision of divisions (B) and (C) of this section.
   (B)   (1)   If a user knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it shall
submit prior notice to the POTW Director, at least ten days before the date of
the bypass, if possible.
      (2)   A user shall submit oral notice to the POTW Director of an
unanticipated bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment standards within 24
hours from the time it becomes aware of the bypass. A written submission shall
also be provided within five days of the time the user becomes aware of the
bypass. The written submission shall contain a description of the bypass and
its cause; the duration of the bypass, including exact dates and times, and, if
the bypass has not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to
continue; and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and prevent
reoccurrence of the bypass. The POTW Director may waive the written report on a
case-by-case basis if the oral report has been received within 24 hours.
   (C)   (1)   Bypass is prohibited, and the POTW Director may take an
enforcement action against a user for a bypass, unless:
         (a)   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury,
or severe property damage;
         (b)   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the
use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes, or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate backup equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
         (c)   The user submitted notices as required under division (B) of
this section.
      (2)   The POTW Director may approve an anticipated bypass, after
considering its adverse effects, if the POTW Director determines that it will
meet the three conditions listed in division (C)(1) of this section.
(1996 Code, § 53.087) (Ord. passed 5-7-2007; Ord. passed 9-3-2013; Ord. passed
12-4-2017)
§ 53.115 CAPACITY FEES FOR EASTERN DAVIE SEWER.
   For all Eastern Davie sewer service tributary to Forsyth County, North East
Davie Sewer District will charge a capacity fee at the time the capacity is set
aside. The fee schedule will be found in the utility offices and will be
revisited by the County Manager annually.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2017)
§ 53.116 SURCHARGES.
   (A)   A sewer service surcharge may be billed and collected from industrial/
commercial users of the sewer system who discharge waste based on BOD and TSS
contribution. The surcharge is calculated on the basis of wastewater BOD and
TSS concentrations in excess of 200 mg/l for each of the parameters. The
surcharge rates for the BOD and TSS will be available in the office of the
Director. The county will determine by monitoring, the amount of BOD and TSS
being received into its sewer system from industrial/commercial users. Such
surcharge shall be imposed in addition to any existing sewer service charge and
any sewer charge imposed in the future. The determination of the character and
concentration of the constituents of the wastewater discharge by the Director
or his or her duly appointed representatives shall be binding as a basis for
charges.
   (B)   A sewer service surcharge shall be billed and collected from all food
service establishments required to maintain a grease interceptor in accordance
with the grease control policy, set forth by the county at §
53.118.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2017)
§ 53.117 CHARGES FOR MONITORING.
   (A)   Industrial/commercial users whose discharge is being periodically
monitored by the county shall pay for specific sampling and analytical work
performed by the county. If, during the course of normal monitoring, a
violation of this chapter is determined, additional monitoring may be imposed
on the industrial/commercial user at a frequency defined by the Director. The
charge for the monitoring will be for only those wastewater parameters or
conditions that are in violation of this chapter and monitoring may continue
until the violation ceases. The industrial/commercial user will pay for the
additional monitoring charges. Any additional monitoring for surcharge purposes
requested by an industrial/commercial user shall be paid for by the industrial
user on a per-analysis basis.
   (B)   The schedule of charges and fees adopted by the county may include
charges and fees for:
      (1)   Reimbursement of costs of setting up and operating the pretreatment
program;
      (2)   Monitoring, inspections and surveillance procedures;
      (3)   Reviewing slug control plans, including accidental and/or slug load
discharge procedures and construction plans and specifications; and
      (4)   Other fees as the county may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements of the pretreatment program.
   (C)   Permit fees. All users determined to require a permit shall pay a
permit development fee, in accordance with the schedule of rates and fees
established by the county and on file at the county's utilities division
administrative office.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2017)
§ 53.118 GREASE CONTROL.
   (A)   Purpose. 
      (1)   It is the duty and responsibility of the county to prevent the
excessive introduction of grease into the sewer system and the wastewater
treatment plants. This policy is designed to implement and enforce the grease
discharge rules of the sewerage system policy resolution.
      (2)   The intent of this policy is to ensure compliance with the
Commission's pretreatment program, as contained in the sewerage system policy
resolution; the rules and regulations of the United States Environmental
Protection Agency and the North Carolina Department of Environment and Natural
Resources; and to protect the county's infrastructure as it relates to the
sanitary sewer collection and treatment system.
      (3)   The accumulation of grease within the sewer lines increases the
potential to cause sewer blockages, which in turn can cause overflows, which
potentially degrade the quality of local surface waters. Blockages may also
cause sewer to back-up into business establishments, or homes, and can cause
extensive damage. Grease can be discharged to the sewer system from several
sources, including food service establishments. In order to reduce sewer
blockages, food service establishments in the county area that discharge
wastewater that contains grease must install and maintain a grease trap or
interceptor. These establishments include any institutional food service or
business that serves food or is involved in food preparation services.
      (4)   The Director reserves the right to make determinations of grease
interceptor adequacy and need, based on review of all relevant information
regarding grease interceptor performance, maintenance, and facility site and
building plan review to require repairs to, modification, or replacement of
such interceptors or traps.
   (B)   Prohibited discharge standards.
      (1)   General prohibition. No user shall contribute or cause to be
contributed into the POTW, directly or indirectly, any pollutant or wastewater
which causes interference or pass through. These general prohibitions apply to
all users of a POTW.
      (2)   Specific prohibitions. No user shall contribute or cause to be
contributed into the POTW the following pollutants, substances, or wastewater:
         (a)   Solid or viscous substances in amounts which may cause
obstruction to the flow in a sewer or other interference with the operation of
the POTW.
         (b)   Any substance which may cause the POTW's effluent or any other
product of the POTW such as residuals, sludges, or scums, to be unsuitable for
reclamation and reuse or to interfere with the reclamation process. In no case,
shall a substance discharged to the POTW cause the POTW to be in noncompliance
with sludge use or disposal regulation or permits issued under § 405 of the
Act; the Solid Waste Disposal Act, the Clean Air Act, the Toxic Substance
Control Act, or state criteria applicable to the sludge management method being
used.
   (C)   Pretreatment of wastewater.
      (1)   All food service establishments shall install and maintain a grease
interceptor in accordance with the grease control policy, set forth by the
Commission, and on file at the county's utilities administration office.
      (2)   The transportation and/or disposal of sludges generated by
pretreatment shall be subject to applicable federal, state, and local
regulations. The user shall be responsible for documenting the transportation
and/or disposal of all pretreatment sludges. Manifest and other documentation
shall be kept for a minimum of three years and shall be made available to the
Director upon request.
   (D)   Reports from users. All users not required to obtain an industrial or
commercial user permit shall provide appropriate reports to the Director as the
Director may require.
   (E)   Inspection and sampling. The county has the right to enter and inspect
the facilities of any user to ascertain whether the purpose of this chapter is
being met and all requirements are being complied with. Persons or occupants of
premises where wastewater is created, discharged or suspected to be discharged,
shall allow county personnel ready access at all reasonable times to all parts
of the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, records examination
and copying or the performance of any of their duties. The county shall have
the right to set up on the user's property such devices as are necessary to
conduct sampling, inspection, compliance monitoring and/or metering operations.
Denial of the county's access to the user's premises shall be a violation of
this chapter. Unreasonable delays may constitute denial of access.
   (F)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      COUNTY. The County of Davie, North Carolina, or any duly authorized agent
(s) or official(s) acting on its behalf.
      DIRECTOR. The Director of Utilities for Public Works of the county, or
his or her authorized representative(s).
      FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS. Any commercial facility discharging kitchen
or food preparation wastewater including, but not limited to the following:
restaurants, motels, hotels, cafeterias, hospitals, schools, nightclubs,
delicatessen, meat cutting-preparation, bakeries, bagel shops, grocery stores,
gas stations, and any other facility that the commission determines to need a
grease interceptor by virtue of it's operation.
      GREASE. The accumulation of oils (animal or vegetable), fats, cellulose,
starch, proteins, wax, lipids, or grease, whether emulsified or not, in the
sanitary sewer system. These are substances that may solidify or become viscous
at temperatures between 32°F and 150°F.
      GREASE INTERCEPTOR or GREASE TRAP. A device utilized to effect the
separation of grease and oils in wastewater effluent from a food service
establishment. Such traps or interceptors may be of the "outdoor" or
underground type normally of a 1,000-gallon capacity or more, or the "under-the
counter" package units, which are typically less than 100-gallon capacity. For
the purpose of this definition, the words TRAP and INTERCEPTOR are used
interchangeably.
      OWNER. An individual, person, firm, company, association, society,
corporation, or group upon whose property the building or structure containing
the food service establishment is located or will be constructed. OWNER shall
also include the owner of a food service establishment who may lease the
building, structure, or a portion thereof, containing the food service
establishment.
      PHYSICAL PROPERTY RESTRICTIONS. A physical property restriction does not
include restrictions arising from a new building owner's decision not to
provide a stub-out for grease installation before a food service establishment
occupies the premises.
      PLUMBING CODE. The current edition of the North Carolina Plumbing Code.
      POTW (PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS). A treatment works owned by the
county, acting through the county. This definition includes any devices or
system used in the collection, storage, treatment, recycling, and reclamation
of public sewage or industrial wastes of a liquid or solid nature. It also
includes sewers, pipes, and other conveyances only if they convey wastewater to
the POTW treatment plant. For the purposes of this chapter, POTW shall also
include any sewers that convey wastewater to the POTW from persons outside the
county who are, by contract or agreement with the county, or in any other way,
users of the POTW.
      SEPTAGE MANAGEMENT FIRM. A person engaged in the business of pumping,
transporting, storing, treating or disposing of septage or grease.
      USER. Any person, establishment, or facility, whether inside or outside
the county limits, who contributes, causes, or permits the contribution of
wastewater into the POTW.
   (G)   Design, installation and maintenance of grease interceptors. 
      (1)   All new grease interceptors shall be designed and constructed in
accordance with divisions (H) and (I) herein unless otherwise approved by the
Director, but in no case may it be less than the North Carolina State Plumbing
Code. All grease interceptor plans and specifications shall be submitted and
approved by the county prior to installation.
      (2)   All grease interceptors shall be installed by a licensed North
Carolina plumbing contractor and maintained by the user at the user's expense
so as to be in continuously effective operation. Maintenance shall include the
complete removal of all contents, including floatable materials, wastewater,
sludge, and solids. Separation, decanting or back flushing of the grease
interceptor or its wastes is prohibited except where classified as a restaurant
that cleans its own interceptor. This applies only to those restaurants that
have a grease interceptor less than 100-gallon capacity. Maintenance of grease
interceptors shall be performed in accordance with the type of interceptor as
required in division (K) herein.
      (3)   The user shall be responsible for the proper removal and lawful
disposal of the grease interceptor waste. All waste removed from each grease
interceptor should be disposed of at a facility permitted by the North Carolina
Division of Solid Waste Management to receive such waste. No grease interceptor
waste shall be discharged directly to the wastewater collection system or
wastewater treatment facilities.
      (4)   The county may conduct mandatory inspections of every food service
establishment connected to the sewer collection system once every two years,
and at other times as the county deems necessary, in its discretion.
      (5)   If grease is responsible for a sewer blockage, all food service
establishments upstream from the blockage will be inspected.
      (6)   The exclusive use of enzymes or biological additives as a grease
degradation agent is not considered acceptable grease interceptor maintenance
practice. Any user who uses these additives must apply for a variance and
follow the procedures for a variance study, as set forth in division (P) to
reduce the monthly maintenance requirements.
   (H)   Design and structural criteria for exterior grease interceptors.
Grease interceptors shall conform to the following criteria when being designed
and constructed:
      (1)   A 24-minute retention time under actual peak flow. See sizing
criteria in division (I) below.
      (2)   New in-ground grease interceptors shall be no less than 1,000
gallons total capacity unless otherwise approved by the Director.
      (3)   Interior baffles to distribute flows. Will extend six inches above
water line but cannot flood the inlet pipe.
      (4)   Minimum 2:1 length to width ratio.
      (5)   Low velocity flow near outlet.
      (6)   Baffle wall shall be 2/3 to 3/4 distance from inlet wall.
      (7)   Nine inches of freeboard at grease interceptor top.
      (8)   Each grease interceptor shall have inlet and outlet tees. The
outlet tee shall extend 50% into the liquid depth. The inlet tee shall extend
25% into the liquid depth. Inlet and outlet tees must be plugged at the top of
the sanitary tee and be a minimum of three inches in diameter.
      (9)   Access openings over the inlet, outlet, and each compartment within
the grease interceptor. A minimum of 24-inches shall be the diameter of each
opening. All covers shall be constructed of cast iron or equivalent traffic
bearing material.
      (10)   Grease interceptors must be vented.
      (11)   In-ground grease interceptors shall receive kitchen wastes.
Kitchen wastes include: pot sinks, prep sinks, pre-rinse sinks, can wash, floor
drains, and dishwasher.
      (12)   Minimum concrete compressive strength of 3,500 psi.
      (13)   Watertight per vacuum test or water tightness test.
      (14)   Joints should be properly sealed to prevent infiltration or
exfiltration.
      (15)   Grease interceptors must meet a minimum structural design of 150
pounds/square foot for non-traffic installations. For vehicular traffic
conditions the grease interceptor shall be designed to withstand a H-20 wheel
load.
      (16)   Grease interceptors shall meet the following standards: ASTM C-
1227 for Septic Tanks, C-913 for Precast Concrete Water and Wastewater
Structures, ACI-318 for Design and ASTM C-890 for establishing minimum
structural design loading.
      (17)   Grease interceptors made of polyethylene or fiberglass tanks shall
be able to withstand the appropriate loading (traffic or non-traffic) or
perform under a vacuum test to stimulate loading and include 12,000 psi
ultimate tensile strength, 19,000 psi flexural strength, and 800,000 psi
flexural modulus of elasticity as per ASTM D790. Tanks shall be listed and
labeled.
      (18)   A North Carolina design professional will specifically design cast
in place or masonry tanks.
   (I)   Sizing.
      (1)   How to determine the size of an exterior, in-ground grease
interceptor using the Manning Formula:
         (a)   The formula for calculating grease interceptor sizing is:
            Gallons of interceptor = [[(1) = GPM/fixture (derived from Manning
Formula) x (2) = total # fixture ratings of grease-laden waste streams] + (3)
direct flow from a dishwasher, can wash, mop sink (in GPM)]] x (4) = 24 minute
retention time.
         (b)   Components of equation :
            1.   GPM/fixture—This is derived from the Manning Formula. It takes
into account the slope; roughnesses of the pipe (plastic) used, and pipe
diameter size. When applying the Manning Formula, we arrive at the drainage
rates of various pipe diameter sizes:
               1.0 inch pipe diameter = 5.0 GPM/fixture
               1.5 inch pipe diameter = 15 GPM/fixture
               2.0 inch pipe diameter = 33 GPM/fixture
               2.5 inch pipe diameter = 59 GPM/fixture
               3.0 inch pipe diameter = 93 GPM/fixture
            2.   Fixture ratings of grease-laden waste streams: Fixtures that
have more grease in their waste stream received higher values while less grease
corresponds to a lower value. The table is shown below:
               Table of Common Commercial Kitchen Fixtures and their
Corresponding Rating (each):
                  2, 3, or 4 compartment pot sink = 1.0
                  1 or 2 compartment meat prep sink = 0.75
                  Pre-rinse sink = 0.5
                  1 or 2 compartment vegetable prep sink = 0.25
            3.   Direct flow from dishwashers, can wash, mop sink and garbage
disposal: use the following gpm values: Dishwasher rate of 10 gpm, can wash,
mop sink and garbage disposal rate of 6 gpm.
            4.   Twenty-four-minute retention time: Engineers have determined
that when applying several criteria to determine proper grease (animal and
vegetable lipids) separation (using Stokes' Law, specific gravity of lipids,
etc.), a 24-minute retention time is required.
Example 1: GPM x Grease Factor
(1) 3 Compartment Pot Sink, 1.5 waste drain              15 x 1.0 = 15.00 gpm
(1) 1 Compartment Pre-Rinse Sink, 1.5 waste drain        15 x 0.5 = 7.50 gmp
(1) 1 Compartment Prep Sink (Meat), 1.5 waste drain      15 x 0.75 = 11.25 gmp
(1) 1 Compartment Prep Sink (Vegetable), 1.5 waste drain 15 x 0.25 = 3.75 gpm
(1) Can Wash (Use 6 gpm)                                    = 6.00 gpm
                                                             43.50 gpm
   TOTAL gpm = 43.5 x 24 minutes retention time = 1,044 gallons
   MINIMUM 1,000 GALLON GREASE INTERCEPTOR REQUIRED
Example 2: GPM x Grease Factor
(1) 3 Compartment Pot Sink, 2.0 waste drain              33 x 1.0 = 33.00 gpm
(1) 1 Compartment Prep Sink (Meat), 1.5 waste drain      15 x 0.75 = 11.25 gpm
(1) 1 Compartment Prep Sink (Vegetable), 1.5 waste drain 15 x 0.25 = 3.75 gpm
(1) Pre-rinse Sink, 2.0 waste drain                      33 x .05 = 16.50 gpm
(1) Dishwasher                                              = 10.00 gpm
(1) Mop Sink, 3" waste drain                                = 6.00 gpm
                                                            80.50 gpm
   TOTAL gpm = 80.5 x 24 minutes retention time = 1,932 gallons
   MINIMUM 2,000 GALLON GREASE INTERCEPTOR REQUIRED
 
      (2)   How to determine the size of a point-of-use grease interceptor:
 
       Determine the cubic contents of the  Number of compartments times 24
Step 1 fixture by multiplying length x      inches long by 24 inches wide by 14
       width x depth.                       inches deep. Cubic contents: 3 x 24
                                            x 24 x 14 = 24,192 cubic inches
Step 2 Determine the capacity in gallons 1  Contents in gallons: 24,192 (231 =
       gallon = 231 cubic inches.           104.7 gallons)
       Determine actual drainage load. The
       fixture is usually filled to about
       75% of capacity with wastewater. The Actual Load: .75 x 104.73 gallons =
Step 3 items to be washed displace about    78.55 gallons
       25% of the fixture content. Actual
       drainage load = 75% of fixture
       capacity.
       For design considerations, it is     Calculated flow rate for design
       good practice to calculate the flow  capacity in GPM on 75% of fixture
Step 4 rate in GPM equal to or greater than capacity: 75% of fixture capacity =
       75% of the fixture capacity.         78.55 gallons
                                            Flow Rate = 78.55 GPM
       Select the grease separation device
       that matches the calculated design
Step 5 flow rate.                           79 GPM
       Note: Select next larger size when
       flow rate falls between two sizes.
 
   (J)   Service records. All food service establishments shall maintain a
written record on site of grease interceptor maintenance record for three
years. Documentation must include at a minimum the date and time of the
service; the name of the grease contractor; and the location of the grease
treatment/disposal facility. All grease interceptor maintenance records shall
be approved by the Director. A copy of each maintenance record shall be mailed
to the county, at the address indicated below, no later than 15 days after the
end of the month during which the maintenance occurred. Any person who fails to
comply with this section is subject to enforcement actions as outlined in
division (R). Failure to submit monthly maintenance records for two consecutive
months may result in an inspection.
   (K)   Existing facilities with grease interceptors.
      (1)   All existing food service establishments shall maintain grease
interceptors for continuous, satisfactory and effective operation.
      (2)   Maintenance shall include the complete removal of all contents,
including floatable materials, wastewater, sludge, and solids. Separation,
decanting or back flushing of the grease interceptor or its wastes is
prohibited.
      (3)   The food service establishment should have a licensed North
Carolina Septage Management Firm service all interceptors at intervals not to
exceed 30 days.
      (4)   All food service establishments shall inspect the grease
interceptor at the time of service or prior to opening business if the
interceptor is serviced after hours and shall report to the Utilities Director
any conditions that do not comply with the sewer use resolution and/or grease
control policy.
      (5)   Grease maintenance service records shall be submitted as stated in
division (J).
      (6)   Any additional fixtures that are added to the food service
establishment and discharge a grease-laden waste stream as identified in
division (I) shall be plumbed into the interceptor and/or a new interceptor may
be required.
   (L)   Food service establishment in new facilities.
      (1)   Food service establishments, locating in newly constructed
facilities, shall install a grease interceptor adequately sized and approved by
the county. Facilities are not allowed to share grease interceptor devices.
      (2)   All new grease interceptors shall be designed and constructed in
accordance to divisions (H) and (I).
      (3)   No new food service establishment will be allowed to initiate
operations until grease interceptors are approved and inspected by the county.
      (4)   Following installation of a grease interceptor, all food service
establishments shall comply with maintenance requirements as set forth in
division (K).
      (5)   Food service establishments with a bona fide hardship of a physical
property restriction shall install a point-of-use grease interceptor.
Construction and maintenance shall follow division (M).
   (M)   New food service establishments in existing facilities.
      (1)   New food service establishments locating in existing buildings are
required to comply with the grease interceptor standards applicable to new
facilities, as set forth herein.
      (2)   For cases in which exterior type grease interceptors are infeasible
to install due to physical property restrictions, a "point-of-use" grease trap
shall be installed. The "point of use” grease trap shall comply with sizing
criteria. More than one fixture can be plumbed into a single grease
interceptor, however, the grease interceptor size shall be equal to the total
fixture capacity for all fixtures which the interceptor serves. Flow control
fittings must be provided to the inlet side of all point-of-use if required by
the manufacturer. Maintenance procedures shall follow in a later section.
Dishwashers shall not be plumbed into a point-of-use grease interceptor.
      (3)   The county must approve control devices and grease interceptor
design prior to installation.
   (N)   New buildings (strip centers) with the potential for food service
establishments. All new buildings or strip centers containing sections
designated for commercial enterprise of the strip center are encouraged to
provide a stub-out for a separate waste line for future grease interceptor
installation. The owner of a new strip center shall consider suitable physical
property space and sewer gradient that will be conducive for the installation
of an exterior, in-ground grease interceptor(s) for any flex space contained
within the strip center. Physical property restrictions and sewer gradient
shall not be a defense for failure to install an exterior, in-ground grease
interceptor.
   (O)   Substandard grease interceptors.
      (1)   Any food service establishment without a grease interceptor will be
given a compliance deadline not to exceed six months from date of notification
to have approved and installed grease interceptors.
      (2)   In the event an existing food service establishment's grease
interceptors are either under-designed or substandard in accordance with this
policy, the owner(s) will be notified in writing of the deficiencies and
required improvements, and given a compliance deadline not to exceed six months
to conform with the requirements of this standard. An exterior in-ground
interceptor will be required and installation and maintenance shall follow in
this policy.
      (3)   For cases in which exterior type grease interceptors are infeasible
to install due to physical property restrictions, a “point-of-use” grease trap
shall comply with sizing criteria specified in this chapter. More than one
fixture can be plumbed into a single grease interceptor however, the grease
interceptor size shall be equal to the total fixture capacity for all fixtures
which the interceptor serves. Flow control fittings must be provided to the
inlet side of all point-of-use if required by the manufacturer. Maintenance
procedures shall follow division (K). Dishwashers shall not be plumbed into a
point-of-use grease interceptor.
      (4)   The Director must approve control devices and grease interceptor
design prior to installation.
   (P)   Variance. 
      (1)   A variance to exceed the requirement set forth in division (K)
which sets the scheduled maintenance requirements for all grease interceptors
at intervals not to exceed 30 days (for interceptors equal to or greater than
500 gallons), may be requested of the county upon submission of sufficient
information and documentation. Such documentation shall provide a written
explanation for the need to vary from the maintenance schedule requirements of
this chapter. After submission of a request to the county, the county will
review all information submitted and will notify the food service establishment
in writing of its acceptance or denial of the variance request. All food
service establishments requesting a variance shall agree to submit to a
variance study. The county has the right to discontinue the variance study at
any time the grease interceptor discharge adversely affects the sanitary sewer
collection system or treatment works.
      (2)   Fees associated with the request of a variance will include a
variance fee of $300, which includes estimated costs associated with the
variance study. All fees are nonrefundable and shall be paid in advance.
      (3)   A variance to exceed the 30-day interval requirement for scheduled
maintenance set forth in division (K) may be granted if the accumulated grease
cap and sludge pocket measurements remain below 25% of the total depth from the
grease interceptor's interior floor to the static or working water level, at
any point between the influent and effluent pipes/baffles of the grease
interceptor. No variance will be granted to exceed a 180-day interval, with the
exception of schools and seasonal event facilities and any other FSE as
determined by the Director, who may exceed a 180-day interval upon submitting a
request in writing to the Director and receiving written permission from the
Director.
      (4)   (a)   Any food service establishment who is found to violate the
25% rule as set forth in divisions herein below, may be required to pump more
frequently than monthly.
         (b)   Variance study procedure. Once a variance has been granted, a
variance study shall be conducted in accordance with the following procedure:
            1.   Prior to a variance study, the grease interceptor shall be
completely pumped and sufficiently cleaned by a servicing company at the user's
expense. A variance study cannot be conducted unless the grease interceptor is
properly serviced, as determined by the county.
            2.   The food service establishment shall contact the county two
working days prior to the scheduled interceptor cleaning.
            3.   Once the grease interceptor is cleaned properly and refilled
with water from the food service establishment, the county will conduct a
visual inspection of the grease interceptor and verify that all components of
the trap are in place and in proper working order. If a grease interceptor
fails the visual inspection, the food service establishment shall correct all
inadequacies at the owner's expense. The food service establishment shall
notify the county in writing of all corrected measures upon completion. Such
notification shall be mailed to the address set forth in §
53.001(A)(2).
            4.   Two weeks after initial pumping, the county will measure the
grease cap and sludge pocket to obtain data to determine grease interceptor
performance.
            5.   Four weeks after the initial pumping, the county will re-
measure the grease cap and sludge pocket to further evaluate grease interceptor
performance.
            6.   This process will continue on a biweekly frequency until the
accumulated grease cap and sludge pocket reach 25% of the total depth of the
grease interceptor. Variance studies shall not exceed a period of 90 days.
            7.   The county will review all data obtained, and submit in
writing the results of the variance. The result will only be furnished to the
food service establishment requesting the variance.
            8.   The county will not be responsible for any grease discharge,
odor, or blockages associated during or after the variance study. At no time
during the variance study shall the grease interceptor be pumped, except by
direct approval of the county.
      (5)   Variance revocation. A variance to exceed the 30-day interval
requirement for scheduled maintenance may be revoked by the county, at its
discretion, if at any time after a variance is granted the following occurs:
         (a)   Grease interceptor discharge adversely affects the sewer
collection system or treatment works.
         (b)   Grease and solids accumulation is greater than 25% of the total
depth from grease interceptor's interior floor to the static or working water
level, at any point within the grease interceptor.
         (c)   A food service establishment significantly increases food
service production, seating capacity, or menu change.
         (d)   A food service establishment causes or contributes to a sanitary
sewer blockage or overflow.
   (Q)   Prohibitions and violations. No user shall contribute or cause to be
contributed into the sanitary sewer system the following:
      (1)   Hot water running continuously through grease interceptor.
      (2)   Discharge of concentrated alkaline or acidic solutions into a
grease interceptor.
      (3)   Discharge of concentrated detergents into grease traps.
      (4)   Discharge of oils and grease into the sanitary sewer system.
      (5)   It shall be a violation of this policy for any person or user to:
         (a)   Modify a grease interceptor structure without consent from the
county.
         (b)   Provide falsified maintenance records.
         (c)   Not comply with this policy.
   (R)   Enforcement. 
      (1)   Any food service establishment that is identified, in whole or in
part, as the source of a sanitary sewer blockage and/or overflow, will be
assessed a fine of not less than $500 and not more than $25,000, plus
remediation costs for cleanup, in addition to any fines dispensed from the
State of North Carolina.
      (2)   Food service establishments committing one of the offenses listed
herein will be assessed the corresponding amounts on a calendar year basis.
These fines will be billed no less than monthly and are payable upon receipt.
The fines provided for in this section are not exclusive and do not prohibit
the Director from using any other remedy provided by law.
         (a)   Minor violation.
            1st offense:
            Failure to submit records: $50
            Inspection hindrance (equipment related: $50
            Failure to maintain on site record: $50
            Failure to pump grease and submit record: $150
 
            2nd offense:
            Failure to submit records: $100
            Inspection hindrance (equipment related): $100
            Failure to maintain on site records: $100
            Failure to pump grease and submit records: $300
 
            3rd offense:
            Failure to submit records: $150
            Inspection hindrance (equipment related): $150
            Failure to maintain on site record: $150
            Failure to pump grease and submit records: $450
 
            4th offense and up:
            Failure to submit records: $300
            Inspection hindrance (equipment related): $300
            Failure to maintain on site records: $300
            Failure to pump grease and submit records: $1,000
         (b)   Intermediate violation. Failure to maintain necessary equipment
(T's, grease trap not watertight, baffles, etc.):
            1st offense: $150
            2nd offense: $300
            3rd offense: $500
            4th offense and up: $1,000
         (c)   Major violation.
            Source of sewer blockage (minimum): $500
            Source of sanitary sewer overflow (minimum): $1,000
            Falsification of maintenance records: $1,000
   (S)   Appeal of grease policy.
      (1)   Any food service establishment (FSE) may appeal a fine that has
been assessed for failure to comply with the grease control policy. The FSE
must submit a written request, identifying the specific issues to be contested,
to the Grease Compliance Officer within 30 days following receipt of the water
bill, assessment of fine, or notice of violation. Unless such written request
is made within the time frame specified, the fine subject to appeal shall be
final and binding. The Grease Compliance Officer and the Industrial Waste
Control Supervisor shall evaluate the information and shall make a written
decision within 15 days of receipt of the appeal request.
      (2)   The decision made above may be appealed by any party, to the
Director of Utilities upon filing a written demand within ten days of receipt
of notice of the previous decision. A meeting will be held to evaluate
information. Failure to make written demand within the specified time herein
shall bar further appeal. The Director shall make a decision on the appeal
within 90 days of the date the appeal was filed. Further appeal shall follow §
53.106.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2017)
§ 53.119 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision, paragraph, word, section or article of this chapter is
invalidated by court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions,
paragraphs, words, sections and chapter shall not be affected and shall
continue in full force and effect.
(Ord. passed 9-3-2013; Ord. passed 12-4-2017)
§ 53.120 CONFLICT.
   All other ordinances and parts of other ordinances inconsistent or
conflicting with any part of this chapter are hereby repealed to the extent of
such inconsistency or conflict.
(Ord. passed 9-3-2013; Ord. passed 12-4-2017)
§ 53.121 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage,
approval and publication, as provided by law.
(Ord. passed 9-3-2013; Ord. passed 12-4-2017)
CHAPTER 54: WATER SHORTAGES
Editor’s note:
   Chapter 54, Water Conservation, was replaced by the county’s Water Shortage
Response Plan on June 1, 2009. A copy of the Water Shortage Response Plan is
available for viewing at the County Public Utilities Department or in the
office of the Clerk to the Board of Commissioners.
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   Funeral processions
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven through a funeral procession except for
Fire Department vehicles, police patrols, ambulances, and other emergency
vehicles when the same are responding to a call for emergency service.
   (B)   A funeral procession shall be identified by vehicles having
illuminated headlights.
   (C)   Each driver operating a vehicle in a funeral procession shall drive as
near to the right-hand side of the road as practicable and follow the vehicle
ahead as close as safety permits.
   (D)   Upon the immediate approach of a funeral procession, drivers of other
vehicles must yield the right-of-way to funeral vehicles.
   (E)   The provisions of this section shall be applicable to all areas in the
county outside the corporate limits of the Towns of Mocksville and Cooleemee.
(1996 Code, § 70.01) (Ord. passed 11-17-1986) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation of this chapter shall be deemed an infraction and shall
subject the violator to a penalty of $50 per day.
   (B)   Further, a violation of the above section of this code shall be a
violation of G.S. § 14-4 and such violation shall be classified as a Class 3
misdemeanor with a maximum fine of up to $450, except that any violations of §§
150.999,
154.99,
155.999, and
156.999 shall not be a violation of G.S. § 14-4 and shall not be considered a
misdemeanor.
(G.S. § 14-4(b)) (1996 Code, § 70.99)
Statutory reference:
   Enforcement of county ordinances, see G.S. § 153A-123
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   FIRE, RESCUE AND PROTECTION
      
92.   HEALTH AND SAFETY
      
93.   9-1-1 SERVICES
      
94.   STREET AND ROAD NAMING
      
95.   RECREATION AND PARKS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Cats exempted from tags
   
90.02   Fees
   
90.03   Dangerous dogs - definitions
   
90.04   Dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog declaration
   
90.05   Animals creating a public nuisance
   
90.06   Impoundment of animals
Exotic or Wild Animals
   
90.15   Intent
   
90.16   Definitions
   
90.17   Possession and/or harboring prohibited
   
90.18   Impoundment and disposition of impounded creatures
   
90.19   Preexisting ownership or possession of exotic or wild animals
   
90.20   Permit/registration process
   
90.21   Exemptions
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 CATS EXEMPTED FROM TAGS.
   Cats required to be vaccinated under the provisions of G.S. §§ 130A-184 et
seq. are exempted from the wearing of tags as therein provided.
(1996 Code, § 90.01) (Ord. passed 4-16-1984)
Statutory reference:
   Authority for tag exemption, see G.S. § 130A-190
§ 90.02 FEES.
   The fee to be charged for vaccinations of dogs and cats administered
pursuant to the requirements of G.S. §§ 130A-184 et seq. shall be $5 including
an administrative charge not exceeding $4 per vaccination.
(1996 Code, § 90.02) (Ord. passed 4-16-1984)
§ 90.03 DANGEROUS DOGS - DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AT LARGE.  An animal is deemed to be at large when it is off its owner's
property and not under the restraint of a competent person.
   ATTACK.  An animal, not adequately restrained on or off its owner's
property, that approaches a person or animal in a vicious, terrorizing, or
threatening manner without the animal having been molested, cruelly beaten,
tortured, or otherwise harmed.
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL.  Any animal whose aggressive behavior constitutes a
foreseeable risk of injuring a human or animal or damaging personal or real
property. Such behavior includes, but is not limited to, an animal biting or
attempting to attack a human or another animal.
   DANGEROUS DOG.  Any dog that, when unprovoked:
      (1)   Inflicts severe injury on a human being on public or private
property;
      (2)   Kills a domestic animal or livestock while off the owner's
property; or
      (3)   Has been previously declared potentially dangerous and the owner
having received notice of such declaration and the dog subsequently
aggressively bites, attacks or endangers the safety of humans or domestic
animals or livestock.
   INHERENTLY DANGEROUS EXOTIC MAMMAL.  Any member of the canidae, felidae, or
ursidae families; including hybrids thereof, which, due to their inherent
nature, may be considered dangerous to humans, and further defined as follows:
      (1)   Canidae include any member of the dog (canid) family not
customarily domesticated by humans, and any hybrids of such canidae, including
but not limited to wolf hybrids which are a cross between a wolf and a domestic
dog, but not including domestic dogs (Canis familiaris).
      (2)   Felidae include any member of the cat family weighing over 15
pounds not customarily domesticated by humans, and any hybrids of such felidae,
but not including domestic cats (Felis catus).
      (3)   Ursidae include any member of the bear family, and hybrids of such
ursidae.
   INHERENTLY DANGEROUS REPTILE.  Any member of the class reptilia which:
      (1)   Is venomous; a venomous reptile shall include all members of the
families Atractaspidae (burrowing asps), Crotalidae (pit vipers), Elapidae
(cobras, coral snakes, and their allies), Helodermidae (gila monsters and
Mexican beaded lizards), Hydrophilidae (sea snakes), Viperidae (vipers), and as
well as any "rear fanged" snakes of the family Colubridae that are known to be
dangerous to humans, including, but not limited to, Dispholidus (boomslangs),
Rhabdophisspp (keelbacks), and Thebtomis kirtlandii (twig snakes); or
      (2)   Is a member of the order Crocodilla (alligators, caimans, and
crocodiles).
   LEASH.  A cord, thong, or chain not more than nine feet in length by which
an animal is physically controlled by the person accompanying it.
   MICROCHIP IMPLANT.  A passive electronic device that is injected into an
animal by means of a pre-packaged sterilized implanting device for the purposes
of identification and/or recovery of the animal.
   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG.  Any dog that:
      (1)   Inflicts bites on a human, domestic animal or livestock without
provocation either on public or private property;
      (2)   Without provocation, chases or approaches a person upon the
streets, sidewalks, or any public grounds in a menacing fashion or apparent
attitude of attack: or
      (3)   Has a known propensity, tendency or disposition to attack
unprovoked, or to cause injury or otherwise to threaten the safety of humans or
domestic animals.
      (4)   Is located off a leash within 100 feet of any facility which is
regularly frequented by minor children, including, but not limited to schools,
daycares, parks, recreational fields and/or church playgrounds.
   PROOF OF OWNERSHIP.  Documentation in support of a property right in an
animal that includes, but is not limited to, veterinary records, rabies
vaccination certificates, licenses, photographs, bills of sale, breed
registries, written transfers of ownership, and written third-party
verifications.
   PROPER ENCLOSURE OF A DANGEROUS DOG.  While on the owner's property, a
dangerous dog shall be securely confined indoors or in a securely enclosed and
locked pen or structure, suitable to prevent the entry of young children and
designed to prevent the animal from escaping. Such pen or structure shall have
secure sides and a secure top, and shall also provide protection from the
elements for the dog.
   PROVOKE.  Any action designed to goad, inflame, instigate or stimulate an
aggressive response on the part of an animal, but not including any actions on
the part of an individual that pertain to reasonable efforts of self-defense
against a dangerous animal.
   PROVOCATION.  Includes, but is not limited to situations where threat,
injury, or damage is sustained by a person who, at the time, was committing a
willful trespass or other tort upon the premises occupied by the owner of the
dog, or was tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the dog or has, in the past,
been observed or reported to have tormented, abused, or assaulted the dog or
was committing or attempting to commit a crime.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE.  An animal or group of animals may be considered to be a
public nuisance if, by way of example and not of limitation, it:
      (1)   Damages, soils, or defiles community or neighborhood private
property or public property;
      (2)   Interferes with the ordinary use and enjoyment of a person's
property;
      (3)   Turns over garbage containers or damages flower or vegetable
gardens;
      (4)   Causes unsanitary or offensive conditions; or
      (5)   Impedes the safety of pedestrians, bicyclists, or motorists.
   STRAY.  Any animal which is running at large; off its owner's property;
appears to be lost, unwanted, or abandoned; or whose owner is unknown or not
readily available.
   VICIOUS.  Showing a propensity without sufficient provocation to do any act
which endangers the safety of persons, animals or property.
(1996 Code, § 90.03) (Ord. passed 12-19-2005; Ord. passed 6-2-2014; Ord. passed
6-5-2017) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 DANGEROUS DOG OR POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG DECLARATION.
   (A)   Declaration.
      (1)   Davie County Animal Control may find and declare a dog potentially
dangerous or dangerous if it has probable cause to believe that the dog falls
within the definitions set forth in this subchapter. The finding must be based
upon:
         (a)   The written complaint of a citizen who is willing to testify
that the dog has acted in a manner which causes it to fall within the
applicable definition in §
90.03;
         (b)   Dog bite reports filed with the Animal Control Department as
required by the ordinance codified in this chapter or state law;
         (c)   Actions of the dog witnessed by any animal control officer or
law enforcement officer;
         (d)   The declaration by another animal control authority pursuant to
G.S. § 67-4.1; or
         (e)   Other credible evidence.
      (2)   The declaration of potentially dangerous or dangerous dog shall be
in writing and shall be served on the owner in person, or by first-class or
certified mail, to the owner's last known address. For purposes of this
section, the notice to the owner will be deemed received the third day after
the notice is placed in the mail.
      (3)   The declaration shall state:
         (a)   A description of the dog;
         (b)   The name and address of the owner of the dog, if known;
         (c)   The whereabouts of the dog if it is not in the custody of the
owner;
         (d)   The facts upon which the declaration is based;
         (e)   The restrictions placed on the dog as a result of the
declaration;
         (f)   The penalties for violation of the restrictions, including the
possibility of destruction of the dog; and imprisonment or fining of the owner.
      (4)   If the owner of the dog wishes to appeal the declaration of
potentially dangerous or dangerous dog the owner may, within ten working days
of receipt of the declaration, request a hearing by submitting a written appeal
to the Davie County Manager’s office. The County shall appoint a body to hear
all such appeals, which body shall consist of the following individual: the
Davie County Health Director. A hearing by this individual shall be convened
and held within 30 days of any notice of appeal.
      (5)   If the hearing individual finds that there is insufficient evidence
to support the declaration, it shall be rescinded, and the restrictions imposed
thereby annulled.
      (6)   If the hearing individual finds sufficient evidence to support the
declaration, it will affirm the declaration. The ruling of the hearing body
shall be final, subject only to such appeal or certiorari proceeding as is
provided by law to the Superior Court of Davie County, which appeal or
certiorari proceeding must be filed within ten days of the date of the final
ruling of the hearing body.
      (7)   Following service of a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog
declaration, and pending any appeal under this section, the owner of a
dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog must keep Davie County Animal
Control apprised of his or her current address and contact information and must
follow all applicable state law and local ordinances pertaining to the dog.
      (8)   Following service of a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog
declaration, and pending appeals under this section, the Animal Control
Department may, if circumstances require, impound the dog at the owner's
expense, pursuant to the provisions of §
90.06 of this chapter, impoundment. A dog impounded under these circumstances
may be redeemed by complying with the redemption requirements in division (B)
(1).
   (B)   Dangerous dogs and potentially dangerous dogs - additional
requirements.
      (1)   The owner of a dog declared dangerous by the Animal Control
Department shall present to the Animal Control Department sufficient evidence
of:
         (a)   A proper enclosure to confine a dangerous dog and the posting of
the premises with a clearly visible warning sign that there is a dangerous dog
on the property. In addition, the owner shall conspicuously display a sign with
a warning symbol that informs children of the presence of a dangerous dog;
         (b)   A policy of liability insurance in the amount of at least
$100,000 at the owner's or keeper's expense for the benefit of any person who
suffers damages, injury, or death caused by a dangerous dog for as long as the
dog remains in the county. The Davie County Animal Control shall have the
authority to require the owner or keeper to provide written proof of the
liability insurance and to require the owner or keeper to have the insurer
notify the Department of any change in the insurance coverage or policy. The
dog's owner or keeper shall have the duty to immediately notify the Animal
Control Department if the dog escapes. The Department shall have the authority
to seize and impound the dog if the owner or keeper fails to comply with any
provision of this section;
         (c)   A photograph, acceptable to the Animal Control Department, of
the dog registered as dangerous;
         (d)   A micro-chip implant and micro-chip registration number;
         (e)   Proof of sterilization of the dog within 60 days of the
declaration of the dog as dangerous; and
         (f)   The owner of a dangerous dog shall not permit the dog to be
outside the proper enclosure unless the dog is muzzled and restrained by a
substantial chain or leash not more than nine feet in length and under physical
restraint of a responsible person, at least 16 years of age. The muzzle shall
be made in a manner that will not cause injury to the dog or interfere with its
vision or respiration but shall prevent it from biting any person or animal.
      (2)   Any potentially dangerous dog may be immediately confiscated if it
meets the definition set forth in division (4) of the definition of a
potentially dangerous dog.
   (C)   Penalties.
      (1)   Notwithstanding the provisions of the Davie County Code, and in
addition to the penalties prescribed therein, any dangerous dog may be
immediately confiscated if:
         (a)   The dog is not validly registered under division (B)(1) of this
chapter;
         (b)   The owner does not secure and maintain the liability insurance
coverage required under division (B)(1)(b);
         (c)   The dog is not maintained in a proper enclosure; or
         (d)   The dog is outside of the dwelling of the owner, or outside of
the property enclosure and not under physical restraint of a responsible
person.
      (2)   Any potentially dangerous dog which is located off a leash within
100 feet of any facility which is regularly frequented by minor children,
including, but not limited to schools, daycares, parks, recreational fields
and/or church playgrounds may also be immediately confiscated.
      (3)   In addition to the penalties established in division (C)(4), the
owner of any dog confiscated under division (C)(1) may recover such dog from
the Animal Control Department upon the payment of a civil fine which shall be
in the amount of $250 plus the fees and requirements established within
division (B)(1) and any and all fees associated with any impoundment of the dog
at the current rates at the time; provided, however, that in the event the
owner has not picked up the dangerous dog within five days of being notified by
the Animal Control Department that such dog is under the control of such
Department, the dog shall be destroyed in an expeditious and humane manner. For
a second offense of this division (C), the civil fine shall be $300. For any
subsequent offense of this division (C), the civil fine shall be $500.
      (4)   Violation of any provision of this subchapter is a Class 3
misdemeanor.
      (5)   State law reference - § 67-4.3, Penalty for Attacks by Dangerous
Dogs. The owner of a dangerous dog that attacks a person and causes physical
injuries requiring medical treatment in excess of $100 shall be guilty of a
Class 1 misdemeanor.
   (D)   Exceptions. The provisions of this section do not apply to:
      (1)   A dog being used by a law enforcement officer to carry out the law
enforcement officer's official duties;
      (2)   A dog being used in a lawful hunt;
      (3)   A dog where the injury or damage inflicted by the dog was sustained
by domestic animal while the dog was working as a hunting dog, herding dog, or
predator control dog on the property of, or under the control of, its owner,
and the damage or injury was to a species or type of domestic animal
appropriate to the work of the dog; or
      (4)   A dog where the injury inflicted by the dog was sustained by a
person who, at the time of the injury, was committing a willful trespass or
other tort, was tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the dog, had tormented,
abused, or assaulted the dog, or was committing or attempting to commit a
crime.
   (E)   State law.
      (1)   Nothing in this subchapter or this chapter shall be construed to
prevent an animal control officer or any other person from pursuing remedies
under G.S. Chapter 67, Art. 1A.
      (2)   The Davie County Animal Control Director or his or her designee is
designated as the person responsible for making the declaration required under
G.S. § 67-4.1(c). In making such declarations, the Director or his or her
designee shall follow the procedure outlined herein.
      (3)   The animal owner has a right to appeal the declaration to the
county appellate officer by giving written notice of appeal to the office of
the County Manager within ten days of the service of the declaration on said
owner.
      (4)   The Health Director or designee is designated as the appellate
officer to hear appeals of declarations made pursuant to G.S. § 67-4.1(c) as
well as the provisions of the dangerous or potentially dangerous dog, § 90.03.
Such appeal hearings shall be held within 30 days of the written notice of
appeal filed with the office of the County Manager by the animal owner.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2014; Ord. passed 6-5-2017)
Statutory reference:
   Local Ordinances, see G.S. § 67-4.5
§ 90.05 ANIMALS CREATING A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   The Davie County Animal Control Director has the authority to instruct
an animal owner to confine an animal if it has been damaging or soiling the
property of others, turning over garbage, impeding the safety of pedestrians,
bicyclists or motorists, or creating a nuisance in any other way.
   (B)   Any animal that has been deemed a public nuisance by Davie County
Animal Services shall be microchipped by Animal Services or a veterinarian
within 30 days of the issuance of the public nuisance order. The expense of
said procedure shall be borne by the animal owner.
   (C)   Any owner of an animal deemed a public nuisance by Animal Services can
be reclaimed by them after a payment of a $25 redemption fee and the daily fees
associated with the upkeep of the animal while in Animal Services care.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2014; Ord. passed 6-5-2017)
Statutory reference:
   General Ordinance-Making Power, see G.S. § 153A-121
§ 90.06 IMPOUNDMENT OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   Generally.
      Any animal which appears to be lost, strayed or abandoned, or which is
found to be not wearing a currently valid rabies vaccination tag, as required
by state law or this chapter, or which is found running at large or not under
restraint in violation of this chapter, may be impounded by Davie County Animal
Control and confined in the county animal control shelter in a humane manner,
impoundment of such an animal shall not relieve the owner thereof from any
penalty which may be imposed for violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Notice to owner.
      Immediately upon impounding an animal, the Animal Control Department
shall make reasonable effort to notify the animal’s owner and inform such owner
of the conditions whereby the animal may be redeemed. This section shall not
apply to owner-surrendered, abandoned, or quarantined animals or to livestock
or wildlife.
   (C)   Redemption by owner generally.
      (1)   Redemption. The owner of an animal impounded under this subchapter
may redeem the animal and regain possession thereof within three days of
impoundment in the county or five days of impoundment within the corporate
limits of Mocksville, Cooleemee, and Bermuda Run by complying with all
applicable provisions of this chapter and by paying all fees and penalties due.
Fee rates shall be available for public inspection in the office of the Clerk
to the Board of County Commissioners and at the County Animal Shelter. If an
animal has been impounded for failure to wear a current rabies vaccination tag,
the animal must be vaccinated before being released to the owner. In addition,
any dog which has been impounded shall have a micro-chip installed at the
owners expense before the dog is released to the owner and pay all cost
associated with such micro-chipping.
      (2)   Failure to reclaim an animal shall not relieve the animal's owner
from paying all applicable fees and penalties.
   (D)   Destruction or adoption of unredeemed animal generally.
      (1)   If an impounded animal is not redeemed by the owner within the
period prescribed in division (C)(1), it may be destroyed in a humane manner or
offered for adoption or acquisition by a new adult owner who agrees to comply
with this chapter; provided, however, that any such prospective new owner shall
not include an animal dealer who acquires animals for resale. Such animal may
be adopted by a prospective new owner who pays the required fee and agrees to
comply with all local ordinances and regulations and state law regarding
animals. The county will not purposefully release for adoption any animal that
has previously bitten a person, is aggressive or is potentially dangerous.
However, the Animal Control Department director shall have the authority to
waive the restriction on placement of animals that have bitten if the Director
determines that the bite was inconsequential and not related to an act of
aggression.
      (2)   No animal owner may be permitted to adopt his or her own animal
under the provisions of this section, but he or she must comply with the
provisions of division (C)(1) of this section in order to reclaim an animal
that has been impounded pursuant to state law or this chapter.
      (3)   No animal which has been impounded by reason of its being a stray,
abandoned or unclaimed by its owner, shall be allowed to be adopted from the
county animal shelter during a period of emergency rabies quarantine invoked
pursuant to state law, except by special authorization of the public health
officials and the Animal Control Department Director.
   (E)   Procedure for redemption or adoption of unvaccinated animal.
      (1)   Unless proof of a current rabies vaccination can be furnished, each
dog and cat shall be vaccinated against rabies at the owner's, redeemer's or
adopter's expense before being released from the county animal shelter by
either redemption or adoption. For puppies and kittens under the age of three
months, the Animal Control Department shall provide the redeemer or adopter
with a voucher for each animal to obtain a rabies vaccination from Davie County
Animal Control and the redeemer/adopter shall promptly have the animal
vaccinated.
      (2)   The "adoption/medical agreement" will be completed at the time of
adoption. If the adopter fails to comply with the agreement, an animal control
officer may be dispatched to retrieve the dog or cat if corrective action has
not been taken by the animal's owner.
      (3)   At the adopter's expense, adopted animals shall have a micro-chip
implanted in the animal, shall be spayed or neutered and inoculated prior to
being released for adoption by the Animal Control Department.
   (F)   Suspected rabid animals not to be redeemed or adopted. Notwithstanding
any other provision of this subchapter, impounded animals which appear to be
suffering from rabies shall not be redeemed or adopted, but shall be dealt with
in accordance with G.S. § 130A-197.
   (G)   Destruction of wounded or diseased animals. Notwithstanding any other
provision of this subchapter, any impounded animal which has no identification
and which is seriously wounded or diseased (and not a rabies suspect) or
continues to act in a feral manner after a reasonable observation period, as
determined by a licensed veterinarian, or the Animal Control Department, shall
be destroyed immediately in a humane manner. If the animal has identification,
the Animal Control Department shall attempt to notify the owner before
disposing of such animal, but if the owner cannot be reached readily, and the
animal is suffering, the Animal Control Department may, in its discretion,
destroy the animal immediately in a humane manner. Such cases shall be
documented on the animal custody record. Davie County Animal Control has the
authority to humanely destroy severely injured livestock under the same
circumstances upon the owner's request or when the owner is unknown.
   (H)   Immediate placement for adoption or destruction of animal surrendered
by owner. An animal surrendered by its owner to the Animal Control Department
may be immediately placed for adoption or humanely destroyed in the discretion
of the Animal Control Department Director or the Director's designee without
compliance with division (D) when the owner:
      (1)   Affirmatively represents in writing that he or she is in fact the
legal owner of said animal;
      (2)   Agrees to hold the county and its officials and employees harmless
from any liability, claims, or damages that may be sustained by reason of the
adoption or destruction of said animal; and
      (3)   Transfers ownership of said animal to the Animal Control
Department.
   (I)   Security for costs.
      (1)   Disposition. Excluding animals under quarantine pursuant to the
provisions of state law, any animal seized pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter or state law may be humanely disposed of by adoption or euthanasia at
the discretion of Davie County Animal Control after three days following the
date on which the animal was seized unless the animal's owner provides a
security bond or cash in accordance with division (2) below.
      (2)   Bond. Any person claiming an ownership interest in any animal
confined pursuant to this chapter may prevent the disposition of the animal
after the three-day period set forth in division (D)(1) by posting a security
bond or cash with the Animal Control Department prior to the animal being
adopted or euthanized in an amount sufficient to guarantee payment of all of
the reasonable expenses expected to be incurred in caring and providing for the
animal, including the estimated cost of medical care, for at least 30 days;
however, such security shall not prevent the Animal Control Department from
disposing of the animal at the end of the 30-day period covered by the posted
bond/cash, unless the person claiming an ownership interest in the animal posts
an additional security bond or cash with the Animal Control Department to
secure payment of the animal's reasonable expenses for an additional 30 days,
and does so prior to the expiration of the first 30-day period. The amount of
the bond/cash shall be determined by Davie County Animal Control based on the
current rate for board and on the condition of the animal after examination by
an animal control officer. Failure to timely post the security shall result in
the animal being immediately forfeited to the Animal Control Department for
disposition in accordance with division (D)(1).
      (3)   Notice. Excluding owner-surrendered animals, if the Animal Control
takes custody of an animal pursuant to this chapter, the Department shall give
notice of this section by posting a copy of it at the location where the animal
was seized or by delivering it to a person residing on the property of the
owner within 24 hours of the time the animal was seized.
      (4)   Security forfeited upon failure to pay costs. If the fees, costs,
and penalties owed for the animal are not paid in full by the end of each
security period, the security already posted shall be forfeited to the county
on said date and used to pay the remaining unpaid fees, costs, and penalties
owing for the animal. The animal's owner shall remain responsible for all
remaining unpaid fees, costs, and penalties. Any security bond/cash remaining
after the payment of all fees, costs, and penalties shall be remitted to the
person who posted the bond/cash.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2014) Penalty, see § 90.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority of county to establish and operate animal shelters, see G.S. §
153A-442
EXOTIC OR WILD ANIMALS
§ 90.15 INTENT.
   It is the intent of the County Commissioners to protect the public against
health and safety hazards that exotic or wild animals pose to the community, as
well as to protect the welfare of the individual animals held in private
possession. By their very nature, these animals are wild and potentially
dangerous, and do not adjust well to a captive environment.
(1996 Code, § 90.10) (Ord. passed 12-19-2005; Ord. passed 6-2-2014)
§ 90.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EXOTIC OR WILD ANIMAL. An animal that would ordinarily be confined to a zoo,
or one that would ordinarily be found in the wilderness of this or any other
country, or one that is a species of animal not indigenous to the United States
or North America, known at law as ferae naturae, one that otherwise is likely
to cause a reasonable person to be fearful of significant destruction of
property or of bodily harm, including but not limited to all raccoons,
squirrels, ocelots, bobcats, wolves, venomous reptiles, and other such animals.
EXOTIC OR WILD ANIMALS also include primates weighing over 25 pounds at
maturity, and non-venomous reptiles more than ten feet in length. EXOTIC OR
WILD ANIMALS specifically do not include animals of a species customarily used
in this state as ordinary household pets, animals of a species customarily used
in this state as domestic farm animals, fish other than piranha confined in an
aquarium, birds, or insects, but does include certain members of the canidae,
ursidae, and felidae families.
(1996 Code, § 90.11) (Ord. passed 12-19-2005; Ord. passed 6-2-2014)
§ 90.17 POSSESSION AND/OR HARBORING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess or harbor any exotic or
wild animals within the county, except as set forth herein.
   (B)   Anyone bringing a prohibited exotic or wild animal into the county
after January 1, 2006, the effective date of this subchapter, shall remove the
animal within seven calendar days of its discovery, or of a notice to remove
the animal.
(1996 Code, § 90.12) (Ord. passed 12-19-2005; Ord. passed 6-2-2014) Penalty,
see §
90.99
§ 90.18 IMPOUNDMENT AND DISPOSITION OF IMPOUNDED CREATURES.
   (A)   Any inherently dangerous exotic or wild mammal, inherently dangerous
reptile, or wild animal, which is kept by any person in contravention of this
subchapter, may be taken up and impounded by the Animal Control Department,
without the necessity of a written order or a court order, for the protection
of the public or the health of the animal.
   (B)   If the animal cannot be taken up safely by the Animal Control
Department or law enforcement, or if proper and safe housing cannot be found
for the animal, the Department may immediately destroy the animal.
   (C)   The owner or harborer of an impounded animal may reclaim the animal if
the person satisfies the Animal Control Department Director, or the Director’s
designee, that a safe and prompt transfer of the animal to an appropriate
location outside the county has been arranged.
   (D)   If an impounded animal’s owner or harborer cannot be located, or if an
impounded animal remains unclaimed, at the discretion of the Animal Control
Department Director, or the Director’s designee, the Animal Control Department
may euthanize the animal, allow it to be lawfully adopted by a zoo, or return
it to the appropriate wilderness.
   (E)   Security for costs.
      (1)   Disposition. Excluding animals under quarantine pursuant to the
provisions of state law, any animal seized pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter or state law may be humanely disposed of by adoption or euthanasia at
the discretion of Davie County Animal Control after three days following the
date on which the animal was seized unless the animal's owner provides a
security bond or cash in accordance with division (E)(2).
      (2)   Bond. Any person claiming an ownership interest in any animal
confined pursuant to this chapter may prevent the disposition of the animal
after the three-day period set forth in this subchapter by posting a security
bond or cash with the Animal Control Department prior to the animal being
adopted or euthanized in an amount sufficient to guarantee payment of all of
the reasonable expenses expected to be incurred in caring and providing for the
animal, including the estimated cost of medical care, for at least 30 days,
however, such security shall not prevent the Animal Control Department from
disposing of the animal at the end of the 30-day period covered by the posted
bond/cash, unless the person claiming an ownership interest in the animal posts
an additional security bond or cash with the Animal Control Department to
secure payment of the animal's reasonable expenses for an additional 30 days,
and does so prior to the expiration of the first 30-day period. The amount of
the bond/cash shall be determined by Davie County Animal Control based on the
current rate for board and on the condition of the animal after examination by
an animal control officer. Failure to timely post the security shall result in
the animal being immediately forfeited to the Animal Control Department for
disposition in accordance with division (E)(1).
      (3)   Notice. Excluding owner-surrendered animals, if the animal control
takes custody of an animal pursuant to this chapter, the Department shall give
notice of this section by posting a copy of it at the location where the animal
was seized or by delivering it to a person residing on the property of the
owner within 24 hours of the time the animal was seized.
      (4)   Security forfeited upon failure, to pay costs. If the fees, costs,
and penalties owed for the animal are not paid in full by the end of each
security period, the security already posted shall be forfeited to the county
on said date and used to pay the remaining unpaid fees, costs, and penalties
owing for the animal. The animal's owner shall remain responsible for all
remaining unpaid fees, costs, and penalties. Any security bond/cash remaining
after the payment of all fees, costs, and penalties shall be remitted to the
person who posted the bond/cash.
(1996 Code, § 90.13) (Ord. passed 12-19-2005; Ord. passed 6-2-2014) Penalty,
see §
90.99
§ 90.19 PREEXISTING OWNERSHIP OR POSSESSION OF EXOTIC OR WILD ANIMALS.
   (A)   Any county resident having established preexisting ownership or
possession of any exotic or wild animal shall, within 30 calendar days of
January 1, 2006, the effective date of this subchapter, contact County Animal
Control and commence the permit/registration process.
   (B)   Failure to commence the permit/registration process for a preexisting
exotic or wild animal before February 2, 2006, shall be governed by §
90.17(B), and shall be a violation of this subchapter as of its effective date.
   (C)   No one may possess more than six adult wild or exotic animals at one
time.
(1996 Code, § 90.14) (Ord. passed 12-19-2005; Ord. passed 6-2-2014) Penalty,
see §
90.99
§ 90.20 PERMIT/REGISTRATION PROCESS.
   (A)   Application. This permit/registration process shall apply to the
following:
      (1)   Those §
90.17 exotic or wild animals already present in the county before January 1,
2006, the effective date of this subchapter; and
      (2)   Exotic or wild animals not specifically prohibited by §
90.17.
   (B)   Fees.
      (1)   Payment of the nonrefundable permit fee of $100 per exotic or wild
animal shall constitute the beginning of the permit/registration process.
      (2)   Any other fees arising from this process shall be at the expense of
the owner or possessor of the animal.
   (C)   Compliance within 90 days.
      (1)   Applicants beginning the permit/registration process will be given
a list of requirements that must be complied with before issuance of a permit.
      (2)   Applicants must complete compliance with the list of requirements
no later than 90 days from the beginning of the permit/registration process.
   (D)   Requirements. Requirements for the issuance of a permit for an exotic
or wild animal include but are not limited to the following:
      (1)   Proof of liability insurance coverage, with a minimum of $1,000,000
per claim, in order to compensate for personal injury or property damage caused
by the animal, or, in lieu of insurance, a surety bond posted with the County
Manager in the same amount, conditioned upon payment of such damages;
      (2)   The owner of the property harboring the exotic or wild animal shall
post a sign at each entry point to the property in question, warning of the
animal’s presence, in order to assist Animal Control authorities in identifying
the presence of the exotic or wild animal;
      (3)   Required signs shall be at least three square feet in size, and
shall, at a minimum, identify the following in reflective letters of a
contrasting color so as to be easily read on the background of the sign:
         (a)   The word “WARNING” in all capitals at least four inches high;
         (b)   The common name of the exotic or wild animal;
         (c)   The location on the property of the exotic or wild animal; and
         (d)   The potential danger posed by the exotic or wild animal (biting,
clawing, venom, constriction, kicking, and the like).
       (4)   Obtaining from a veterinarian a health certificate detailing the
health and condition of the exotic or wild animal; and
      (5)   All exotic or wild animals shall be housed in facilities designed
with the characteristics and potential dangers of the particular exotic or wild
animal in mind, as determined by the Animal Control Officer.
   (E)   Issuance of a permit.
      (1)   When the exotic or wild animal owner or possessor has completed the
list of restrictions, but no later than 60 days from the beginning of the
permit/registration process, unless extended by the County Manager, the owner
shall contact and arrange for an initial inspection by County Animal Control,
which shall not unreasonably delay this initial inspection.
      (2)   (a)   When County Animal Control has conducted its initial
inspection and found the list of restrictions to have been completed in a
satisfactory manner, it shall issue the permit to the owner or possessor of the
exotic or wild animal.
         (b)   A condition of the permit shall be that the Animal Control shall
have the right to periodic inspections to ensure compliance with this
subchapter.
      (3)   The initial term of this permit shall be three years.
      (4)   This permit shall be renewable every three years, or the lesser of
the life of the exotic or wild animal or the length of its residency in the
county, upon payment of the $25 permit renewal fee, and satisfactory completion
of a follow-up inspection by County Animal Control of the facility housing the
exotic or wild animal.
      (5)   This permit shall be presented for renewal prior to the expiration
of the current term; otherwise, the permit is considered expired.
      (6)   The county may adopt appropriate regulations to implement this
subchapter.
(1996 Code, § 90.15) (Ord. passed 12-19-2005; Ord. passed 6-2-2014) Penalty,
see §
90.99
§ 90.21 EXEMPTIONS.
   This subchapter does not apply to the following:
   (A)   Animal control or law enforcement agencies or officials acting under
the authority of this subchapter;
   (B)   Licensed veterinary hospitals or clinics that are temporarily
treating/housing exotic or wild animals;
   (C)   Any licensed and accredited research, medical, or educational
institution;
   (D)   Persons temporarily transporting exotic or wild animals through the
county, provided that such transport time shall not exceed 24 hours;
   (E)   Nonresident circuses, carnivals, or traveling fairs for no longer than
1 ten-day period, per each separate location where such circus is held within
the county per calendar year;
   (F)   Exotic or wild animals under the control of the State Zoological Park;
or
   (G)   Service animals assisting disabled persons.
(1996 Code, § 90.16) (Ord. passed 12-19-2005; Ord. passed 6-2-2014)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Criminal penalties. If any person shall violate §§
90.03 through
90.21 of this chapter or any provision thereof, he or she shall be guilty of a
Class 3 misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500.
   (B)   Each day of violation of any provision of this chapter shall
constitute a separate offense. The payment of a fine imposed in criminal
proceedings pursuant to this section does not relieve the person of the
liability for any taxes, fees, costs, or penalties otherwise imposed under this
chapter.
   (C)   Further, a violation of the above section of this code shall be a
violation of G.S. § 14-4 and such violation shall be classified as a Class 3
misdemeanor with a maximum fine of up to $450, except that any violations of §§
150.999,
154.99,
155.999, and
156.999 shall not be a violation of G.S. § 14-4 and shall not be considered a
misdemeanor.
(1996 Code, § 90.99) (Ord. passed 12-19-2005; Ord. passed 6-2-2014)
CHAPTER 91: FIRE, RESCUE AND PROTECTION
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Authority
   
91.02   Intents
   
91.03   Purposes
Fire Marshal’s Office
   
91.10   Creation of position
   
91.11   Duties of the Fire Marshal’s Office
   
91.12   Authority of the Fire Marshal’s Office
   
91.13   Intergovernmental authority
Fire Code
   
91.20   State Fire Code enforcement
   
91.21   Permits
   
91.22   Fees, cost, and penalties
   
91.23   Inspections
   
91.24   Enforcement procedures
   
91.25   Procedure for designating fire lanes
   
91.26   Obstruction of fire stations and fire hydrants
   
91.27   Bonfires and other outdoor fires
   
91.28   Extinguishment of fires on order
   
91.29   Pyrotechnics
   
91.30   Fees, Cost and Penalties Schedule
   
91.31   Adoption of technical codes and standards by reference
Financial Assistance for County Fire and Rescue Protection
   
91.40   Legal authority to fund fire and rescue services
   
91.41   Fire protection districts
   
91.42   Qualifications for fire and rescue funding; organization and structure
 
   
91.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Required Davie County Permits
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted pursuant to the authority contained in G.S. Chapter
153A, Article 11, subject to any limitations and authority of a county to apply
this chapter within an incorporated municipality. The county encourages each
municipality within Davie County to adopt this chapter as their own.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2021; Ord. passed 2-5-2024)
§ 91.02 INTENTS.
   (A)   It is the intent of this chapter to prescribe regulations consistent
with nationally recognized good practice for the safeguarding of life and
property within the jurisdiction of the county from the hazards of fire and
explosion arising from the storage, handling, and use of hazardous substances,
materials and devices, and from hazardous conditions in the use or occupancy of
buildings or premises.
   (B)   This chapter shall be deemed an exercise of the police power of the
county for the preservation and protection of the public health, safety, and
welfare and for enforcement of the North Carolina State Building Code: Fire
Code.
   (C)   This chapter shall not be construed to hold the county responsible for
any damage to persons or property by reason of the inspection or re-inspection
authorized in this chapter or failure to inspect or re-inspect or the permits
issued or denied as provided in this chapter or by reason of the approval or
disapproval of any equipment authorized herein.
   (D)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to conflict with the
provisions of the North Carolina General Statutes pertaining to fire
prevention; in the event of an ambiguity between this chapter and a provision
of the statutes, the latter shall prevail.
   (E)   This chapter shall be known as the “Fire, Rescue and Protection Code
of Davie County, North Carolina”.
   (F)   The services covered under this chapter include fire, rescue and first
responder services. All references hereinafter made in this chapter to fire and
rescue protection services shall also include first responder services.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2021; Ord. passed 2-5-2024)
§ 91.03 PURPOSES.
   The purposes of this chapter are to:
   (A)   Establish a program for the prevention of fires and the protection of
life and property in Davie County from the damage caused by uncontrolled fire;
   (B)   Establish a means of enforcing the North Carolina State Building Code:
Fire Code in Davie County;
   (C)   Aid in the reduction of the cost of fire insurance to the county and
its citizens;
   (D)   Establish and define the duties, powers, and authority of the Davie
Fire Marshal's Office in the investigation and prevention of fire and in
enforcement of the North Carolina State Building Code: Fire Code;
   (E)   Encourage and establish safe, effective, and well-trained firefighting
and rescue organizations;
   (F)   Prevent interference with firefighting and fire prevention activities;
   (G)   Establish authority to collect fees, enforce compliance and assess
penalties;
   (H)   Provide for the prudent and fiduciary expenditure of county taxpayer
funds for fire, rescue and first responder services.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2021; Ord. passed 2-5-2024)
FIRE MARSHAL’S OFFICE
§ 91.10 CREATION OF POSITION.
   The Davie Fire Marshal's Office is hereby established. The County Manager
may assign the duties of the Fire Marshal to any employee(s) of the county
having other duties. The Fire Marshal's Office shall take direction from the
County Manager.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2021; Ord. passed 2-5-2024)
§ 91.11 DUTIES OF THE FIRE MARSHAL'S OFFICE.
   (A)   The Fire, Rescue and Protection Code of the county, state and federal
laws and ordinances as they pertain to fire safety and fire prevention, shall
be enforced by the Davie Fire Marshal's Office and/or authorized
representatives or as otherwise provided in this chapter.
   (B)   The Fire Marshal's Office shall have the following duties and
authority in fire prevention and code enforcement as permitted in G.S. §§ 153A-
234, 58-79-20 and 58-79-1; including but not limited to:
      (1)   Keep the County Manager and Board of County Commissioners informed
of the progress and development of each fire and rescue department providing
service to the county and advise the Board of County Commissioners on
improvements related to emergency services;
      (2)   Act as liaison between fire departments and rescue squads that
serve the county, the County Manager and Board of County Commissioners;
      (3)   Assist fire departments, if requested, in the improvement of
insurance ratings;
      (4)   Coordinate training activities for firefighters and rescue
personnel if requested;
      (5)   Assist with development of a fire prevention program for the county
which will be offered to fire departments, schools, industries and the general
public;
      (6)   Make all fire prevention inspections, including but not limited to,
the periodic inspections and reports of school buildings within the Davie
County School District and the inspections of childcare facilities;
      (7)   Perform those duties and activities as set forth in the Davie
County Emergency Operations Plan;
      (8)   Serve as the Emergency Management Coordinators for the county;
      (9)   Assist with fire scene investigations upon request of the officer
in charge of the scene of the fire;
      (10)   Perform such other duties and activities as the county Manager may
from time to time require of the Fire Marshal's Office.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2021; Ord. passed 2-5-2024)
§ 91.12 AUTHORITY OF THE FIRE MARSHAL'S OFFICE.
   The Fire Marshal's Office is hereby authorized, subject to review and
approval of the County Manager, to promulgate rules, regulations and procedures
necessary to enforce this chapter.
   (A)   As authorized by G.S § 58-79-1, the Fire Marshal's Office shall have
authority to conduct a fire origin and cause investigation of any fire
occurring within the county as deemed necessary, or requested by the officer in
charge of the scene.
   (B)   The Fire Marshal shall manage the day to day operations of Squad 81,
using the direction of the County Manager.
   (C)   The Fire Marshal's Office shall have the following inspection
authority:
      (1)   Pursuant to G.S. § 58-79-20, Fire Marshal personnel may enter any
building, structure, marine vessel, vehicle or premises (with exception of one
and two family dwellings) within the jurisdiction of this chapter for the
purpose of examination. Should the representative find in any building or upon
any premises overcrowding in violation of occupancy limits established pursuant
to the North Carolina State Building Code, combustible material or inflammable
conditions dangerous to the safety of such building or premises the
representative shall order the same to be removed or remedied. The owner or
occupant of the building or premises shall comply with the order as soon as
feasible.
      (2)   The Fire Marshal's Office representative or any fire chief or their
authorized representatives of fire departments serving fire protection
districts shall have the right to enter any building or premises without
permission or warrant in the event of any emergency situation constituting a
threat to human life, property or the public safety, for the purpose of
eliminating, controlling or abating the dangerous condition or situation. Any
person who wrongfully and intentionally denies the representative of the Fire
Marshal's Office emergency entrance or access to a building, facility or
premises while performing official duties shall be in violation of this
chapter.
   (D)   The Fire Marshal's Office are the only entities to make inspections of
buildings, institutions, facilities and premises required to be inspected by
the North Carolina State Building Code: Fire Code and G.S. § 115C-525(b).
   (E)   Frequency rates for inspections of occupancies as mandated by the
North Carolina General Statutes shall supersede any schedule set out in this
chapter. Nothing in this section shall prevent the Fire Marshal's Office.
   (F)   Requests for fire alarm testing for government buildings and schools
shall be evaluated and approved by the Fire Marshal's Office prior to the
testing.
   (G)   The Fire Marshal's Office shall maintain a document providing the
specific technical information and requirements for the emergency responder
radio coverage system within new and existing structures, as required by the
North Carolina State Building Code and/or the North Carolina State Building
Code: Fire Code. The document shall contain, but not be limited to, minimum
signal strength, the various frequencies required, the location of radio sites,
effective radiated power of radio sites, amplification and/or signal booster
systems, standby power, and/or battery needs and other supporting technical
information. Before installation by the owner, all items shall be discussed for
approval and then tested prior to implementation by the Fire Marshal's Office.
The Fire Marshal's Office shall have the right to enter onto the property at
any reasonable time to conduct field testing to verify the required level of
radio coverage.
   (H)   The Fire Marshal's Office shall require and evaluate applications and
issue any permits it deems advisable for those conditions as prescribed in the
North Carolina State Building Code: Fire Code and this chapter. The Fire
Marshal's Office may refuse or deny the issuance of a permit if all of the
conditions of this chapter or other policies and procedures promulgated by him
or her have not been met.
      (1)   Any person engaged in or desiring to engage in any activity which
requires a permit as listed in the North Carolina State Building Code: Fire
Code, shall obtain, complete, and file an application with the Fire Marshal's
Office and/or County Development Services. Failure to obtain, complete, and
file an application shall constitute a violation of this chapter. The Fire
Marshal's Office and/or County Development Services is authorized to refuse,
deny or revoke any permit sought or granted for non-compliance or violation of
this chapter or the technical codes adopted in this chapter by reference.
      (2)   No person shall maintain, store or handle materials or conduct
processes which produce conditions hazardous to life or property or install
equipment used in connection with such activities without filing an application
and obtaining a permit as required by the Fire Marshal's Office and/or County
Development Services and prescribed in the North Carolina State Building Code:
Fire Code and this chapter.
      (3)   Permits shall be renewed on or before the expiration date indicated
on the permit. The Fire Marshal's Office and/or County Development Services may
require the completion and filing of a new application and inspection.
      (4)   An owner may appeal any refusal, denial, or revocation of a permit
to the North Carolina Commissioner of Insurance, pursuant to G.S. § 153A-374.
   (I)   The Fire Marshal's Office may charge and collect such fees, and civil
penalties as the Board of County Commissioners may authorize and adopt as a
part of this chapter. The Fire Marshal's Office may also charge and bill users
of services, any user fees instituted, and adopted by the Board of County
Commissioners. The specific kind of fees and the amount thereof shall be fixed
in an annual schedule of fire prevention fees approved by the Board of County
Commissioners in coordination with the annual budget ordinance.
   (J)   The Fire Marshal's Office shall have the authority to require the
designation of fire lanes and to require owners or occupants to erect all signs
necessary to designate an area a fire lane.
   (K)   Removal of obstructions and illegally parked vehicles.
      (1)   The Fire Marshal's Office shall have the authority to remove any
vehicle found obstructing any fire station, fire hydrant, fire protection
equipment, or designated and marked fire lane. Any cost associated with such
removal shall be assessed against the owner of the removed vehicle. The owner
of such vehicle shall pay all reasonable costs incidental to the removal and
storage of the vehicle due for the violation of prohibited parking before
regaining possession of the vehicle.
      (2)   The Fire Marshal's Office, and/or responding officer of the fire
district shall have the authority to remove any vegetation, fencing, or any
other objects found to be obstructing fire hydrants.
   (L)   Enforcement.
      (1)   The Fire, Rescue, and Protection Code of Davie County shall be
enforced by the Davie Fire Marshal's Office and/or County Development Services
or as otherwise provided herein.
      (2)   In enforcing this chapter, the Fire Marshal's Office is authorized
to issue notices of violation, corrective or abatement orders, stop-work
orders, civil citations, and civil penalties, to cause seek the issuance of
criminal summons for misdemeanors, to contact the law enforcement agency with
jurisdiction to investigate felony crimes, and to seek injunctive relief from
the courts. The Fire Marshal's Office shall have the authority to summarily
abate any condition that is in violation of any provision of this chapter or
the North Carolina State Building Code: Fire Code if it presents an immediate
fire hazard to life or property.
      (3)   Any cost associated with the enforcement of divisions (1) and (2)
above shall be the responsibility of the owner of the property involved, and
such cost shall be assessed against the property owner and shall be a lien
against the said property until paid in full by the owner.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2021; Ord. passed 2-5-2024)
§ 91.13 INTERGOVERNMENTAL AUTHORITY.
   The Fire Marshal's Office may request and shall receive so far as may be
necessary for the discharge of its duties, the assistance and cooperation of
other officials of the county and any municipality in the county.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2021; Ord. passed 2-5-2024)
FIRE CODE
§ 91.20 STATE FIRE CODE ENFORCEMENT.
   The North Carolina State Building Code's provisions, which are intended to
prevent or limit or lessen or regulate the hazards or damages from fire and the
provisions of the North Carolina State Building Code: Fire Code, shall be
enforced in the county by the Fire Marshal's Office. Copies of this chapter,
the North Carolina State Building Code: Fire Code, and the portions of the
Building Code enforced under this provision shall be available for public
inspection in the Fire Marshal's Office . Any person may obtain copies of non-
copyrighted materials upon payment of a reasonable copying charge and at
reasonable times during the normal business hours of such offices.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2021; Ord. passed 2-5-2024)
§ 91.21 PERMITS.
   (A)   Adoption of Fire Code permits. In addition to mandatory operational
and construction permits required by the North Carolina State Building Code:
Fire Code, Davie County hereby adopts the optional operational and construction
permits, as defined by the Code, listed in Appendix A of this chapter.
   (B)   Permit required. No person shall construct, maintain, store or handle
materials, or conduct processes, systems, or install equipment used in
connection with such activities that are regulated by the North Carolina State
Building Code: Fire Code without first obtaining a permit from the county. No
person shall engage in any use specifically prescribed in the North Carolina
State Building Code: Fire Code unless such person has obtained a permit from
the county. This shall apply in all commercial structures excluding one- and
two-family dwellings.
   (C)   Application. The Fire Marshal's Office and/or the County Development
Services Office shall create a permit application or applications to set forth
the information required prior to issuance of a permit as prescribed by the
North Carolina State Building Code: Fire Code. Such application or applications
shall be submitted through the County Development Services Office with
remittance of the application fee upon submittal.
   (D)   Commercial plan review. All submitted applications for construction or
operational permits shall be subjected to a fire plan review as it applies to
the North Carolina State Building Code: Fire Code, local ordinances, state
laws, and/or other regulatory documents, prior to permit issuance.
   (E)   Conditions of permits. Conditions of a permit shall comply with
provisions set forth in the North Carolina State Building Code: Fire Code.
   (F)   Duration of permits. Duration of a permit shall comply with provisions
set forth in the North Carolina State Building Code: Fire Code. An operational
permit shall remain in effect until reissued, renewed, or revoked for such a
time as prescribed on the permit. Permits are not transferable, and any change
in occupancy, operation, tenancy, or ownership shall require a new permit to be
issued. Construction permits are valid as specified in G.S. § 153A-358 or until
the permitted work has passed final inspection.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2021; Ord. passed 2-5-2024)
§ 91.22 FEES, COST, AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Permit application fees, cost, and penalties. The Board of County
Commissioners shall approve permit application fees, cost, and penalties. Such
fees, cost, and penalties shall be defined in the Fees, Cost, and Penalties
Schedule of the county’s annual budget package.
   (B)   Commercial plan review fees. Commercial plan review fees are in
addition to any other required permit fees, with the exception of occupancies
installing fire suppression systems. Those occupancies which install fire
suppression systems shall follow the commercial construction/fire suppression
plan review schedule, plus any additional permit fees. Such fees shall be
defined in the fees schedule of the county’s annual budget package.
   (C)   Initial inspection of permitted work. Upon initial inspection of
permitted construction or operation (fees will be based upon approved fee
schedule).
   (D)   Re-inspection fee. A fee shall be assessed for each subsequent
inspection of noncompliant permitted work or use.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2021; Ord. passed 2-5-2024)
§ 91.23 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Inspections pursuant to permit applications shall be as set forth in
the North Carolina State Building Code: Fire Code. It is the responsibility of
the permit holder to notify the County Development Services Office 48 business
hours in advance of the time when permitted work is ready for inspection.
   (B)   The Fire Marshal's Office are authorized to conduct such inspections
as deemed necessary to determine compliance with laws, codes, and standards set
forth in the North Carolina General Statutes, Fire Codes, and Davie County
Fire, Rescue and Protection Ordinance.
   (C)   Fire prevention inspections shall be conducted in accordance with the
frequencies set forth by North Carolina General Statutes, North Carolina State
Building Code: Fire Code, Davie County Fire. Rescue and Protection Ordinance,
upon receiving a fire code violation complaint, or as deemed necessary.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2021; Ord. passed 2-5-2024)
§ 91.24 ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Violations. Violations of the North Carolina State Building Code: Fire
Code, local ordinances, state laws, and/or other regulatory documents shall be
remedied as prescribed in this subchapter.
   (B)   Enforcement of codes and remedies for violations.
      (1)   Notice of violation. When the Davie Fire Marshal's Office finds a
building, premises, vehicle, storage facility, or outdoor area that is in
violation of this code, the Fire Marshal's Office is authorized to prepare a
digital report of violation describing the conditions deemed unsafe and, when
compliance is not immediate, specifying a time for re-inspection.
      (2)   Service of notice. A notice may be served by certified mail, return
receipt requested, by email or in person by a representative of the Fire
Marshal's Office, upon the owner, occupant, or an agent or employee or person
of some responsibility upon the premises. However, the failure to deliver a
notice to the owner, if other than the occupant, shall not invalidate or
nullify the legal force and effect of any such notice or citation.
      (3)   Correction of violations and penalties for non-correction.
         (a)   Initial inspection. When the Fire Marshal's Office finds a
building, premises, vehicle, storage facility, or outdoor area that is in
violation of this code, the Fire Marshal's Office is authorized to prepare a
digital report of violation describing the conditions deemed noncompliant and,
when compliance is not immediate, the responsible party shall be given at least
30 days prior to the first follow up inspection.
         (b)   First compliance inspection. Upon the first compliance
inspection, a civil penalty shall be assessed for each violation not corrected
from the initial inspection. The responsible party shall be given at least 15
days prior to the second compliance inspection.
         (c)   Second compliance inspection. Upon the second compliance
inspection, a civil penalty shall be assessed for each violation not corrected.
The responsible party shall be given at least seven days prior to any
subsequent follow up inspection.
         (d)   Third compliance inspection. Upon the third compliance
inspection, a civil penalty, as set forth in the Fees, Cost, and Penalties
Schedule, shall be assessed for each day, each violation is not corrected. The
responsible party shall be given at least seven days prior to any subsequent
follow up inspection.
         (e)   Subsequent inspections. If, after any additional inspections,
the violation has not been corrected, the county reserves the right to correct
the violation and assess the cost of said correction to the property owner. The
property owner shall have 30 days in which time to pay the assessment. In the
event the property owner fails to pay said assessment, the county has the right
to bring an action in civil court to enforce the assessment. Nothing contained
herein shall invalidate the rights of the State of North Carolina from any
criminal action for any violation.
         (f)   Approved plan of action. At any time during the inspection
process the representative from the Fire Marshal's Office shall have the
authority to require the responsible party to submit a plan of action for
violation correction in lieu of civil penalties.
      (4)   Imminent fire hazard. If a violation constitutes an imminent fire
or life safety hazard, the Fire Marshal's Office, or fire department official
in charge of the incident, shall serve a "Notice to Abate" the imminent fire or
life safety hazards on the owner or occupant, operator, or another responsible
party of the property where the imminent hazard is discovered. The owner,
occupant, operator, or other person responsible for such hazard, in addition to
immediately abating the hazard, a civil penalty may be accessed as set forth in
the Fees, Cost, and Penalties Schedule.
      (5)   Summary abatement. Where conditions exist that are deemed hazardous
to life and property, the Fire Marshal's Office or fire department official in
charge of the incident is authorized to abate summarily such hazardous
conditions that are in violation of the North Carolina State Building Code:
Fire Code. Any cost associated with said summary abatement shall be borne by
the property owner. The property owner shall have 30 days in which time to pay
the cost of the abatement. In the event the property owner fails to pay said
cost, the county has the right to bring an action in civil court to collect
said cost. Nothing contained herein shall invalidate the rights of the State of
North Carolina from any criminal action for any violation.
      (6)   Fire hazard as public nuisance. The maintenance of conditions which
constitute a fire hazard may be declared by the Fire Marshal's Office to be a
public nuisance and may be summarily abated as directed by the Fire Marshal's
Office, County Development Services, the fire officer in charge, or law
enforcement officer. Civil penalties, as set forth in the Fees, Cost, and
Penalties Schedule, shall be assessed by the Fire Marshal's Office upon
discovery.
      (7)   Maintaining a fire hazard. No person shall knowingly maintain a
fire hazard. Violations recurring inside of the inspection cycle are subject to
a civil penalty as set forth in the Fees, Cost, and Penalties Schedule.
      (8)   Installation, modification, or operation of a Group H (high hazard)
occupancy without a permit. If any Group H occupancy is found to be installed,
modified, or operated, without a permit, a civil penalty as set forth in the
fees, cost and penalties schedule shall be assessed.
      (9)   Installation or modification of a fire protection system, in a
commercial structure, without a permit. If a fire protection system is found to
be installed or modified without being permitted, a civil penalty as set forth
in the Fees, Cost, and Penalties Schedule shall be assessed. Fire protection
systems shall include but are not limited to, suppression, detection, or
notification systems.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2021; Ord. passed 2-5-2024)
§ 91.25 PROCEDURE FOR DESIGNATING FIRE LANES.
   (A)   The Fire Marshal's Office, a property owner, or a tenant may petition
the Board of County Commissioners to designate an area as an official fire
lane. The Board of County Commissioners, after hearing the Fire Marshal's
Office representative, the property owner and/or tenant may adopt an ordinance
making the designation.
   (B)   If the petition is initiated by the Fire Marshal's Office, it shall be
served on the property owner or tenant of the property by registered mail,
return receipt requested. The property owner or tenant shall have 30 days from
the date of delivery to mail a written response to the petition. The written
response shall be delivered to the Fire Marshal's Office. The property owner,
in his response, may object or consent to the designation. After 30 days from
the date of the service of the petition, the matter shall be heard by the Board
of County Commissioners.
   (C)   The Fire Marshal's Office and/or County Development Services may
negotiate changes or make recommendations to the petitioning party with regards
to the area being considered for designation within 30 days. The matter shall
be heard by the Board of County Commissioners.
   (D)   The petition, which shall be provided by the Fire Marshal's Office,
shall contain the following:
      (1)   The name and address of the property owner;
      (2)   Name and address of any tenants of the building;
      (3)   Tax map number and description of the property;
      (4)   Description of the location of the proposed fire lane; and
      (5)   Plan indicating how the area will be designated and marked to
include the size and location of signs.
   (E)   After hearing the property owner and/or tenant and the Fire Marshal's
Office and/or County Development Services, the Board of County Commissioners
may vote to table the matter for further study, or vote to deny the petition or
vote to approve the petition.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2021; Ord. passed 2-5-2024)
§ 91.26 OBSTRUCTION OF FIRE STATIONS AND FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   Obstruction, interference, tampering with fire hydrants, or fire
protection equipment. No person shall obstruct, interfere with the use of, or
tamper with, any fire hydrant or with any fire protection equipment. No
vegetation or other obstructions may be placed within five feet of any fire
hydrant. Any person who violates this section shall be subject to summary
abatement and civil penalties as set forth in the Fees, Cost and Penalties
Schedule upon discovery.
   (B)   Prohibited parking. Parking on a highway in front of a private
driveway, fire hydrant, fire station, or fire lane is a violation of and
punishable in accordance with G.S. § 20-162. Any vehicle found obstructing any
fire hydrant, fire protection equipment, designated and marked fire lane, or
fire station may be removed or towed away by or under the direction of the Fire
Marshal's Office to a storage area or garage. The owner of such vehicle shall
be deemed to have appointed the Fire Marshal's Office as his or her agent for
the purpose of arranging for the transportation and safe storage of the
vehicle. The owner of such vehicle, before obtaining possession thereof, shall
pay all reasonable costs incidental to the removal and storage of the vehicle
due for the violation of prohibited parking. It shall be the responsibility of
the property owner to ensure that fire lanes are clearly marked and open and
accessible to fire apparatus at all times.
   (C)   Fire hydrants. For new residential and private commercial
installations, the location and number of on-site hydrants shall be designated
by the Fire Marshal's Office (in consultation with the appropriate Fire Chief),
with the minimum arrangement being so as to have a hydrant available for
distribution of hose to any portion of any building on the premises at
distances not exceeding 200 feet. Fire hydrants are required in new business
and new multifamily dwelling areas and shall not be more than 500 feet apart.
Fire hydrants are also required in all areas where public water is available.
Such hydrants shall not be more than 500 feet apart, except for county
transmission water-lines installed by the county, which shall have fire
hydrants no more than 500 feet apart.
      (1)   The placement of all hydrants is subject to the written approval of
the local fire department chief and/or his or her representative from the Fire
Marshal's Office, which must be obtained at the time or prior to the time the
development permit is issued.
      (2)   Generally, fire hydrants should be located at street intersections,
placed at the PC (point of curvature) or PT (point of tangency) of the radius,
but not in the radius. Intermediate fire hydrant placement shall be located at
property corners. Consideration should be given to other utilities such as
power, telephone, and cable locations. In all instances, hydrants should be
placed to afford protection from vehicle collisions, etc.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2021; Ord. passed 2-5-2024)
§ 91.27 BONFIRES AND OTHER OUTDOOR FIRES.
   (A)   No person shall kindle or maintain any bonfire or other outdoor fire
or authorize any such fire to be kindled or maintained on any land owned by
that person unless the location is more than 50 feet from any structure and
adequate provisions are made to prevent fire from spreading to within 50 feet
of any structure or other property.
   (B)   Any person who receives a permit to burn must notify all surrounding
property owners who meet the following conditions:
      (1)   Own property within a 50-foot radius from the location of the
proposed burning; and
      (2)   An occupied dwelling is located on the aforementioned property.
   (C)   Bonfires or other outdoor fires shall be constantly attended by a
competent person until such fire is extinguished. Such person shall have fire
extinguishing equipment readily available for use.
   (D)   The Fire Marshal's Office, Police, or Sheriff's Office may prohibit
any or all bonfires and other outdoor fires when atmospheric conditions or
local circumstances make such fire hazardous.
   (E)   Open burning of leaves, tree branches, or yard trimmings originating
on the premises of private residences may be burned on such premises, pursuant
to the regulations in this section, only if no public curbside pickup service
is available.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful, per G.S. § 106-943, for any person to start or
cause to be started any fire or ignite any material in any woodland, as defined
by G.S. § 106-904, under the protection of the Department of Agriculture and
Consumer Services or within 500 feet of any such woodland during the hours
starting at midnight and ending at 4:00 p.m. without first obtaining a permit
from the Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services. Permits may be
obtained from forest rangers or other agents authorized by the forest ranger to
issue such permits in the county in which the fire is to be started.
   (G)   No person shall conduct, cause, or permit open burning of household
trash, rubber, plastics, chemically treated materials, or other materials which
produce excessive or noxious smoke including, but not limited to, tires,
railroad ties, chemically treated lumber, composite shingles, tar paper,
insulation, composition board, sheetrock, wiring, paint, or paint filters.
   (H)   If any outdoor burning or smoke from such burning shall cause a
nuisance, the Fire Marshal's Office, Police or Sheriffs Office, or responding
officer of the Fire Department shall order that such burning be extinguished.
Whether an outdoor burning constitutes a nuisance is in the sole discretion of
the fire official or law enforcement officer called to the scene.
   (I)   Any burning permitted under this section shall not be commenced, and
shall be immediately terminated, upon declaration of an alert warning or
emergency stage of an air pollution episode when proclaimed by the Fire
Marshal's Office or any other federal or state regulatory agency.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2021; Ord. passed 2-5-2024)
§ 91.28 EXTINGUISHMENT OF FIRES ON ORDER.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to continue to burn materials of
any kind after having been ordered to extinguish burning material by the Fire
Marshal's Office, County Forest Ranger, the Chief or responding officer of the
Fire Department in whose district the burning takes place, or law enforcement
officer of Davie County. Person(s) conducting unauthorized burning are subject
to local, state, and federal criminal and civil action.
   (B)   Any official authorized to enforce this section shall also have the
authority to cause the fire department in the fire district in which the
burning takes place to be dispatched for the purpose of extinguishing the fire.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2021; Ord. passed 2-5-2024)
§ 91.29 PYROTECHNICS.
   In addition to the rules and regulations stated in the North Carolina State
Building Code: Fire Code, which is adopted by reference in this chapter, the
County Board of County Commissioners adopts the following provisions:
   (A)   The Davie Fire Marshal's Office and/or County Development Services
Office is hereby granted the authority, given to the Board of County
Commissioners by G.S. Chapter 14, Article 54, to issue permits for use of
pyrotechnics within the county.
   (B)   No person shall engage in the use of pyrotechnics without first
completing an application and obtaining a permit from the County Development
Services Office ten days in advance of such use. The names and addresses of all
operators must appear on the application, and they must be approved by the Fire
Marshal's Office before any display or use of the pyrotechnics.
   (C)   The County Development Services Office shall issue the permit after
all requirements of the North Carolina State Building Code: Fire Code have been
met, the appropriate fees paid, and the applicant has posted a bond or
certificate of insurance. The bond or certificate of insurance shall be in the
amount of at least $1,000,000 to cover damages to real or personal property and
an additional $1,000,000 to cover damages for personal injuries.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2021; Ord. passed 2-5-2024)
§ 91.30 FEES, COST AND PENALTIES SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of the code hereby
adopted or who shall fail to comply with any judicial warrant, lawful order, or
regulation made thereunder or who builds in violation of any specifications or
plans submitted and approved thereunder or any permit issued thereunder, shall
be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor. Each day that such violation continues
shall constitute a separate offense. In the name of Davie County, the Fire
Marshal's Office and/or County Development Services Office, through the County
Attorney, may obtain a court order to enjoin the construction or erection of
any facility, building, or structure which does not conform to the provisions
of the code.
   (B)   This code may be enforced by any of the remedies set forth in G.S. §
153A-123, in addition to others specifically set out herein or in the Fire,
Rescue and Protection Code of the county.
   (C)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this code shall be
subject to a civil penalty, as set forth in the Fees, Cost, and Penalties
Schedule of this chapter, for each violation in the amount established by
ordinance of the Board of County Commissioners. Said civil penalty schedule
shall be filed with the Clerk to the Board of County Commissioners and on the
county website for public inspection. Each day of violation shall constitute a
separate and distinct offense.
   (D)   Civil penalties must be paid within 30 days after a citation has been
issued by the Fire Marshal's Office for a violation and are authorized to issue
written citations in the name of Davie County for violations.
   (E)   If any person shall unlawfully and willfully violate this chapter or
chapter or any provision thereof, he or she shall be guilty of a Class 3
misdemeanor and shall be fined as provided by G.S. § 15A-1340.23.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2021; Ord. passed 2-5-2024)
§ 91.31 ADOPTION OF TECHNICAL CODES AND STANDARDS BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted by reference and incorporated into this
chapter the North Carolina State Building Code: Fire Code. Copies of the Fire,
Rescue and Protection Code of Davie County, and all technical codes and
standards adopted by reference, shall be filed with and available for public
inspection on the county website.
   (B)   Amendments to codes and standards adopted by reference herein which
are adopted and published by the North Carolina State Building Code Council
shall be effective in the county at the time such amendments become a part of
North Carolina State Building Code: Fire Code.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2021; Ord. passed 2-5-2024)
FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE FOR COUNTY FIRE AND RESCUE PROTECTION
§ 91.40 LEGAL AUTHORITY TO FUND FIRE AND RESCUE SERVICES.
   (A)   Davie County may establish, organize, equip, support, and maintain a
fire department; may prescribe the duties of the fire department; may provide
financial assistance to incorporated fire departments; may contract for
firefighting or prevention services with one or more counties, cities, or other
units of local government or with an agency of the state government, or with
one or more incorporated fire departments; and may for these purposes
appropriate funds not otherwise limited as to use by law. The county may also
designate fire districts or parts of existing districts and prescribe the
boundaries thereof for insurance grading purposes.
   (B)   Davie County may establish, organize, equip, support, and maintain a
rescue agency; may prescribe the duties of the rescue department; may provide
financial assistance to incorporated rescue agencies, and may, for these
purposes, appropriate funds not otherwise limited as to use by law.
   (C)   Davie County may make grants of financial assistance, upon an executed
contract, to fire departments and rescue agencies in the county upon their
compliance with the minimum requirements hereinafter contained.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2021; Ord. passed 2-5-2024)
§ 91.41 FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The area of the county within which a fire department will provide
fire protection (fire protection area) and the boundaries of such district
shall be clearly shown on a map of the county, as prepared by County GIS.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of each fire department in the county
to determine if revisions to the Fire Protection District map are necessary.
The County Manager will consult with the Board of County Commissioners who will
make a decision on mapping revisions within 90 days of the date of the county's
receipt of notification.
   (C)   The Board of County Commissioners have authority to modify the Fire
Protection District map boundaries at any time.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2021; Ord. passed 2-5-2024)
§ 91.42 QUALIFICATIONS FOR FIRE AND RESCUE FUNDING; ORGANIZATION AND STRUCTURE.
   In order to qualify for financial assistance from Davie County, a fire and/
or rescue agency must be organized as a non-profit corporation under the laws
of North Carolina (11 NCAC 05A), or a department of a municipal government in
the county. Each fire and/or rescue agency shall execute a contract and comply
with all terms therein.
   (A)   Each fire and/or rescue agency desiring to provide the citizens of
Davie County emergency services and receive county financial assistance under
the terms of this subchapter shall execute a service contract between the
agency and the county which contract shall be signed by the president and the
secretary of the corporation.
   (B)   If a fire and/or rescue provider is in breach of their signed service
agreement, the county may exercise its remedies as provided in the service
agreement.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2021; Ord. passed 2-5-2024)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   If any person, including any employee or agent of the county, shall
unlawfully and willfully violate any provisions of this chapter, upon
conviction by the Court, he or she shall be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor and
shall be fined as provided by G.S. § 15A-1340.23. Each day of a violation of
any provision of this chapter shall constitute a separate offense. The payment
of any criminal fine imposed in any criminal proceeding pursuant to this
section shall not relieve any such person from any cost and penalties otherwise
imposed under this chapter.
   (B)   Further, a violation of the above section of this code shall be a
violation of G.S. § 14-4 and such violation shall be classified as a Class 3
misdemeanor with a maximum fine of up to $450, except that any violations of §§
150.999,
154.99,
155.999, and
156.999 shall not be a violation of G.S. § 14-4 and shall not be considered a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2021; Ord. passed 2-5-2024)
APPENDIX A: REQUIRED DAVIE COUNTY PERMITS
Operational
Operational
ABC Permit
Aerosol Products
Amusement Buildings
Aviation Facilities
Battery Systems
Carnivals and Fairs
Cellulose Nitrate Film
Combustible Dust Producing Operations
Combustible Fibers
Compressed Gases
Covered Mall Buildings
Cryogenic Fluids
Cutting and Welding
Dry Cleaning Plants
Exhibits and Trade Shows
Explosives: Blasting and Storage
Fire Hydrants and Valves
Flammable and Combustible Liquids
Floor Finishing
Fruit and Crop Ripening
Fumigation and Thermal Insecticidal Fogging
Hazardous Materials
HPM Facilities
High Piled Storage Facilities
Hot Work Operations
Industrial Ovens
Liquid or Gas Fueled Vehicles or Equipment in Assembly Buildings
Lumber Yards and Woodworking Plants
Magnesium
Miscellaneous Combustible Storage
Open Burning
Open Flames and Torches
Open Flames and Candles
Organic Coatings
Places of Assembly
Private Fire Hydrants
Pyrotechnic Special Effects Material
Pyroxylin Plastic
Refrigeration Equipment
Repair Garages and Fuel Dispensing Facilities
Rooftop Heliports
Spraying or Dipping
Storage of Scrap Tires and Tire Byproducts
Temporary Membrane Structures and Tents
Tire Rebuilding Plants
Waste Handling
Wood Products
Construction
Automatic Fire Extinguishing System
Battery Systems
Compressed Gases
Cryogenic Fluids
Fire Alarm and Detection Systems and Related Equipment
Fire Pumps and Related Equipment
Flammable and Combustible Liquids (Installation and Removal)
Hazardous Materials
Industrial Ovens
Private Fire Hydrants
Spraying/Dipping Operations
Standpipe System
Temporary Membrane Structures, Tents and Canopies
 
CHAPTER 92: HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
Mass Gatherings
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Intent and purpose
   
92.03   Permit required
   
92.04   Issuance of permit; revocation; forfeiture of bond; cancellation
   
92.05   Standards and requirements
   
92.06   Injunction
   
92.07   Right of entry
   
92.08   Application for permit
   
92.09   Provisional permit, bond, and insurance required
 
   
92.99   Penalty
MASS GATHERINGS
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD OF HEALTH. The County Board of Health.
   COUNTY MANAGER. The County Manager of this county.
   ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH SPECIALIST. The representative of the county of the
Board of Health.
   HEALTH DIRECTOR. The Health Director of the county or his or her authorized
representative.
   MASS GATHERING. The congregation or assembly of not more than 5,000 and more
than 500 people in an open space or open air for a continuous period of 12
hours or more; it shall include mass gatherings held for any purpose, but shall
not include assemblies in permanent buildings or structures designed or
intended for use by large numbers of people which meet standards set by local
and state building codes.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, corporation, or other organization of any kind
which holds, sponsors, organizes, conducts, or promotes, jointly or severally,
a mass gathering.
(1996 Code, § 92.01) (Ord. passed 2-5-1973; Ord. passed 10-16-2000)
§ 92.02 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   The intent and purpose of this chapter is to provide for the protection of
the public health, public welfare, and public safety of those persons in
attendance at mass gatherings held in the county and of those persons who
reside near or are located in proximity to the sites of mass gatherings or are
directly affected thereby.
(1996 Code, § 92.02) (Ord. passed 2-5-1973)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate mass gatherings of 5,000 people or less, see G.S. §
130A-258
§ 92.03 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall organize, sponsor, or hold any mass gathering unless a
permit has been issued to such person by the County Manager under the
provisions of this chapter. A permit shall be required for each mass gathering
and is not transferable to other persons. Such permit is issued by the County
Manager after receiving a written report from the Health Director or his or her
staff, the report to determine if relevant provisions of this chapter have been
complied with.
(1996 Code, § 92.03) (Ord. passed 2-5-1973; Ord. passed 10-16-2000) Penalty,
see §
92.99
§ 92.04 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; REVOCATION; FORFEITURE OF BOND; CANCELLATION.
   (A)   If, upon inspection by the County Manager 30 days prior to the
starting date of the mass gathering, or earlier upon request of the permittee,
the required facilities are found to be in place and satisfactory arrangements
are found to have been made for required services, and other applicable
provisions of this chapter are found to have been met, the County Manager shall
issue a permit for the mass gathering. If, upon such inspection, the
facilities, arrangements, or other provisions are not satisfactory, the
provisional permit shall be revoked and no permit issued.
   (B)   Upon revocation of either the provisional permit or the permit, the
permittee shall immediately announce cancellation of the mass gathering in as
effective a manner as is reasonably possible, including but not limited to the
use of whatever methods were used for advertising or promoting the mass
gathering.
   (C)   If the provisional permit or the permit is revoked prior to, or
during, the mass gathering, the County Manager may order the permittee to
install such facilities and make such arrangements as may be necessary to
accommodate those persons who may nevertheless attend or be present at the mass
gathering despite its cancellation and to restore the site to a safe and
sanitary condition. In the event the permittee fails to comply with the order
of the County Manager, the County Manager may immediately proceed to install
such facilities and make such other arrangements and provisions for cleanup as
may be minimally required in the interest of public health and safety,
utilizing such state and local funds and resources as may be available to him
or her. Prior to, or within 60 days after, such action, the County Manager may
apply to a court of competent jurisdiction to order forfeiture of the
permittee’s performance bond or surety for violation of this chapter. The court
may order that the proceeds shall be applied to the extent necessary to
reimburse the state and local governmental agencies for expenditures made
pursuant to the action taken by the County Manager upon the permittee’s failure
to comply with his or her order. Any excess proceeds shall be returned to the
insurer of the bond or to the surety after deducting court costs.
(1996 Code, § 92.04) (Ord. passed 2-5-1973; Ord. passed 10-16-2000)
§ 92.05 STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The following standards and requirements are intended to protect the
health, welfare, and safety of those attending mass gatherings, and of other
persons who may be affected by mass gatherings. In applying these standards and
requirements to a particular mass gathering, the County Manager is authorized
to apply more rigid or less rigid standards and requirements as called for by
the specific characteristics of the gathering, based upon generally recognized
public health principles and practices. Any such alteration in the prescribed
standards and requirements shall be in writing and shall be sent to the
applicant.
   (B)   Necessary facilities and services shall be provided, including but not
limited to the following.
      (1)   Activity area. An activity area shall be provided of sufficient
size to accommodate the estimated number of persons reasonably expected to be
attendance at any one time. This activity area is in addition to those areas
required for parking in division (B)(7), for camping in division (B)(4), and
for the command post in division (B)(5) of this section.
      (2)   Distance from dwellings. No part of the perimeter of the activity
and camping areas shall be within 1,500 feet of any residence unless the
occupant or owner has signed a written waiver. Notarized copies of any such
waivers shall accompany the application.
      (3)   Distance from certain public water supply sources. No part of the
perimeters of the activity, including camping areas, shall be located within
one mile of a Class I or Class II reservoir, as classified by NCDENR, Division
of Environmental Health, Public Water Supply Section.
      (4)   Camping area. An area of adequate size shall be provided and
designated for camping. Such area shall be in addition to the areas provided
for activities in division (B)(1) and for parking in division (B)(7) of this
section.
      (5)   Command post. An adequate command post at a conveniently accessible
location approved by health, law enforcement, and other governmental agencies
shall be provided for use by personnel of health, law enforcement, and other
governmental agencies. The command post shall consist of at least one building
or mobile unit equipped with an adequate number of telephones and other
utilities, and an adequate number of parking spaces. The permittee shall ensure
access to it at all times by such governmental personnel.
      (6)   Ingress and egress roads; entrances and exits. The permittee shall
provide personnel and arrangements necessary to keep entrances and exits to
public highways open to traffic at all times. He or she shall make arrangements
with private parties and/or consult with the State Department of Transportation
regarding adequate ingress and egress roads.
      (7)   Parking. Parking facilities shall be provided off public roadways
sufficient to serve the reasonably expected requirements at a rate of up to 100
passenger cars per acre or 30 buses per acre. One parking space for cars shall
be provided for each four people to attend. Camper class vehicles shall park in
the camping area provided in division (B)(4) above. Parking on shoulders of
public highways shall not be permitted and temporary signs shall be erected by
applicant to so indicate.
      (8)   Plan for limiting attendance, exclusion of non-ticket holders,
crowd control, and security enforcement. The application for permit shall be
accompanied by a written plan for limiting attendance to the number stated in
the application for permit, the exclusion of persons not holding tickets, and a
written plan for security guards to be provided for internal and external crowd
control and security enforcement. The plan shall be accompanied by a written
statement by the Sheriff or Chief of Police, whomever has jurisdiction over the
area, that the plan seems adequate. The permittee shall execute the plan.
      (9)   Dust control. The application shall be accompanied by a written
plan for dust control. The permittee shall execute the plan.
      (10)   Fire prevention and control. The application shall be accompanied
by a written plan for fire prevention and control, to be approved by the Fire
Marshal.
      (11)   Plans for emergencies. The application shall be accompanied by
written plans for dealing with emergency situations involving the occurrence of
incidents requiring rapid evacuation, including arrangements for use of
emergency egress roads.
      (12)   Provision of adequate medical care. The application for permit
shall be accompanied by a written plan for the provision of adequate medical
care, such plan having been approved in writing by the local Health Director
and EMS Director. At the time of the inspection required by §
92.09, the structure and all supplies and equipment provided for in the plan
shall be in place; and the agreements and statements provided for in the plan
shall be determined to be valid. The plan shall include provisions for:
         (a)   The name and address of a physician licensed to practice
medicine in the state to be responsible for the organization and delivery of
emergency medical services. A signed, notarized statement by the physician
accepting the responsibility shall accompany the plan. He or she shall
determine how many licensed physicians, licensed nurses, and other medical
personnel shall be on duty on the premises at any particular time;
         (b)   At least one enclosed covered structure to be used as a medical
treatment center. The structure or structures shall provide at least a total of
450 square feet and have hot and cold running water under pressure from an
approved source;
         (c)   A list of medical supplies and equipment sufficient to support
reasonably anticipated medical care requirements, to be on-site prior to the
mass gathering;
         (d)   Notification of all general public hospitals within 20 miles of
the mass gathering location as to scheduled dates and anticipated attendance of
the mass gathering; and
         (e)   The name and address of at least one licensed ambulance service
agency to be responsible for providing emergency transportation. A signed,
notarized statement by an official of the agency accepting the responsibility
shall accompany the plan.
      (13)   Water supply.
         (a)   General. There shall be provided a water supply from an approved
source. An approved emergency source shall be provided in addition, where
necessary. Approved facilities shall be provided for distribution and
dispensing, and the supply shall be adequate in quantity and quality. The
sponsor shall have in his or her possession, at the time of the inspection as
provided in §
92.09, the reports of bacteriological and chemical examinations of water
samples by the State Laboratory of Public Health. The water shall be
chlorinated so as to provide a free chlorine residual of at least one part per
million at all outlets at all times during the gathering. The water supply and
the facilities for distribution and dispensing shall be provided with effective
safeguards to prevent the introduction of hallucinogenic drugs or other
contamination.
         (b)   Requirements. If water is to be provided only for drinking and
washing, water shall be supplied at a rate of three gallons per person per day
and a peak hour demand of one and one-half pints per person. If water is to be
provided for drinking, washing, and bathing, water shall be supplied at a rate
of 12 gallons per day per person and a peak hour demand of six pints per
person.
         (c)   Source. Water shall be obtained from a public or community water
supply approved by the NCDENR, Division of Environmental Health, Public Water
Supply Section. If a new source of water supply is to be provided, the
application shall be accompanied by the necessary plans, engineer’s report, and
specifications (in triplicate) as required for review and approval by the
Division of Environmental Health, Public Water Supply Section, and the
application shall include plans, engineer’s report, and specifications for an
emergency source capable of supplying at least three gallons per day per
person. If water is to be hauled from an off-site source, storage facilities
shall be provided in the area sufficient in volume to supply the needs of the
gathering for its duration. Before being filled with water for use during the
gathering, all such storage tanks shall be cleaned thoroughly, filled with
clean water containing a chlorine residual of at least 100 parts per million,
and, after a contact time of at least 24 hours, all such tanks shall be
emptied. Subsequently, and prior to the issuance of a permit, all such tanks
shall be closed and locked so as to give positive protection against the
introduction of contamination.
         (d)   Distribution. Water outlets shall be provided at an adequate
number of convenient and readily accessible locations properly distributed
throughout the activity and camping areas.
      (14)   Toilet facilities; sewage disposal.
         (a)   Sanitary toilet facilities shall be provided at an adequate
number of convenient and readily accessible locations properly distributed
throughout the activity and camping areas at a rate of not more than 100
persons per toilet seat.
         (b)   If chemical toilet rental service is to be employed, all toilets
shall be so located as to be readily accessible by service vehicles and shall
be serviced as often as necessary. Material removed from such toilets shall be
disposed of in a public or community sewerage system, or in an approved area
that has been permitted as a septage disposal site by NCDENR, Division of Waste
Management. Disposal must be done by a permitted septage management company.
         (c)   If water-carried sewerage facilities are provided, the sewer
system shall be connected to a public or community sewerage system having
wastewater treatment facilities of adequate capacity to treat the flow of
wastewater from the mass gathering; and the application shall be accompanied by
a signed statement by the DEHNR, Water Quality Section attesting to the
adequacy of the treatment facilities. A similar statement shall accompany the
application if material removed from chemical toilets is to be disposed of in a
public or community sewerage system. No sewage shall be discharged to the
surface of the ground or into any watercourse.
      (15)   Solid waste collection and disposal. Facilities shall be provided
for all solid wastes to be collected and stored in leak-proof, non-absorbent
containers, and all solid wastes shall be removed daily or more often as
necessary and disposed of at the County Transfer Station. Approved receptacles
shall be provided at places conveniently located throughout the activity,
camping, and parking areas, and at each food service facility for the
deposition of solid wastes. If bulk solid waste storage containers are used, at
least two 4-cubic-yard containers shall be provided per 1,000 persons in the
case of twice-daily removal, and these containers shall be so located as to be
accessible to solid waste service vehicles.
      (16)   Food dispensing. Sanitary food dispensing facilities shall be
provided at accessible and convenient locations, and shall be maintained in a
sanitary condition. Perishable food items dispensed from such facilities shall
be limited to a pre-packaged items, such as wrapped sandwiches, prepared in
commercial establishments and under official sanitary supervision, and shall be
dispensed in the unbroken packages, provided that chicken, hamburgers, and
frankfurters obtained from approved sources may be cooked and packaged at the
site if all operations of preparation, cooking, and packaging in unit packages
for dispensing to individuals are done inside an approved structure or vehicle,
in a sanitary manner, and otherwise in compliance with 15A NCAC 18A.2600,
“Rules Governing the Food Protection and Sanitation of Food Establishments.”
Perishable foods shall be stored at or below 45°F, or in the frozen state,
until heated or cooked immediately before serving.
      (17)   Insect and rodent control. There shall be no fly or mosquito
breeding places, rodent harborages, or undrained areas on the premises.
Necessary measures shall be taken to control flies, mosquitoes, rodents, or
other vermin.
      (18)   Post-gathering cleanup. Within one week after the end of the
gathering, all areas and immediate surrounding properties shall be cleaned of
all litter and solid wastes attributable to the mass gathering. Unless
otherwise directed by the property owner, all temporary solid waste facilities
and signs shall be removed.
      (19)   Noise level at perimeter. The application shall be accompanied by
detailed plans for amplifying equipment, which shall be so located and operated
as to limit the noise level at the perimeter of the site to no more than 70
decibels on the A scale of a sound level meter which meets the specifications
of the American National Standards Institute. The applicant shall include a
signed statement certifying that the noise level limit as herein specified will
not be exceeded.
      (20)   Lighting. The application shall be accompanied by detailed plans
for lighting designed to illuminate the site.
      (21)   Signs. Signs shall be posted throughout the area showing the
locations of toilet facilities, water supply outlets, solid waste receptacles,
food stands, first-aid facilities, and the command post.
(1996 Code, § 92.05) (Ord. passed 2-5-1973; Ord. passed 10-16-2000)
§ 92.06 INJUNCTION.
   If any person shall violate or threaten to violate the provisions of this
chapter or any rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereto and such
violation, if continued, or such threatened violation, if committed, is or may
be dangerous to the public health, safety, or welfare, or if any person shall
hinder or interfere with the proper performance of duty of the County Manager
or his or her representative and such hindrance or interference is or may be
dangerous to the public health, the County Manager may institute an action in
the superior court of the county in which such violation, threatened violation,
hindrance, or interference occurred for injunctive relief against such
continued violation, threatened violation, hindrance, or interference,
irrespective of all other remedies at law, and upon the institution of such an
action, the procedure shall be in accordance with the provisions of G.S.
Chapter 1, Article 37.
(1996 Code, § 92.06) (Ord. passed 2-5-1973)
§ 92.07 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   Authorized representatives of the County Manager shall have at all times the
right of proper entry upon any and all parts of the premises of any place in
which such entry is necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter, or
the rules and regulations adopted under the authority of this chapter; and it
shall be unlawful for any person to resist a proper entry by such authorized
representatives the County Manager.
(1996 Code, § 92.07) (Ord. passed 2-5-1973)
§ 92.08 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Application for a permit for a mass gathering shall be made to the
County Manager, on a form and in a manner prescribed by him or her, by the
person who will organize, sponsor, or hold the mass gathering. The application
shall be filed with the County Manager at least 60 days prior to the
commencement of the mass gathering. A nonrefundable fee of $300 shall accompany
the application.
   (B)   The application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Identification of the applicant;
      (2)   Identification of any other person(s) responsible for organizing,
sponsoring, or holding the mass gathering;
      (3)   The location of the proposed mass gathering;
      (4)   The estimated maximum number of persons reasonably expected to be
in attendance at any one time;
      (5)   The date or dates and the hours during which the mass gathering is
to be conducted; and
      (6)   A statement as to the total time period involved.
   (C)   The application shall be accompanied by an outline map of the area to
be used, to approximate scale, showing the location of all proposed and
existing privies or toilets; lavatory and bathing facilities; all water supply
sources including lakes, ponds, streams, wells, storage tanks, and the like;
all areas of assemblage; all camping areas; all food service areas; all garbage
and refuse storage and disposal areas; all entrances and exits to public
highways; and emergency ingress and egress roads.
   (D)   The application shall be accompanied by such plans, reports, and
information required by the County Manager as he or she shall deem necessary to
carry out the provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   In addition to the requirements provided in divisions (A) through (D)
of this section, the application shall contain a statement that the applicant
will use every reasonable means to provide adequate surveillance and security
necessary to ensure compliance by those in attendance at such mass gathering
with all applicable laws which prohibit the unlawful possession, possession for
sale, sale, transportation, or use of intoxicating beverages or drugs, whether
narcotic or not, if prohibited by applicable law, and if such permit be
granted, the applicant shall employ or otherwise provide competent and trained
security personnel at a ratio of one for each 500 persons, or fraction thereof,
expected to be in attendance at such mass gathering, which security personnel
shall be approved in writing by the Sheriff of the county, and such approval
must be attached to the application.
   (F)   In addition to requirements provided in divisions (A) through (E) of
this section, the application shall contain a statement that the applicant will
use every reasonable means to provide adequate surveillance and security to
ensure compliance by those in attendance at such mass gathering with applicable
laws relating to traffic regulations, trespass, and crimes against persons and
property in an area with a radius of 2,500 feet from the center of the proposed
site for such mass gathering, and in the event such permit is granted, shall
provide competent, trained personnel as provided in division (E) above.
   (G)   Prior instances of violations of applicable law designated in
divisions (E) and (F) of this section or of this chapter, as evidenced by final
judgments of courts of this county or courts hearing cases arising out of this
county, shall be considered by the County Manager along with the information
required to be set forth in the application provided for herein and other
evidence in determining whether or not to grant the requested permit, and such
violation within one year of the date of such application shall be grounds for
denying such permit.
(1996 Code, § 92.08) (Ord. passed 2-5-1973; Ord. passed 10-16-2000)
§ 92.09 PROVISIONAL PERMIT, BOND, AND INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Within ten days after the receipt of the application, the County
Manager and the Health Director shall review the application and inspect the
proposed site for the mass gathering. If it reasonably appears that the
requirements of this chapter can be met by the applicant, a provisional permit
shall be issued.
   (B)   If the County Manager shall deem it necessary to protect the health,
welfare, and safety of those persons in attendance at mass gatherings and of
other persons who may be affected by mass gatherings and to carry out the
provisions of this chapter, he or she may require the permittee within five
days after issuance of the provisional permit to file with the County Manager a
performance bond or other surety to be executed to the county in the amount of
$5,000. The bond, if required, shall be conditioned on full compliance with
this chapter and shall be forfeitable upon noncompliance and a showing by the
County Manager of any injury, damage, or other loss to the state or local
governmental agencies caused by the noncompliance. The permittee shall in
addition file satisfactory evidence of public liability and property damage
insurance in an amount determined by the County Manager to be reasonable (but
not to exceed $1,000,000 in amount) in relation to the risks/hazards involved
in the proposed mass gathering.
(1996 Code, § 92.09) (Ord. passed 2-5-1973; Ord. passed 10-16-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Minimum bond required by law, see G.S. § 130A-255
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who willfully holds a mass gathering as herein defined
without first securing a permit to do so as herein provided shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine of not
more than $50, or imprisonment for a period not to exceed 30 days.
   (B)   Any person who willfully fails to perform any other act required by §§
92.01 through
92.09, or who willfully does any act prohibited by §§
92.01 through
92.09, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by a fine not to exceed $50, or by imprisonment for a period not to
exceed 30 days.
   (C)   Further, a violation of the above section of this code shall be a
violation of G.S. § 14-4 and such violation shall be classified as a Class 3
misdemeanor with a maximum fine of up to $450, except that any violations of §§
150.999,
154.99,
155.999, and
156.999 shall not be a violation of G.S. § 14-4 and shall not be considered a
misdemeanor.
(1996 Code, § 92.99) (Ord. passed 2-5-1973)
CHAPTER 93: 9-1-1 SERVICES
Section
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Title
   
93.03   Legislative purpose
   
93.04   9-1-1 charges
   
93.05   Payment and collection of charges
   
93.06   Administration
   
93.07   Emergency Telephone System Fund
   
93.08   Payments from Fund
   
93.09   Telephone records
   
93.10   Limitation of liability
   
93.11   Persons outside county
   
93.12   Applicability
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   9-1-1 CHARGE. A contribution to the county for the 9-1-1 service start-up
equipment costs, subscriber notification costs, addressing costs, billing
costs, and non-recurring and recurring installation, maintenance, service, and
network charges of a service supplier providing 9-1-1 service pursuant to this
chapter.
   9-1-1 SYSTEM OR SERVICE. An emergency telephone system that provides the
user of the public telephone system the ability to reach a public safety
answering point by dialing the digits 9-1-1. The term 9-1-1 SYSTEM OR 9-1-
1 SERVICE also includes ENHANCED 9-1-1 SERVICE, which means an emergency
telephone system that provides the user of the public telephone system 9-1-
1 service and, in addition, directs 9-1-1 calls to appropriate public safety
answering points by selective routing based on the geographical location from
which the call originated and provides the capability for automatic number
identification and automatic location identification features.
   ADDRESSING. The assigning of a numerical address and street name (the street
name may be numerical) to each location within the county’
   COUNTY. The County of Davie, North Carolina.
   EXCHANGE ACCESS FACILITY. The access from a particular telephone
subscriber’s premises to the telephone system of a service supplier. EXCHANGE
ACCESS FACILITIES include service supplier-provided access lines, PBX trunks,
and centrex network access registers, all as defined by tariffs of telephone
companies as approved by the State Utilities Commission. EXCHANGE ACCESS
FACILITIES do not include service supplier-owned and operated telephone pay
station lines, or Wide Area Telecommunications Service (WATS), Foreign Exchange
(FX), or incoming-only lines.
   PUBLIC AGENCY. The state and any city, county, municipal corporation,
chartered organization, public district, or public authority located in whole
or in part within the state which provides or has authority to provide fire
fighting, law enforcement, ambulance, medical, or other emergency services.
    PUBLIC SAFETY AGENCY. A functional division of a public agency which
provides fire fighting, law enforcement, medical, suicide prevention, civil
defense, poison control, or other emergency services.
   SERVICE SUPPLIER. A person or entity who provides exchange telephone service
to a telephone subscriber.
   SUBSCRIBER or TELEPHONE SUBSCRIBER. A person or entity to whom exchange
telephone service, either residential or commercial, is provided and in return
for which the person or entity is billed on a monthly basis. When the same
person, business, or organization has several telephone access lines, each
exchange access facility shall constitute a separate subscription.
(1996 Code, § 93.01) (Ord. passed 10-15-1990)
§ 93.02 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the County Public Safety Telephone Chapter.
(1996 Code, § 93.02) (Ord. passed 10-15-1990)
§ 93.03 LEGISLATIVE PURPOSE.
   The Board of Commissioners of the county declares it to be in the public
interest to provide a toll-free number through which individuals in the county
can gain rapid, direct access to public safety aid. The number shall be
provided with the objective of reducing response time to situations requiring
law enforcement, fire, medical, rescue, or other public safety service.
(1996 Code, § 93.03) (Ord. passed 10-15-1990)
§ 93.04 9-1-1 CHARGES.
   (A)   The county does impose a monthly 9-1-1 charge upon each exchange
access facility subscribed to by telephone subscribers whose exchange access
lines are in the area served or which would be served by the 9-1-1 service. The
9-1-1 charge shall be uniform and may not vary according to the type of
exchange access facility used.
   (B)   There is imposed upon each exchange access facility as described in
preceding division (A) above a charge not to exceed $0.70 per month. The Board
of Commissioners shall by ordinance or resolution at any meeting of the Board
set the exact amount of the charge.
   (C)   The imposition and collection of the charges as provided in the
chapter shall become effective 120 days from date of adoption.
(1996 Code, § 93.04) (Ord. passed 10-15-1990; Ord. passed 12-18-1995; Ord.
passed 4-16-2001; Ord. passed 6-4-2007)
§ 93.05 PAYMENT AND COLLECTION OF CHARGES.
   (A)   The subscriber of any exchange access facility will be billed for the
monthly 9-1-1 charges, if any, imposed with respect to that facility. Each
service supplier shall, on behalf of the county, collect the charges from those
subscribers to whom it provides exchange telephone service in the area served
by the 9-1-1 service. As part of its normal monthly billing process, the
service supplier shall collect the charges for each month or part of the month
an exchange access facility is in service, and it may list the charge as a
separate entry on each bill. If a service supplier receives a partial payment
for a monthly bill from a subscriber, the service supplier shall apply the
payment against the amount the subscriber owes the service supplier first.
   (B)   A service supplier has no obligation to take any legal action to
enforce the collection of the 9-1-1 charges for which any subscriber is billed.
However, the county may initiate collection action of the 9-1-1 charges for
which any subscriber is billed and shall further be entitled to collect all
reasonable costs associated with the collection action, including attorneys’
fees.
    (C)   The county subscribing to 9-1-1 service shall remain ultimately
responsible to the service supplier for all 9-1-1 installation, service,
equipment, and operation and maintenance charges owed to the service supplier.
Upon request by the county, the service supplier shall provide the county with
a list of amounts uncollected along with the names and addresses of telephone
subscribers who have not paid the 9-1-1 charge.
   (D)   Any taxes due on 9-1-1 service provided by the service supplier will
be billed to the county subscribing to that service. However, state and local
taxes do not apply to 9-1-1 charges billed to subscribers under this chapter.
(1996 Code, § 93.05) (Ord. passed 10-15-1990)
§ 93.06 ADMINISTRATION.
   Each service supplier that collects the 9-1-1 charges on behalf of the
county is entitled to a 1% administrative fee as compensation for collecting
the charges. The service supplier shall remit the rest of the charges it
collects during the month to the Finance Director of the county within ten days
after the last day of the month.
(1996 Code, § 93.06) (Ord. passed 10-15-1990)
§ 93.07 EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM FUND.
   The Finance Director of the county to whom 9-1-1 charges are remitted under
§
93.06 shall deposit the charges in a separate, restricted fund. The fund shall
be known as the Emergency Telephone System Fund. The Finance Director may
invest money in the Fund in the same manner that other money of the county may
be invested. The Finance Director shall deposit any income earned from such
investment in the Emergency Telephone System Fund.
(1996 Code, § 93.07) (Ord. passed 10-15-1990)
§ 93.08 PAYMENTS FROM FUND.
   (A)   Money from the Emergency Telephone System Fund shall be used only to
pay for:
      (1)   The lease, purchase, or maintenance of emergency telephone
equipment, including necessary computer hardware, software, and database
provisioning, addressing, and non-recurring costs of establishing a 9-1-
1 system; and
      (2)   The rates associated with the service supplier’s 9-1-1 service and
other service supplier recurring charges.
   (B)   The following expenses are not eligible for payment from the Fund: the
lease or purchase of real estate, cosmetic remodeling of emergency dispatch
centers, hiring, training, and compensating dispatchers, and the purchase of
mobile communications vehicles, ambulances, fire engines, and other emergency
vehicles.
   (C)   The county may contract with a service supplier for any term
negotiated by the service supplier and the county and may make payments from
the Emergency Telephone System Fund to provide any payments required by the
contract.
(1996 Code, § 93.08) (Ord. passed 10-15-1990)
§ 93.09 TELEPHONE RECORDS.
   (A)   Each telephone service supplier shall provide subscriber telephone
numbers, names, and service addresses to 9-1-1 systems when required by the
county. Although customer numbers, names, and service addresses shall be
available to 9-1-1 systems, such information shall remain the property of the
disclosing service supplier. The total cost of the system shall include
expenses paid to service suppliers to provide and maintain 9-1-1 information.
This information shall be used only in providing emergency response services to
9-1-1 calls. The county may not release a telephone number required to be
provided under this section to any person for purposes other than including the
number in the emergency telephone system database or providing the number to
permit a response to police, fire, medical, or other emergency situation.
   (B)   To the extent necessary to provide 9-1-1 service, private listing
customers of a service supplier in a 9-1-1 service area waive the privacy
afforded by non-listed and non-published numbers when 9-1-1 service is
established.
   (C)   No service supplier, or agents or employees of a service supplier,
shall be liable to any person provided 9-1-1 service established under this
chapter for release for emergency telephone purposes of information specified
in this section that is not already part of the public record, including non-
listed or non-published telephone numbers.
(1996 Code, § 93.09) (Ord. passed 10-15-1990)
§ 93.10 LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.
   A service supplier, including any telephone company and its employees,
directors, officers, and agents, is not liable for any damages in a civil
action for injuries, death, or loss to persons or property incurred by any
person as a result of any act or omission of a service supplier or of any of
its employees, directors, officers, or agents, except for willful or wanton
misconduct, in connection with developing, adopting, implementing, maintaining,
or operating any 9-1-1 system.
(1996 Code, § 93.10) (Ord. passed 10-15-1990)
§ 93.11 PERSONS OUTSIDE COUNTY.
   When an individual physically resides in an adjacent county, but receives
local exchange telephone service from a central office in county, it shall be
the responsibility of county to notify the appropriate public agency of a
request for public safety service from such individual.
(1996 Code, § 93.11) (Ord. passed 10-15-1990)
§ 93.12 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall be applicable throughout the county, including
incorporated areas of the Town of Mocksville and the Town of Cooleemee,
provided the respective municipalities shall by resolution elect to be governed
by this chapter.
(1996 Code, § 93.12) (Ord. passed 10-15-1990)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who intentionally calls the 9-1-1 number for other than
purposes of obtaining public safety assistance shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and any person found guilty, or who enters a plea of guilty to violating this
section, may be fined an amount not to exceed $50 or imprisonment of not more
than 30 days.
   (B)   Further, a violation of the above section of this code shall be a
violation of G.S. § 14-4 and such violation shall be classified as a Class 3
misdemeanor with a maximum fine of up to $450, except that any violations of §§
150.999,
154.99,
155.999, and
156.999 shall not be a violation of G.S. § 14-4 and shall not be considered a
misdemeanor.
(1996 Code, § 93.99) (Ord. passed 10-15-1990)
CHAPTER 94: STREET AND ROAD NAMING
Section
Addressing
   
94.001   Definitions
   
94.002   Purpose
   
94.003   Enactment and authority
   
94.004   Short title
   
94.005   Territorial jurisdiction
   
94.006   Incorporated areas
Addressing Map
   
94.020   Official road name and structure numbering map
   
94.021   Maintenance and storage
Numbering System
   
94.035   Uniformity of the system
   
94.036   Origin point
   
94.037   North-south and east-west axes
   
94.038   Road naming and numbering criteria
   
94.039   Numbering method
   
94.040   Dead-end roads
   
94.041   Roads connecting to both axes
   
94.042   Numbers begin with 100
   
94.043   NC 801
   
94.044   Roads crossing county boundaries
Addressing System
   
94.055   Method of assigning a number
   
94.056   Corner lots
   
94.057   Road name of address
   
94.058   Requirements for road naming and numbering
   
94.059   Duplex and multi-family dwellings
   
94.060   Assigning of unit designators
   
94.061   Manufactured homes
   
94.062   Recreational or resort communities
Posting Requirements for Structures
   
94.075   Time constraints
   
94.076   Number specifications
   
94.077   Posting locations
   
94.078   Maintenance of structure numbers
Road Naming
   
94.090   Approval of names
   
94.091   Deceptively similar names
   
94.092   New road names
   
94.093   Desirable names
   
94.094   Undesirable names
   
94.095   Suffixes
   
94.096   Road segments
   
94.097   Offset intersections and split routes
   
94.098   Impasses
   
94.099   Existing road names
Road Name Signs and Standards
   
94.110   Installation and maintenance
   
94.111   Sign standards
   
94.112   Existing road signs
Administration and Enforcement
   
94.125   Administrator and responsibilities
   
94.126   Applications and petitions
   
94.127   Petitioning for a road name
   
94.128   Building permits
   
94.129   Certificate of occupancy
   
94.130   Procedure upon denial
   
94.131   Amendments
   
94.132   Public notification requirements
   
94.133   Letter of notification
   
94.134   Protesting a petition or proposal of amendment
   
94.135   Application for amendment
   
94.136   Legal status provisions
   
94.137   Notification of violation
   
94.138   Legal prosecution
   
94.139   Appeals and requests for variance
 
   
94.999   Penalty
ADDRESSING
§ 94.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AVENUE (AVE). A major road that runs generally in an east/west direction.
   BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS. The County Board of Commissioners.
   BOULEVARD (BLVD). An unusually wide street typically in residential areas;
often with a central, dividing median.
   CIRCLE (CIR). A short road that returns to itself.
   COURT (CT). A dead-end right-of-way often ending as a cul-de-sac.
   DRIVE (DR). A curving secondary road.
   HIGHWAY (HWY). A designated state or federal highway.
   INTERSTATE (I-#). A thoroughfare of the highest order and federally
designated as an INTERSTATE.
   LANE (LN). A short private road that branches off of another road and ends
or connects to another  secondary road.
   LOOP (LP). A short road that starts and ends on the same street or road.
   PARKWAY (PKWY). A special scenic route or park drive.
   PLACE (PL).  A cul-de-sac or permanent dead-end road.
   PRIVATE ROAD. Any road which is not maintained by a governmental entity or
agency through the use of public funds. Road name suffixes for PRIVATE ROADS
include trail, lane, and way.
   PUBLIC ROAD. Any road which is maintained by a governmental entity or agency
through the use of  public funds.
   RADIO/COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES. Includes any radio communications,
transmissions, dispatching or future Enhanced 911 communications that may
involve police, emergency, fire, or rescue operations, but are not limited to
these aforesaid operations.
   ROAD (RD). A well-traveled secondary road often connecting with a U.S. or
state primary highway.
   STREET (ST). A major road that runs generally in a north/south direction.
   STREET ADDRESS. An unique identifier for each addressable structure within
the county. The minimum adequate street address shall be defined as the
assigned structure number and the officially adopted road name. Where required
by this chapter, the STREET ADDRESS shall also include the assigned unit
designator.
   STRUCTURE. Any building, whether residential, commercial, industrial, or
institutional in nature and use.
   STRUCTURE NUMBER. The numerical portion of the street address, as assigned
by the chapter administrator or his or her designee, in accordance with the
Official Road Name and Structure Numbering Map of the county.
    TECHNICAL REVIEW COMMITTEE. A committee established in §
155.170 of this code.
    THOROUGHFARE. A general, all- inclusive term for roads, public or private;
street; drive; cartway; easement; right-of-way; or any other word or words that
mean a way of access.
   TRAIL (TRL). A local, private road that serves as a connector for larger
roads.
   UNIT DESIGNATOR. The portion of the street address used to distinguish
individual units within the same structure.
   WAY (WAY). A minor private road that begins and ends on the same road.
(1996 Code, § 94.001) (Ord. passed 1-19-1993; Ord. passed - - )
§ 94.002 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the orderly assignment of
county addresses and to protect the safety and welfare of the general public by
facilitating the location of individual dwellings and businesses by emergency
response personnel.
(1996 Code, § 94.002) (Ord. passed 1-19-1993; Ord. passed 11-30-2010)
§ 94.003 ENACTMENT AND AUTHORITY.
   The Board of Commissioners of the county do enact this chapter to establish
a detailed, permanent, uniform addressing system, pursuant to authority
provided in the County Public Safety Chapter (
Chapter 93, 9-1-1 Services) heretofore enacted pursuant to G.S. Chapter 62A; in
addition, pursuant to authority provided in G.S. Chapter 153A, Article 12,
which empowers the county to name roads.
(1996 Code, § 94.003) (Ord. passed 1-19-1993)
§ 94.004 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the Addressing and Road Naming Chapter of the
county and may be referred to as Addressing Chapter or this chapter, and the
map referred to is identified by the title Official Road Name and Structure
Numbering Map and may be known as the addressing map.
(1996 Code, § 94.004) (Ord. passed 1-19-1993)
§ 94.005 TERRITORIAL JURISDICTION.
   The road naming and addressing policies set forth in this chapter shall be
applicable to all of the unincorporated areas of the county and all areas of
the county that are being provided radio/communications services by the County
Communications/E-9-1-1 Center. This section specifically applies to other
governments being served by the E-9-1-1 Center, which may or may not have a
contractual agreement for these services.
(1996 Code, § 94.005) (Ord. passed 1-19-1993)
§ 94.006 INCORPORATED AREAS.
   Any incorporated area within the county that is being provided radio/
communications services by the county’s Communications/E-9-1-1 Center, shall
bear the responsibility of adhering to the road naming and addressing policies
set forth in this chapter and/or adopt a compatible chapter by its governing
board.
(1996 Code, § 94.006) (Ord. passed 1-19-1993)
ADDRESSING MAP
§ 94.020 OFFICIAL ROAD NAME AND STRUCTURE NUMBERING MAP.
   The address numbering map shall be entitled Official Road Name and Structure
Numbering Map. The map shall be effective upon adoption by the Board of
Commissioners. All county addresses assigned shall be assigned in accordance
with this map.
(1996 Code, § 94.020) (Ord. passed 1-19-1993)
§ 94.021 MAINTENANCE AND STORAGE.
   The addressing map shall be kept on file in the GIS office. This map may be
maintained and updated in data processing storage systems.
(1996 Code, § 94.021) (Ord. passed 1-19-1993; Ord. passed 11-30-2010)
NUMBERING SYSTEM
§ 94.035 UNIFORMITY OF THE SYSTEM.
   All roads that are officially designated on the addressing map, whether
public or private, shall be numbered uniformly and consecutively along the
roadway centerline. Numbers shall be assigned along the entirety of all named
thoroughfares.
(1996 Code, § 94.030) (Ord. passed 1-19-1993)
§ 94.036 ORIGIN POINT.
   The origin point, or vertex, of the numbering system shall be located at the
intersection of US 64, and US 601 and Main Street in Mocksville, NC.
(1996 Code, § 94.031) (Ord. passed 1-19-1993)
§ 94.037 NORTH-SOUTH AND EAST-WEST AXES.
   The county shall be divided by two axes. The north-south axis shall be US
158, Main Street (in the Town of Mocksville), and US 601 South. The east-west
axis shall be US 64, from the Davidson County line in the east to the Iredell
County line in the west.
(1996 Code, § 94.032) (Ord. passed 1-19-1993; Ord. passed - - )
§ 94.038 ROAD NAMING AND NUMBERING CRITERIA.
   All roads, both public and private, shall be named, numbered, and have road
name signs installed if two or more addressable structures, including
manufactured homes, are located on and accessed by them.
(1996 Code, § 94.033) (Ord. passed 1-19-1993)
§ 94.039 NUMBERING METHOD.
   A pair of numbers, each being either a three-, four-, or five-digit natural
number, called a structure number, shall be assigned at intervals of 26.4 feet
along a roadway centerline. Odd natural numbers shall be assigned to the left
side of the road by ascending numbers moving away from the axes or origin
point. Even natural numbers shall be assigned to the right side of the road in
a like manner.
(1996 Code, § 94.034) (Ord. passed 1-19-1993; Ord. passed 7-6-1993)
§ 94.040 DEAD-END ROADS.
   All dead-end roads and cul-de-sacs shall begin with ascending numbers at the
open end, that being the end connecting to another road.
(1996 Code, § 94.035) (Ord. passed 1-19-1993)
§ 94.041 ROADS CONNECTING TO BOTH AXES.
   Roads which connect to both axes shall begin ascending numbers on the end
stemming from the north-south axis.
(1996 Code, § 94.036) (Ord. passed 1-19-1993)
§ 94.042 NUMBERS BEGIN WITH 100.
   The first potentially assignable structure number on a given road shall be
the number 100.
(1996 Code, § 94.037) (Ord. passed 1-19-1993)
§ 94.043 NC 801.
   NC 801, due to its length, shall be bisected and designated into north and
south portions at its intersection with US 158. County addressing numbers or
structure numbers on NC 801 shall originate in ascending order in both
directions from its intersection with US 158.
(1996 Code, § 94.038) (Ord. passed 1-19-1993; Ord. passed 7-6-1993)
§ 94.044 ROADS CROSSING COUNTY BOUNDARIES.
   Where county boundaries adjoin on the same road, one set of numbers running
consecutively shall be used to the extent practicable. Addressing shall be
coordinated between the counties to establish the addressing method used. The
numbering method in §
94.039 shall be maintained in this county for roads extending from an adjoining
county.
(1996 Code, § 94.039) (Ord. passed 11-30-2010)
ADDRESSING SYSTEM
§ 94.055 METHOD OF ASSIGNING A NUMBER.
   Each structure shall be assigned a structure number based on the number of
the appropriate segment of roadway centerline. The structure number shall be
determined by the line perpendicular to the road centerline, which intersects
the centerline of the house or driveway leading to the structure. In cases
where a structure has a loop driveway or more than one driveway, the structure
number shall be assigned to the driveway that best services the main access to
the structure. The number of the centerline segment at the point of
perpendicular intersection shall be the number of the structure.
(1996 Code, § 94.050) (Ord. passed 1-19-1993; Ord. passed 1-18-1994)
§ 94.056 CORNER LOTS.
   Structures on corner lots shall be assigned a structure number either from
the road which intersects the addressable driveway to that structure, or from
the road in which the main access or entrance to the structure is oriented and
visible from the road. The number will be assigned using the method in §
94.055 and will be assigned in the manner as determined by the chapter
administrator.
(1996 Code, § 94.051) (Ord. passed 1-19-1993; Ord. passed - - )
§ 94.057 ROAD NAME OF ADDRESS.
   The road name for an address shall be the name of the road from which the
structure is numbered.
(1996 Code, § 94.052) (Ord. passed 1-19-1993)
§ 94.058 REQUIREMENTS FOR ROAD NAMING AND NUMBERING.
   If development on a private road exceeds the minimum structure regulation (§
94.038), the road shall be named and numbered and structures readdressed
according to the requirements herein.
(1996 Code, § 94.053) (Ord. passed 1-19-1993)
§ 94.059 DUPLEX AND MULTI-FAMILY DWELLINGS.
   One structure number shall be assigned to each structure whose units share a
common roof. Each unit within the structure shall be assigned a unit
designator. Allowed unit designators include apartment numbers for apartments,
and numbers for commercial buildings. The unit designator shall be a number,
and shall not include alphabetic characters, except as stated in §
94.060. This section specifically applies to multi-family dwellings.
(1996 Code, § 94.054) (Ord. passed 1-19-1993)
§ 94.060 ASSIGNING OF UNIT DESIGNATORS.
   (A)   Residential unit designators shall be as follows: ground-level floor
numbers, #101, #102, #103 and the like; second-floor numbers, #201, #202, #203,
and the like; all floor levels are to follow this scheme. Underground floor
designators shall follow the same scheme with the exception of having a “U” for
a prefix, for example #U101, #U102, and the like.
   (B)   Unit designators shall be assigned in a logical manner, with
increasing unit numbers corresponding to increasing road centerline numbering
wherever possible.
(1996 Code, § 94.055) (Ord. passed 1-19-1993)
§ 94.061 MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   Manufactured housing shall be assigned individual street addresses according
to the requirements herein, whether they are located on individual lots or in
developments or parks.
(1996 Code, § 94.056) (Ord. passed 1-19-1993; Ord. passed 11-30-2010)
§ 94.062 RECREATIONAL OR RESORT COMMUNITIES.
   (A)   Resort communities or recreational developments that have established
structures or dwelling sites with telephone service, including wireless, shall
be assigned individual street addresses in accordance with the requirements
herein. The developer or owner of a community shall submit a map of the
community showing all streets, structures, and sites.
   (B)   Each structure or site requiring an address shall be identified on the
map. The developer or owner shall submit a new map whenever a change is planned
or made to any streets or sites within the community.
   (C)   The developer or owner of a community is responsible for installing
and maintaining all street signs required within the community. Street signs
shall meet the minimum standards of this chapter unless a variance to the sign
standards is approved.
(1996 Code, § 94.057) (Ord. passed 11-30-2010)
POSTING REQUIREMENTS FOR STRUCTURES
§ 94.075 TIME CONSTRAINTS.
   Within 90 days after written notification of the assignment of, or change
of, a structure number, the owner of the structure shall post the assigned
structure number in compliance with the requirements herein.
(1996 Code, § 94.070) (Ord. passed 1-19-1993)
§ 94.076 NUMBER SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   All structure numbers shall be constructed of a durable material. The
color shall contrast with the color scheme of the structure, and if mounted on
glass, shall contrast with the background and be clearly visible.
   (B)   The minimum number size for residential structures or units shall be
four inches in height. The minimum size for all other structure numbers shall
be six inches in height. In all cases, a number size larger than the minimum
size may be required in an instance where the minimum size does not provide
adequate identification.
(1996 Code, § 94.071) (Ord. passed 1-19-1993)
§ 94.077 POSTING LOCATIONS.
   (A)   For single-family residential or duplex structures, the structure
number shall be posted and maintained within a three-foot perimeter of the
front entrance of the structure, in a location visible and readable from the
road. For all other structures, the structure number shall be posted on a
building face most readily visible from the road from which the number is
assigned. Unit designators shall be posted at each unit within a three-foot
perimeter of the front entrance of the unit.
   (B)   In the event that a structure or its posted number is not visible from
the road from which its number is assigned, the assigned structure number shall
also be posted on property adjacent to the road. This number shall be located
at the primary driveway access point.
   (C)   In all cases, the structure number shall be clearly displayed in such
a way that the structure number can easily be identified from the street or
road during both day or night.
(1996 Code, § 94.072) (Ord. passed 1-19-1993)
§ 94.078 MAINTENANCE OF STRUCTURE NUMBERS.
   Following the posting of the assigned number as required herein, the owner
shall maintain the structure number at all times in compliance with the
requirements of this subchapter. Structure numbers and unit designators, as
viewed from the road, shall not be obstructed from view.
(1996 Code, § 94.073) (Ord. passed 1-19-1993)
ROAD NAMING
§ 94.090 APPROVAL OF NAMES.
   The chapter administrator shall have authority to approve road names within
the unincorporated areas of the county, subject to the requirements of this
subchapter. Prior to naming or renaming a NC DOT road, the chapter
administrator shall request a public hearing date be set by the Davie County
Board of County Commissioners and provide notice in accordance with G.S. §
153A-239.1(a), except an initial name for a new road that has been approved by
the address administrator may be assigned without a public hearing if recorded
in the Register of Deeds Office on an approved subdivision plat.
(1996 Code, § 94.090) (Ord. passed 1-19-1993; Ord. passed 9-20-1999; Ord.
passed - - )
§ 94.091 DECEPTIVELY SIMILAR NAMES.
   The chapter administrator shall maintain a database of existing road names,
such that duplicate or deceptively similar road names are neither approved nor
assigned.
(1996 Code, § 94.091) (Ord. passed 1-19-1993)
§ 94.092 NEW ROAD NAMES.
   New road names that relate to the history, location, or scale of a project
area shall be given consideration. New road names should be coordinated with
adjoining counties when a road to be named is within the service area of a
wireless telecommunication facility located in an adjoining county.
(1996 Code, § 94.092) (Ord. passed 1-19-1993; Ord. passed 11-30-2010)
§ 94.093 DESIRABLE NAMES.
   Road names that are pleasant sounding, appropriate, easy to read, and add
pride to home ownership shall be promoted.
(1996 Code, § 94.093) (Ord. passed 1-19-1993)
§ 94.094 UNDESIRABLE NAMES.
   The following kinds of names shall be avoided: numerical, alphabetical, and
complicated names, and names which tend to offend the community. The chapter
administrator is given authority to refuse to accept any road name which in his
or her opinion violates the provisions of this subchapter.
(1996 Code, § 94.094) (Ord. passed 1-19-1993)
§ 94.095 SUFFIXES.
   (A)   The following road name suffixes are allowed: Avenue (AVE), Boulevard
(BLVD), Circle (CIR), Court (CT), Drive (DR), Highway (HWY), Lane (LN), Loop
(LP), Parkway (PKWY), Place (PL), Road (RD), Street (ST), Trail (TRL), and Way.
   (B)   Private roads shall be assigned the suffixes trail, lane, or way. All
other suffixes shall be reserved for public roads.
(1996 Code, § 94.095) (Ord. passed 1-19-1993)
§ 94.096 ROAD SEGMENTS.
   Each road shall bear the same name and uniform numbering along the entirety
of the road. Segments of roads shall not be allowed to have different or
separate names. The chapter administrator shall determine what constitutes a
road or way.
(1996 Code, § 94.096) (Ord. passed 1-19-1993)
§ 94.097 OFFSET INTERSECTIONS AND SPLIT ROUTES.
   Split routes, also known as “dog-legs” or offset intersections, shall be
treated as separate roads with different names and numbering to preserve the
integrity and continuity of the numbering system.
(1996 Code, § 94.097) (Ord. passed 1-19-1993)
§ 94.098 IMPASSES.
   Impasses or sections of a road that are impassable shall be assigned
different names and numbering to each portion of the road on either side of the
impasse to preserve the integrity and continuity of the numbering system.
(1996 Code, § 94.098) (Ord. passed 1-19-1993)
§ 94.099 EXISTING ROAD NAMES.
   (A)   It is the intent of this section to discourage the practice of
changing existing road names except in situations where two identical or
similar road names exist or in other circumstances that clearly make the
accurate dispatching of emergency vehicles impractical. A road name may also be
changed when one road has two commonly used names or where portions of what
appears to be the same road have two or more names.
   (B)   A road name change may be requested by the appropriate approval
agencies (emergency services, police/fire/rescue, United States Postal Service)
and submitted in writing with an explanation for the request made to the
Technical Review Committee.
(1996 Code, § 94.099) (Ord. passed 1-19-1993; Ord. passed - - )
ROAD NAME SIGNS AND STANDARDS
§ 94.110 INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   All public and private road name signs required by this chapter shall be
installed and maintained by a department designated by the County Manager.
(1996 Code, § 94.110) (Ord. passed 1-19-1993; Ord. passed 11-30-2010)
§ 94.111 SIGN STANDARDS.
   Road name signs shall meet the following standards.
   (A)   All road name signs shall be a six-inch vertical dimension sign which
meets the minimum standards of the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices
for Streets and Highways (MUTCD), 2009 Edition as adopted by the U.S.
Department of Transportation. Existing signs which do not meet the minimum
requirements of the MUTCD can remain in place until the end of service life or
other reason.
   (B)   Road name signs or “blades” shall be made of reflective blue sheeting
for private roads and green sheeting for all others with the road name in
reflective white letters on both sides. Signs shall meet the minimum
reflectivity standards of the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for
Streets and Highways (MUTCD), 2009 Edition as adopted by the U.S. Department of
Transportation. Existing signs which do not meet the minimum requirements of
the MUTCD can remain in place until the end of their service life or other
reason.
   (C)   In residential districts, at least one road name sign shall be mounted
at each intersection.
   (D)   On principal arterials (US, NC, and SR 1000 series routes), road name
signs shall be placed on diagonally opposite corners so that they will be on
the far-right side of the intersection for traffic on the major road. Signs
naming both roads shall be erected at each location. They shall be mounted with
their faces parallel to the roads they name.
   (E)   Road name signs shall be placed at least two feet behind the face of a
curb with a minimum clearance of seven feet from the bottom of the sign to the
projected edge of pavement. If there is no curb and gutter, the signs shall be
placed behind the ditch line, out of the maintenance area. The lateral
clearance from the road’s edge should be six feet.
    (F)   Whenever physical conditions permit, signs shall be located on the
right-hand side of the road as one approaches the intersection.
   (G)   Signs shall be located to optimize nighttime visibility.
   (H)   Signs shall be set in the center of the turning radius in such a way
as to be visible from both intersecting roads.
   (I)   Signs shall be placed across the ditch line and shall not block
regulatory or warning signs.
   (J)   Signs shall be located in conformance with safety factors related to
fixed obstacles near the roadway.
(1996 Code, § 94.111) (Ord. passed 1-19-1993; Ord. passed 9-20-1993; Ord.
passed 11-30-2010)
§ 94.112 EXISTING ROAD SIGNS.
   The chapter administrator shall retain existing road signs already in place,
except for those signs which are inconsistent with the provisions of this
chapter and substantially affect the purposes sought to be carried out by this
chapter.
(1996 Code, § 94.112) (Ord. passed 1-19-1993)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 94.125 ADMINISTRATOR AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The Planning Director, or his or her designee, is given authority to
administer and assign addresses authorized under this chapter, and to enforce
the provisions of this chapter. Questions arising from the enforcement of this
chapter shall be interpreted by the Planning Director or his or her designee.
   (B)   Interpretation of this chapter shall be accomplished by the Planning
and Zoning Director or his or her designee.
   (C)   The chapter administrator may report to the Planning Board at their
scheduled meetings as needed to keep the members of the Boards informed of any
pertinent addressing related matters and to provide them with a summary of any
such matters.
(1996 Code, § 94.130) (Ord. passed 1-19-1993; Ord. passed 11-30-2010; Ord.
passed - - )
§ 94.126 APPLICATIONS AND PETITIONS.
   The chapter administrator shall accept and examine all applications, road
naming petitions, signage variances and initial appeals. Forms are available on
the Davie County website.
(1996 Code, § 94.131) (Ord. passed 1-19-1993; Ord. passed 11-30-2010; Ord.
passed - - )
§ 94.127 PETITIONING FOR A ROAD NAME.
   Roads eligible for naming by means of §
94.038 may be named by submitting a petition to the Technical Review Committee.
The Technical Review Committee may consider and approve road name petitions. A
petition shall include the existing road name, the proposed road name, the
reason why the person(s) are requesting the name change, and the signatures of
75% of those persons owning property addressed on the road in question.
(1996 Code, § 94.132) (Ord. passed 1-19-1993; Ord. passed - - )
§ 94.128 BUILDING PERMITS.
   No building permit shall be issued for any building or structure until the
owner or developer has been issued a structure number with a corresponding road
name from the chapter administrator.
(1996 Code, § 94.133) (Ord. passed 1-19-1993)
§ 94.129 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   Final approval for a certificate of occupancy of any structure or building
erected or repaired after the effective date of this chapter shall be withheld
until permanent and proper structure numbers have been posted in accordance
with the requirements herein.
(1996 Code, § 94.134) (Ord. passed 1-19-1993)
§ 94.130 PROCEDURE UPON DENIAL.
   Any person denied a request directed to the chapter administrator may
protest as provided in §
94.134.
(1996 Code, § 94.135) (Ord. passed 1-19-1993)
§ 94.131 AMENDMENTS.
   The Board of County Commissioners may, from time to time on its own motion
or on petition after public notice and a hearing as provided by this chapter,
amend, supplement, change, modify, or repeal the addressing regulations. No
action shall be taken until the proposal has been submitted to the County
Planning Board for its recommendation. If no report has been received from the
Planning Board within 30 days after submission of the proposal to the chapter
administrator, the Board of County Commissioners may proceed as though a
favorable report has been received.
(1996 Code, § 94.136) (Ord. passed 1-19-1993; Ord. passed 11-30-2010; Ord.
passed - - )
§ 94.132 PUBLIC NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   Before adopting or amending this chapter, the Board of County Commissioners
shall conduct a public hearing on the proposal. A notice of the public hearing
shall be posted once a week for two successive calendar weeks in a newspaper
having general circulation in the area. The notice shall be published for the
first time not less than ten days nor more than 25 days before the appointed
date of the meeting.
(1996 Code, § 94.137) (Ord. passed 1-19-1993)
§ 94.133 LETTER OF NOTIFICATION.
   Whenever there is a proposal for a change in the addressing system involving
any portion of an address, the land owner of that parcel’s address, as shown on
the county tax listing, shall be mailed a notice of the proposed change in the
addressing system. The notice shall be mailed by first class mail to the last
addresses listed of the land owners according to the county tax abstracts.
(1996 Code, § 94.138) (Ord. passed 1-19-1993; Ord. passed 11-30-2010)
§ 94.134 PROTESTING A PETITION OR PROPOSAL OF AMENDMENT.
   No protest against any change in or amendment to the addressing chapter,
regulations, proposals, or the addressing system shall be valid or effective
unless it is in the form of a written petition. The petition shall bear the
names and signatures of the opposing property owners and shall affirm and state
the nature of protest to the proposal.
(1996 Code, § 94.139) (Ord. passed 1-19-1993)
§ 94.135 APPLICATION FOR AMENDMENT.
   (A)   Applications for a text amendment to the addressing chapter shall be
filed with the chapter administrator at least ten days prior to the date on
which it is to be filed with the Planning Board. The chapter administrator
shall be responsible for presenting the application to the Board of County
Commissioners. Each application shall be signed, be in a duplicated form, and
shall contain the following:
      (1)   The applicant’s name and address in full;
      (2)   In the case of a text amendment, it shall set forth the new text to
be added and the existing text to be deleted and any other text changes that
will have to be made as a result of the effect on the remaining articles,
sections, definitions, diagrams, or attachments; and
      (3)   In the case of a request to name a road, change the name of an
existing road, re-address or change address assignments to a road, the petition
shall be presented to and reviewed by the Technical Review Committee. An
aggrieved party may appeal a decision of the Technical Review Committee to the
Planning Board as prescribed in §
155.170.
   (B)   All proposed text amendments to the addressing chapter shall be
submitted to the Planning Board for review and recommendation. The Planning
Board shall have 30 days to submit its report. If the Planning Board fails to
submit its report within the above period, it shall be deemed to have approved
the proposed amendment.
   (C)   A public hearing shall be held by the Board of County Commissioners
before the adoption of any proposed text amendments to the addressing chapter.
When the Board of County Commissioners shall have denied any application for
the change of a portion or matter of the addressing chapter, it shall not
thereafter accept any other application for the same change involving that
portion or matter of the chapter until the expiration of six months from the
date of such previous denial.
   (D)   Before any action shall be taken on a text amendment request, the
party or parties proposing or recommending the amendment shall with the
petition for such change deposit any required fee with the chapter
administrator at the time the petition is filed to cover publication and other
miscellaneous cost for the change. Under no conditions shall the fee or any
part thereof be refunded for failure of the amendment to be adopted. However,
in the event an application is withdrawn prior to the time it is ordered
advertised for hearing by the chapter administrator, three- fourths of the fee
shall be refunded.
(1996 Code, § 94.140) (Ord. passed 1-19-1993; amended 9-20-1999; Ord. passed
11-30-2010; Ord. passed - - )
§ 94.136 LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use or display a different
address or portion thereof except as provided by this chapter or the Official
Road Name and Structure Numbering Map.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to name or designate the name of
any private road, street, drive, cartway, easement, right-of-way, access area
or any other thoroughfare, except as provided by this chapter.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to establish or erect any road
sign that does not comply with the standards set forth in this chapter.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally destroy, mar, or
deface any county road name sign.
   (E)   Punishment for violations provided for in this subchapter shall be as
set forth in §
94.999.
(1996 Code, § 94.141) (Ord. passed 1-19-1993) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.137 NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATION.
   Notification of violation shall:
   (A)   Be issued by the chapter administrator or his or her designee;
   (B)   Be in writing, directed to the name and address of the owner of the
structure by certified mail return receipt; and
   (C)   Set forth the action necessary for the offender to be in compliance
with this chapter.
(1996 Code, § 94.142) (Ord. passed 1-19-1993)
§ 94.138 LEGAL PROSECUTION.
   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the county from taking other such
lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(1996 Code, § 94.143) (Ord. passed 1-19-1993)
§ 94.139 APPEALS AND REQUESTS FOR VARIANCE.
   Road naming appeals and appeals for signage variance shall adhere to the
procedures below.
   (A)   A first appeal or request for variance must:
      (1)   Be in writing, directed to the chapter administrator;
      (2)   Be dated and describe the reasons for the appeal;
      (3)   Appeals shall clearly state that all property owners along the road
are aware that any road name sign posting variance may hinder emergency
response personnel in their efforts to locate a particular address; and
      (4)   Contain the signatures of all the property owners along the road.
   (B)   A second appeal must be in writing, directed to the Technical Review
Commitee.
   (C)   Appeals from decision of the Technical Review Committee are prescribed
in §
155.170.
(1996 Code, § 94.144) (Ord. passed 1-19-1993; Ord. passed - - )
§ 94.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of this chapter is a misdemeanor as provided by G.S. § 14-
4 and may be punished as provided by §
10.99.
   (B)   Civil penalties may be imposed in accordance with the following
procedure:
      (1)   Initial notification of violation, in writing by first class mail,
to the last known address of the person to be notified;
      (2)   If not corrected within ten days, a warning citation may be issued;
      (3)   If not corrected within seven days of issuance of a warning
citation, a second citation including a fine of $25 may be issued; and
      (4)   Each day the violation continues shall constitute a separate
violation of this chapter.
   (C)   Violations of road name signs provisions of §
94.999 shall be punishable by maximum fines of up to $250 for each violation.
   (D)   Further, a violation of the above section of this code shall be a
violation of G.S. § 14-4 and such violation shall be classified as a Class 3
misdemeanor with a maximum fine of up to $450, except that any violations of §§
150.999,
154.99,
155.999, and
156.999 shall not be a violation of G.S. § 14-4 and shall not be considered a
misdemeanor.
(1996 Code, § 94.999) (Ord. passed 1-19-1993)
CHAPTER 95: RECREATION AND PARKS
Section
General Provisions
   
95.001   Title
   
95.002   Purpose
   
95.003   Construction of chapter
   
95.004   Definitions
Recreation and Parks Advisory Board
   
95.025   Creation; membership
   
95.026   Appointment of members
   
95.027   Removal of members
   
95.028   Ex officio member
   
95.029   Terms of members
   
95.030   Meetings; quorum
   
95.031   Attendance of members
   
95.032   Compensation of members
   
95.033   Officers generally
   
95.034   Duties of officers
   
95.035   Committees
   
95.036   Bylaws
   
95.037   Powers and duties
Operation, Use, Rules and Regulations of  Recreation and Park Facilities
   
95.050   Territorial scope
   
95.051   Fees for use of recreation programs and facilities
   
95.052   Permits
   
95.053   Commercial enterprise
   
95.054   Advertising and signs
   
95.055   Meetings and exhibitions
   
95.056   Preservation of park and plant life
   
95.057   Water; water pollution
   
95.058   Swimming; wading; boating
   
95.059   Hunting; fishing; wildlife; domestic animals at large
   
95.060   Camping; picnic areas
   
95.061   Facilities; building; structures; property; etc.
   
95.062   Aviation
   
95.063   Disposal of refuse, garbage, etc.
   
95.064   Hours of operation
   
95.065   Parking and traffic
   
95.066   Vehicles
   
95.067   Noise
   
95.068   Gambling
   
95.069   Alcohol; drugs
   
95.070   Fireworks; fires; firearms
   
95.071   Personal conduct
   
95.072   Minors
   
95.073   Violations and fines
Prohibition of Sex Offenders
   
95.085   Scope
   
95.086   Prohibition
   
95.087   Limited exceptions
   
95.088   Signage
Greenway Committee
   
95.100   Reserved
 
   
95.998   Enforcement
   
95.999   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Boating and water safety, see G.S. Chapter 75A
   Conservation of marine and estuarine and wildlife resources, see G.S. § 113-
127 et seq.
   State Parks and Recreation Council, see G.S. §§ 143B-311 et seq.
   County Parks and recreation, G.S. §§ 153A-444 et seq.
   Cities and towns, G.S. §§ 160A-18 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 95.001 TITLE.
    This chapter and sections herein shall be known and may be cited as the
“Davie County Recreation and Parks Ordinances.”
(Ord. passed 10-3-2016; Ord. passed 1-6-2020; Ord. passed 1-10-2022; Ord.
passed 2-5-2024)
§ 95.002 PURPOSE.
    The Board of Commissioners of the county recognizes that adequate
recreational programs, facilities and parks are necessary to promote the
happiness, safety and quality of life for residents of the county and that
making available recreational opportunities for citizens of all ages is a
subject of general interest and concern.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2016; Ord. passed 1-6-2020; Ord. passed 1-10-2022; Ord.
passed 2-5-2024)
§ 95.003 CONSTRUCTION OF CHAPTER.
    In the interpretation of this and all succeeding recreation and parks
ordinances, the provisions shall be construed as follows:
   (A)   Any term in the singular shall include the plural.
   (B)   Any term in the masculine shall include the feminine and neuter.
   (C)   Any requirement or prohibitions of any act shall respectively extend
to include the causing or procuring, directly or indirectly, of such act.
   (D)   No provision hereof shall make unlawful any act necessarily performed
by any officer or employee of the County Recreation and Parks Department (the
"Department") or any other employee or agent of the county or the State of
North Carolina (the "state") in the line of duty or work, or by any person, his
or her agent or employees, in the proper and necessary execution of the terms
of any agreement with the Department, the county or the state.
   (E)   Any act otherwise prohibited by this chapter or any local ordinance
shall be permitted if performed within the confines of a properly issued
written permit to do so, as set forth herein.
   (F)   This chapter is in addition to and supplements the state vehicle and
traffic laws, which are incorporated herein and made a part hereof, including
without limitation, the requirement that all persons operating any motor
vehicle as defined by state law must have a valid operator's license to operate
such vehicle within any county parks.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2016; Ord. passed 1-6-2020; Ord. passed 1-10-2022; Ord.
passed 2-5-2024)
§ 95.004 DEFINITIONS.
    In the interpretation of this and succeeding recreation and parks chapter
sections, the following terms unless otherwise defined therein, shall mean the
following:
   COUNTY. Davie County.
   DEPARTMENT. The Davie County Recreation and Parks Department.
   EMPLOYEE. A person who is employed by the County of Davie, or who contracts
with the county or a third person to perform services for the county, or who
otherwise performs services for the county with or without compensation.
   ENFORCEMENT. The act or process of regulating or enforcing this chapter.
   GROUNDS. An unenclosed area owned, leased, or occupied by the county.
   FOOT PATH or TRAIL. Any path or trail maintained for pedestrians or non-
motorized cyclists.
   PARK or PARKS. Shall be deemed to include all property and premises owned,
leased or used by the county for public recreation and park purposes or
functions.
   OFFICIAL MEETING. A meeting that is required to be open to the public by the
Open Meetings Law, G.S. Chapter 143, Article 33C.
   PARKS SYSTEM. Any tract of land or body of water comprising part of the
county's parks, playgrounds, natural areas, recreation areas, trails and
greenways, and streams or other bodies of water.
   PEDESTRIAN. A person on foot.
   PERMIT. Any written license issued by or under authority of the department,
permitting the performance of a specified act or acts on park property.
   PERSON. Any natural person, corporation, company, association, joint stock
association, joint venture, firm or partnership.
   PROGRAM. Any activity, camp, class, event facilitated or directed by
Department staff or independent contracted instructor for the purposes of
providing a recreational service to the community.
   RECREATION FACILITY OR BUILDING. Any publicly owned, leased as lessor, or
the area leased as lessee, operated or maintained property that is designated
or used as a recreation facility by the county and including any adjacent
public parking area as well as the driveway, entrance way or pedestrian walkway
used by the public to access the recreation facility.
   REGISTERED SEX OFFENDER. Any individual who is required to register or is
registered with the North Carolina Sex Offender and Public Protection Registry
(established under G.S. Chapter 14, Article 27A) or, the Dru Sjodin National
Sex Offender Public Registry (maintained by the United States Department of
Justice), or any other official state or federal registered sex offender
listing maintained by either the United States Department of Justice or any of
the several states. For purposes of determining if an individual is registered
or is required to register with any one of the official registries, law
enforcement officers may rely upon the official website of any state or federal
registry of sex offenders and the descriptions published and available from
such registry.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2016; Ord. passed 1-6-2020; Ord. passed 1-10-2022; Ord.
passed 2-5-2024)
RECREATION AND PARKS ADVISORY BOARD
§ 95.025 CREATION; MEMBERSHIP.
    There is hereby created a Recreation and Parks Advisory Board herein
referred to as "Advisory Board" composed of not less than seven and not more
than 11 residents of the county, to be known as the Recreation and Parks
Advisory Board.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2016; Ord. passed 1-6-2020; Ord. passed 1-10-2022; Ord.
passed 2-5-2024)
§ 95.026 APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS.
    The Recreation and Parks Director will make recommendations to the County
Manager as to the reappointment of member(s). Each member of the Recreation and
Parks Advisory Board shall be appointed by the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2016; Ord. passed 1-6-2020; Ord. passed 1-10-2022; Ord.
passed 2-5-2024)
§ 95.027 REMOVAL OF MEMBERS.
    Each member of the Advisory Board serves as a volunteer citizen to assist
in advising the Department in carrying out the Department's mission, vision and
values. In the event that a Board member is convicted of a felony or any act
involving moral turpitude, takes an action deemed to be detrimental to the
interest of the county, or misses more than three consecutive meetings in a
term year; the Recreation and Parks Director has a duty to recommend to the
Board of Commissioners the removal of that Board member. Prior to any removal,
the Board member in question may make a written request for a hearing to the
Recreation and Parks Director or the County Manager. Said request shall be
given no more than seven days upon receiving the recommendation of removal from
the Recreation and Parks Advisory Board.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2016; Ord. passed 1-6-2020; Ord. passed 1-10-2022; Ord.
passed 2-5-2024)
§ 95.028 EX OFFICIO MEMBER.
    Up to two members of the Board of Commissioners may be designated by the
full Board of Commissioners to serve as ex officio members of the Advisory
Board in addition to the seven and not more than 11 voting members. The ex
officio member will not have a vote on items coming before the Advisory Board.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2016; Ord. passed 1-6-2020; Ord. passed 1-10-2022; Ord.
passed 2-5-2024)
§ 95.029 TERMS OF MEMBERS.
    Each member of the Advisory Board shall be appointed for a three-year term
and may serve no more than two consecutive terms. Appointments shall be
arranged so that approximately one-third of the terms will expire each year,
except for the representative from the Board of Commissioners, who shall serve
on the Recreation and Parks Board concurrent with his or her term of office on
the Board. All terms shall expire on December 31 of the appropriate term of
appointment.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2016; Ord. passed 1-6-2020; Ord. passed 1-10-2022; Ord.
passed 2-5-2024)
§ 95.030 MEETINGS; QUORUM.
    Meetings of the Advisory Board shall be held on a monthly basis, unless
determined otherwise by the Advisory Board, or the Recreation and Parks
Director. The Chairman of the Board or, in his or her absence, the Vice-
Chairman, may call a special meeting of the Board at any time by giving each
member 48 hour notice. Special meetings will be scheduled upon request by a
majority of Board members. A quorum of the Board shall be in attendance before
action of an official nature can be taken. A quorum will consist of at least
one half of the appointed members to date. In the event that there is not a
quorum for general or special meetings; members of the Advisory Board may email
item(s) that require a vote after instructions are given by the Recreation and
Parks Director to respond. Parliamentary procedures are adhered to as reflected
in the latest edition of Roberts Rules of Order and shall prevail at official
meetings of the Recreation and Parks Advisory Board unless otherwise specified
by the by-laws.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2016; Ord. passed 1-6-2020; Ord. passed 1-10-2022; Ord.
passed 2-5-2024)
§ 95.031 ATTENDANCE OF MEMBERS.
   (A)    An appointed member of the Advisory Board who misses more than three
consecutive regular meetings loses his or her status as a member of the Board
until reappointed or replaced by the Board of Commissioners. Absences due to
sickness, death or other emergencies of like nature shall be regarded as
approved absences and shall not affect the member's status on the Board, except
that in the event of a long illness or other such cause for prolonged absence
the member may be replaced.
   (B)   Appointed members of the Advisory Board shall be required to attend a
minimum of two official recreation and park programs or special events per
fiscal year (July-June).
   (C)   Appointed members of the Advisory Board shall be required to volunteer
for a minimum of one recreation and park sponsored special event and one
recreation and park sponsored program or athletic program.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2016; Ord. passed 1-6-2020; Ord. passed 1-10-2022; Ord.
passed 2-5-2024)
§ 95.032 COMPENSATION OF MEMBERS.
    Members of the Advisory Board shall serve without monetary compensation.
Members may be reimbursed for travel and subsistence relating to professional
recreation meetings conferences and workshops, upon prior approval by the
Recreation and Parks Director, with such reimbursement being made in compliance
with the general policies of the county.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2016; Ord. passed 1-6-2020; Ord. passed 1-10-2022; Ord.
passed 2-5-2024)
§ 95.033 OFFICERS GENERALLY.
    There shall be a Chairman and Vice-Chairman of the Advisory Board. An
annual election of the Chairman and Vice-Chairman shall be held by the Board
members, and shall occur at the regular monthly meeting in December. Officers
shall serve for one year from election with eligibility for reelection. New
officers shall take office at the subsequent regular meeting in January. If an
officer's appointment to the Board is removed, a replacement to this office
shall be elected by the Board from its membership, at the meeting following the
removal.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2016; Ord. passed 1-6-2020; Ord. passed 1-10-2022; Ord.
passed 2-5-2024)
§ 95.034 DUTIES OF OFFICERS.
   (A)    The Chairman of the Advisory Board shall preside at all meetings and
sign all documents relative to actions taken by the Board. The Chairman shall
appoint all subcommittees including a nominating committee composed of three
Board members. A nominating committee shall be appointed at or before the
October meeting and shall report at the November meeting of the committee.
   (B)   When the Chairman is absent, the Vice-Chairman shall perform the
duties of the Chairman. When both the Chairman and Vice-Chairman are absent, a
temporary Chairman shall be selected by those members who are present.
   (C)   The Director of Recreation and Parks shall serve as Secretary to the
Board. He or she may delegate all or part of these duties to another Department
employee with the approval of the Board, but shall hold the office of Secretary
and shall be held responsible for the satisfactory accomplishment of the
secretarial duties. The Secretary shall send correspondence via email or postal
mail to all members, copies of official reports and the official minutes of all
regular and special meetings, prior to the next scheduled meeting.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2016; Ord. passed 1-6-2020; Ord. passed 1-10-2022; Ord.
passed 2-5-2024)
§ 95.035 COMMITTEES.
   (A)    The Executive Committee of the Advisory Board shall consist of the
Chairman, Vice-Chairman, Secretary (Director of Parks and Recreation).
   (B)   The Board Chairman is authorized to appoint such committees as, in the
opinion of the Board, are needed. Standing committees of the Board shall be:
      (1)   Program Activities and Events;
      (2)   Property Areas and Structures;
      (3)   Budget and Grants;
      (4)   Policies and Procedures;
      (5)   Recruitment and Retention;
      (6)   Resource and Development.
   (C)   The Chairman of the Board may appoint such temporary and project
committees as needed.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2016; Ord. passed 1-6-2020; Ord. passed 1-10-2022; Ord.
passed 2-5-2024)
§ 95.036 BYLAWS.
   Operational policies and procedures may be incorporated into a set of bylaws
as developed and approved by the Advisory Board in line with this subchapter
and the policies of the county.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2016; Ord. passed 1-6-2020; Ord. passed 1-10-2022; Ord.
passed 2-5-2024)
§ 95.037 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)    The Advisory Board shall serve as the Advisory Body for the
Department of Recreation and Parks, and the county. The Board shall suggest
policies to the Director of Recreation and Parks Department who will consult
with the County Manager and the Board of Commissioners, within its powers and
responsibilities as stated in this subchapter. The Board shall serve in an
advisory capacity only as a liaison between the Department, the Manager, the
Board of Commissioners and residents of the county. The Board shall consult
with and advise the Director of the Department, in matters affecting recreation
and park policies, program, resources, finances, and the acquisition and
disposal of lands and properties related to the total county recreation and
park program, and to its long-range, projected program for recreation and
parks.
   (B)   The Advisory Board shall assume duties for recreation and parks
purposes as follows. The Board shall:
      (1)   Make recommendations for the establishment of a system of
supervised recreation and parks for the county;
      (2)   Make recommendations to set apart, for use as parks, playgrounds,
recreation centers, water areas or other recreation areas and structures, any
lands or buildings owned by or leased to the county for approval by the
county's authorized body, and may suggest improvements of such lands and for
the construction and for the equipping and staffing of such buildings and
structures as may be necessary to the recreation and park program within those
funds allocated to the Department;
      (3)   Advise in the acquisition of lands and structures through gifts,
purchase, lease or loan, or by condemnation by the county as provided by G.S.
Chapter 40A, Eminent Domain, and as approved by the Board of Commissioners;
      (4)   Advise in the acceptance by the county of any grant, gift, bequest
or donation or any personal or real property offered or made available for
recreation purposes and which is judged to be of present or possible future use
for recreation. Any gift, bequest of money or other property or any grant or
devise of real or personal property so acquired shall be held by the county,
used and finally disposed of in accordance with the terms under which such
grant, gift or devise is made and accepted;
      (5)   Advise in the construction, equipping, operation and maintenance of
parks, playgrounds, recreation centers and all buildings and structures
necessary or useful to department function, and advise in regard to other
recreation facilities which are owned or controlled by the county or leased or
loaned to the county.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2016; Ord. passed 1-6-2020; Ord. passed 1-10-2022; Ord.
passed 2-5-2024)
OPERATION, USE, RULES AND REGULATIONS OF RECREATION AND PARK FACILITIES
§ 95.050 TERRITORIAL SCOPE.
    All county recreation and parks rules and regulations shall be effective
within the county parks system, facilities and other recreational areas in the
county parks and shall regulate and enforce the use thereof by all persons.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2016; Ord. passed 1-6-2020; Ord. passed 1-10-2022; Ord.
passed 2-5-2024)
§ 95.051 FEES FOR USE OF RECREATION PROGRAMS AND FACILITIES.
    Subject to the provisions of this chapter, fees for the use of the county's
recreation programs and facilities, except for the first fee schedule shall be
made in accordance with a resident user fee policy recommended by the
Recreation and Parks and Recreation Advisory Board and approved by the Board of
Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2016; Ord. passed 1-6-2020; Ord. passed 1-10-2022; Ord.
passed 2-5-2024)
Editor’s Note:
   DCRP Fee Schedule
§ 95.052 PERMITS.
    A permit shall authorize the holder to special uses of recreation and park
facilities as set forth in the terms and conditions of the permit. The permit
holder shall be held responsible for the terms and conditions of the permit as
well as the standard Recreation and Parks Department rules, regulations and
policies. The Recreation and Parks Department reserves the right to revoke a
permit if the terms and conditions of the permit or Recreation and Parks
Department's rules, regulations and policies are violated. The Recreation and
Parks Director, law enforcement, or their representatives have the authority to
revoke the permit. The permit holder will forfeit any fees paid for the permit,
if revoked, and will be responsible for any damages incurred. The permit holder
may request a hearing with the Recreation and Parks Director for any forfeiture
of permit fees, deposits or billed property damages. The permit holder must
request a hearing in writing or by email instrument to the Recreation and Parks
Director, no more than 14 days upon notification of fee forfeiture or billed
damages. Such hearing shall be held within 21 days by the Recreation and Parks
Director and the Advisory Board Chairman or Vice-Chairman (in the absence of
chairman) which the decision shall be final.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2016; Ord. passed 1-6-2020; Ord. passed 1-10-2022; Ord.
passed 2-5-2024)
Editor’s Note:
   DCRP Fee Schedule
§ 95.053 COMMERCIAL ENTERPRISE.
   (A)   Commercial operations. No person shall, in any park or recreation
facility, without a permit, sell or offer for sale, hire, lease or let out, any
object or merchandise, property, privilege, service or any other thing, or
engage in any business or erect any building, booth, tent, stall, or any other
structure whatsoever. No person to whom property of any park has been entrusted
for personal use shall hire, lease, let out, and sell, the same to any other
person.
   (B)   No person shall solicit contributions for any purpose whether public
or private, except charitable solicitations specifically approved by the
Director of Recreation and Parks or designee.
   (C)   Commercial photographs; advertising. No person shall, without a
permit, take photographs or moving pictures within the limits of any park for
the purpose of selling the negatives thereof or the prints therefrom. No person
shall, without prior written consent from the Recreation and Parks Director or
his or her designee, use the official Davie County Recreation and Parks
official “logo” for the purposes of commercial/business advertisement.
      (1)   To maintain consistency within the Recreation and Parks Department
branding and marketing guidelines, the following courtesy is applied: any
person(s) using appropriate photographs or moving picture(s) within the limits
of any park for the purpose of personal or commercial business advertisement,
should make reasonable efforts to include, in written form, the official
department name, “Davie County Recreation and Parks” or official park name
within any media, social media, or written advertisement created, or
disseminated.
   (D)   Commercial vehicles. No person shall operate a bus, taxicab, all
terrain or other commercial vehicle designed or used for the transportation of
passengers or property within any park without a permit, unless designated as
part of a recreation and park sponsored program. However, commercial vehicles
are allowed to enter a park for the sole purpose of picking up or delivering a
patron to the park.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2016; Ord. passed 1-6-2020; Ord. passed 1-10-2022; Ord.
passed 2-5-2024)
§ 95.054 ADVERTISING AND SIGNS.
    No sign, banner, notice, advertisement of any nature or type shall be
erected, posted or attached to or onto an building, amenity, sign, tree or
place within any recreation or park facility without permission in writing from
the department; nor shall any musical instrument, radio, talking machine, or
drum be operated or any noise be made for the purpose of attracting attention
to any exhibition of any kind.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2016; Ord. passed 1-6-2020; Ord. passed 1-10-2022; Ord.
passed 2-5-2024)
§ 95.055 MEETINGS AND EXHIBITIONS.
    No person shall in any county park, grounds or facility erect any
structure, stand or platform, hold any meetings, or exhibition, perform any
ceremony, make any speech, or address except by permit.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2016; Ord. passed 1-6-2020; Ord. passed 1-10-2022; Ord.
passed 2-5-2024)
§ 95.056 PRESERVATION OF PARK AND PLANT LIFE.
    No person shall remove, destroy, cut down, scar, paint, mutilate, injure,
take or gather in any manner any tree, flower, fern, shrub, rock or other plant
or mineral in any park, or make any excavation by tool, equipment, blasting or
other means or agency. Furthermore, no person shall play golf or practice
archery on park property unless part of a park-sponsored program.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2016; Ord. passed 1-6-2020; Ord. passed 1-10-2022; Ord.
passed 2-5-2024)
§ 95.057 WATER; WATER POLLUTION.
    No person shall throw, discharge, or otherwise place or cause to be placed
in the waters of any fountains, pond, lake, stream or other body of water in or
adjacent to any park or any tributary, stream, storm sewer, or drain flowing
into such water, any substance, matter or thing, liquid or solid, which will or
may result in the polluting of the waters.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2016; Ord. passed 1-6-2020; Ord. passed 1-10-2022; Ord.
passed 2-5-2024)
§ 95.058 SWIMMING; WADING; BOATING.
   (A)   Swimming, wading and boating in the county lakes or other water bodies
are prohibited except in designated or preapproved areas and permitted only by
the Recreation and Parks Director.
   (B)   No person in a park shall allow themselves to be so covered with a
bathing suit as to indecently expose his or her person. All bathing suits shall
conform to commonly accepted standards.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2016; Ord. passed 1-6-2020; Ord. passed 1-10-2022; Ord.
passed 2-5-2024)
§ 95.059 HUNTING; FISHING; WILDLIFE; DOMESTIC ANIMALS AT LARGE.
    It shall be unlawful for any person in the county park system to:
   (A)   Hunting. Hunt, trap, shoot, kill, wound, molest, capture, chase,
willfully frighten or attempt to harm any wildlife or wildlife habitat within
the park, except as undertaken by authorized park personnel in their exercise
of a bona fide wildlife management practice.
   (B)   Fishing; wildlife. No person shall:
      (1)   Disobey posted notice prohibiting feeding mammals, birds, reptiles,
amphibians or fish;
      (2)   Place, dump, abandon, or leave any fish, mammal, reptile or bird,
either wild or domestic, on park property;
      (3)   Fish without a state fishing license; except as provided for in the
state fishing regulations;
      (4)   Violate state regulations of seasons, hours, and fishing/baiting
methods or as otherwise designated in park regulations;
      (5)   Catch and keep bass. All bass fishing is catch and release only.
   (C)   Domestic animals. No person shall:
      (1)   Cause or permit any animal, under a person's custody or his or her
control, to enter the park, except a dog restrained by a leash not exceeding
eight feet in length; except when entering a designated off-leash dog park, or
except when such animal is part of a Department sponsored program. Further, the
person having custody of the dog or animal on park premises or in a designated
off-leash dog park, or Department sponsored program shall be responsible for
the timely removal of any animal solid waste;
      (2)   Individuals with documented disabilities shall be allowed to enter
county parks with a service animal as defined by the Americans with Disability
Act so long as such animal is properly leashed and under the direct control of
the individual;
      (3)   No individual should possess, on a leash, or otherwise any pet and/
or pets which they are unable to supervise and appropriately care for while on
park premises;
      (4)   Cause or permit any exotic animal(s), under a person's custody or
his control, to enter the park as described in §
90.16;
      (5)   Bring, use, ride, or drive a horse, mule, cow, or any other animal
in any part of the parks, except for commercially licensed horse-drawn
carriages, which will be treated as a commercial vehicle for the purpose of
this section, or unless the animal is part of a park-sponsored program.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2016; Ord. passed 1-6-2020; Ord. passed 1-10-2022; Ord.
passed 2-5-2024)
§ 95.060 CAMPING; PICNIC AREAS.
   It shall be unlawful to:
   (A)   Camp (tent camp or otherwise) or park a car, trailer, or camper for
the purpose of camping or overnight stay anywhere in any park/recreation
facility except in areas specifically designated for camping during authorized
times for camping, or part of a park sponsored program;
   (B)   Bring any cooking devices into the park except in designated areas and
as permitted by the Department policies;
   (C)   Hold a picnic in the park except in areas specifically designated as
picnic sites;
   (D)   Bring gas powered generators except by written Department permit, or
part of a Department sponsored program or event. Furthermore, "quiet" gas
powered generators shall only be used unless specifically directed otherwise by
the Department.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2016; Ord. passed 1-6-2020; Ord. passed 1-10-2022; Ord.
passed 2-5-2024)
§ 95.061 FACILITIES; BUILDING; STRUCTURES; PROPERTY; ETC.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Willfully mark, deface, disfigure, injure, tamper with, or displace or
remove, any amphitheaters, athletic courtyards, athletic fields, aquatic
structures, benches, boardwalks, bollards, bridges, buildings, civic greens,
fencing, fireplaces, paving or paving materials, playgrounds, racks, railings,
shade structures, shelters, tables, water lines or other public utilities or
parts or appurtenances thereof, signs, notices or placards whether temporary or
permanent, monuments, stakes, posts, or other boundary markers, or other
structures or equipment, facilities or park property or appurtenances
whatsoever, either real or personal;
   (B)   Enter an area posted as "Closed," nor shall any person use or abate
the use of any areas in violation of posted notices;
   (C)   Fail to cooperate in maintaining restrooms and washrooms in a neat and
sanitary condition;
   (D)   Construct or erect any building or structure of whatever kind, whether
permanent or temporary, or run or string any public service utility into, upon,
or across such lands, except on special written permit issued pursuant to this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2016; Ord. passed 1-6-2020; Ord. passed 1-10-2022; Ord.
passed 2-5-2024)
§ 95.062 AVIATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the confines of the park,
facility or grounds to voluntarily take off, land, or cause to descend or take
off any airplane, flying machine, drone, balloon, parachute, or other apparatus
of aviation, except by special permit, or part of a Department sponsored
program. VOLUNTARILY shall mean any action other than a forced landing. This
section shall also apply to radio-controlled airplanes, helicopters, rockets,
etc.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2016; Ord. passed 1-6-2020; Ord. passed 1-10-2022; Ord.
passed 2-5-2024)
§ 95.063 DISPOSAL OF REFUSE, GARBAGE, ETC.
    No person shall deposit in any part of any park, facility or grounds any
garbage, sewerage, refuse, waste, fruit, vegetables, foodstuffs, boxes, tin
cans, paper or other litter or other waste material or obnoxious material,
except in containers and receptacles designated for such purposes. Where
receptacles are not provided, all such rubbish or waste shall be carried away
from the park by the person responsible for its presence and properly disposed
of elsewhere.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2016; Ord. passed 1-6-2020; Ord. passed 1-10-2022; Ord.
passed 2-5-2024)
§ 95.064 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter or remain in the park/
recreation facility except during those hours of operation that it is open to
the general public. Park/recreation facility hours of operation will be posted
and may be changed from time to time by the department or board of
commissioners.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2016; Ord. passed 1-6-2020; Ord. passed 1-10-2022; Ord.
passed 2-5-2024)
§ 95.065 PARKING AND TRAFFIC.
   (A)   Parking. No person shall park a vehicle any place on park or facility
property other than in regular designated facilities provided for that
particular type of vehicle, unless directed otherwise by law enforcement
officers or Department employees who are authorized to designate other areas
for parking when conditions so warrant. Furthermore, no person shall double-
park any vehicle at any time on any road or parkway or parking concourse,
unless so directed by a law enforcement officer or park attendant.
   (B)   Where vehicles prohibited. No person shall drive a vehicle in any park
within or upon a safety zone, walk, bridle path, fire lane, trail, service road
or any part of any park not designated or customarily used for such purpose.
   (C)   Obstructing traffic. No person shall cause or permit a vehicle to
obstruct traffic by unnecessary stopping.
   (D)   Speed limit. Rate of speed in excess of 15 miles per hour is
prohibited within any county park.
   (E)   Careless or reckless driving. Vehicles are strictly prohibited to
operate carelessly or recklessly in any park or park parking lot that would
cause public endangerment. Such careless or reckless driving shall include but
not be limited to: tire spinning, drifting, skidding, sliding, burnouts,
wheelies and doughnuts, etc.
   (F)   View into vehicles. Every vehicle driven through any park or parked in
any parking space in any park shall have the interior thereof open to full view
at all times.
   (G)   Semi-trailer trucks. No person shall park a semi-trailer truck any
place on park or facility property with exception of loading in or loading out
department-authorized equipment.
   (H)   Excessive loads. No person shall operate an excessively loaded vehicle
anywhere in any park. The determination as whether a load is excessive will be
made by authorized park personnel and will be based upon the load and the
condition of the road or pathway.
   (I)   Overnight and removal of vehicles. Without permission, no person shall
park or store any motor vehicle overnight in any park owned by the county.
Members of law enforcement are hereby authorized to remove any motor vehicle so
parked or stored.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2016; Ord. passed 1-6-2020; Ord. passed 1-10-2022; Ord.
passed 2-5-2024)
§ 95.066 VEHICLES.
   (A)   Motorized vehicles. It shall be unlawful to operate any motorcycle,
all-terrain vehicle (ATV), motorbike, motor scooter, motorized go-cart or any
other motor vehicle in or on any public park, public recreation areas or any
other publicly owned property within the corporate limits of the county or in
or on any such property owned by the county outside the corporate limits of the
county, except on streets, parking areas or other public ways designed and
intended for motor vehicular use. This prohibition shall not apply to vehicles
and equipment being used in connection with the maintenance and event
facilitation of such public properties. Motorized vehicles and all-terrain
vehicles (ATVs) are prohibited on boardwalks, nature trails/greenways, tennis
courts, basketball courts, shelters, disc golf course, trails, and sidewalks.
   (B)   Non-motorized vehicles. Non-motorized vehicles, pedal bicycles,
tricycle, scooters, skateboards, roller skates and roller blades are to be used
in/on designated areas only. All non-motorized vehicles are prohibited on
boardwalks, tennis courts, basketball courts, shelters, disc golf course and
sidewalks.
   (C)   Designated racks. No person shall leave a bicycle in a place other
than a bicycle rack when such is provided and there is a space available.
   (D)   Immobile. No person shall leave a bicycle lying on the ground or
paving or set against trees, or in any place or position where other persons
may trip over or be injured by them.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2016; Ord. passed 1-6-2020; Ord. passed 1-10-2022; Ord.
passed 2-5-2024)
§ 95.067 NOISE.
    The creation of any unreasonably loud, disturbing and unnecessary noise is
prohibited. Noise of such character, intensity and duration as to be
detrimental to the life or health of any individual is prohibited.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2016; Ord. passed 1-6-2020; Ord. passed 1-10-2022; Ord.
passed 2-5-2024)
§ 95.068 GAMBLING.
    It shall be unlawful for any person to bet or wager on any game of skill or
chance or engage in any game of chance in any park or facility.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2016; Ord. passed 1-6-2020; Ord. passed 1-10-2022; Ord.
passed 2-5-2024)
§ 95.069 ALCOHOL; DRUGS.
    It shall be unlawful for any person in any park or facility to:
   (A)   Possess illegal drugs or be under the influence of illegal drugs or be
disruptive by virtue of such use;
   (B)   Possess and/or consume alcoholic beverages; except at and in
accordance with the Department alcohol policy as approved by Recreation and
Parks Director, Advisory Board, County Manager, Attorney, and Board of
Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2016; Ord. passed 1-6-2020; Ord. passed 3-2-2021; Ord. passed
1-10-2022; Ord. passed 2-5-2024)
95.070 FIREWORKS; FIRES; FIREARMS.
   (A)   Fireworks. Any fireworks or explosive(s) of any kind or nature are
prohibited, except by permit, or part of a Department sponsored program.
   (B)   Fires. No person shall kindle, build, maintain or use a fire other
than in places provided or designated for such purposes except by special
permit. Any fire shall be continuously under the care and direction of a
competent person over 16 years of age from the time it is kindled until it is
extinguished.
   (C)   Firearms. No person shall carry, use, or possess firearms of any
description, air rifles, pistols, spring guns, bows and arrows, slingshots,
boomerangs, water pistols, or any other form of weapon potentially dangerous to
wildlife or human safety on or in county parks, facilities or grounds; except
at and in accordance with the rules and regulations as a participant in a
program sponsored by the department or law enforcement officer or as stated in
G.S. § 14-409.40.
 
Facility                Address
Brock Recreation Center 644 North Main Street, Mocksville, NC, 27028
Davie County Park       151 Southwood Drive, Mocksville, NC, 27028
Davie County Stadium    155 Southwood Drive, Mocksville, NC, 27028
 
(Ord. passed 10-3-2016; Ord. passed 1-6-2020; Ord. passed 1-10-2022; Ord.
passed 2-5-2024)
§ 95.071 PERSONAL CONDUCT.
    It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Engage in criminal or disorderly conduct of any kind within a
recreation and park facility;
   (B)   Engage in any activity which may constitute a hazard to the safety of
themselves or other persons, except when conducted within reasonable safety
guidelines in specific areas designated by special permit;
   (C)   Dispose of lighted or unlighted matches, cigars, cigarettes, or any
flammable materials or substance in other than trash receptacles or ash cans;
   (D)   Engage in threatening language or in excessively noisy conduct of any
kind at any time within the park or recreation facility such that it
unreasonably disturbs other park patrons, neighbors or Department staff.
Department staff on duty is empowered to determine whether noise is excessive
or unreasonably disturbing;
   (E)   Throw rocks or objects of any kind. This does not include balls or
game equipment used in athletic events when used in a reasonable manner and in
such a way that they do not become hazards to other park patrons;
   (F)   Solicit, peddle or beg within any park or recreation facility, or to
sell merchandise or wares without a special permit;
   (G)   Interfere with or in any manner hinder any employee of the park in the
performance of their duties;
   (H)   Disturb or interfere unreasonably with any person or party occupying
any area or participating in any activity under the authority of a permit;
   (I)   Engage in or threaten physical violence;
   (J)   Remove county department property without permission by Department
official;
   (K)   Damage County Department property.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2016; Ord. passed 1-6-2020; Ord. passed 1-10-2022; Ord.
passed 2-5-2024)
§ 95.072 MINORS.
    No parent, guardian or custodian of any minor shall permit or allow such
minor to do any act prohibited by any recreation center or park regulations.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2016; Ord. passed 1-6-2020; Ord. passed 1-10-2022; Ord.
passed 2-5-2024)
§ 95.073 VIOLATIONS AND FINES.
   (A)   Parking and speeding/reckless driving violations with corresponding
fines are listed on Schedule 1, which is on file in the county offices and
incorporated as if fully set forth herein. The Board of Commissioners may amend
Schedule 1 from time to time.
   (B)   Violations of §
95.059(B) are punishable by the appropriate penalties and/or laws governing
inland waters, as set forth by the State Wildlife Resources Commission. Any and
all enforcement officers of the Wildlife Commission have full authority to
enforce these regulations.
   (C)   Violation of §
95.071(A), (B), (D), (I), or (J) is punishable by written warning, $50 fine
and/or suspension for a period of not more than 60 days, unless designated by
Board of Commissioners.
   (D)   Violations of this chapter may also constitute a civil offense and/or
a misdemeanor pursuant to the applicable North Carolina General Statutes and
may be punishable by additional fines or sanctions, including imprisonment not
exceeding 30 days.
   (E)   Prior to any citations, fines or punishments being assessed from
violations aforementioned above, any individual may make a written request for
a hearing to the Recreation and Parks Director or the County Manager. Said
request shall be given no more than seven days upon receiving the citation,
notice of fine or punishment.
(Ord. passed 1-10-2022; Ord. passed 2-5-2024)
PROHIBITION OF SEX OFFENDERS
§ 95.085 SCOPE.
   Territorial scope. This subchapter shall be effective within and upon all
county recreation and park facilities and shall regulate the use thereof by all
persons.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2016; Ord. passed 1-6-2020; Ord. passed 1-10-2022; Ord.
passed 2-5-2024)
§ 95.086 PROHIBITION.
    No registered sex offender shall enter into or upon any recreation or park
facility owned, operated or maintained by the county except as permitted by the
following section of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2016; Ord. passed 1-6-2020; Ord. passed 1-10-2022; Ord.
passed 2-5-2024)
§ 95.087 LIMITED EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Polling place. When a recreation and park facility is used as a
polling place for an election, the registered sex offender may enter for the
limited purpose of voting if he or she has right to vote and qualifies to do so
at that polling place.
   (B)   Official meetings. A registered sex offender who has the right to be
present at an official meeting shall have the limited privilege of entering on
and into a recreation and park facility for such time as is necessary to attend
said meeting or function, but any form of loitering or lingering shall be a
violation of this chapter. The privilege shall only extend to those parts of
the recreation and park facility that are commonplace for meetings of that kind
and any registered sex offender found outside of those parts shall be in
violation of this chapter and subject to applicable county laws.
   (C)   Consistency with the Jessica Lunsford Act. After November 30, 2008,
any action prohibited by this subchapter that would also be a violation of G.S.
§ 14-208.18 shall no longer be considered a violation of this subchapter. For
example, after November 30, 2008:
      (1)   A registered sex offender who enters a park and/or recreation
facility playground will no longer be in violation of this subchapter because
of the prohibition of the same conduct by G.S. § 14-208.18(a)(1);
      (2)   A registered sex offender who enters park and/or recreation
facility property that is held open to the general public that at the time in
question is being used for a youth birthday party may not be deemed in
violation of this subchapter because of the prohibition of the same conduct by
G.S. § 14-208.18(a)(2); and
      (3)   A registered sex offender will not be in violation of this
subchapter for being on park and/or recreation facility property where minors
have gathered for regularly scheduled recreational programs because of the
prohibition of the same conduct by G.S. § 14-208.18(a)(3).
(Ord. passed 10-3-2016; Ord. passed 1-6-2020; Ord. passed 1-10-2022; Ord.
passed 2-5-2024)
§ 95.088 SIGNAGE.
    Each recreation and park facility should be posted to the effect that
registered sex offenders are prohibited so that such persons and the general
public are made aware of this subchapter. Notwithstanding this section
concerning signage, it shall not be a defense to a prosecution under this
subchapter that the recreation or park facility contained no signage.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2016; Ord. passed 1-6-2020; Ord. passed 1-10-2022; Ord.
passed 2-5-2024)
GREENWAY COMMITTEE
§ 95.100 RESERVED.
§ 95.998 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Enforcement generally.
      (1)   In addition to other enforcement and sanction provisions hereunder,
violators may be punishable by immediate banishment from all or specified
properties. Department and/or county law enforcement officials may banish
violators a minimum of 30 days and up to five years on their first or multiple
offenses dependent on the severity of the offense. Department officials may
consider banishment exceeding five years and no less than ten years dependent
on the severity of the offense. Department officials shall present any
banishment consideration exceeding five and no less than ten years to the
Recreation and Parks Advisory Board for approval. Thereafter, any permanent
banishment more than ten years or such time deemed appropriate, shall be at the
discretion and approval of the Board of Commissioners. The Department Director
and/or designee (including without limitation, department officials and county
enforcement authorities) are empowered to invoke and enforce this banishment.
An effort will be made to send a certified letter to anyone banned from the
facilities advising them of why they were banned, how long the suspension is,
what facilities are affected, and what will happen if they don't abide by the
ban.
      (2)   County law enforcement authorities shall have the duty and
responsibility to enforce this chapter and shall be empowered to issue
citations for violations as set forth herein when in their judgment, any
provisions have been violated. Department personnel shall have the duty and
responsibility to enforce this chapter and shall be empowered to notify county
law enforcement when in their judgment, any provisions have been violated.
      (3)   In addition to the enforcement and sanction provisions of this
chapter, department personnel authorized by the Board of Commissioners as well
as county law enforcement authorities shall have all enforcement and sanction
provisions available to them pursuant to the North Carolina General Statutes.
This authority shall include without limitation, assessment of any state and/or
county fines and penalties applicable to any ordinance citation. Each person
receiving a citation must, within 30 calendar days of its issuance, pay as a
penalty and in full satisfaction of the fine, the total monetary sum set forth
in the citation. However, in the event the fine is paid within 14 calendar days
of issuance of the citation, the county will accept one-half of the full fine
amount as full and complete satisfaction of the fine. Payment of the fine does
not relieve the recipient of the citation from compliance with any other
requirements set forth in the citation. Notwithstanding any other term or
condition herein, failure of such person to render payment of the full amount
of the fine within 30 days of the issuance of the citation, may render such
person subject to collection proceedings and/or punishment for a civil offense
or misdemeanor, as set forth herein and in the North Carolina General Statutes.
Violation fines and penalties may be revised from time to time by the Board of
Commissioners and shall be deemed incorporated herein as they may be amended
from time to time.
      (4)   Prior to any banishment enforcement by Department personnel or
county law enforcement or any imposition of a fine or penalty as set forth
above in division (A)(3) above, any individual may make a written request for a
hearing to the Recreation and Parks Director or the County Manager. Said
request shall be given no more than seven days receiving the recommendation of
banishment and/or fines or penalty from the Department.
   (B)   Prohibition of sex offenders.
      (1)   Enforcement. Duly sworn law enforcement officers with jurisdiction
within the county parks and recreation facilities shall have the duty to
enforce §§
95.085 to
95.088. Recreation and parks staff shall take such actions as are necessary for
the enforcement of §§
95.085 to
95.088 without detaining that are consistent with county ordinances and state
law.
      (2)   Detaining a subject. A law enforcement officer may detain a person
within a county recreation or park facility under §§
95.085 to
95.088 for a reasonable amount of time to inquire about that person's status as
a registered sex offender if the officer reasonably believes, or has probable
cause to believe, that the person is a registered sex offender who is in
violation of §§
95.085 to
95.088 or has committed a crime for which the person, if convicted, could be
required to register as a sex offender. Nothing in this division (B) shall
limit a law enforcement officer from running any background check that is
currently permissible under the law.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2016; Ord. passed 1-6-2020; Ord. passed 1-10-2022; Ord.
passed 2-5-2024)
§ 95.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of Section 1.72 shall be a Class 3 misdemeanor and shall be
punishable by a fine of up to $500 and or incarceration for a period of time as
outlined in G.S. §§ 15A-1340.20 et seq. Each and every entrance into a
recreation or park facility, regardless of the time period between such
entries, shall constitute a separate offense under this chapter. This penalty
shall not supersede any other criminal statutes and shall be in addition to any
other state and/or federal laws.
   (B)   Further, a violation of the above section of this code shall be a
violation of G.S. § 14-4 and such violation shall be classified as a Class 3
misdemeanor with a maximum fine of up to $450, except that any violations of §§
150.999,
154.99,
155.999, and
156.999 shall not be a violation of G.S. § 14-4 and shall not be considered a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2016; Ord. passed 1-6-2020; Ord. passed 1-10-2022; Ord.
passed 2-5-2024)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   CABLE SERVICES
      
111.   CONTRACTORS
      
112.   MASSAGE BUSINESSES
      
113.   HOTELS AND RENTAL CARS
      
114.   AMBULANCE SERVICE
      
115.   PEDDLERS AND PANHANDLERS
      
116.   ALCOHOL POLICY
CHAPTER 110: CABLE SERVICES
Section
General Provisions
   
110.001   Statement of intent and purpose
   
110.002   Short title
   
110.003   Definitions
Franchise Requirements
   
110.015   Unlawful to operate without a franchise
   
110.016   Franchises non-exclusive
   
110.017   Franchises nondiscriminatory
   
110.018   Term of franchise
   
110.019   Federal, state, and county jurisdiction
   
110.020   Rights reserved to grantor
   
110.021   Franchise agreement
   
110.022   Initial franchise applications
   
110.023   Consideration of initial applications
   
110.024   Franchise renewal
   
110.025   Grant of additional franchise and competing service
   
110.026   Permits for non-franchised entities
   
110.027   Review for competition
   
110.028   Application and renewal fees
Design Provisions
   
110.040   System design
   
110.041   The system
   
110.042   Drops to public buildings
   
110.043   Use of grantee facilities
   
110.044   Upgrade of system
   
110.045   Nondiscriminatory access to cable system
Institutional Network and Public Educational and Governmental (PEG) Access
   
110.060   Institutional network; access channels
Technical Standards and Customer Service Practices
   
110.075   General technical standards and customer service practices
   
110.076   Technical standards
   
110.077   Test and compliance procedure
   
110.078   Emergency requirements
   
110.079   Programming decisions
   
110.080   Customer service standards
   
110.081   Parental control
   
110.082   Periodic subscriber survey
   
110.083   Installations exceeding standard installation
   
110.084   Service area
   
110.085   County monitoring
   
110.086   Access to inside wiring
Construction Standards
   
110.100   Right-of-way construction
   
110.101   Compliance with laws
   
110.102   Minimum interference
   
110.103   Repair of property
   
110.104   Erection of poles
   
110.105   Reservations of street rights
   
110.106   Underground installation
   
110.107   Conduit
   
110.108   Clearing poles and cables
   
110.109   Moving facilities
   
110.110   Work performed by others
   
110.111   Duty to grantee
General Financial and Insurance Provisions
   
110.125   Franchise fee
   
110.126   Security fund
   
110.127   Penalties procedure
   
110.128   Bonds, indemnification, and insurance
Revocation
   
110.140   Grounds for revocation
   
110.141   Procedure
Foreclosure, Receivership, and Abandonment
   
110.155   Foreclosure
   
110.156   Receivership
Purchase, Sale, or Transfer of System
   
110.170   Purchase by grantor upon termination of franchise term or revocation
of franchise
   
110.171   Sale or transfer of franchise
Rights of Individuals Protected
   
110.185   Discriminatory practices prohibited
   
110.186   Subscriber privacy
Miscellaneous Provisions
   
110.200   Rate regulation
   
110.201   Rights reserved to grantor
   
110.202   Non-enforcement by the county
   
110.203   Governing law and choice of forum
   
110.204   Severability
   
110.205   Publication of notices
   
110.206   System construction capabilities and schedule
 
   
110.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Customer Service Standards
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.001 STATEMENT OF INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   This county, pursuant to applicable federal and state law, is
authorized to grant one or more nonexclusive franchises to construct, operate,
maintain, and reconstruct cable systems within the incorporated areas of the
county.
   (B)   The County Board of Commissioners finds that cable service has become
an integral part of its citizens’ lives, and that evolving cable systems have
the potential to play an even more dramatic role in the future, providing great
benefits and advanced capabilities to the county. At the same time, the Board
further finds that the public convenience, safety, and general welfare can best
be served by establishing regulatory powers that are vested in the county or
such persons as the county designates.
   (C)   In order to ensure that the county and its residents receive state-of-
the-art cable services and capabilities as this technology further evolves, all
franchises granted pursuant to this chapter will be subject to periodic review
and modifications to keep current with changing law, technology, and services.
It is the intent of this chapter to help ensure that local cable operators
provide the best possible cable service to residents of the county, and any
franchises issued pursuant to this chapter shall be deemed to include this
finding as an integral part thereof.
   (D)   Further, it is recognized that cable systems have the capacity to
provide entertainment and information services to the county’s residents, and
may have the capacity to provide a variety of broadband, interactive
communications services to institutions and individuals. For these purposes,
the following goals underlie the regulations contained herein:
      (1)   Cable television services should be made available to all of the
county’s residents at the lowest reasonable cost;
      (2)   The system should be capable of accommodating both the present and
reasonably foreseeable future state-of-the-art cable television needs of the
county;
      (3)   The systems authorized by this chapter shall be responsive to the
needs and interests of the local community, and shall provide the widest
possible diversity of information sources and services to the public; and
      (4)   Each of the above-enumerated goals shall be sought to the maximum
extent, taking into account the costs and benefits to the residents of the
county.
   (E)   The Board further finds that ongoing industry consolidation could
result in less local accountability, and that, therefore, stringent customer
service standards, including liquidated damages provisions, may be the only
practical means of ensuring compliance and approximating the costs of franchise
agreement noncompliance to the county and its residents.
(1996 Code, § 110.001) (Ord. passed 11-20-2000)
§ 110.002 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the County Cable Services
Regulatory Ordinance, and it shall become a part of the ordinances of the
county. This chapter shall take effect and be in force from and after its
adoption for the grant of any new franchise agreement or renewal of any
franchise existing at the time of adoption. All ordinances or parts of this
county code in conflict with the provisions of this chapter are hereby
repealed.
(1996 Code, § 110.002) (Ord. passed 11-20-2000)
§ 110.003 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADDITIONAL SERVICE. Any cable service other than basic service provided over
the system.
   BASIC CABLE SERVICE. Any cable service tier that includes the lawful
retransmission of local television broadcast signals and any public,
educational, and governmental access programming required by this chapter or a
franchise agreement to be carried on the basic tier. BASIC CABLE SERVICE as
defined herein shall be consistent with 47 U.S.C. § 543(b)(7), and shall
include any signal of any television broadcast station that is provided by a
grantee to any subscriber, except a signal which is secondarily transmitted by
a satellite carrier beyond the local service area of such station. Additional
signals may be added to the basic tier by the grantee.
   BOARD. The Board of Commissioners of Davie County, North Carolina or its
delegates.
   CABLE ACT. The Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984, Pub. L. No. 98-549
(codified at 47 U.S.C. § 521-611 (1982 and Supp. V. 1987) as amended by the
Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992, Pub. L. No.
102-385, and the Telecommunications Act of 1996, Pub. L. No. 104-104 (1996) as
may, from time to time, be amended.
   CABLE INTERNET SERVICE. Any cable service offered by a grantee whereby
persons receive access to the internet or high-speed data information services
through the cable system. CABLE INTERNET SERVICE shall be deemed cable service
unless determined to the contrary by federal law or a court of competent
jurisdiction.
   CABLE SERVICE or SERVICE.
      (1)   The one-way transmission to subscribers of either video programming
or other programming service;
      (2)   Subscriber interaction, if any, which is required for the selection
or use of such video programming or other programming service; and
       (3)   For purposes of this chapter, unless determined otherwise under
applicable federal law, cable internet service shall be considered CABLE
SERVICE.
   CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEM or CABLE SYSTEM. A facility, consisting of a set of
closed transmission paths and associated signal generation, reception, and
control equipment that is designed to provide cable service to multiple
subscribers within the franchise area, but such term does not include:
      (1)   A facility that serves only to retransmit the television signals of
one or more television broadcast stations;
      (2)   A facility that serves subscribers without using any public right-
of-way; or
      (3)    A facility of a common carrier which is subject, in whole or in
part, to the provisions of 47 U.S.C. § 201-226, except that such facility shall
be considered a CABLE SYSTEM to the extent such facility, whether on a common
carrier basis or otherwise, is used in the transmission of video programming
directly to subscribers.
   CAPITAL CONTRIBUTION. A contribution provided by a grantee as determined in
a franchise agreement that may at the county’s discretion be utilized for the
capital costs of the municipal access channel facilities, or to help defray the
costs of an I-Net.
   CAPITAL COSTS. Costs associated with the purchase of assets, products, or
other resources that are designed to provide service for more than one year,
whether incurred during initial construction or throughout the life of the
system.
   CHANNEL. A portion of the electromagnetic frequency spectrum that is capable
of carrying one standard video signal, in either analog or digital form.
Consistent with future changes in technology and/or applicable law, the parties
may mutually agree to a different definition in an individual franchise
agreement.
   COMPLAINT. Any written or electronic inquiry, allegation, or assertion, made
by a person regarding service.
   CONTROL. The holding of legal or financial control of or over the holder of
the franchise, the service provider or system owner or operator, regardless of
whether such control is direct or indirect, or is exercised or is permitted to
be exercised directly or indirectly through other persons, holdings or
entities. CONTROL shall always be deemed to rest in the hands of any person or
entity that has the right or authority to establish or change any policy or
practice of the holder of the franchise or the service provider (including but
not limited to the holder of 20% or more of the equity interest in the
grantee), whether such CONTROL may be exercised directly, or indirectly through
other persons, holdings, or entities.
   CONVERTER. An electronic device that converts signals to a frequency not
susceptible to interference within the television receiver of a subscriber and,
through the use of an appropriate channel selector, permits a subscriber to
view all authorized subscriber signals delivered at designated converter dial
locations.
   COUNTY. Davie County, North Carolina, as it is now or may in the future be
constituted.
   COUNTY ADMINISTRATOR. A person designated by the County Manager to represent
the county in all business with the grantee.
   DIRECT INCREMENTAL COSTS.  The costs actually incurred by the grantee in
meeting an obligation under its franchise which the grantee would not otherwise
have incurred, in order to either operate and conduct the business of its cable
system, or meet another obligation of the franchise.
   DOWNSTREAM SIGNAL. A signal originating from or provided by a system to a
subscriber terminal or other terminal including video, audio, or digital
signals or any other type of data or information, for either programs or other
uses such as security alert services and the like.
    DROP. The cable or cables that connect users of the system to the
distribution system in order to receive service.
   EDUCATIONAL ACCESS CHANNELS.  Channels specially designated for locally
produced noncommercial educational access programming use.
   EFFECTIVE DATE. The date a franchise becomes effective in accordance with
the franchise and the rules and procedures of the county.
   FAIR MARKET VALUE. The price that a willing buyer would pay to a willing
seller for a going concern based on the system valuation prevailing in the
industry at the time.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission or a designated representative.
   FRANCHISE. The rights and obligations extended by the county pursuant to an
initial authorization or a renewal thereof, to a person to own, lease,
construct, maintain, or operate a cable system in the right-of-way within the
franchise area for the purpose of providing cable services. Any such
authorization, in whatever form granted, shall not mean or include:
      (1)   Any other permit or authorization required for the privilege of
transacting and carrying on a business within the county required by the
ordinances and laws of the county, including the provision of
telecommunications services; or
      (2)   Any generally applicable non-discriminatory permit, agreement, or
authorization required in connection with operations in the right-of-way,
including without limitation permits and agreements for placing devices on or
in poles, conduits, or other structures, whether owned by the county or a
private entity, or for excavating or performing other work in or along the
right-of-way.
   FRANCHISE AGREEMENT. The document which grants a franchise pursuant to this
chapter.
   FRANCHISE AREA.  The geographic area for which a franchise is granted under
the authority of this chapter. If not otherwise specifically stated in the
franchise agreement, the FRANCHISE AREA shall be the entire geographic area
within the county as it is now, or may in the future be, constituted.
   FRANCHISE FEE. Any tax, fee, or assessment of any kind imposed by the county
or other governmental entity on a grantee solely because of its status and
activities as such. FRANCHISE FEE does not include:
      (1)   Any tax, fee, or assessment of general applicability (including any
such tax, fee, or assessment imposed on both utilities and cable operators or
their services but not including a tax, fee, or assessment that is unduly
discriminatory against cable operators or cable subscribers);
      (2)   Capital costs that are required by a franchise agreement to be
incurred by a grantee for public access channels equipment and facilities;
      (3)   Costs associated with the construction and operation of an I-Net;
      (4)   Requirements or charges incidental to the award or enforcement of a
franchise, including payments for bonds, security funds, letters of credit,
insurance, indemnification, compliance audits, penalties, or liquidated
damages; or
      (5)   Any fee imposed under U.S.C. Title 17.
   GOVERNMENT ACCESS CHANNELS. Channels specially designated for locally
produced noncommercial governmental access programming use.
   GRANTEE.  A person who is granted a franchise or that person’s lawful
successors, transferees, or assignees.
   GRANTOR.  The county.
    GROSS REVENUES. Any and all revenue, whether received in the form of cash,
credits, barter, trade, property, or consideration of any kind or nature,
arising from, attributable to, or in any way derived by the grantee from the
operation of a grantee’s system to provide cable service, whether such revenue
is received by the grantee, its affiliates, or any person in which the grantee
has a financial interest, or by any other person who operates the system,
directly or indirectly. This definition is intended to reach as broadly as
possible to encompass all revenue.
      (1)   GROSS REVENUES includes, by way of illustration and not limitation,
amounts charged for basic service; optional premium, per-channel, per-program
services; cable programming services; audio services; launch fees; channel
guide subscriptions; internet access or service; installation, disconnection,
reconnection, and changes-in-service; equipment sales or rentals; leased
channel fees; late fees and administrative charges of any type; consideration
received from programmers; advertising revenue; franchise fees (if elected by
the county from time to time); and revenue from the sale of subscriber names
and addresses.
      (2)   GROSS REVENUES also includes the full value of complimentary
services provided by the grantee, exclusive of complimentary services provided
to employees of the grantee, nonprofit corporations or as required by a
franchise agreement, or any revenues earned by use of the cable system to
provide any services other than cable services, unless the Cable Act is amended
to specifically authorize the imposition of franchise fees on such other
services. To the extent that the grantee receives revenue from cable services
provided to a subscriber for a fixed price that also includes non-cable
services (i.e., those services are “bundled”), the grantee shall allocate an
appropriate portion of those revenues for inclusion in gross revenues. If the
fixed price of the bundled services is lower than the aggregate of the prices
of those services if purchased individually, then the appropriate amount of the
revenue to be allocated to each service shall be proportional to the individual
price of that service when compared to the aggregate of the individual prices
of those services when unbundled.
      (3)   GROSS REVENUES shall not include:
         (a)   Bad debt except to the extent that bad debts are recovered;
         (b)   The revenue of any person, including without limitation a
supplier of programming to the grantee, to the extent that said revenue is also
included in gross revenue of the grantee;
         (c)   Pass-through payments received by the grantee from third-party
programmers to purchase services from entities other than the grantee, which
services benefit only the third-party programmers and for which the grantee
neither receives nor provides any consideration; or
         (d)   Any taxes on services furnished by the grantee which are imposed
directly on any subscriber by the state, the county or other governmental unit
and which are collected by the grantee on behalf of said governmental unit. A
franchise fee is not such a tax.
      (4)   To the extent the scope of gross revenues is limited by federal law
or judicial action, the definitions herein shall be so amended.
   HEADEND. The electronic control center of the system including components
that amplify, filter, and convert incoming broadcast and other television and
electronic signals for distribution over the cable system.
   INSTITUTIONAL NETWORK or I-NET. Capacity, fibers, or both, from both within
the primary cable network and/or separately constructed networks that are
dedicated to municipal users or other governmental and educational users as
determined by the county for two-way, broadband, noncommercial, noncompetitive,
not-for-profit communications. The I-NET includes all equipment and maintenance
of equipment required to make the capacity available, including but not limited
to fiber, cable modems, coaxial cable, and all switching, routing,
transmitting, and receiving equipment necessary for the use of the I-NET as
determined in the individual franchise agreement.
   INSTITUTIONAL NETWORK SERVICES. The provision of an I-Net by a grantee to
municipal users and other governmental and educational users as determined by
the county, pursuant to the terms of a franchise agreement for noncommercial,
noncompetitive, not-for-profit applications, including but not limited to two-
way dedicated voice, data, video, internet, and telephony channels connecting
and interconnecting user facilities; computerized traffic control systems; GIS
systems; and the interconnection of facilities serving police, fire, and other
public safety systems.
   LOCKOUT DEVICE. A mechanical or electrical accessory to a subscriber’s
terminal that inhibits the video or audio portions of a certain program or
certain channel(s) provided by way of a cable system.
   NONCOMMERCIAL. Channels or programming that are operated on a not-for-profit
basis.
   NORMAL BUSINESS HOURS. Those hours during which most similar businesses in
the community are open to serve customers; provided, however, NORMAL BUSINESS
HOURS must include some evening hours, at least one night per week, and/or some
weekend hours.
   NORMAL OPERATING CONDITIONS. Any and all situations or conditions that are
ordinarily within the control of a grantee, including but not limited to
management or corporate decisions; employee conduct; staffing levels; special
promotions; pay-per-view events; rate increases; regular peak or seasonal
demand periods; electronic and video equipment; and maintenance, repair, or
upgrade of the cable system, and any associated computer or software systems.
Those conditions that are not within the control of a grantee include but are
not limited to natural disasters; civil disturbances; power outages; telephone
network outages; and severe or unusual weather conditions. A condition shall
not be deemed to be beyond the grantee’s control if committed or omitted by a
corporation or other business entity which the grantee controls.
   OTHER PROGRAMMING SERVICE. Information that a grantee makes available to all
subscribers generally.
   PERSON. Any corporation, partnership, limited partnership, limited liability
company, proprietorship, individual, organization, company, governmental entity
or any natural person, or any other business organization.
   PUBLIC ACCESS CHANNELS. Channels specially designated for locally produced
noncommercial public access programming use.
   REASONABLE NOTICE. Written notice addressed to the county or grantee at such
location as the parties have designated in the franchise agreement as the
address to which notice shall be transmitted to it, which notice shall be sent
by certified mail and postmarked not less than seven business days prior to
that day in which the party giving such notice shall commence any action which
requires the giving of notice. In computing said seven days, holidays
recognized by the county shall be excluded.
   RESIDENT. Any person residing in the county.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Each of the following which have been, or are hereafter,
dedicated to the public and maintained by any public authority or by others and
located within the county, including without limitation, the surface and space
within, above, and below any real property in which the county has an interest
in law or equity, whether held in fee, or other estate or interest, or as a
trustee for the public, including but not limited to any public street,
boulevard, road, highway, freeway, lane, alley, court, sidewalk, parkway,
swale, river, tunnel, viaduct, bridge, park, or any other place, area,
easements, rights-of-way and similar public property and areas, or real
property owned by or under the control of the county.
   SCHOOL. Any state-accredited public or nonprofit educational institution
including primary and secondary schools, both public and private.
   SERVICE INTERRUPTION. The loss of picture or sound on one or more channels
on the system, or the degradation of the picture and/or sound quality on such
channels to the extent that the subscriber is unable to use the signals,
regardless of the cause, for any reason whatsoever.
   STANDARD INSTALLATION. Any service drop not exceeding 150 feet from a single
point or pedestal attachment to the subscriber’s residence.
   STATE-OF-THE-ART. The addition of new services and associated equipment as
they are developed, available, and when economically feasible and marketable to
subscribers as specifically required under the terms of a franchise agreement.
   SUBSCRIBER. Any person who or which elects to subscribe for any purpose to
cable service provided by a grantee by means of, or in connection with, the
cable system, and whose premises or facilities are physically wired and
lawfully activated to receive cable service from grantee’s cable system.
   SYSTEM. A grantee’s cable system operated pursuant to a franchise agreement
within the franchise area.
   TRAINED REPRESENTATIVE. Employees of the grantee who have the authority and
capability while speaking with a subscriber to, among other things, answer
billing questions, adjust bills, and schedule service and installation calls.
   UPSTREAM SIGNAL. A signal originating from a subscriber’s terminal to the
headend of the system including video, audio, or digital signals or any other
type of data or information for either programs or other uses such as security
alert services, and the like.
(1996 Code, § 110.003) (Ord. passed 11-20-2000)
FRANCHISE REQUIREMENTS
§ 110.015 UNLAWFUL TO OPERATE WITHOUT A FRANCHISE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, operate or maintain a
cable system or to provide cable service in the county without a franchise. Any
such person shall be subject to a fine as set forth in §
110.999. The payment of such fine notwithstanding, all such violators shall be
subject to all other applicable provisions of this chapter, including but not
limited to the payment of a franchise fee.
(1996 Code, § 110.010) (Ord. passed 11-20-2000) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.016 FRANCHISES NON-EXCLUSIVE.
   Any franchise granted pursuant to this chapter shall be nonexclusive. The
grantor specifically reserves the right to grant, at any time, such additional
franchises for a cable system or any component thereof, to any other person
including itself, as it deems appropriate, subject to applicable federal and
state law.
(1996 Code, § 110.011) (Ord. passed 11-20-2000)
§ 110.017 FRANCHISES NONDISCRIMINATORY.
   In the event the county grants more than one franchise or similar
authorization for the construction, operation, or maintenance of any cable
system to a qualified person in the county, the county shall grant the
franchises on terms that are non-discriminatory and competitively neutral,
provided that nothing herein shall be construed as requiring the use of
identical terms or conditions, in accordance with federal law.
(1996 Code, § 110.012) (Ord. passed 11-20-2000)
§ 110.018 TERM OF FRANCHISE.
   A franchise agreement shall establish the term of each individual franchise.
(1996 Code, § 110.013) (Ord. passed 11-20-2000)
§ 110.019 FEDERAL, STATE, AND COUNTY JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The county shall exercise appropriate regulatory authority under the
provisions of this chapter, the Cable Act, and all applicable laws. This
authority shall be vested in the County Board of Commissioners and administered
through the County Manager or his or her designee in order to provide day-to-
day administration and enforcement of the provisions of this chapter and any
franchise granted hereunder, and to carry out the county’s responsibilities
with regard to cable service.
   (B)   This chapter shall be construed in a manner consistent with all
applicable federal and state laws.
   (C)   In the event that the federal or state government discontinues
preemption in any area of cable communications over which it currently
exercises jurisdiction in such manner as to expand rather than limit municipal
regulatory authority, the grantor may, if it so elects, adopt rules and
regulations in these areas to the extent permitted by law, provided the same do
not materially alter the rights and obligations of a grantee under any existing
franchise.
   (D)   The grantee’s rights are subject to the police powers of the county to
adopt and enforce ordinances necessary to the health, safety, and welfare of
the public. The grantee shall comply with all applicable general laws and
ordinances enacted by the county pursuant to that power.
   (E)   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all franchises granted
or renewed after the effective date of this chapter. This chapter shall also
apply to all existing franchises, to the extent not inconsistent with the terms
of any such franchise or applicable law. In the event of any conflict between
the terms and conditions of a franchise agreement and the provisions of this
chapter, and other generally applicable regulatory ordinances of the county,
the specific terms of the franchise agreement shall control. A franchise
agreement (including all of the grantee’s particular rights, powers,
protections, privileges, immunities, and obligations associated therewith as
the same exist on the date hereof) shall constitute a legally binding contract
between the county and the grantee, and as such, cannot be amended, modified or
changed by the county without the consent of the grantee in any manner
whatsoever, whether by ordinance, rule, regulation, or otherwise, to impose on
the grantee more stringent or burdensome requirements or conditions; provided,
however, that nothing herein contained shall preclude the county from the
proper exercise of its police powers, or its powers of eminent domain.
   (F)   In the event of a change in state or federal law which by its terms
would require the county to amend this chapter, the parties shall modify the
existing franchise in a mutually agreed-upon manner.
   (G)   The grantee shall not be relieved of its obligation to comply with any
of the provisions of this chapter or a franchise agreement by reason of any
failure of the county to enforce prompt compliance.
(1996 Code, § 110.014) (Ord. passed 11-20-2000)
§ 110.020 RIGHTS RESERVED TO GRANTOR.
   In addition to any rights specifically reserved to the grantor by this
chapter or a franchise agreement, the grantor reserves to itself every right
and power that is required to be reserved by a provision of any other ordinance
or under any other franchise.
(1996 Code, § 110.015) (Ord. passed 11-20-2000)
§ 110.021 FRANCHISE AGREEMENT.
   (A)   Every grantee shall agree to the terms and provisions of a franchise
agreement as negotiated between the grantee and the grantor.
   (B)   In addition to those matters required elsewhere in this chapter to be
included in the franchise agreement, each franchise agreement must contain the
following express representations by each grantee:
      (1)   The grantee has examined all of the provisions of this chapter and
accepts and agrees to all of the provisions of this chapter, as it exists as of
the effective date of the grantee’s franchise agreement, except as set forth in
§
110.020, and any supplementary specifications as to construction, operation, or
maintenance of the system which the county may include in the franchise
agreement; and
      (2)   The grantee recognizes the right of the county to adopt such
additional regulations of general applicability as it shall find necessary in
the exercise of its police power.
   (C)   Every franchise agreement shall contain such further conditions or
provisions as may be negotiated between the county and a grantee, except that
no such conditions or provisions shall be such as to conflict with any
provisions of state or federal law. In case of any conflict or of any ambiguity
between any terms or provisions of a franchise agreement and this chapter, the
provisions of the franchise agreement shall control.
(1996 Code, § 110.016) (Ord. passed 11-20-2000)
§ 110.022 INITIAL FRANCHISE APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Any person desiring an initial franchise for a cable system shall file
an application with the county.
   (B)   An application for an initial franchise for a cable television system
shall contain, where applicable:
      (1)   A statement as to the proposed franchise area;
      (2)   Resume of prior history of applicant, including the legal,
technical, and financial expertise of applicant in the cable television field;
      (3)   List of the partners, general and limited, of the applicant, if a
partnership, or a list of the principals of the applicant, if a limited
liability company, or the percentage of stock owned or controlled by
shareholders holding 10% or greater, if a corporation;
      (4)   List of officers, directors, and managing employees of applicant,
together with a description of the background of each such person;
      (5)   The names and addresses of any parent or subsidiary of applicant or
any other business entity owning or in control of applicant, in whole or in
part, or owned or controlled in whole or in part by applicant;
      (6)   A current financial statement of applicant verified by a CPA audit
or otherwise certified to be true, complete, and correct to the reasonable
satisfaction of the county;
      (7)   Proposed preliminary construction and cable service schedule; and
      (8)   Any additional information that the county may require for the
administration of the franchise.
(1996 Code, § 110.017) (Ord. passed 11-20-2000)
§ 110.023 CONSIDERATION OF INITIAL APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Upon receipt of any application and application fee for an initial
franchise, the County Administrator shall prepare a report and make his or her
recommendations respecting such application to the Board.
    (B)   A public hearing shall be held prior to any initial franchise grant,
at a time and date approved by the Board. Within a reasonable time after the
close of the hearing, the Board shall make a decision based upon the
information provided by the applicant as to whether or not the franchise(s)
should be granted, and, if granted, subject to any conditions imposed by the
Board.
(1996 Code, § 110.018) (Ord. passed 11-20-2000)
§ 110.024 FRANCHISE RENEWAL.
   Franchise renewals shall be in accordance with applicable law, including but
not limited to the Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984, as amended. A
grantor and a grantee, by mutual consent, may enter into renewal negotiations
at any time during the term of the franchise.
(1996 Code, § 110.019) (Ord. passed 11-20-2000)
§ 110.025 GRANT OF ADDITIONAL FRANCHISE AND COMPETING SERVICE.
   (A)   Competing or overlapping franchises may have an adverse impact on the
public rights-of-way and on the quality and availability of services to the
public. In considering whether to grant one or more additional franchises, the
county shall specifically consider, and address in a written report or in
provisions of the franchise agreement, the following issues:
      (1)   The positive and/or negative impact of an additional franchise on
the community;
      (2)   The ability and willingness of the specific applicant in question
to provide cable services to the franchise area;
      (3)   The amount of time it will take the applicant to complete
construction of the proposed system and activate service in the franchise area;
and whether the applicant can complete construction and activation of its
system in a timely manner;
      (4)   The financial capabilities of the applicant and its guaranteed
commitment to make the necessary investment to erect, maintain, and operate the
proposed cable system for the duration of the franchise term. In order to
ensure that any prospective grantee does have the requisite current financial
capabilities, the county may request equity and debt financing commitment
letters, current audited financial statements, bonds, letters of credit, or
other documentation to demonstrate to the county’s satisfaction that the
requisite funds to construct and operate the proposed system are available;
      (5)   The quality and technical reliability of the proposed system, based
upon the applicant’s plan of construction and the method of distribution of
signals, and the applicant’s technical qualifications to construct and operate
such system;
      (6)   The experience of the applicant in the erection, maintenance, and
operation of a cable system;
      (7)   The capacity of the public rights-of-way to accommodate one or more
additional cable systems and the potential disruption of those public rights-
of- way and private property that may occur if one or more additional
franchises are granted;
      (8)   The likelihood and ability of the applicant to continue to provide
competing cable service to subscribers within the franchise area for the
duration of the franchise; and
      (9)   Such other information as the county may deem appropriate to be
considered prior to granting any competing or overlapping franchise.
   (B)   The purpose of this section is to ensure that any competition which
may occur among grantees will be on terms which when taken as a whole are
nondiscriminatory according to federal law.
(1996 Code, § 110.020) (Ord. passed 11-20-2000)
§ 110.026 PERMITS FOR NON-FRANCHISED ENTITIES.
   (A)   The county may issue a license, easement, or other permit to a person
other than the grantee to permit that person to traverse any portion of the
grantee’s franchise area within the county in order to provide service outside,
but not within the county. Such license or easement, absent a grant of a
franchise in accordance with this chapter, shall not authorize nor permit said
person to provide cable service to any subscriber within the county nor render
any other service within the county.
   (B)   The granting of such license, easement, or permit shall be conditioned
upon the payment of fee for occupancy of the public right-of-way to the extent
permitted by applicable law.
(1996 Code, § 110.021) (Ord. passed 11-20-2000)
§ 110.027 REVIEW FOR COMPETITION.
   The county recognizes that the cable television and telecommunications
industries are in a period of convergence, that the technologies and services
provided by these industries are rapidly changing, and that the
Telecommunications Act of 1996 promoted and encouraged competition between and
among these formally discrete industries. At this time it is premature to know
fully the extent to which there will be changes in law, technology, or services
that may impact entities that have been or may be granted franchises or
licenses to use the county’s rights-of-way. It is the desire of the county to
be a communications-friendly county that encourages the development of
competitive advanced communications capabilities for the benefit of all its
citizens. For this reason the regulatory ordinances and franchises of the
county should not impede or restrict the fair opportunity to compete, but
rather are intended to provide uniform and consistent requirements for all
similarly situated providers.
(1996 Code, § 110.022) (Ord. passed 11-20-2000)
§ 110.028 APPLICATION AND RENEWAL FEES.
   (A)   An application fee shall not be deemed to be franchise fees within the
meaning of § 622 of the Cable Act (47 U.S.C. § 542), and such payments shall
not be deemed to be:
      (1)   “Payments in kind” or any involuntary payments chargeable against
the compensation to be paid to the county by the grantee; or
      (2)   Part of the compensation to be paid to the county by the grantee
pursuant to this chapter or a franchise agreement.
   (B)   All applicants for an initial franchise grant shall submit an
application fee of $2,500 to compensate the county for its costs in reviewing,
preparing, and awarding a franchise, including the costs of outside
consultants. Upon grant of a franchise the county may request the payment of an
additional fee to the extent that the reasonable costs of the franchise review
and negotiation process exceed the initial application fee amount. Consistent
with the Cable Act, all such fees shall not constitute or be credited towards a
grantee’s franchise fee obligations. Reasonable costs include staff time,
professional fees, and administrative costs as determined necessary by the
county.
   (C)   The county reserves the right, unless prohibited by applicable law, to
require a grantee to pay an application fee that includes the reasonable costs
of the franchise renewal. Reasonable costs include staff time, professional
fees, and administrative costs determined by the county, at its sole
discretion, not to exceed $10,000.
(1996 Code, § 110.023) (Ord. passed 11-20-2000)
DESIGN PROVISIONS
§ 110.040 SYSTEM DESIGN.
   (A)   Every grantee shall offer service that meets the current and future
needs of the county, taking into account the costs of meeting those needs. The
franchise agreement shall incorporate a description of the grantee’s proposal
including the general design and capabilities of the system to identify for the
county how the system will meet the current and future cable service needs of
the county.
   (B)   The franchise agreement shall include provisions to ensure cable
service and cable system compatibility with changes in law, technology, and
programming and services to maintain a state-of-the-art system throughout the
franchise term.
(1996 Code, § 110.030) (Ord. passed 11-20-2000)
§ 110.041 THE SYSTEM.
   Every system shall pass by every single-family dwelling unit and multiple-
family dwelling unit within the franchise area in accordance with line
extension policies set forth in this chapter. Service shall be provided to
subscribers in accordance with the schedules and line extension. Unless
specified otherwise, service shall also be extended to commercial buildings on
a consistent basis with the residential line extension policies.
(1996 Code, § 110.031) (Ord. passed 11-20-2000)
§ 110.042 DROPS TO PUBLIC BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Every grantee shall provide installation of at least one cable drop,
and provide monthly basic cable service, without charge, to public buildings in
accordance with the line extension policies of this chapter, or as otherwise
specified in the applicable franchise agreement. Accredited schools shall also
receive one cable drop and basic cable service at no charge. Following the
county’s designation of additional buildings(s) to receive cable service, and
upon the county’s request, a grantee shall complete construction of the drop
and outlet within 30 days.
   (B)   All such cable service outlets shall not be utilized for commercial
purposes.
   (C)   In instances where the drop to the public building exceeds 300 feet,
the grantee may charge for the actual and reasonable cost of its labor and
materials.
   (D)   Every grantee that offers two-way interactive broadband services to
subscribers within the county shall provide and install courtesy interactive
cable modems at every school and to all public libraries within the franchise
area that are passed by the portions of the grantee’s cable system that are
capable of supporting such two-way services.
(1996 Code, § 110.032) (Ord. passed 11-20-2000)
§ 110.043 USE OF GRANTEE FACILITIES.
   The county shall have the right to install and maintain county equipment on
the grantee’s facilities, at the actual cost for the space, not including cost
for existing space. Cost will be limited to any incremental cost for any wire
or fixtures. This applies to the excess space upon the poles and within the
underground pipes and conduits of a grantee, any wires and fixtures desired by
the county to the extent that such installation and maintenance does not
interfere or compete with existing operations of a grantee. The county will
relinquish its use of such poles and conduits upon 90 days’ notice from a
grantee that the county’s use interferes with the company’s actual or
anticipated use of the same.
(1996 Code, § 110.033) (Ord. passed 11-20-2000)
§ 110.044 UPGRADE OF SYSTEM.
   Every grantee shall upgrade its system (herein referred to as the “system
upgrade”), if required, as set forth in its respective franchise agreement.
(1996 Code, § 110.034) (Ord. passed 11-20-2000)
§ 110.045 NONDISCRIMINATORY ACCESS TO CABLE SYSTEM.
   A grantee may be required to allow nondiscriminatory access to its cable
system if such shall be required by federal law. Prior to the enactment of any
such requirement, a grantee shall be provided with reasonable notice and an
opportunity to be heard, including the right to present evidence with respect
to the need for such a requirement. The grantee reserves, and has not waived,
any right it may have, or may later be determined to have, to challenge the
county’s implementation of an open access requirement.
(1996 Code, § 110.035) (Ord. passed 11-20-2000)
INSTITUTIONAL NETWORK AND PUBLIC EDUCATIONAL AND GOVERNMENTAL (PEG) ACCESS
§ 110.060 INSTITUTIONAL NETWORK; ACCESS CHANNELS.
   (A)   Every grantee shall, to the extent required by the county, provide
institutional networks as a condition of an initial grant, renewal, or transfer
of a franchise. To the extent that a grantee is obligated to provide such
support pursuant to its franchise agreement, such obligation will be
implemented in a competitively neutral manner, on a per-subscriber basis with
respect to any other franchises granted after the adoption of this chapter.
   (B)   Every grantee shall provide a channel or channels, bandwidth capacity,
service, and funding for separate public, educational, and government (PEG)
access channels, as specified in its franchise agreement. All such PEG access
channels shall be available to all subscribers as part of basic cable service.
   (C)   Oversight and administration of the PEG access channels shall be set
forth in the franchise agreement. The county may designate a community access
corporation or similar entity to administer one or more of the access channels.
(1996 Code, § 110.040) (Ord. passed 11-20-2000)
TECHNICAL STANDARDS AND CUSTOMER SERVICE PRACTICES
§ 110.075 GENERAL TECHNICAL STANDARDS AND CUSTOMER SERVICE PRACTICES.
   (A)   Compliance.  This chapter incorporates technical standards and
establishes customer service practices with which a grantee must comply. In
addition, a grantee shall comply with any additional or stricter requirements
established by FCC regulations, or other federal regulation that may be adopted
or amended from time to time.
   (B)   Recordkeeping. A grantee shall maintain such equipment and keep such
records as are required to enable the grantor to determine whether the grantee
is in compliance with all standards required by these regulations and other
applicable laws.
   (C)   Books and records available to the grantor.
      (1)   The grantee shall maintain an office within the county.
      (2)   The county shall have the right to inspect and copy or transcribe
at any time during normal business hours, all books, records, maps, plans,
financial records, service complaint logs, performance test results, and other
like materials of the grantee kept or maintained by the grantee or under its
control concerning the operations, finances, affairs, transactions, or property
of the grantee, when necessary to ascertain the grantee’s compliance with this
chapter or the franchise agreement. Access to the aforementioned records shall
not be denied by the grantee on the basis that said records contain proprietary
information, available in the county, and if the county shall determine that an
examination of such records is necessary or appropriate, all reasonable
expenses necessarily incurred in making such examination shall be paid by the
grantee.
   (D)   Reports required. The grantee shall file with the county, upon
reasonable request:
      (1)    Regulatory communications. All reports required by the Federal
Communications Commission (FCC), including but not limited to annual proof of
performance tests and results, Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) reports, and
all petitions, applications, and communications of all types submitted by the
grantee to the FCC, the Security and Exchange Commission (SEC), or any other
federal or state regulatory commission or agency having jurisdiction over any
matter affecting operation of the grantee’s system;
      (2)   Facilities report.  An annual report setting forth the physical
miles of plant construction and plant in operation at the end of the fiscal
year will be made available at the local office of the grantee for review by
the county;
      (3)   Rebuild/upgrade/construction reports. Such reports shall be sent to
the county 30 days after the initial franchise agreement is awarded and monthly
thereafter until construction is completed as specified in this chapter or the
franchise agreement;
      (4)   Proof of performance tests. Proof of performance test results
performed as required by the FCC shall be supplied to the county;
      (5)   Tests required by county. Tests required by the county as specified
in this chapter shall be submitted within 30 days of notification;
      (6)   Grantee rules.  The grantee’s schedule of charges, regular
subscriber service policy regarding the processing of subscriber complaints,
delinquent subscriber disconnect and reconnect procedures, and any other terms
and conditions adopted as the grantee’s policy in connection with its
subscribers shall be in accordance with applicable state and federal laws,
rules, or regulations;
      (7)   Proof of bonds and insurance. The grantee shall submit to the
county the required performance bond, or a certified copy thereof, and
insurance certificates as required under the terms and conditions described in
this chapter;
      (8)   Financial and ownership reports. The following financial reports
for the franchise area shall be submitted to the county, upon reasonable notice
and as required by the county:
         (a)   A statement verifying the amount of gross annual revenues
derived from the franchise, certified by the vice president for finance or a
duly authorized officer or manager of the grantee; and
         (b)   An annual list of officers and members of the board of directors
of the grantee and of the grantee’s parent corporation, if applicable.
      (9)   Additional reports. The grantee shall prepare and furnish to the
county at the times and in the form prescribed, such additional reports with
respect to its operation, affairs, transactions, or property as may be
reasonably necessary and appropriate to ascertain the grantee’s compliance with
this chapter or the franchise agreement.
(1996 Code, § 110.050 (Ord. passed 11-20-2000)
§ 110.076 TECHNICAL STANDARDS.
   The technical standards used in the operation of a system shall comply, at a
minimum, with the technical standards promulgated by the FCC relating to cable
systems pursuant to the FCC’s rules and regulations found in 47 C.F.R. §§
76.601 to 76.617, as may be amended or modified from time to time, which
regulations are expressly incorporated herein by reference. The results of any
tests required by the FCC, or a franchise agreement shall be made available to
the county within 30 days of written request.
(1996 Code, § 110.051) (Ord. passed 11-20-2000)
§ 110.077 TEST AND COMPLIANCE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Tests for a system shall be performed periodically in a manner so as
to conform with FCC specifications.  The grantee shall notify the county at
least three business days prior to conducting such tests. Representatives of
the county may witness the tests, and written test reports shall be made
available to the county upon request. If any test locations fail to meet such
specifications, the grantee shall be required to indicate what corrective
measures have been or will be taken. The grantee shall have the site re-tested
on a timely basis as needed.
   (B)   Complaints. Whenever there have been similar complaints made or when
there exists other evidence which, in the reasonable judgment of the county,
casts doubt on the reliability or quality of the grantee’s system, the county
shall have the right and authority to compel the grantee to test, analyze, and
report on the performance of its system. The county may require additional
tests, full or partial repeat tests, different test procedures, or tests
involving a specific subscriber’s terminal. Reports on such tests shall be
delivered to the county no later than 30 days after the county formally
requests the tests and shall include the following information: the nature of
the complaints which precipitated the special tests; what system component was
tested; the equipment used, and procedures employed in said testing; the
results of such tests; and methods by which said complaints were resolved. Said
tests and analyses shall be supervised by an engineer or other trained
technical specialist who shall sign all records of the special tests and
forward same to the county with a report interpreting the results of the tests
and recommending what actions should be taken by the county. All such tests
conducted by the grantee shall be at the expense of the grantee.
   (C)   Consultants. The county shall have the right to employ or contract
with qualified consultants and attorneys if necessary or desirable, to assist
in the administration of this or any other section of this chapter or the
franchise agreement. If an independent qualified consultant makes a finding
that the grantee’s test results were inaccurate or the results furnished to the
county differ by more than 10% as reported to the FCC, the grantee shall
reimburse the county for its reasonable costs associated with the testing.
(1996 Code, § 110.052) (Ord. passed 11-20-2000)
§ 110.078 EMERGENCY REQUIREMENTS.
   Each grantee must provide emergency alert override capabilities in a manner
consistent with the FCC’s emergency alert system (EAS) rules and consistent
with any state and/or regional emergency alert system plans adopted in response
to the FCC’s EAS rules that are applicable to the franchise area.
(1996 Code, § 110.053) (Ord. passed 11-20-2000)
§ 110.079 PROGRAMMING DECISIONS.
   Each grantee shall provide programming from each of the broad programming
categories identified in its franchise agreement. All programming decisions
remain within the sole discretion of each grantee, provided that each grantee
complies with federal law regarding notice to the grantor and subscribers prior
to any channel additions, deletions, or realignments, and further subject to
the grantee’s signal carriage obligations pursuant to 47 U.S.C. § 531-536, as
may be amended and subject to the county’s rights pursuant to 47 U.S.C. § 545,
as may be amended. The grantee shall use its good-faith efforts to ensure
diversity of programming.
(1996 Code, § 110.054) (Ord. passed 11-20-2000)
§ 110.080 CUSTOMER SERVICE STANDARDS.
   
Appendix A to this chapter sets forth the customer service standards with which
the grantee must comply.
(1996 Code, § 110.055) (Ord. passed 11-20-2000) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.081 PARENTAL CONTROL.
   Every grantee shall make available to any subscriber upon request a lockout
device for blocking both video and audio portions of any channel(s) of
programming entering the subscriber’s premises. Such device shall be provided
at a reasonable charge, except to the extent that federal law specifically
provides otherwise. The grantee may, however, require a reasonable security
deposit for the use of such a device. This section shall not apply to channels
that are on the basic or expanded basic tier of programming unless the
subscriber receives service via a programmable terminal device, such as a
converter.
(1996 Code, § 110.056) (Ord. passed 11-20-2000)
§ 110.082 PERIODIC SUBSCRIBER SURVEY.
   The franchise agreement shall provide terms for a periodic subscriber survey
to assess the cable service needs of the community throughout the term of the
franchise as well as procedures for review and implementation of changes
identified through any such survey.
(1996 Code, § 110.057) (Ord. passed 11-20-2000)
§ 110.083 INSTALLATIONS EXCEEDING STANDARD INSTALLATION.
   Service drops in excess of 150 feet and concealed wiring in the home shall
be charged to the subscriber based upon time and material. The desire of the
subscriber as to the point of entry into the residence shall be observed
whenever possible. Runs in building interiors shall be as unobtrusive as
possible. The grantee shall use due care in the process of installation and
shall repair any damage to the subscriber’s property caused by said
installation. Such restoration shall be undertaken within no more than ten days
after the damage is incurred and shall be completed as soon as possible
thereafter.
(1996 Code, § 110.058) (Ord. passed 11-20-2000)
§ 110.084 SERVICE AREA.
   No grantee may discriminate in the build-out of its system to a particular
area of the county in providing service to an individual or groups of residents
on the basis of race, creed, religion, or economic condition. Unless the
franchise agreement provides otherwise, every grantee shall serve all areas of
the county with populations of 15 residential dwelling units per cable mile as
measured from a grantee’s existing distribution system.
(1996 Code, § 110.059) (Ord. passed 11-20-2000)
§ 110.085 COUNTY MONITORING.
   In addition to free cable service required by the chapter, the grantee shall
provide one service feed to the county administrative offices (unless otherwise
specified by county) that shall receive without charge all basic and expanded
basic cable programming provided by the grantee. Such service shall be provided
in such a manner that the county may monitor the programming and use of the
cable system for compliance with the franchise agreement and this chapter. The
services provided pursuant to this requirement shall be in a secure office
location, and not in a location open to public viewing.
(1996 Code, § 110.060) (Ord. passed 11-20-2000)
§ 110.086 ACCESS TO INSIDE WIRING.
   Access to, and ownership of, inside wiring shall be in accordance with FCC
rules and regulations, 47 C.F.R. §§ 76.800 et seq., as the same may be amended
from time to time.
(1996 Code, § 110.061) (Ord. passed 11-20-2000)
CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
§ 110.100 RIGHT-OF-WAY CONSTRUCTION.
   Prior to commencing any construction in the county, a grantee must obtain
all necessary permits and licenses required by federal, state, and generally
applicable county laws, ordinances, and rules, and pay all associated
nondiscriminatory fees. Further, a grantee shall comply with all applicable
laws, ordinances, rules, and standards relating to the construction, operation,
and maintenance of a cable system.
(1996 Code, § 110.070) (Ord. passed 11-20-2000)
§ 110.101 COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS.
   The construction, installation, and maintenance of the cable system shall be
effectuated by grantee in a manner that is consistent with the laws,
ordinances, and construction standards of the state, the Occupational Safety
and Health Administration, the National Electrical Safety Code, National
Electrical Code and the FCC, to the extent applicable, as well as all other
laws, rules, regulations, and ordinances that are generally applicable and
promulgated pursuant to the county’s lawful police power. All open connections
on splitters, couplers, and other devices shall be properly terminated.
(1996 Code, § 110.071) (Ord. passed 11-20-2000)
§ 110.102 MINIMUM INTERFERENCE.
   All of the grantee’s construction, installation, operation, repair, and
maintenance, and the arrangement of its lines, cables, and other appurtenances,
on public or private property, shall be conducted in such a manner as to not
unreasonably interfere with the rights and reasonable convenience of property
owners that may be affected. In the event such work is not in accordance with
applicable rules and regulations, the county may require the removal, within
such period of time after notice as is reasonable under the circumstances, of
the grantee’s lines, cables, and appurtenances from the public rights-of-way in
question, at the sole expense of the grantee.
(1996 Code, § 110.072) (Ord. passed 11-20-2000)
§ 110.103 REPAIR OF PROPERTY.
   The grantee shall promptly repair and restore any county or private property
which may be damaged as a result of the construction, installation, operation,
repair, maintenance, or removal of the cable system. Any such property damaged
or destroyed shall be promptly repaired and restored by the grantee, at the
grantee’s sole cost and expense to the reasonable satisfaction of the county,
to its condition prior to being damaged, or shall be replaced by the grantee
with equivalent property. The county may inspect and approve the condition of
the public rights-of-way and cables, wires, attachments, and poles after
restoration. The liability, indemnity, insurance, and performance bond as
provided herein shall continue in full force and effect during the period of
any removal and until the grantee has fully complied with the terms and
conditions of this chapter and the franchise agreement. In the event of a
failure by the grantee to complete any restoration work required by the county
within the time as may be established by the county and to the reasonable
satisfaction of the county, the county may, following reasonable notice to the
grantee, cause such work to be done, and the grantee shall reimburse the county
the cost thereof within 30 days after receipt of an itemized list of such cost,
or the county may at its option recover such costs through the performance bond
provided by the grantee. The county shall be permitted to seek legal and
equitable relief to enforce the provisions of this section.
(1996 Code, § 110.073) (Ord. passed 11-20-2000) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.104 ERECTION OF POLES.
   Grantee shall not erect any pole on or along any public rights-of-way in an
existing aerial utility system without the advance written approval of the
county. If additional poles in an existing aerial route are required, the
grantee shall negotiate, as needed, with the owners thereof for the
installation of the needed poles. The grantee shall negotiate the lease of pole
space and facilities from the existing pole owners for all aerial construction,
under mutually acceptable terms and conditions.
(1996 Code, § 110.074) (Ord. passed 11-20-2000)
§ 110.105 RESERVATIONS OF STREET RIGHTS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the county from
constructing storm or sanitary sewers; grading, paving, repairing, or altering
any public rights-of-way; or laying down, repairing, or removing water mains,
traffic signal control systems, county fiber plant; or constructing or
establishing any public utility, service, or other public work that the county
may operate or undertake now or in the future. All such work shall be done,
insofar as practicable, in such manner as not to obstruct, injure, or prevent
the free use and operation of poles, wires, conduits, conductors, pipes, or
appurtenances of the grantee. If county in its reasonable judgment shall
determine that the grantee’s facilities interfere with the construction
location or repair of any public right-of-way or public improvement, then all
such facilities of the grantee shall be removed or replaced, or temporarily
disconnected, in such manner as shall be directed by the county so that the
same shall not interfere with the public works of the county. Such removal or
replacement shall be at the expense of the grantee; provided, however, that
nothing in this chapter shall preclude the grantee from seeking reimbursement
for removal or replacement costs from any public funds generally available to
rights-of-way users for the reimbursement of such costs.
(1996 Code, § 110.075) (Ord. passed 11-20-2000)
§ 110.106 UNDERGROUND INSTALLATION.
   In those areas within the county where cable television, telephone, or
electrical facilities are currently placed underground, all cable system
facilities shall remain or be placed underground. In areas where either
telephone or electric utility facilities are above ground at the time of
installation, the grantee may install its cable system facilities above ground,
provided that at such time as both electric and telephone utility facilities
are placed underground, the grantee shall likewise place its cable system
facilities underground without cost to the county. Nothing contained in this
section shall require a grantee to construct, operate, and maintain underground
any ground-mounted appurtenances, except that the grantee shall take steps to
minimize the number and visual impact of such facilities. If the grantor
reimburses any utility for such relocation, the grantee shall be similarly
reimbursed. This section shall not prevent the county or any of its agencies or
joint agencies from requiring the installation or relocation of cable services
facilities underground pursuant to a separate ordinance or regulation or
requirement imposed in accordance with the exercise of the general police power
or regulatory function of such agency or joint agency.
(1996 Code, § 110.076) (Ord. passed 11-20-2000)
§ 110.107 CONDUIT.
   (A)   The county shall not be responsible for any cuts or damage to buried
or underground facilities of a grantee that are not clearly marked or cannot be
located through the state “one-call” service.
   (B)   The grantee shall provide the county detailed strand and trench maps
in both paper and a mutually agreed-upon electronic format of all new
underground and buried cable facilities upon activation of such sections of the
system.
   (C)   The grantee shall provide a contact number for the county to call in
emergency situations requiring an immediate response on the part of the county.
If the grantee does not properly and effectively identify the precise location
of its facilities within 45 minutes of an emergency call from the county, the
county shall not be responsible for damage to the grantee’s facilities.
(1996 Code, § 110.077) (Ord. passed 11-20-2000)
§ 110.108 CLEARING POLES AND CABLES.
   The grantee shall have the right to remove, trim, cut, and to keep clear of
its poles, cables, underground conduits, and related equipment the trees in and
along the public rights-of-way but, in the exercise of such right, the grantee
shall not cut such trees to any greater extent than is reasonably necessary for
the construction, erection, installation, maintenance, and use of cable system
equipment. Except in emergency situations, the grantee shall not remove, trim,
or cut such trees from any public rights-of-way without first providing
reasonable notice to the county of its intention to do so, such notice to be
delivered not less than ten days in advance. The grantee shall compensate the
county or any private owners of such trees for any damage proximately caused by
the grantee’s negligent conduct.
(1996 Code, § 110.078) (Ord. passed 11-20-2000)
§ 110.109 MOVING FACILITIES.
   The grantee, on the request of the county or any person holding a building
permit issued by the county, or any permit issued by an appropriate state
agency, shall temporarily move its wires, cables, poles, or other cable system
facilities to permit the moving of large objects, vehicles, buildings, or other
structures. The expense of such temporary moves shall be paid to the grantee by
the person requesting the same and the grantee shall have the authority to
require such payment in advance. The grantee shall be given not less than 30
days’ advance notice to arrange for such temporary moves.
(1996 Code, § 110.079) (Ord. passed 11-20-2000)
§ 110.110 WORK PERFORMED BY OTHERS.
   To the extent applicable, all provisions of this chapter shall apply to any
subcontractors or others performing any work or services pursuant to the
provisions of a franchise agreement on behalf of a grantee.
(1996 Code, § 110.080) (Ord. passed 11-20-2000)
§ 110.111 DUTY TO GRANTEE.
   Nothing contained in this chapter shall relieve any person from liability
arising out of the failure to exercise reasonable care to avoid injuring a
grantee’s facilities while performing any work connected with grading,
regrading, or changing the line of any public rights-of-way or with the
construction or reconstruction of any sewer or water system or utility system.
(1996 Code, § 110.081) (Ord. passed 11-20-2000)
GENERAL FINANCIAL AND INSURANCE PROVISIONS
§ 110.125 FRANCHISE FEE.
   (A)   The administration of this chapter or the franchise agreement imposes
upon the county additional regulatory responsibility and expense, and in
consideration of permission to use the rights-of-way of the county for the
construction, operation, and maintenance of a cable system within the county, a
grantee of any franchise hereunder shall pay to the county a franchise fee in
an amount as designated in the franchise agreement, up to the maximum amount
allowed by applicable law. To the extent that applicable law changes the
maximum authorized franchise fee, the county reserves the right to change the
franchise fee as stated in the franchise agreement, by adopting an ordinance
establishing the new franchise fee rate and allowing reasonable notice to the
grantee for administration of the change.
   (B)   Payments due the grantor under this section shall be computed
quarterly, for the preceding quarter. Each quarterly payment shall be due and
payable no later than 45 days after the end of the preceding quarter. Each
payment shall be accompanied by a brief report by a grantee showing the basis
for the computation and a franchise fee worksheet listing all of the sources of
revenues attributable to the operation of the grantee’s system in the county.
All such payments shall be certified as correct by an officer of the grantee.
   (C)   No acceptance of any payment shall be construed as an accord that the
amount paid is in fact the correct amount, nor shall such acceptance of payment
be construed as a release of any claim the grantor may have for further sums
payable under the provisions of this chapter or a franchise agreement. All
amounts paid shall be subject to audit and re-computation by the grantor or its
designee at any time during any calendar year (but not more than once per
calendar year) upon 20 calendar days’ notice, which shall include a request for
any documents sought to be reviewed. Audits shall be at the expense of the
grantee if the additional amount due is greater than 2% of the amount paid. Any
additional amount due to the county as a result of the audit shall be paid
within 60 days following written notice to the grantee by the county, which
notice shall include a copy of the audit report. The grantor’s right to audit
and the grantee’s obligation to retain records related to the franchise fee
audit shall expire three years from the date on which the most recent franchise
fee payment by the grantee was due from the time of written notice.
   (D)   In the event that any franchise payment or re-computed amount is not
made on or before the dates specified herein, the grantee shall pay as
additional compensation an interest charge, computed from such due date, at the
annual rate equal to the commercial prime interest rate of the county’s primary
depository bank during the period that such unpaid amount is owed.
   (E)   The county shall have the right to inspect the grantee’s income
records and the right to audit and to re-compute any amounts determined to be
payable under this chapter. Audits shall be at the expense of the grantee if
the additional amount due is greater than 2% of the amount paid. Any additional
amount due to the county as a result of the audit shall be paid within 30 days
following written notice to the grantee by the county, which notice shall
include a copy of the audit report.
(1996 Code, § 110.090) (Ord. passed 11-20-2000)
§ 110.126 SECURITY FUND.
   Each grantee shall maintain a security fund with the county to ensure
compliance with this chapter and the applicable franchise agreement, in an
amount and in a manner as set forth in the grantee’s franchise agreement.
(1996 Code, § 110.091) (Ord. passed 11-20-2000)
§ 110.127 PENALTIES PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Whenever the grantor has reason to believe that a grantee has violated
any material provision of a franchise agreement or this chapter, the grantor
shall first notify the grantee of the material violation and demand correction
within a reasonable time, which shall not be less than seven days in the case
of the failure of a grantee to pay any sum or other amount due the grantor
under a franchise agreement, and 30 days in all other cases. If a grantee fails
to correct the violation within the time prescribed, or if a grantee is unable
to correct the violation and fails to commence corrective action within the
time prescribed and to diligently remedy such violation thereafter, the grantee
shall then be given written notice of not less than 20 days of a public
administrative hearing to consider evidence of the alleged violation.
   (B)   At the hearing, the Board shall hear and consider all relevant
evidence and thereafter render findings and a decision based upon the evidence.
Any such hearing must, at a minimum, provide the grantee a full and fair
opportunity to be heard by the Board.
   (C)   In the event the Board finds that a grantee has corrected the
violation or promptly commenced correction of such violation after notice
thereof from the grantor and is diligently proceeding to fully remedy the
violation, or that no violation has occurred, the proceedings shall terminate
and no penalty or other sanction shall be imposed.
   (D)   In the event the Board finds that a violation exists and that a
grantee has not corrected the same in a satisfactory manner or did not promptly
commence and diligently proceed to correct the violation, the Board may impose
liquidated damages and collect the damages from the security fund, as set out
in the franchise agreement or this chapter. The county shall have the following
remedies:
      (1)   May pursue all available remedies at law or in equity to include
injunctive relief; and
      (2)   May assess liquidated damages as set out herein which it may
collect from the security fund.
   (E)   If the Board elects to assess liquidated damages, then such election
shall constitute the grantor’s exclusive remedy for a period of 60 days.
Thereafter, if a grantee remains in noncompliance, the grantor may pursue any
other available remedy.
   (F)   In the event that a franchise is cancelled or terminated by reason of
the default of a grantee, the security fund deposited pursuant to a franchise
agreement shall remain in effect and available to the grantor until all pending
claims or penalties are resolved or settled, after which point any remaining
amounts in the security fund shall revert to the grantee.
   (G)   The rights reserved to the grantor with respect to the security fund
are in addition to all other rights of the grantor, whether reserved by a
franchise agreement, this chapter, or authorized by law, and no action,
proceeding, or exercise of a right with respect to such security fund shall
affect any other right the grantor may have.
   (H)   In instances of repeated violations, whether remedied or not, the
grantor shall serve special notice outlining additional remediation
requirements. Failure to cure, as measured by repeated instances of the same
violation, is evidence of an evasive practice and may lead to revocation under
§§
110.140 and
110.141 of this chapter.
   (I)   The grantee acknowledges that noncompliance with the provisions of the
franchise agreement and this chapter will harm subscribers and the county and
the amounts of actual damages will be difficult or impossible to ascertain. The
county may therefore assess the following liquidated damages against the
grantee for unexcused noncompliance with the requirements of the franchise
agreement and this chapter. The grantee acknowledges that the liquidated
damages set forth below are a reasonable approximation of actual damages and
that this provision is intended to provide compensation and is not a penalty.
All damages provided shall be cumulative, unless expressly stated.
      (1)   For failure to materially complete construction or extend service
in accordance with this chapter and the franchise agreement: $250/calendar day
for each day the violation continues;
      (2)   For failure to materially comply with requirements for access
channels: $250/calendar day for each day the violation continues;
      (3)   For failure to comply with the material requirements of the I-Net
provisions of this chapter/franchise agreement: $250/calendar day for each day
the violation continues;
      (4)   For repeated, willful, or continuing failure to submit reports,
maintain records, provide documents or information: $250/calendar day for each
day the violation continues;
      (5)   For failure to comply with the material requirements of the
customer service standards: $250/calendar day for each day the violation
continues;
      (6)   For failure to comply with the transfer provisions: $250/calendar
day for each day the violation continues; and
      (7)    For violation of other material provisions of this chapter and the
franchise agreement: up to $250/day for each day the violation continues.
   (J)   Prior to the imposition of liquidated damages, the county shall follow
the procedural provisions of this subchapter.
(1996 Code, § 110.092) (Ord. passed 11-20-2000)
§ 110.128 BONDS, INDEMNIFICATION, AND INSURANCE.
   Each grantee shall maintain bonds and insurance with the county in amounts
and in a manner as set forth in the grantee’s franchise agreement. Each grantee
also shall be required to indemnify the county in a manner as set forth in the
grantee’s franchise agreement.
(1996 Code, § 110.093) (Ord. passed 11-20-2000)
REVOCATION
§ 110.140 GROUNDS FOR REVOCATION.
   The grantor reserves the right to revoke the franchise, and all rights and
privileges pertaining thereto, in the event that:
   (A)   A grantee substantially violates any material provision of this
chapter or a franchise agreement;
   (B)   A grantee attempts to evade any of the material provisions of this
chapter or a franchise agreement;
   (C)   A grantee practices an act of fraud or deceit upon the grantor;
   (D)   A grantee becomes insolvent, unable or unwilling to pay its debts, or
is adjudged bankrupt;
   (E)   A grantee fails to provide or maintain in full force and effect the
liability and indemnification coverage or the performance bond as required
pursuant to its franchise; or
   (F)   A grantee violates any orders or rulings of any regulatory body having
jurisdiction over the grantee relative to this chapter or the franchise and
after notice thereof shall continue the violation and not remedy the same
within 60 days.
(1996 Code, § 110.100) (Ord. passed 11-20-2000)
§ 110.141 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Whenever the grantor has reason to believe that there may be grounds
for revocation of a franchise, the grantor shall first notify the grantee in
writing of its basis for believing grounds for revocation exist. Such notice
shall indicate with reasonable specificity the grounds for revocation that are
believed to exist so that the grantee may have a reasonable opportunity to cure
or otherwise address the same. If a grantee fails to adequately cure or address
the purported grounds for revocation within 30 days of such notice, then the
grantor may, upon 30 days’ written notice to the grantee, commence a public
administrative hearing to determine whether there exists any ground for
revocation.
   (B)   The administrative hearing shall be conducted so as to protect the
full due-process rights of the parties and provide for, at a minimum, the right
to have counsel, the right to call and cross-examine witnesses, and the right
to a full transcript of the proceedings.
   (C)   After the close of the hearing, the grantor or the designated hearing
officer shall issue a written decision based on the record of the proceedings,
stating with specificity the findings and reasons supporting the decision.
   (D)   Upon revocation, a grantee shall have a period of 120 days subsequent
to the date of the formal adoption of a revocation of the franchise by the
county within which to file an appeal with a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (E)   During the appeal period, the franchise shall remain in full force and
effect.
(1996 Code, § 110.101) (Ord. passed 11-20-2000)
FORECLOSURE, RECEIVERSHIP, AND ABANDONMENT
§ 110.155 FORECLOSURE.
   Upon the foreclosure or other judicial sale of all or a part of a system, a
grantee shall notify the grantor of such fact and such notification shall be
treated as a notification that a change in control of the grantee has taken
place, and the provisions of this chapter governing the consent to transfer or
change in ownership shall apply without regard to how such transfer or change
in ownership occurred.
(1996 Code, § 110.110) (Ord. passed 11-20-2000)
§ 110.156 RECEIVERSHIP.
   Apart from and supplemental to the right to revoke a franchise, the grantor
shall have the right to cancel a franchise agreement 120 days after the
appointment of a receiver or trustee to take over and conduct the business of a
grantee, whether in receivership, reorganization, bankruptcy, or other action
or proceeding, unless such receivership or trusteeship shall have been vacated
prior to the expiration of said 120 days, or unless:
   (A)   Within 120 days after its election or appointment, the receiver or
trustee has fully complied with all the provisions of grantee’s franchise
agreement and this chapter and remedied all defaults thereunder; and
   (B)   Such receiver or trustee, within said 120 days, has executed an
agreement, duly approved by a court having jurisdiction, whereby such receiver
or trustee assumes and agrees to be bound by each and every provision of this
chapter and the applicable franchise agreement.
(1996 Code, § 110.111) (Ord. passed 11-20-2000)
PURCHASE, SALE, OR TRANSFER OF SYSTEM
§ 110.170 PURCHASE BY GRANTOR UPON TERMINATION OF FRANCHISE TERM OR REVOCATION
OF FRANCHISE.
   The grantor may, in accordance with and to the extent permitted by 47 U.S.C.
§ 547, upon the payment of a fair valuation, purchase, condemn, acquire, take
over, and hold the property and plant of a grantee, in whole or in part, on the
following conditions:
   (A)   Upon revocation of a franchise, a fair valuation shall be an equitable
value that shall not include any sum attributable to the value of the franchise
itself, and plant and property shall be valued according to its book value at
the time of revocation, or the system’s initial cost less depreciation and
salvage;
   (B)   At the expiration of a franchise agreement, a fair valuation shall be
the fair market value of the plant and property, exclusive of the value
attributed to the franchise itself; or
   (C)   In the event the grantor shall acquire a franchise pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter or a franchise agreement, and commenced operation of
the system, the grantor shall reimburse the grantee for the fair market value
of the system.
(1996 Code, § 110.120) (Ord. passed 11-20-2000)
§ 110.171 SALE OR TRANSFER OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   No grantee shall sell, transfer, lease, assign, sublet, or dispose of,
in whole or in part, an interest in or control of a franchise or cable system
or any of the rights or privileges granted by a franchise agreement, without
the prior consent of the grantor, which consent shall not be unreasonably
denied or delayed and may be denied only upon a good-faith finding by the
grantor that the proposed transferee lacks the legal, technical, or financial
qualifications to consummate the transaction and operate the system so as to
perform its obligations under this chapter and the applicable franchise
agreement. This section shall not apply to sales of property or equipment in
the normal course of business. Consent from the grantor shall not be required
for a transfer in trust, mortgage, or other instrument of hypothecation, in
whole or in part, to secure an indebtedness, or for a transfer to a
corporation, partnership, or other entity controlling, controlled by, or under
common control with a grantee.
   (B)   The following additional events shall be deemed to be a sale,
assignment, or other transfer of an interest in or control of a grantee or its
franchise or cable system requiring compliance with this section:
      (1)   The sale, assignment, or other transfer of all or a majority of a
grantee’s assets;
      (2)   The sale, assignment, or other transfer of capital stock or
partnership, membership, or other equity interests in a grantee by one or more
of its existing shareholders, partners, members, or other equity owners so as
to create a new controlling interest in a grantee;
      (3)   The issuance of additional capital stock or partnership,
membership, or other equity interest by a grantee so as to create a new
controlling interest in a grantee; and
      (4)   A grantee’s agreement to transfer management or operation of the
grantee or the system. The term CONTROLLING INTEREST as used herein is not
limited to major stockholders but includes actual working control in whatever
manner exercised.
   (C)   In the case of any sale or transfer of ownership of an interest in or
control of a grantee or its franchise or cable system, the county shall act
upon any request for approval of such sale or transfer that contains or is
accompanied by such information as is required in accordance with FCC
regulations and the requirements of this chapter and the applicable franchise
agreement, including information related to the legal, technical, and financial
qualifications, and the proposed transferee’s ability to operate the system in
accord with this chapter and the franchise agreement. Failure to provide all
information reasonably requested by the county, as part of its review, may be
grounds for a denial of the proposed transfer.
   (D)   The consent or approval of the county to any transfer of the grantee
shall not constitute a waiver or release of the rights of the county in and to
the public rights-of-way, and any transfer shall, by its terms, be expressly
subject to the terms and conditions of this chapter and the franchise
agreement.
   (E)   In the absence of extraordinary circumstances, the county will not
approve any transfer or assignment of the franchise prior to completion of
construction of the proposed initial system.
   (F)   Any approval by a transfer shall be contingent upon the prospective
new grantee becoming a signatory to the franchise agreement.
   (G)   The grantor may require the grantee to pay the county’s expenses, as
determined at the sole discretion of the county, up to a maximum of $5,000 in
connection with the sale, assignment, or transfer of a franchise, including but
not limited to the grantor’s costs of reviewing the qualifications of any
proposed transferee.
(1996 Code, § 110.121) (Ord. passed 11-20-2000)
RIGHTS OF INDIVIDUALS PROTECTED
§ 110.185 DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICES PROHIBITED.
   No grantee shall deny service, deny access, or otherwise discriminate
against subscribers, programmers, or general citizens on the basis of race,
color, religion, national origin, sex, disability, or age. Every grantee shall
strictly adhere to the equal employment opportunity requirements of state and
federal law. Each grantee shall comply at all times with all other applicable
federal, state, and local laws, and all executive and administrative orders
relating to nondiscrimination.
(1996 Code, § 110.130) (Ord. passed 11-20-2000) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.186 SUBSCRIBER PRIVACY.
   The grantees shall at all times comply with the federal subscriber privacy
requirements codified at 47 U.S.C. § 551.
(1996 Code, § 110.131) (Ord. passed 11-20-2000) Penalty, see §
110.999
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
§ 110.200 RATE REGULATION.
   (A)   The county reserves the right to regulate rates for basic cable
service and any other services offered over the cable system, to the extent
permitted by federal or state law. The grantee shall be subject to the rate
regulation provisions provided for herein, and those of the Federal
Communications Commission (FCC) at 47 C.F.R. Part 76.900, Subpart N. The county
shall follow the rules relating to cable rate regulation promulgated by the FCC
at 47 C.F.R. Part 76.900, Subpart N. To the extent required by applicable
federal or state law, the grantee shall establish rates that are
nondiscriminatory within the same general class of subscribers and which must
be applied fairly and uniformly to all subscribers in the franchise area for
all services.
   (B)   Nothing contained herein shall prohibit the grantee from offering:
      (1)   Discounts to commercial and multiple family dwelling subscribers
billed on a bulk basis;
      (2)   Promotional discounts;
      (3)   Reduced installation rates for subscribers who have multiple
services;
      (4)   Discounts for senior citizens and/or low income residents; or
      (5)   Reduced rates to subscribers who receive non-cable services in
addition to cable services.
(1996 Code, § 110.140) (Ord. passed 11-20-2000)
§ 110.201 RIGHTS RESERVED TO GRANTOR.
   (A)   Upon either the expiration or revocation of a franchise, the grantor
may permit and/or require a grantee to continue to operate the cable system for
an extended period of time, not to exceed three months from the date of such
expiration or revocation. A grantee shall continue to operate the system under
the terms and conditions of this chapter and the applicable franchise agreement
and to provide cable service and any and all other services which the grantee
had been providing.
   (B)   The grantor shall have the right to compel continued operation of the
cable system, whether by the grantee or a trustee or receiver or by the
grantor, and to ensure that such operation is consistent with public interest
as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction. The grantee may not remove
equipment or documents necessary for continued operation of the system.
   (C)   At all reasonable times, the grantee shall permit examination by the
system, together with any appurtenant property of the grantee situated within
or without the county, when necessary to ascertain the grantee’s compliance
with this chapter, the franchise agreement, and all applicable laws.
   (D)   The county shall have the right of intervention in any suit or
proceeding to which the grantee is a party relative to the grantee’s operations
in the county, and the grantee shall not oppose such intervention by the
county.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided by applicable law, the grantee shall have
no recourse whatsoever against the county or its officials, boards,
commissions, agents, or employees for any loss, cost, expense, or damage
arising out of any provision or requirements of this chapter or the franchise
agreement, or of their enforcement.
(1996 Code, § 110.141) (Ord. passed 11-20-2000)
§ 110.202 NON-ENFORCEMENT BY THE COUNTY.
   The grantee shall not be relieved of its obligation to comply with any of
the provisions of this chapter or the franchise agreement by reason of any
failure of the county to enforce prompt compliance.
(1996 Code, § 110.142) (Ord. passed 11-20-2000)
§ 110.203 GOVERNING LAW AND CHOICE OF FORUM.
   Any dispute arising with respect to this chapter, or a franchise agreement
granted pursuant to it, shall be governed by the laws of this state. Exclusive
jurisdiction of such disputes shall be vested in the state and federal courts
having primary jurisdiction in this county.
(1996 Code, § 110.143) (Ord. passed 11-20-2000)
§ 110.204 SEVERABILITY.
   If any material portion of this chapter, or a franchise agreement adopted
pursuant to it, is held by an authority of competent jurisdiction, to be
invalid or unlawful as conflicting with applicable laws now or hereafter in
effect, or is held by a court or competent governmental authority to be
modified in any way in order to conform to the requirements of any such
applicable laws, such provision shall be considered a separate, distinct, and
independent part of this chapter or the franchise agreement, and, to the extent
possible, such holding shall not affect the validity and enforceability of all
other provisions thereof.
(1996 Code, § 110.144) (Ord. passed 11-20-2000)
§ 110.205 PUBLICATION OF NOTICES.
   All public notices required to be published by the grantor under this
chapter or any franchise agreement shall be published in a manner consistent
with the public notice laws of this state.
(1996 Code, § 110.145) (Ord. passed 11-20-2000)
§ 110.206 SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION CAPABILITIES AND SCHEDULE.
   (A)   The cable system shall generally conform to the system design and
channel capacity specifications set forth by the grantee in its application for
a franchise submitted to the county. At a minimum, the grantee shall construct
a system with equivalent technical capabilities to a hybrid fiber coax (HFC)
750 MHz cable system. The grantee is permitted to modify its design and
implementation plan, pursuant to the conditions provided herein, to accommodate
technological innovations and refinements that enhance system reliability and
capacity.
   (B)   The initial construction required under initial franchise agreement
shall be completed in compliance with a schedule specified therein. If the
grantee shows that, notwithstanding its due diligence, it has been unable to
extend service to a specified area because the acts or omissions of a third
party (excluding the grantee’s subcontractors or agents) or other factors have
caused a delay in construction beyond that deadline for extension of service to
that area, the county shall grant reasonable extensions of time to complete
construction.
(1996 Code, § 110.146) (Ord. passed 11-20-2000)
§ 110.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
110.015 shall be subject to a fine of $500 per day.
   (C)   Further, a violation of the above section of this code shall be a
violation of G.S. § 14-4 and such violation shall be classified as a Class 3
misdemeanor with a maximum fine of up to $450, except that any violations of §§
150.999,
154.99,
155.999, and
156.999 shall not be a violation of G.S. § 14-4 and shall not be considered a
misdemeanor.
(1996 Code, § 110.010) (Ord. passed 11-20-2000)
APPENDIX A: CUSTOMER SERVICE STANDARDS
    (A)   The grantee shall at all times comply with the more stringent of the
customer service and consumer protection provisions of
Chapter 110: Cable Services, the franchise agreement, or the FCC.
      (1)   The grantee will at all times comply with the county’s customer
service standards in addition to compliance with the FCC standards (Title 47
C.F.R. Part 76, Cable Television Service, Subpart H, General Operating
Requirements) as amended.
      (2)   The customer service standards as set forth below are the standards
set for all affected cable operators. This provision is the county’s notice of
its intent to enforce the standards.
   (B)   Effective July 1, 1993, a cable operator shall be subject to the
following customer service standards.
      (1)   Cable system office hours and telephone availability.
         (a)   The cable operator will maintain a local, toll-free, or collect-
call telephone access line which will be available to its subscribers 24 hours
a day, seven days a week.
            1.   Trained company representatives will be available to respond
to customer telephone inquiries during normal business hours.
            2.   After normal operating hours, the access line may be answered
by a service or an automated response system, including an answering machine.
Inquiries received after normal business hours must be responded to by a
trained company representative on the next business day.
         (b)    Under normal operating conditions, telephone answer time by a
customer representative, including wait time, shall not exceed 30 seconds when
the connection is made. If the call needs to be transferred, transfer time
shall not exceed 30 seconds. These standards shall be met under normal
operating conditions, measured on a quarterly basis.
         (c)   The operator is required to have equipment or perform surveys to
measure compliance with the telephone answering standards above.
         (d)   Under normal operating conditions, the customer will receive a
busy signal less than 3% of the time.
         (e)   Customer service center and bill payment locations will be open
at least during normal business hours and will be conveniently located.
      (2)   Installations, outages and service calls. Under normal operating
conditions, each of the following standards will be met no less than 95% of the
time measured on a quarterly basis.
         (a)   Standard installations will be performed within seven business
days after an order has been placed.
         (b)   Excluding conditions beyond the control of the operator, the
cable operator will begin working on service interruptions promptly and in no
event later than 24 hours after the interruption becomes known. The cable
operator must begin actions to correct other service problems the next business
day after notification of the service problem.
         (c)   The “appointment window” alternatives for installations, service
calls, and other installation activities will be either a specific time or, at
maximum, a four-hour time block during normal business hours. (The operator may
schedule service calls and other installation activities outside of normal
customer business hours.)
         (d)   An operator may not cancel an appointment with a customer after
the close of business on the business day prior to the scheduled appointment.
         (e)   If a cable operator representative is running late for an
appointment with a customer and will not be able to keep the appointment as
scheduled, the customer will be contacted. The appointment will be rescheduled,
as necessary, at a time that is convenient for the customer.
         (f)   Complaint log: the cable operator shall establish a complaint
log. Said log will be provided to the county, upon reasonable request for the
purpose of ascertaining compliance with
Chapter 110 of this code or the franchise agreement. The complaint log shall be
available for review for the current and past two years.
      (3)   Communications between cable operators and cable subscribers.
         (a)   Notifications to subscribers.
            1.   The cable operator shall provide written information on each
of the following areas at the time of installation of service, at least
annually to all subscribers, and at any time upon request:
               a.   Products and services offered;
               b.   Prices and options for programming services and conditions
of subscription to programming and other services;
               c.   Installation and service maintenance policies;
               d.   Instruction on how to use the cable service;
               e.   Channel positions of programming carried on the system; and
               f.   Billing and complaint procedures, including the address and
telephone number of the local franchise authority’s cable office.
            2.   Customers will be notified of any changes in rates,
programming service or channel positions as soon as possible through
announcements on the cable system and in writing. Notice must be given to
subscribers a minimum of 30 days in advance of such changes if the change is
within the control of the cable operator. In addition, the cable operator shall
notify subscribers 30 days in advance of any significant changes in the other
information required by the preceding division (B)(3)(a)1.
         (b)   Billing.
            1.   Bills will be clear, concise, and understandable. Bills must
be fully itemized, with itemizations including but not limited to basic and
premium service charges and equipment charges. Bills will also clearly
delineate all activity during the billing period, including optional charges,
rebates, and credits.
            2.   In case of a billing dispute, the cable operator must respond
to a written complaint from a subscriber within 30 days.
         (c)   Refunds. Refund checks will be issued promptly, but no later
than either:
             1.   The customer’s next billing cycle following resolution of the
request of 30 days, whichever is earlier; or
            2.   The return of the equipment supplied by the cable operator if
service is terminated.
         (d)   Credits. In the case of an outage, multiple or single, in excess
of 24 hours, the grantee shall make every effort to credit the subscriber’s
account based on the period of outage, reasons for outage and general good
business practices. Credits for service will be issued no later than the
customer’s next billing cycle following the determination that a credit is
warranted.
      (4)   Definitions. For the purpose of this appendix, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         NORMAL BUSINESS HOURS. Those hours during which most similar
businesses in the community are open to serve customers. In all cases, NORMAL
BUSINESS HOURS must include some evening hours at least one night per week and/
or some weekend hours.
         NORMAL OPERATING CONDITIONS. Those service conditions which are within
the control of the cable operator. Those conditions which are not within the
control of the cable operator include but are not limited to natural disasters,
civil disturbances, power outages, telephone network outages, and severe or
unusual weather conditions. Those conditions which are ordinarily within the
control of the cable operator include but are not limited to special
promotions, pay-per-view events, rate increases, regular peak or seasonal
demand periods, and maintenance or upgrade of the cable system.
         SERVICE INTERRUPTIONS. The loss of picture or sound on one or more
cable channels.
      (5)   Late payment for cable service.
         (a)   If the grantee assesses a processing fee for late payments, each
bill shall specify on its face in a fashion emphasizing same (such as bold face
type, underlined type or a larger font): “For payments received after  [date]
a $     processing fee for late payment may be charged.”
         (b)   No processing fees for late payment, however denominated, shall
be added to a subscriber’s bill less than 15 calendar days after the date
printed on mailing of the bill to the subscriber, and shall not exceed the
amount permitted under applicable law.
(1996 Code, Ch. 110, Appendix A) (Ord. passed 11-20-2000)
CHAPTER 111: CONTRACTORS
Section
Insulation Contractors
   
111.01   Authority
   
111.02   License required
   
111.03   Applications
   
111.04   Procedure for issuance
   
111.05   Termination and renewal of licenses
   
111.06   Suspension; revocation, appeal
   
111.07   Change of location
   
111.08   Permit required; fee; persons exempted
 
   
111.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Building regulations, see
Chapter 150
INSULATION CONTRACTORS
§ 111.01 AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter is adopted pursuant to G.S. § 153A-134.
(1996 Code, § 111.01) (Ord. passed 12-19-1977)
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   On and after January 1, 1978, no person, firm, or corporation may for a
consideration install, alter, or restore, within any unincorporated part of the
county and within any city which adopts this subchapter pursuant to the
authority granted in G.S. § 153A-122, any insulation or other materials or
energy utilization equipment designed or intended to meet the North Carolina
State Building Code requirements for insulation and energy utilization
standards who is not either:
   (A)   Licensed as a contractor to do the proposed work under G.S. Chapter
87;
   (B)   Working under the supervision of a registered architect or
professional engineer;
   (C)   An owner working upon his or her own building; or
   (D)   Licensed under this subchapter.
(1996 Code, § 111.02) (Ord. passed 12-19-1977) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 APPLICATIONS.
   Every person desiring a license under this subchapter shall submit an
application for such license to the County Manager of the county.
   (A)   Form of application. Each application shall be a written statement
upon forms provided by the County Manager.
   (B)   Contents of application. Each application shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   Name and home address of the applicant, if an individual, or home
office address, if a corporation or partnership;
      (2)   Names and home addresses of the partners, if a partnership;
      (3)   Names and home addresses of the officers and directors, if a
corporation;
       (4)   Place where the proposed business is to be located;
      (5)   Complete record of all convictions of felonies or acts involving
dishonesty, fraud, or deceit by the applicant or any employee, partner,
officer, or director of the applicant, whether in this or any other state or
jurisdiction;
      (6)   Complete record of all licenses held by the applicant or any
employee, partner, officer, or director of the applicant authorizing activities
of the type regulated by this subchapter or other activities involving
construction, alteration, or modification of buildings and structures; and
      (7)   Information as to the circumstances in which any local, state, or
federal government or agency has refused, suspended, or revoked a license of
the type described in division (B)(6) above to the applicant or any employee,
partner, officer, or director of the applicant.
   (C)   License fees. Each application shall be accompanied by a license fee
in the amount of $5 for such license, such amount to be for the calendar year
and prorated by quarters to the end of such year.
   (D)   False statements. False statements on any application for a license
shall be grounds for immediate revocation or denial of such license.
(1996 Code, § 111.03) (Ord. passed 12-19-1977)
§ 111.04 PROCEDURE FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Review by county officers. Each application received by the County
Manager shall be investigated and reviewed for compliance with this subchapter.
   (B)   Licensing agency. The application and any comments and recommendations
relating thereto shall be considered by the County Manager who shall then issue
or deny the license pursuant to the following standards in division (C) below.
   (C)   Standards. The County Manager shall issue the license unless he or she
shall find that the applicant or any employee, partner, officer, or director of
the applicant:
      (1)   Has been convicted within the last three years of a felony or an
act involving dishonesty, fraud, or deceit, whether in this or any other state
or jurisdiction;
      (2)   Has been refused a license to do the type of work authorized herein
or has had such a license suspended or revoked by any local, state, or federal
government or agency and such government or agency has not subsequently granted
or restored such license; or
      (3)   Has knowingly made a false statement in the application.
   (D)   Appeal from denial. Any applicant whose license is denied may appeal
the denial to the County Board of County Commissioners. After reasonable notice
to the applicant, the Board shall afford the applicant an opportunity to show
why its license should not be denied.
(1996 Code, § 111.04) (Ord. passed 12-19-1977)
§ 111.05 TERMINATION AND RENEWAL OF LICENSES.
   All licenses issued hereunder shall terminate on the last day of the
calendar year for which issued. Renewal of such licenses shall be pursuant to
the same procedures and requirements set forth for initial issuance.
(1996 Code, § 111.05) (Ord. passed 12-19-1977)
§ 111.06 SUSPENSION; REVOCATION, APPEAL.
   (A)   The County Manager may suspend or revoke any license issued hereunder
at any time upon a showing that the applicant or any employee, partner,
officer, or director of the applicant has:
      (1)   Knowingly made a false statement in the application for a license;
       (2)   Violated the North Carolina State Building Code requirements as to
insulation or energy utilization equipment or materials, whether in this or any
other jurisdiction; or
      (3)   Has been convicted of an act involving dishonesty, fraud, or deceit
with respect to any contract entered into for work requiring this license.
   (B)   Any licensee whose license is suspended or revoked may appeal the
suspension or revocation to the Board of County Commissioners. After reasonable
notice to the licensee, the Board shall afford the licensee an opportunity to
show why its license should not be suspended or revoked.
(1996 Code, § 111.06) (Ord. passed 12-19-1977)
§ 111.07 CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   The location of any licensed business may be changed, provided ten days’
notice thereof is given to the County Manager and operation at such new
location does not violate any applicable state or local law, ordinance, or
regulation.
(1996 Code, § 111.07) (Ord. passed 12-19-1977)
§ 111.08 PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE; PERSONS EXEMPTED.
   (A)   On and after January 1, 1978, no person, firm, or corporation may for
a consideration install, alter, or restore, within any unincorporated part of
the county and within any city which adopts this subchapter pursuant to the
authority granted in G.S. § 153A-122, any insulation or other materials or
energy utilization equipment designed or intended to meet the North Carolina
State Building Code requirements for insulation and energy utilization
standards without first securing a permit for the work to be done.
   (B)   Such permit shall be either:
      (1)   A general building permit, secured from the County Inspection
Department, and evidencing full compliance with all applicable requirements of
the North Carolina State Building Code and other state and local laws; or
      (2)   An insulation and energy utilization permit, secured from the
Energy and Insulation Inspector or County Inspection Department and evidencing
full compliance with the insulation and energy utilization standards in the
North Carolina State Building Code. For each such insulation and energy
utilization permit issued, there shall be a fee charged for each inspection
made.
(1996 Code, § 111.08) (Ord. passed 12-19-1977; Res. passed - -) Penalty, see §
111.99
Editor’s note:  
   All rates and fees have been removed from this code of ordinances. A
reasonable fee and rate, as determined from time to time by the Board of
Commissioners, shall be collected for such permit.
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating the provisions of §§
111.01 through
111.08 shall be subject to all the applicable punishment, penalties, and
equitable relief provided by G.S. § 153A-123, and as provided in §
10.99.
   (C)   Further, a violation of the above section of this code shall be a
violation of G.S. § 14-4 and such violation shall be classified as a Class 3
misdemeanor with a maximum fine of up to $450, except that any violations of §§
150.999,
154.99,
155.999, and
156.999 shall not be a violation of G.S. § 14-4 and shall not be considered a
misdemeanor.
(1996 Code, § 111.99) (Ord. passed 12-19-1977)
CHAPTER 112: MASSAGE BUSINESSES
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Purpose
   
112.03   Licensing of massage business operators
   
112.04   Licensing of massagists
   
112.05   Employer to use only licensed employees
   
112.06   Posting of license
   
112.07   Notice and hearing
   
112.08   Hours of operation
   
112.09   Patronage of massage businesses by minors and employment of minors
   
112.10   Privilege license, annual
   
112.11   Compliance
 
   
112.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Massage of certain body parts for hire prohibited, see §
130.01
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS OR PROFESSION OF MASSAGE. Includes the massage or treatment of any
person for a fee or in expectation of a gratuity from the person massaged.
   MASSAGE. The manipulation of body muscle or tissue by rubbing, stroking,
kneading, or tapping by hand or mechanical device.
   MASSAGE BUSINESS. Any establishment or business wherein massage is
practiced, including establishments commonly known as health clubs, physical
culture studios, and massage studios.
   MASSAGIST. Any person engaged in the business or profession of massage.
(1996 Code, § 112.01) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977)
§ 112.02 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to protect public health, safety,
welfare, and morals, the following privilege of carrying on the business,
trade, or profession of massagist and for the operation or carrying on of the
businesses, trades, or professions commonly known as massage parlors, health
salons, physical culture studios, or similar establishments wherein massage or
physical manipulation of the human body is carried on or practiced.
   (B)   This chapter shall not apply to a regularly established and licensed
hospital, sanitarium, nursing home, nor to an office or clinic operated and
regularly used by a duly qualified and licensed medical practitioner,
osteopath, or chiropractor in connection with the practice of medicine,
chiropractic, or osteopathy.
(1996 Code, § 112.02) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977)
§ 112.03 LICENSING OF MASSAGE BUSINESS OPERATORS.
   (A)   No person, partnership, corporation, or association shall operate a
massage business as herein defined unless such persons, partnership,
corporation, or association shall have first applied for and received the
privilege license provided by this section.
   (B)   Every application for the privilege license prescribed herein shall be
upon a form approved by the County Manager and shall be filed with the County
Manager. Every such application shall be made under oath and shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   If the applicant is a person, the name and residence address of
such person. If the applicant is a partnership, corporation, or association,
the name and residence address of all persons having any legal or beneficial
interest in such applicant;
      (2)   The address of the premises where the massage business shall be
located; and
      (3)   A complete statement of all convictions of any person whose name is
required to be given in division (B)(1) above for any felony, or prostitution,
or any violation of any law relative to prostitution;
      (4)   A complete statement of any revocation, by any governmental unit,
of any license to operate a massage business or to engage in the business or
profession of massage held by any person whose name is required to be given in
division (B)(1) above;
      (5)   A complete statement of any conviction of any person whose name is
required to be given in division (B)(1) above, for violation of any statute,
law, ordinance, or regulation of any government concerning the operation of a
massage business or the business or profession of massage;
      (6)   The name and address of any massage business or other establishment
owned or operated by any person whose name is required to be given in division
(B)(1) above wherein the business or profession of massage is carried on; and
      (7)   A description of any other business to be operated on the same
premises or on adjoining premises owned or controlled by the applicant.
   (C)   The County Manager shall transmit a copy of the application to the
Sheriff for a criminal background investigation; to the zoning officer to
determine compliance with all zoning and building regulations and ordinances;
and to the Fire Marshal to determine compliance with any law relating to fire
protection. The Sheriff, zoning officer, and Fire Marshal shall, within a
reasonable time, not to exceed 45 days, report the results of their
examinations to the County Manager.
   (D)   An application in proper form, accompanied by all reports required by
this section, shall be submitted to the Board of County Commissioners which
shall approve such application if the Board of County Commissioners determines
that:
      (1)   The application contains no misstatement of fact;
      (2)   The applicant, or any person having any legal or beneficial
ownership interest in the applicant, has not been convicted of any crime
involving sexual misconduct, including but not limited to G.S. § 14-177 through
G.S. § 14-202.1, Article 26 (Offenses against public morality and decency) and
G.S. § 14-203 through 14-208, Article 27 (Prostitution) or §
130.01 of this county code, or of any federal statute relating to prostitution,
or of any violation of any law or ordinance of any governmental unit concerning
or related to the business or profession of massage;
      (3)   The applicant conforms to all requirements of applicable zoning,
building, and fire prevention codes; and
      (4)   The applicant or any person having a legal or beneficial ownership
interest in the applicant has not, for the three-year period preceding the
application, had a previously issued license for engaging in the business or
profession of massage revoked.
    (E)   Upon approval of the application by the Board of County Commissioners
and upon receipt of a $100 license fee, the County Tax Collector shall issue a
privilege license to applicant.
   (F)   A license issued pursuant to this section shall be revoked by action
of the Board of County Commissioners if the Board of County Commissioners
determines that:
      (1)   The licensee has violated any provision of this chapter;
      (2)   The licensee or any agent of the licensee employs or permits to be
on the premises of the applicant’s massage business any person practicing the
business or profession of massage who has not been issued the privilege license
required by §
112.04 hereof, or whose license under §
112.04 has been revoked;
      (3)   The licensee, or the legal or beneficial owner of any interest in
the licensee, is convicted of any crime involving sexual misconduct, including
but not limited to G.S. §§ 14-177 through 14-202.1, Article 26 (Offenses
against public morality and decency) and G.S. §§ 14-203 through 14-208, Article
27 (Prostitution);
      (4)   Any employee of the licensee is convicted of any felony in
connection with his or her employment, or is convicted of any crime involving
sexual misconduct, including but not limited to G.S. §§ 14-177 through 14-
202.1, Articles 26 (Offenses against public morality and decency) and G.S. §§
14-203 through 14-208, Article 27 (Prostitution), or of §
130.01 of this code; or
      (5)   The licensee violated any zoning, building, or fire preventive
ordinance.
   (G)   A license issued pursuant to this chapter is void if the licensee
moves or ceases operating a massage parlor at the location required to be
stated in the application for license pursuant to §
112.03(B)(2).
(1996 Code, § 112.03) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977; Ord. passed 2-2-1998)
§ 112.04 LICENSING OF MASSAGISTS.
   (A)   No persons shall engage in the business or profession of massage
unless such person shall have first applied for and received the privilege
license provided by this section.
   (B)   The application for the license required by this section shall be upon
a form approved by the County Manager and shall be filed with the County
Manager. Such application shall be given under oath and shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   The name, age, and residence address of the applicant;
      (2)   A complete statement of the previous business or occupation of the
applicant for the two years immediately preceding the date of application,
including any massage establishment experience;
      (3)   A complete statement of all convictions of the applicant for any
felony or misdemeanor or violation of a local ordinance;
      (4)   A complete statement of any revocation of any license granted by
any governmental unit to the applicant to engage in the business or profession
of massage; and
      (5)   The date and place of applicant’s birth, the name of applicant’s
parents, and the residence address or addresses of the applicant for the five
years immediately preceding the date of application.
   (C)   The applicant shall submit, as part of the application required in
division (B) above, the following:
      (1)   Fingerprints of the applicant taken by the Sheriff;
      (2)   Two recent photographs of the applicant’s head and shoulders, of a
size and quality prescribed by the County Manager;
      (3)   A medical certificate signed by a physician, licensed to practice
in the state, within seven days of the date of the application. The certificate
shall state that the applicant was examined by the certifying physician and
that the applicant is free of communicable disease; and
      (4)   Any additional information required by this division (C).
   (D)   The County Manager shall transmit a copy of the application to the
Sheriff for an investigation report. The Sheriff shall, within a reasonable
time, not to exceed 45 days, report the results of this investigation to the
County Manager.
   (E)   An application in proper form shall be submitted to the Board of
County Commissioners together with all reports required by this section. The
Board of County Commissioners shall approve such application if the Board of
County Commissioners determines:
      (1)   That the applicant is at least 18 years of age;
      (2)   The application contains no misstatement of fact;
      (3)   The applicant has not been convicted of any crime involving sexual
misconduct, including but not limited to G.S. §§ 14-177 through 14-202.1,
Article 26 (Offenses against public morality and decency), and G.S. §§ 14-203
through 14-208, Article 27 (Prostitution), or of §
130.01 of the county code, or any federal statutes relating to prostitution, or
for violation of any law or ordinance of any governmental unit concerning or
related to the business or profession of massage;
      (4)   The applicant has not, for the three- year period preceding the
application, had a previously issued license for engaging in the business or
profession or massage revoked;
      (5)   The applicant is free from communicable disease as evidenced by the
medical certificate required herein; and
      (6)   The applicant has not been previously convicted of any violation of
any provision of this chapter.
   (F)   Upon approval of the application by the Board of County Commissioners
and upon receipt of a $50 license fee, the County Tax Collector shall issue a
privilege license to the applicant.
   (G)   The Board of County Commissioners shall have authority to direct
licensees under this section to submit to a medical examination by a licensed
physician approved by the Board of County Commissioners. This examination is to
be done at the licensee’s expense. This authority shall be exercised only when
the Board of County Commissioners has reason to believe that any such person
has contracted a communicable disease. Refusal to submit to such examination
shall be grounds for revocation of such license as provided in division (H) of
this section. Notwithstanding the provisions of this division (G), every person
licensed under this section shall file and continue to file with the County
Manager a new medical certificate with each application for renewal of the
license prescribed by this section. Failure to file such updated certificates
shall be grounds for revocation of such license as provided in division (H) of
this section.
   (H)   A license issued pursuant to this section shall be revoked by action
of the Board of County Commissioners if the Board of County Commissioners
determines:
      (1)   The licensee has violated any provision of this chapter;
      (2)   The licensee is afflicted with a communicable disease;
      (3)   The licensee has failed to be examined by a licensed physician when
required by the Board of County Commissioners pursuant to division (G) of this
section, or has failed to file any medical certificate required by division
(G); or
      (4)   The licensee has been convicted of a felony, or any crime involving
sexual misconduct, including, but not limited to G.S. §§ 14-177 through 14-
202.1, Article 26 (Offenses against public morality and decency), and G.S. §§
14-203 through 14-208, Article 27 (Prostitution), or of violating §
130.01 of the county code, or under any federal statute relating to
prostitution, or for violation of any law or ordinance of any governmental unit
related to the business or profession of massage.
(1996 Code, § 112.04) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977)
§ 112.05 EMPLOYER TO USE ONLY LICENSED EMPLOYEES.
   No person, corporation, partnership, or association licensed under §
112.03 shall allow or permit any person to massage or treat any person upon the
premises operated by the licensed unless the person giving such massage or
treatment has complied with all requirements of licensing under §
112.04, including periodic medical examinations by a licensed physician.
Violation of this section shall be grounds for revocation of the license issued
to such violator pursuant to this chapter.
(1996 Code, § 112.05) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.06 POSTING OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Every massagist shall post the license required by the chapter in his
or her work area.
   (B)   Every person, corporation, partnership, or association licensed under
§
112.03 shall display such license in a prominent place.
(1996 Code, § 112.06) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977)
§ 112.07 NOTICE AND HEARING.
   Before the Board of Commissioners revokes a license issued pursuant to this
chapter, or if the Board of County Commissioners determines reasonable grounds
exist to deny an application for a license pursuant to this chapter, the Board
of County Commissioners shall cause a written notice to be sent by certified
mail to the licensee affected or applicant affected, at the address stated in
the license or application. The notice shall advise the affected party of a
right to appear before the Board of County Commissioners, with or without legal
counsel, at a stated time and place, for the purpose of presenting any evidence
relevant to such revocation or denial, and for the purpose of hearing all
evidence submitted and examining of cross-examining any person providing such
evidence.
(1996 Code, § 112.07) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977)
§ 112.08 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   No person licensed as a massagist under §
112.04 shall massage or treat any person, or engage in the business or
profession of massage, before 8:00 a.m. or after 12:00 a.m. (midnight),
prevailing time.
   (B)   No person, corporation, partnership, or association licensed under §
112.03 shall admit customers or prospective customers, or remain open for
business, or allow, permit, or condone any massage or treatment of any person
upon the premises before 8:00 a.m. or after 12:00 a.m. (midnight), prevailing
time.
   (C)   No person in charge of managing a massage business upon the premises
shall allow, permit, or condone any massage or treatment of any person before
8:00 a.m. or after 12:00 a.m. (midnight), prevailing time.
(1996 Code, § 112.08) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977)
§ 112.09 PATRONAGE OF MASSAGE BUSINESSES BY MINORS AND EMPLOYMENT OF MINORS.
   (A)   No person licensed as a masseur or masseuse under §
112.04 shall massage or treat any person under the age of 18 upon the licensed
premises, except upon written order by a licensed physician, osteopath,
chiropractor, or registered physical therapist, such order being dated and in
the possession of the masseur or masseuse giving the massage or treatment. A
violation of this division (A) shall be grounds for revocation of any license
issued to such violator pursuant to this chapter.
    (B)   No person, corporation, partnership, or association licensed under §
112.03 shall allow, permit, or condone the massage or treatment of any person
under the age of 18 upon the licensed premises, except upon written order by a
licensed physician, osteopath, chiropractor, or registered physical therapist;
such order being dated; and a true copy of such order being in the possession
of the licensee before administration of any massage or treatment. A violation
of this division (B) shall be grounds for revocation of any license issued to
such violator pursuant to this chapter.
   (C)   No person, corporation, partnership, or association licensed pursuant
to §
112.03 shall employ any person under the age of 18 years in the operation of a
massage business.
(1996 Code, § 112.09) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.10 PRIVILEGE LICENSE, ANNUAL.
   The licenses required under this chapter are annual privilege licenses. Such
licenses shall be due and payable in the same manner as prescribed for other
privilege licenses issued by the county pursuant to the License and Privilege
Tax Ordinance of the county.
(1996 Code, § 112.10) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977)
§ 112.11 COMPLIANCE.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage;
provided, however, that any person, partnership, corporation, or association
engaged in the business or profession of massage at the time of the enactment
of this chapter shall have 60 days in which to comply with the licensing
provisions of this chapter.
(1996 Code, § 112.11) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person convicted of violating any provisions of this chapter shall
be punished by fine or imprisoned as provided by G.S. § 14-4 and as provided in
§
10.99.
   (B)   Further, a violation of the above section of this code shall be a
violation of G.S. § 14-4 and such violation shall be classified as a Class 3
misdemeanor with a maximum fine of up to $450, except that any violations of §§
150.999,
154.99,
155.999, and
156.999 shall not be a violation of G.S. § 14-4 and shall not be considered a
misdemeanor.
(1996 Code, § 112.99) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977)
CHAPTER 113: HOTELS AND RENTAL CARS
Section
   
113.01   Occupancy tax
   
113.02   Lease or rental of motor vehicles
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 OCCUPANCY TAX.
   (A)   Authorization and scope. There is levied a room occupancy tax of 3% of
the gross receipts derived from the rental of any room, lodging, or similar
accommodation furnished by a hotel, motel, inn, or a similar place within the
county that is subject to sales tax imposed by the state under G.S. § 105-164.4
(a)(3). This tax is in addition to any state or local sales tax and does not
apply to accommodations furnished by nonprofit charitable, educational, or
religious organizations.
   (B)   Collection. Every operator of a business subject to the tax levied
under this section shall, on and after the effective date of the levy of the
tax, collect the tax. This tax shall be collected as part of the charge for
furnishing a taxable accommodation. The tax shall be stated and charged
separately from the sales records, and shall be paid by the purchaser to the
operator of the business as trustee for and on account of the county. The tax
shall be added to the sales price and shall be passed on to the purchaser
instead of being borne by the operator of the business. The county shall
design, print, and furnish to all appropriate businesses and persons in the
county the necessary forms for filing returns and instructions to ensure the
full collection of the tax. An operator of a business who collects the
occupancy tax levied under this section may deduct from the amount remitted to
the county a discount of 3% of the amount collected.
   (C)   Administration.
      (1)   The county shall administer a tax levied under this section. A tax
levied under this section is due and payable to the County Tax Administrator in
monthly installments on or before the twentieth day of the month following the
month in which the tax accrues. Every person, firm, corporation, or association
liable for the tax shall, on or before the fifteenth day of each month, prepare
and render a return on a form prescribed by the county. The return shall state
the total gross receipts derived in the preceding month from rentals upon which
the tax is levied.
      (2)   A return filed with the County Tax Administrator under this section
is not a public record as defined by G.S. § 132-1 and may not be disclosed
except as required by law.
   (D)   Distribution and use of tax revenue. The county shall, on a monthly
basis, deposit in a special account 100% of the net proceeds of the occupancy
tax. Funds in the special account may be used only to promote travel and
tourism in the county, pay dues to the Chamber of Commerce, and to finance
tourism related capital projects in the county. However, any tax proceeds in
the special account that have not been appropriated after three years following
the date they were deposited in the account shall be remitted to the General
Fund of the county and may be used for any lawful purpose.
   (E)   Effective date. A tax levied under this section shall be in effect and
due on and after December 1, 1990.
   (F)   Effect of repeal. Repeal of a tax levied under this section shall
become effective on the first day of a month and may not become effective until
the end of the fiscal year in which the repeal resolution was adopted. Repeal
of a tax levied under this section does not affect liability for a tax that was
attached before the effective date of the repeal, nor does it affect a right to
a refund of a tax that accrued before the effective date of the repeal.
(1996 Code, § 30.01) (Ord. passed 10-1-1990; Ord. passed 12-18-1995; Ord.
passed 12-20-2004) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.02 LEASE OR RENTAL OF MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Tax gross receipts derived from retail short-term motor vehicle leases
or rentals. The county hereby imposes and levies a tax of 1.5% of the gross
receipts from the short-term lease or rental of vehicles at retail to the
general public.
   (B)   Administration. The county will administer and collect from operators
of leasing and rental establishments the taxes levied hereby, and the county
may promulgate additional rules and regulations necessary for implementation of
the taxes.
   (C)   Payment of taxes and filing of returns. The taxes levied hereby are
due and payable to the county in monthly installments on or before the
fifteenth day of the month following the month in which the tax accrues. Every
taxable establishment required to collect the tax shall, on or before the
fifteenth day of each month, prepare and render a return to the county. The
county shall design, print, and furnish to all taxable establishments the
necessary forms for filing returns and instructions to ensure the full
collection of the tax. A return filed for this purpose is not a public record
as defined by G.S. § 132-1 and may not be disclosed except as required by law.
   (D)   Levy of tax. The County Board of Commissioners hereby approves the
levy of a 5% privilege tax within the territorial jurisdiction by the Piedmont
Authority for Regional Transportation Board of Trustees on retailers who engage
in the business of leasing or renting U-drive-it vehicles or motorcycles based
on the gross receipts derived by the retailer from the short-term lease or
rental of these vehicles after all of the applicable requirements set forth in
G.S. § 105-551(b) have been met.
(1996 Code, § 30.03) (Ord. passed 6-19-2000; Ord. passed 8-4-2008) Penalty, see
§
113.99
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be
punished as provided by G.S. § 105-236.
   (B)   A person, firm, corporation, or association who fails or refuses to
file the return required by §
113.01 shall pay a penalty of $10 for each day’s omission. In case of failure
or refusal to file the return or pay the tax for a period of 30 days after the
time required for filing the return or for paying the tax, there shall be an
additional tax, as a penalty, of 5% of the tax due in addition to any other
penalty, with an additional tax of 5% for each additional month or fraction
thereof until the tax is paid. The Board of Commissioners may, for good cause
shown, compromise or forgive the additional tax penalties imposed by this
division (B). Any person who willfully attempts in any manner to evade a tax
imposed under §
113.01 or who willfully fails to pay the tax or make and file a return shall,
in addition to all other penalties provided by law, shall be punished by a fine
not to exceed $1,000, imprisonment not to exceed six months, or both.
   (C)   (1)   Failure to file. In case of failure or refusal to file a return
or pay the tax imposed under §
113.02 for a period of 30 days after the time required for filing the return or
paying the tax, there shall be an additional tax, as a penalty, of 5% of the
tax due, with an additional tax of 5% for each additional month or fraction
thereof until the tax is paid. The County Board of Commissioners for good cause
shown, may compromise or forgive any penalty or additional tax imposed under §
113.02.
      (2)   Misdemeanor for willful violation. Any person, firm, corporation,
or association who willfully attempts in any manner to evade a tax imposed by §
113.02 or who willfully fails to pay the tax or make and file a return shall,
in addition to the penalties provided by law and herein, be guilty of a
misdemeanor punishable as provided by law.
   (D)   Further, a violation of the above section of this code shall be a
violation of G.S. § 14-4 and such violation shall be classified as a Class 3
misdemeanor with a maximum fine of up to $450, except that any violations of §§
150.999,
154.99,
155.999, and
156.999 shall not be a violation of G.S. § 14-4 and shall not be considered a
misdemeanor.
(1996 Code, § 30.99) (Ord. passed 10-1-1990; Ord. passed 6-19-2000; Ord. passed
8-4-2014)
CHAPTER 114: AMBULANCE SERVICE
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Franchise required
   
114.03   Application for franchise
   
114.04   Granting of franchise
   
114.05   Term of franchise
   
114.06   [Reserved]
   
114.07   Ambulance specifications
   
114.08   Drivers and attendants; qualifications; prohibited acts
   
114.09   Standards for communications
   
114.10   Rules governing general operations
   
114.11   Authority to fix rates
   
114.12   Authority to determine the area served by each franchised operator
   
114.13   Investigation of compliance
   
114.14   Report calls
   
114.15   Exemptions
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMBULANCE.  Includes any motor vehicle equipped with facilities therein to
transport injured or infirm persons, on call or demand, accepting patients and
transporting them from a point in the county; however, this shall not be
construed to include any taxicabs or any taxi services.
   ATTENDANT. Any state EMT level of certification.
   BOARD. The Board of County Commissioners of this county.
   CALL or RUN. The act of progressing with an ambulance to the scene of need
and transporting a patient to his or her destination.
   DRIVER. Any state EMT level of certification.
   EMERGENCY MISSION. The operation of an ambulance to the scene where a person
is in dire need of medical attention and the transporting of the patient to a
medical facility.
   OWNER. Any person to whom a franchise for the operation of an ambulance(s)
has been granted.
   PATIENT. Any person being transported to medical attention or from medical
attention in an ambulance.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, association, corporation, or other
organization owning, operating, or proposing to operate an ambulance(s) within
this county.
(1996 Code, § 95.01) (Ord. passed 9-21-1998)
§ 114.02 FRANCHISE REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate or cause to be operated an ambulance within the
county without first having applied for and obtaining a franchise from the
Board Commissioners authorizing such operation. Nor shall any person operate or
cause to be operated an ambulance within the county after revocation or during
suspension of his or her franchise.
(1996 Code, § 95.02) (Ord. passed 9-21-1998) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.03 APPLICATION FOR FRANCHISE.
   All persons applying to the Board for franchise for the operation of one or
more ambulances shall file with the Board a sworn application therefor, stating
as follows:
    (A)   Name and address of the owner, and in the event that the owner be a
corporation, a certified copy of the articles of incorporation;
   (B)   The number of vehicles actually owned and the number of vehicles
actually operated by such owner on the date of such application, if any;
   (C)   The net worth of the owner or applicant over and above all debts,
judgments, claims, and demands whatsoever;
   (D)   Whether there are any unsatisfied judgments of record against such
owner, and if so, the titles of all actions and the amount of all judgments
unsatisfied;
   (E)   The make, type, year of manufacture, serial number, and equipment
therein for each ambulance owned or operated or proposed to be operated by the
applicant for a franchise;
   (F)   Court record, if any, of the applicant; provided that if applicant is
a corporation, the court record, if any, of the officers, directors, and
supervising employees thereof, including general manager or director;
   (G)   Whether there are any liens, mortgages, or other encumbrances on such
ambulances, and if so, the amount and character thereof; and
   (H)   Such other information as the Board may in its discretion require.
(1996 Code, § 95.03) (Ord. passed 9-21-1998)
§ 114.04 GRANTING OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   Hearing on application. Upon receipt of application for franchise, the
Board shall fix a time and place for hearing the applicant. No franchise shall
be granted unless the Board shall find, after hearing, that the public
convenience and necessity require the proposed ambulance service. In
determining whether the public convenience and necessity require the operation
of the ambulance(s) for which application for franchise is made, the Board will
consider and investigate the statements made in the application, the adequacy
of the existing ambulance service, the financial responsibility, experience,
and character of the applicant, the public need for additional service, the
ability of existing holders of certificates to provide any necessary additional
service, and any other factors pertinent to such determination.
   (B)   Issuance of franchise. On finding that the public convenience and
necessity require the proposed ambulance service, the Board shall grant to the
applicant a franchise on the terms and conditions described by this chapter,
provided:
      (1)   The applicant shall have complied with all the provisions of this
chapter;
      (2)   The ambulance(s) proposed to be operated under said franchise shall
be found to meet the requirements of the rules and regulations governing
ambulance service adopted by the State Department of Human Resources or a
representative thereof;
      (3)   There are no unsatisfied judgments of record against the applicant;
and
      (4)   The court record, if any, of the applicant is such as would conform
to the public interest on granting of this franchise.
(1996 Code, § 95.04) (Ord. passed 9-21-1998)
§ 114.05 TERM OF FRANCHISE.
   In order that any applicant granted a franchise may justify the capital
investment essential to the adequate and efficient ambulance service required
in the public interest, the term of any franchise granted shall be three years;
provided, that any franchise granted may be suspended or revoked by the Board,
after a hearing held upon 30 days’ notice to any franchise holder for failure
to comply with any provision of this chapter. If, upon such hearing, the Board
shall find that the franchise holder has corrected any deficiencies, and has
brought himself or herself into compliance with the provisions of this chapter,
the franchise shall not be suspended or revoked. No franchise granted may be
sold, assigned, or transferred or in any way vest in any person other than the
applicant to whom the franchise is granted.
(1996 Code, § 95.05) (Ord. passed 9-21-1998)
§ 114.06 [RESERVED].
§ 114.07 AMBULANCE SPECIFICATIONS.
   All vehicles used as ambulances shall conform to the specifications and
requirements adopted by the State Department of Human Resources or a
representative thereof.
(1996 Code, § 95.07) (Ord. passed 9-21-1998)
§ 114.08 DRIVERS AND ATTENDANTS; QUALIFICATIONS; PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   Qualifications. No person shall be employed or act as an ambulance
driver or attendant unless such person shall meet the qualifications adopted by
the State Department of Human Resources or representatives thereof.
   (B)   Prohibited acts. Any person employed or acting as a driver or
attendant is hereby forbidden to commit or cause to be committed any of the
following acts:
      (1)   To drive while under the influence of alcohol or other drug, or to
drink any alcoholic beverage or take any drug, while on call;
      (2)   To smoke while inside the patient compartments, while the ambulance
is moving or standing; or to smoke anywhere inside an ambulance which does not
have separate patient and driver compartments while the ambulance is moving or
standing;
      (3)   To move any patient if there is a suspicion of foul play without
first notifying a law enforcement officer, unless necessary to preserve life or
limb;
      (4)   To recommend to anyone a particular funeral home to handle a
deceased person;
      (5)   To use profanity in the presence of patient, the patient’s family,
or any bystander;
      (6)   To commit or cause to be committed an assault or battery on any
bystander, unless necessary in defense of a patient or in self-defense; or
      (7)   To drive, or cause to be driven, any ambulance at speed greater
than necessary without due regard for the safety of others.
   (C)   Emergency; EMT required. Every ambulance on an emergency mission in
the county shall be occupied by at least one emergency medical technician, EMT/
I, EMT/AT, or EMT/P.
   (D)   Non-emergency; EMTs required. Every ambulance transporting patients
under conditions other than emergency run conditions shall be occupied by at
least two emergency medical technicians.
(1996 Code, § 95.08) (Ord. passed 9-21-1998) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.09 STANDARDS FOR COMMUNICATIONS.
   (A)   Each ambulance shall be equipped with a two-way VHF radio licensed by
the Federal Communications Commission which must be in operative condition at
times. The radio must be compatible to the County EMS System. The frequency of
the channels shall be 155.280, 155.340, and 155.265. 154.370 mobile phone must
be equipped in all ambulances and they must have a different primary frequency
for their operation.
   (B)   Each ambulance service shall provide the Board a copy of the Federal
Communications Commission license authorizing the use of the communication
equipment owned and operated by the service.
(1996 Code, § 95.09) (Ord. passed 9-21-1998)
§ 114.10 RULES GOVERNING GENERAL OPERATIONS.
   (A)   Operating rules.
      (1)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle as an ambulance unless such
vehicle has been registered in accordance with the laws of this state, and all
required licenses and permits have been obtained.
      (2)   Every ambulance shall be operated in accordance with laws and
ordinances of this state and county governing of emergency vehicles.
   (B)   Ambulance insurance required. Every owner operating ambulances under a
franchise shall submit to the Board evidence of public liability and property
damage insurance in force with an insurance company licensed to conduct
business in this state, or shall enter into bond with a personal or corporate
surety, in the following amounts:
 
Bodily injury   $500,000 per person
Property damage $500,000 per accident
 
   (C)   Liability insurance required. Every owner operating ambulances under a
franchise shall submit to the Board evidence of public liability insurance in
force with an insurance company licensed to conduct business in this state,
covering the acts of the ambulance attendants in an amount not less than
$500,000.
(1996 Code, § 95.10) (Ord. passed 9-21-1998)
§ 114.11 AUTHORITY TO FIX RATES.
   The Board in its discretion shall have the authority to fix and change from
time to time reasonable charges for franchised ambulance service.
(1996 Code, § 95.11) (Ord. passed 9-21-1998)
§ 114.12 AUTHORITY TO DETERMINE THE AREA SERVED BY EACH FRANCHISED OPERATOR.
   The Board in its discretion shall have the authority to fix and change from
time to time the areas that may be served by each franchised operator.
(1996 Code, § 95.12) (Ord. passed 9-21-1998)
§ 114.13 INVESTIGATION OF COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Agent to investigate. The Board shall have the authority to appoint
the County EMS Director to make inspections of ambulances and ambulance
services to aid the Board in determining compliance with this chapter and of
investigating alleged violations of this chapter.
   (B)   Inspections of ambulances. Any person holding a franchise shall allow
the County EMS Director at any time to inspect its ambulances, all records kept
in connection with the operation of the ambulance or ambulance service, all
equipment used in connection with the operation of the ambulances or ambulance
service, or any other material or thing necessary to determine compliance with
this chapter or to investigate alleged violations of this chapter.
(1996 Code, § 95.13) (Ord. passed 9-21-1998)
§ 114.14 REPORT CALLS.
   (A)   Each franchised operator shall report the number of calls and/or runs
during the month by the fifth day of the following month to the County EMS
Director or his or her designated agent.
   (B)   The report shall be in writing and contain the following:
      (1)   The number of emergency calls, times, and date;
      (2)   The number of non-emergency calls; and
      (3)   The total number of calls.
(1996 Code, § 95.14) (Ord. passed 9-21-1998)
§ 114.15 EXEMPTIONS.
   Vehicles owned and operated by the following are excluded from the operation
of this chapter:
   (A)   Vehicles owned by the State of North Carolina;
   (B)   Vehicles owned by the United States of America;
   (C)   Ambulances or ambulance services which are requested by the County EMS
Director to provide assistance in the event of a disaster or under mutual aid
agreements;
   (D)   Ambulances owned and operated by the County of Davie are exempt from
§§
114.02 -
114.05.
(1996 Code, § 95.15) (Ord. passed 9-21-1998; Am. Ord. passed 4-6-2015)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the owner to see that the provisions of this
chapter are observed.
   (B)   (1)   The violation of §
114.02 shall constitute a misdemeanor punishable by a fine or not more than $50
or imprisonment of not more than 30 days. Each day’s continuing violation shall
constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   The County Manager is hereby empowered to seek a court order to
enjoin the violation of §
114.02 of this chapter.
   (C)   Further, a violation of the above section of this code shall be a
violation of G.S. § 14-4 and such violation shall be classified as a Class 3
misdemeanor with a maximum fine of up to $450, except that any violations of §§
150.999,
154.99,
155.999, and
156.999 shall not be a violation of G.S. § 14-4 and shall not be considered a
misdemeanor.
(1996 Code, § 95.99) (Ord. passed 9-21-1998)
CHAPTER 115: PEDDLERS AND PANHANDLERS
Section
   
115.01   Authority for enactment; applicability of state law; conflicts with
state law
   
115.02   Construction of this chapter
   
115.03   License to be subject to existing or future ordinances
   
115.04   Definitions
   
115.05   License tax levied; exemptions
   
115.06   Transfer or assignment of license; duplicate licenses
   
115.07   License prerequisite to engaging in business
   
115.08   Duration of license
   
115.09   Posting or possession of license
   
115.10   Named businesses and schedule of license taxes
   
115.11   Privilege license for peddlers and panhandlers
   
115.12   Collection of tax deficiency
   
115.13   Enforcement of licensing and tax requirements
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 AUTHORITY FOR ENACTMENT; APPLICABILITY OF STATE LAW; CONFLICTS WITH
STATE LAW.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the powers contained in the G.S. Chapter
153A and Chapter 105 relating to counties. If any of the provisions of this
chapter conflicts with the provisions of G.S. Chapter 153A or G.S. Chapter 105,
it is the intent of the county that the provisions of G.S. Chapter 153A and
G.S. Chapter 105 shall control and that this chapter shall be construed
accordingly. Unless the contrary intention is expressed in this chapter, it is
intended in each instance that the maximum tax authorized by G.S. Chapter 105
therefor shall be charged by the county. All words not specifically defined in
this chapter are intended to be used in the sense in which they are used in
G.S. Chapter 105.
(Ord. passed 6-19-2014)
§ 115.02 CONSTRUCTION OF THIS CHAPTER.
   (A)   This chapter is enacted for revenue purposes, and, therefore, it
should be construed to require payment of the maximum tax permitted under its
terms. Additionally, this chapter is further enacted as a public safety
ordinance to protect the citizens of Davie County.
   (B)   The issuance of a license in accordance with this chapter does not
excuse a licensee from compliance with any applicable ordinance or statute.
This chapter does not prevent the county from imposing license taxes on
additional businesses, from increasing or decreasing the amount of license tax,
or from regulating any business taxed.
(Ord. passed 6-19-2014)
§ 115.03 LICENSES TO BE SUBJECT TO EXISTING OR FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All licenses are granted subject to the provisions of existing ordinances or
those thereafter enacted.
(Ord. passed 6-19-2014)
§ 115.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Each trade, occupation, profession, business and franchise taxed
under this chapter.
   PANHANDLERS. All persons or agents who shall ask, beg or solicit any monies,
funds or alms for any purpose without first registering and obtaining a
panhandler privilege license issued by the county.
   PEDDLERS. All persons who do not keep a regular place of business open at
all times in regular business hours and at the same place, who are engaged in
the business of offering for sale any goods, wares or merchandise to other than
other merchants or dealers or those regularly engaged in the mercantile
business, and all persons who keep a regular place of business open at all
times in regular business hours and at the same place, but who, elsewhere than
at such regular place of business, personally or through their agents, offer
for sale or sell and, at the same time of such offering for sale, deliver
goods, wares or merchandise to other than businesses.
   PERSON. Any individual, trustee, executor, other fiduciary, corporation,
unincorporated association, partnership, sole proprietorship, company firm or
other legal entity.
   PLACE OF BUSINESS. A fixed place at which a business in maintained.
   SEASONAL BUSINESS.  A business which is seasonal in nature when it is
conducted for profit for a period of six months or less each year.
(Ord. passed 6-19-2014)
§ 115.05 LICENSE TAX LEVIED; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Levy of tax. An annual privilege license tax is hereby levied on each
named business within this chapter which is conducted within the county in the
amounts established by state statutes and this Code.
   (B)   Applicability of tax. Each person who conducts a named business within
this chapter within the county is subject to this chapter.
   (C)   Separate license required for each business and each person. Each
business and each person who conducts a business with the county is subject to
this chapter. A person conducts business when he or she engages in one act of
business taxed under this chapter.
   (D)   Exemptions. Generally, except as otherwise provided in this section or
by state law, no person is exempt from the payment of a privilege license tax
levied by this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-19-2014)
§ 115.06 TRANSFER OR ASSIGNMENT OF LICENSE; DUPLICATE LICENSES.
   (A)   Transfer of personal privilege licenses. All licenses issued under
this chapter, which are personal in nature and not related to a specific
location, shall be and constitute a personal privilege to conduct the
profession or business named in the license and shall not be transferable to
any other person.
   (B)   Duplicate license. Upon satisfactory proof that a license has been
lost or destroyed, the county shall reissue a duplicate license for a fee of
$5.
(Ord. passed 6-19-2014)
§ 115.07 LICENSE PREREQUISITE TO ENGAGING IN BUSINESS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in or carry on any named
business in this chapter in the county for which there is required a license
without first having paid the license tax and obtained the license. The name of
the business and the business license number shall be legibly displayed on all
publications and vehicles being used in the business. For the purposes of this
section, the offering to sell any product or the sell thereof or the doing of
any act or thing in furtherance of the business, shall be construed to be
engaging in or the carrying on of such business.
(Ord. passed 6-19-2014)
§ 115.08 DURATION OF LICENSE.
   All licenses taxes provided for and fixed in this chapter shall be for 12
months, unless otherwise specified, if for any reason a licensee discontinues
it's business during the license year, he or she is not entitled to a refund.
(Ord. passed 6-19-2014)
§ 115.09 POSTING OR POSSESSION OF LICENSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any business, trade or
profession named in this chapter, or do the act for which a license is required
in this chapter without having such license in his or her actual possession.
(Ord. passed 6-19-2014)
§ 115.10 NAMED BUSINESSES AND SCHEDULE OF LICENSE TAXES.
   (A)   Peddlers. Itinerant peddlers are hereby charged an annual license tax
of $100. Provided that the above license tax shall not apply to anyone offering
merchandise for sale only at a flea/product market or at a yard sale.
   (B)   Panhandlers. All panhandlers are hereby charged an annual license tax
of $100.
(Ord. passed 6-19-2014)
§ 115.11 PRIVILEGE LICENSE FOR PEDDLERS AND PANHANDLERS.
   (A)   All peddlers and panhandlers are required to obtain a privilege
license from the County of Davie before engaging in any activity as set forth
in this chapter. In order to obtain a privilege license from the County of
Davis, the person shall register with the County through the Davie County
Sheriff's Department. At the time of registration, the person shall present a
photo identification issued by the North
Carolina Division of Motor Vehicles or the equivalent state agency in the
applicant's state of residency and one other form of identification.
   (B)   Any person, who makes any false or misleading statement while applying
for a panhandler's privilege license under this chapter, is guilty of a
misdemeanor. Upon receipt of information of such a violation, the county shall
decline to issue a privilege license to the offending applicant or shall revoke
the license of the offending licensee.
   (C)   Procedures.
      (1)   Applications. Applications for peddlers and panhandler privilege
licenses from any individual under this chapter shall be submitted to the Davie
County Sheriff Department in their business office located in the first floor
of the Davie County Courthouse during normal business hours. The applicant
shall submit an application, together with a criminal background history check
conducted by the Davie County Sheriff or his or her designee, which shall be
reviewed by the Davie County Sheriff or his or her designee to determine
eligibility of the applicant. Thereafter, upon payment of all cost associated
thereof and all taxes set forth above, the Sheriff shall issue a privilege
license. Such privilege license shall be valid until the end of the calendar
year in which issued. All privilege licenses shall expire at the end of the
calendar year and all peddlers and panhandlers shall be required to obtain a
new privilege license for each successor year.
      (2)   Conducting criminal history checks. This section is adopted by the
County of Davie to provide procedures for conduction criminal history checks
through SBI/DCI on individuals applying for privilege licenses to engage in
peddling or panhandling within the limits of Davie County. The purpose of this
section is to provide for the safety of the citizens of Davie County and the
motoring public using the streets and highways of Davie County. All applicants
must provide with their application all identification information, names and
other appropriate identifiers necessary for the Davie County Sheriff Department
to complete a criminal history check on the applicant. No applicant's criminal
history will be checked pursuant to this section unless, and until, an access
agreement with the State Bureau of Investigation, (for use of the State's SBI/
DCI datebase according to applicable regulations), has been obtained by the
Davie County Sheriff and is in effect.
      (3)   Prior to denial or termination of a license based upon CHRI
received from the criminal justice agency, the non-criminal entity shall verify
the existence of a record by either obtaining a certified public record or by
submitting a fingerprint card of the individual to the CIIS for verification
that the CHRI record belongs to the individual.
      (4)   Disqualifying offenses. The following offenses, if appearing in an
applicant's criminal history check and committed within the most recent five-
year period, will disqualify that applicant from receipt of a privilege
license:
         (a)   One or more violations of Davie County Code of Ordinance,
Chapter 115.
         (b)   Convictions of one or more offenses under the law of any
jurisdiction which involve either misdemeanor or felony assault, communicating
threats, illegal use of a weapon, or breaking and entry or larceny.
         (c)   Upon receipt of information or report of a violation of this
section or any other applicable code provision, the county may refuse to issue,
refuse to renew or may revoke any privilege licenses as deems necessary to
safeguard the interest of the public and to carry out the purposes of this
chapter, (which are to promote public safety and convenience on the street and
highways of Davie County). Within ten days of notification of such action, the
applicant may request a conference with the County Manager to review such
actions.
      (5)   Form and content of license. A license shall show the name of the
person licensed, the nature of the license, and the period for which the
license is issued.
      (6)   Service of notice. Whenever this chapter requires a written
statement or notice to be given to the applicant, such statement or notice
shall be given by either personally delivering the statement or notice to the
applicant or by mailing the statement or notice to the address specified in the
license application.
(Ord. passed 6-19-2014; Ord. passed 10-6-2014)
§ 115.12 COLLECTION OF TAX DEFICIENCY.
   (A)   Any person who commences or continues to conduct a business taxed
under this chapter without payment of the tax is liable for an additional tax
of 5% every 30 days as imposed by North Carolina General Statutes.
   (B)   The County Attorney may use any of the following methods to collect a
deficiency:
      (1)   Criminal prosecution in accordance with §
115.13(A);
      (2)   Equitable relief in accordance with §
115.13(B);
      (3)   The remedies of levy, sale, attachment and garnishment in
accordance with G.S. Chapter 153A; or
      (4)   The remedies of levy and sale of real property of the licensee
within the county in accordance with the provisions of the North Carolina
General Statutes.
   (C)   The following shall be added to the additional tax described in
division (A) of this section for costs related to the use of collection
remedies described in divisions (B)(3) and (4) of this section: $50 for the
processing of each levy, sale, attachment and garnishment, plus any actual
attorney fees and court fees incurred in adjudicating these remedies.
(Ord. passed 6-19-2014)
§ 115.13 ENFORCEMENT OF LICENSING AND TAX REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Criminal remedies. Conducting business within this county without
having paid the privilege license tax imposed by this chapter or without a
valid license issued in accordance with this chapter or without possessing and/
or posting a license in compliance with this chapter is a misdemeanor,
punishable as provided in G.S. § 105-109. Each day that a person conducts
business in violation of this chapter is a separate offense. Payment of a fine
imposed in criminal proceedings in accordance with this section does not
relieve a person of the liability for taxes imposed under this chapter.
   (B)   Equitable remedies. In addition to the criminal remedies set forth in
division (A) of this section and in compliance with the North Carolina General
Statutes, the county may seek an injunction against any person who conducts a
business in violation of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-19-2014)
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The following shall be deemed to be expressly incorporated by
reference within each section of this chapter: a violation of this section, or
any part thereof, shall constitute a Class 3 misdemeanor and shall subject the
offender to a fine of not more than $500.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to §
115.12.
   (C)   Further, a violation of the above section of this code shall be a
violation of G.S. § 14-4 and such violation shall be classified as a Class 3
misdemeanor with a maximum fine of up to $450, except that any violations of §§
150.999,
154.99,
155.999, and
156.999 shall not be a violation of G.S. § 14-4 and shall not be considered a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 6-19-2014)
CHAPTER 116: ALCOHOL POLICY
Section
   
116.01   Purpose
   
116.02   Definitions
   
116.03   Objective
   
116.04   Policy
   
116.05   Sale (concession) of alcoholic beverages
   
116.06   Indemnification
   
116.07   Insurance
   
116.08   Alcoholic Beverage Service Plan
§ 116.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this policy is to establish regulated guidelines related to
the service, sale, and/or consumption of alcoholic beverages on Davie County
Recreation and Parks (herein referred to as "DCRP") premises.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2021)
§ 116.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Any beverage containing an intoxicant or inebriant,
including, but not limited to, fortified and unfortified malt beverages, wine,
and cider products. ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE does not include liquor as defined
herein.
   DCRP FACILITIES. Include indoor and outdoor spaces, parks, recreation
centers, stadiums, or premises.
   INTOXICATED. To become stupefied, stimulated, or excited by action of a
chemical substance, such as drinking an alcoholic beverage and/or after
consuming an alcoholic beverage registering at least a .08 on an Alco-Sensor
test.
   LIQUOR. An alcoholic beverage consisting of a distilled spirit other than
fortified and unfortified malt beverages, wine, and cider products.
   RECREATION AND PARKS DIRECTOR. The Director of the Davie County Recreation
and Parks Department or the Director's designee(s).
   RENTER(S). The responsible individual(s), group, business, or organization
renting or leasing DCRP facilities.
   SPECIAL EVENT PERMIT. An agreement between the special event renter(s) and
the county, which shall be in the form of a DCRP- issued special event
application.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2021)
§ 116.03 OBJECTIVE.
   The information included in this policy is intended as a general overview of
"best practices" to serve and/or sale alcoholic beverages at community events
offered by DCRP and/or renter(s) of DCRP facilities. All contents of this
policy are provided strictly as a courtesy and in no way should be construed as
the final authority with respect to laws, rules, ordinances, regulations or
other guidance related to the possession, sales, service, use or other handling
of alcoholic beverages. It is the sole responsibility of any user(s) of this
policy to contact the appropriate legal or regulatory entities, whether state
or local, for the most up-to-date and accurate information.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2021)
§ 116.04 POLICY.
   (A)   DCRP understands there are events and activities that take place where
participants will find it desirable to both possess and responsibly consume
alcoholic beverages. To better help understand the requirements in place at
DCRP facilities, the following policy is adopted herein.
   (B)   Requirements.
      (1)   The possession and personal consumption of alcoholic beverages are
prohibited at DCRP facilities except during events hosted by DCRP and/or any
renter(s) who have an issued special event permit by DCRP. All alcohol must
remain in designated areas and be for personal consumption only. All
individuals are prohibited from bringing any alcoholic beverage into the DCRP
facilities for private consumption except where the individual has a valid
issued special event permit.
      (2)   The sale of alcoholic beverages at DCRP facilities are prohibited
except during events hosted by DCRP and/or any renter(s) who have an issued
special event permit. All alcohol must remain in designated areas as pre-
determined by DCRP, and be for personal consumption only.
      (3)   The possession, sale or personal consumption of liquor is strictly
prohibited at DCRP facilities.
      (4)   The possession, sale, and personal consumption of alcoholic
beverages must follow state laws including, but not limited to, no consumption
by persons under the age of 21 and no consumption outside the designated area
(s) included within the limits of the reserved facility. Any individual(s),
group, vendor(s), and/or organization found in violation of state laws
regarding the possession or consumption of alcohol with a minor shall be
handled by proper law enforcement agencies and may be subject, but not limited,
to banishment of DCRP facilities.
      (5)   No alcoholic beverages can be present or consumed during organized
youth events. Organized youth events do not include family gatherings wherein
youth are present but not the primarily reason for the event. Any such event
where alcoholic beverages are present or consumed must have the prior approval
of the Recreation and Parks Director or his or her designee.
      (6)   Renter(s) who are issued a special event permit to serve and/or
sale alcoholic beverages at their event shall be solely responsible for
providing uniformed law enforcement officers at designated area(s) where
alcoholic beverages will be served and/or sold and at the entrances and exits
to the event area(s).
      (7)   Renter(s) are not permitted to have alcoholic beverages present or
consumed within 50 feet of playgrounds or aquatic areas.
      (8)   Glass containers of any kind (alcoholic or non-alcoholic) are
prohibited.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2021)
§ 116.05 SALE (CONCESSION) OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   (A)   DCRP facilities. To serve and/or sale alcoholic beverages during an
event shall be limited to the designated area(s) within the event area(s)
outlined in the special event permit as part of the Alcohol Beverage Service
Plan.
   (B)   Vendor(s). All service and/or sales of alcoholic beverages shall be
conducted by a designated vendor(s) approved by DCRP; have a certificate of
liability insurance; state license to sale and/or serve alcoholic beverages;
and all necessary permitting on file 14 days prior to the event.
   (C)   Prohibition. The sale of alcoholic beverages shall be prohibited
during any event attended by children (under age 21), unless otherwise approved
by the Recreation and Parks Director or the Director's designee(s).
   (D)   Beginning sales and/or service. The sale and/or service of alcoholic
beverages shall only begin during approved event times as specified in the
special event permit.
   (E)   Cessation of sales and/or service. The sale and/or service of
alcoholic beverages shall cease at least one hour before the official end of
the event as specified in the special event permit.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2021)
§ 116.06 INDEMNIFICATION.
   Renter(s) permitted to serve, sale, and/or consume alcoholic beverages in
accordance with an approved special event permit during the event shall be
required to indemnify and hold harmless the county, its officers, agents,
employees and volunteers, from any and all claims for liability (including
travel to and from) arising directly or indirectly from the service, sale and/
or consumption of alcoholic beverages during that event. The certificate of
liability insurance acceptable to the county shall be required to cover the
indemnification obligation. DCRP reserves the right to deny any special event
application.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2021)
§ 116.07 INSURANCE.
   An entity authorized to serve and/or sell alcoholic beverages at an event
shall provide DCRP with a certificate of liability insurance, including
additional coverage to serve and/or sell alcoholic beverages at the event.
General liability coverage per occurrence must be a minimum of $2,000,000 and
aggregate of $4,000,000. The county shall be named as an additional loss-payee
on said policy. Any additional insurance policy requirements over and beyond
aforementioned limits will be determined by the county on a case-by-case basis.
Proof of such insurance coverage shall be submitted at least 14 days prior to
the date of the event to RecTeam@daviecountvnc.gov and approved by DCRP prior
to issuance of a special event permit.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2021)
§ 116.08 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE SERVICE PLAN.
   The renter(s) shall provide DCRP, by the date specified in the special event
permit, with an Alcoholic Beverage Service Plan, which includes a map showing
the designated service area(s) within the event area(s) and a list of dates and
times alcoholic beverages will be served and/or sold. The Alcoholic Beverage
Service Plan must include all of the following in order to be considered for a
special event permit.
   (A)   Security. The renter(s) shall require uniformed law enforcement
officers monitor the entrances and exits of the designated service area(s) to
ensure alcoholic beverages are not brought into or taken out of the event area
(s). Law enforcement officers shall be authorized to prohibit the service and/
or sale of alcoholic beverages to any person who appears intoxicated. Such
person(s) may also be ordered by law enforcement officers to immediately leave
the premises. Security requirements will be determined by law enforcement and
will be based on the location, size and type of event.
   (B)   Training. Vendors issued a State of North Carolina license to serve
and/or sell alcoholic beverages shall ensure staff are properly trained to
serve and/or sell alcoholic beverages in accordance with the all present North
Carolina laws and statutes.
   (C)   Servers. Vendor staff serving and/or selling alcoholic beverages shall
not consume alcoholic beverages immediately before, during, or following the
event. Any vendor staff violating this policy shall be immediately dismissed by
the DCRP Director or his or her designee and/or the renter(s) and immediately
shall be ordered to leave the premises by law enforcement officers on duty.
Vendor staff shall be responsible, at the time an alcoholic beverage is
requested, for verifying the person making the request is of legal drinking age
as required by law. If, for any reason, picture identification evidencing proof
of legal drinking age cannot be provided upon request, alcoholic beverage
service shall be denied. Vendor staff shall refuse to serve an alcoholic
beverage to any person who appears intoxicated.
   (D)   Signage. Signs shall be posted at the event notifying the public that
all persons must be of legal drinking age to purchase and/or consume alcoholic
beverages at the event. Signs shall be posted notifying the public that the
service of alcoholic beverages is limited to two drinks per person per
transaction, and that vendor staff reserve the right to refuse to serve any
person who appears intoxicated. Designated service area(s) signage should state
all possession and consumption must take place within the designated area(s)
and no possession or consumption by an individual under the age of 21 is
permitted.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2021)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Massage of certain body parts for hire prohibited
   
130.02   [Reserved]
   
130.03   County Seal
§ 130.01 MASSAGE OF CERTAIN BODY PARTS FOR HIRE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to massage or to offer to massage
the private parts of another for hire.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MASSAGE. The manipulation of body muscle or tissue by rubbing, stroking,
kneading, or tapping, by hand or mechanical device.
      PRIVATE PARTS. The penis, scrotum, mons veneris, vulva, or vaginal area.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to licensed medical
practitioners, osteopaths, or chiropractors, or persons operating at their
discretion, in connection with the practice of medicine, chiropractic, or
osteopathy.
(1996 Code, § 130.01) (Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Massage businesses, see
Chapter 112
§ 130.02 [RESERVED].
§ 130.03 COUNTY SEAL.
   (A)   The county, by resolution adopted August 7, 2017 and by resolution
adopted August 3,2020, has adopted County Seals as seen below.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, corporation, business or any
other entity to use the County Seals for any purpose without the written prior
consent of the County Manager.
   (C)   A violation of this section shall subject the violator to any and all
civil actions available to the county, including but not limited to injunctive
relief, monetary damages, and a civil penalty of not to exceed $50, pursuant to
G.S. § 153A-123(c). Further, a violation of this section shall be considered a
Class 3 criminal misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. §§ 14-4 and 15A-123(b), subject
to a maximum fine of $500.
   (D)    Seal adopted.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fe365c3d262a643edc888ba7db71480feb568fb6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1994.png]
 
   (E)    Further, a violation of the above section of this code shall be a
violation of G.S. § 14-4 and such violation shall be classified as a Class 3
misdemeanor with a maximum fine of up to $450, except that any violations of §§
150.999,
154.99,
155.999, and
156.999 shall not be a violation of G.S. § 14-4 and shall not be considered a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 8-7-2017; Ord. passed 8-3-2020)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   WATERSHED PROTECTION
      
152.   LAND FARMING
      
153.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
154.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
155.   ZONING CODE
      
156.   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES SITING
      
157.   VOLUNTARY AND ENHANCED VOLUNTARY AGRICULTURAL DISTRICTS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.001   Scope
   
150.002   State Building Code adopted
   
150.003   Compliance with codes
   
150.004   Copies of codes filed with Building Inspector
   
150.005   Exemptions
Inspection Division
   
150.020   Organization of Department
   
150.021   General duties of Department and Inspectors
   
150.022   Conflicts of interest
   
150.023   Reports and records
   
150.024   Inspection procedure
   
150.025   Oversight not to legalize violation
   
150.026   Powers of inspection officials
Permits
   
150.040   Registration of contractors
   
150.041   Permits required
   
150.042   Issuance of building permits to delinquent taxpayers prohibited
   
150.043   Application for permit
   
150.044   Plans and specifications
   
150.045   Limitations on issuance of permits
   
150.046   Issuance of permit
   
150.047   Revocation of permits
   
150.048   Time limitations of validity of permits
   
150.049   Changes in work
   
150.050   Permit fees calculation
Fees
   
150.065   Existing and new structures
   
150.066   Re-inspection for noncompliance
Administration and Enforcement
   
150.080   Enforcement of housing code
   
150.081   Enforcement of zoning
   
150.082   Equitable enforcement
   
150.083   Enforcement of insulation regulations
 
   
150.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.001 SCOPE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to create a Building Inspection
Department for the county as authorized and pursuant to the authority vested by
G.S. Chapter 153A, Article 18, Part 4, as amended, and the provisions thereof
shall be fully applicable in the enforcement of this chapter.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter and the regulatory codes herein adopted
shall apply to the following:
      (1)   The location, design, materials, equipment, construction,
reconstruction, alteration, repair, maintenance, moving, demolition, removal,
use, and occupancy of every building or structure or any appurtenances
connected or attached to such building or structure;
      (2)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use, and
maintenance of plumbing systems consisting of house sewers, building drains,
waste and vent systems, hot and cold water supply systems, and all
appurtenances thereof;
      (3)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use, and
maintenance of mechanical systems consisting of heating, air conditioning,
ventilating, and refrigeration systems, fuel burning equipment, and
appurtenances thereof; and
      (4)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use, and
maintenance of electrical systems and appurtenances thereof.
(1996 Code, § 150.01) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 150.002 STATE BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   The North Carolina State Building Code, including all related provisions
governing buildings, plumbing, heating, air conditioning and ventilation, and
electrical, as adopted by the Building Code Council, and as presently or
hereafter amended, is adopted by reference as though fully set forth herein.
(1996 Code, § 150.02) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 150.003 COMPLIANCE WITH CODES.
   (A)   All buildings or structures which are hereafter constructed,
reconstructed, erected, altered, extended, enlarged, repaired, demolished, or
moved shall conform to the requirements, minimum standards, and other
provisions of the North Carolina State Building Code, Volume I, General
Construction;
   (B)   Every building or structure intended for human habitation, occupancy,
or use shall have plumbing systems, or plumbing fixtures installed,
constructed, altered, extended, repaired, or reconstructed in conformance with
the minimum standards, requirements, and other provisions of the State Plumbing
Code (North Carolina State Building Code, Volume II, Plumbing). All plumbing
systems shall be connected to a sanitary sewer system or other disposal system
that has been approved by the County Health Department;
   (C)   All mechanical systems consisting of heating, air conditioning,
ventilating and refrigeration systems, fuel burning equipment, and
appurtenances shall be installed, erected, altered, repaired, used, and
maintained in accordance with the minimum standards, requirements, and other
provisions of the State Heating, Air Conditioning and Ventilation Code (North
Carolina State Building Code, Volume III, Heating, Air Conditioning and
Ventilation); and
   (D)   All electrical wiring, installations, and appurtenances shall be
erected, altered, repaired, used, and maintained in accordance with the minimum
standards, requirements, and other provisions of the State Electrical Code
(North Carolina State Building Code, Volume IV, Electrical).
(1996 Code, § 150.03) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 150.004 COPIES OF CODES FILED WITH BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   An official copy of each regulatory code adopted herein, and official copies
of all amendments thereto, shall be kept on file in the office of the County
Building Inspector. Such copies shall be the official copies of the codes and
amendments.
(1996 Code, § 150.04) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 150.005 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to farm use buildings located
on a bona fide farm. When questions arise as to whether or not certain lands
constitute bona fide farming, the Inspections Supervisor shall consult with the
County Extension Service and the Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation
and Conservation Service (ASCS). Residences on bona fide farms shall not be
construed to be in the category of farm use buildings.
(1996 Code, § 150.05) (Ord. passed - -)
INSPECTION DIVISION
§ 150.020 ORGANIZATION OF DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   There is created an Inspection Department for the county under the
authority of the County Manager.
   (B)   The Inspection Department shall consist of a Building Inspector, a
Plumbing-Heating-Air Conditioning-Energy Inspector, an Electrical Inspector,
and/or other inspectors or deputy or assistant inspectors as may be authorized
by the Board of County Commissioners. The County Manager may, at his or her
discretion, designate one of the inspectors to act as Inspections Supervisor
and be responsible to the County Manager for the immediate supervision of the
Department. A single individual may hold more than one position, provided
properly qualified and otherwise permitted by law.
(1996 Code, § 150.20) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 150.021 GENERAL DUTIES OF DEPARTMENT AND INSPECTORS.
   It shall be the duty of the Inspection Department to enforce all of the
provisions of this chapter and the regulatory codes herein adopted, and to make
all inspections necessary to determine whether or not the provisions of this
chapter and such codes are met in accordance with the provisions of G.S. §
153A-352.
(1996 Code, § 150.21) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 150.022 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   No officer or employee of the Inspection Department shall be financially
interested in the furnishing of labor, material, or appliances for the
construction, alteration, or maintenance of a building or any part thereof, or
in the making of plans or specifications therefor, unless he or she is the
owner of such building. No officer or employee of the Inspection Department
shall engage in any work which is inconsistent with his or her duties or with
the interests of the county.
(1996 Code, § 150.22) (Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.023 REPORTS AND RECORDS.
   The Inspection Department, and each Inspector, shall keep complete, accurate
records in convenient form of all applications received, permits issued,
inspections, and reinspections made, and all other work and activities of the
Inspection Department. Periodic reports shall be submitted to the County
Manager and Board of County Commissioners, and to other agencies, as required.
(1996 Code, § 150.23) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 150.024 INSPECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Inspections.
      (1)   The Inspection Department shall inspect all buildings and
structures and work therein for which a permit of any kind has been issued as
often as necessary in order to determine whether the work complies with this
chapter and the appropriate codes. When deemed necessary by the appropriate
inspector, materials and assemblies may be inspected at the point of
manufacture or fabrication, or inspections may be made by approved and
recognized inspection organizations, provided that no approval shall be based
upon reports of such organizations unless the same are in writing and certified
by a responsible officer of such organization.
      (2)   All holders of permits, or their agents, shall notify the
Inspection Department and the appropriate inspector at each of the following
stages of construction so that approval may be given before work is continued:
         (a)   Foundation inspection. To be made after trenches are excavated
and the necessary reinforcement and forms are in place, and before any concrete
is placed. Drilled footings, piles, and similar types of foundations shall be
inspected as installed;
         (b)   Framing inspection. To be made after all structural framing is
in place and all rough-in of plumbing and electrical and heating has been
installed, after all fire blocking, chimneys, bracing, and vents are installed,
but before any of the structure is enclosed or covered. Poured-in-place
concrete structural elements shall be inspected before each pour of any
structural member;
         (c)   Fireproofing inspection. To be made after all areas required to
be protected by fireproofing are lathed, but before the plastering or other
fireproofing is applied;
         (d)   Final inspection. To be made after the building or structure has
all doors hung, fixtures set, and ready for occupancy, but before the building
is occupied; and
         (e)   Additional inspections. In addition to the inspections provided
for in divisions (A)(2)(a) through (d) above, inspectors shall make such
additional inspections from time to time as may be necessary to satisfy them
that the work is being done according to the provisions of all applicable laws
and regulations, including this chapter.
   (B)   Call for inspection. Requests for inspections may be made to the
office of the Inspection Department or to the appropriate inspector. The
Inspection Department shall make inspections as soon as practicable after
request is made therefor, provided such work is ready for inspection at the
time the request is made. Reinspections may be made at the convenience of the
inspector. No work shall be inspected until it is in proper and completed
condition ready for inspection. All work which has been concealed before the
inspection and approval shall be uncovered at the request of the inspector and
placed in condition for proper inspection. Approval or rejection of the work
shall be furnished by the appropriate inspector in the form of a notice posted
on the building or given to the permit holder or his or her agent. Failure to
call for inspections or proceeding without approval at each stage of
construction shall be deemed a violation of this chapter.
   (C)   Street or alley lines. Where the applicant for a permit proposes to
erect any building or structure on the line of any street or alley or other
public place, he or she shall secure a survey of the line of such street,
alley, or other public place, adjacent to the property upon which such building
or structure is to be erected before proceeding with construction of such
building or structure. It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector to see
that the building does not encroach upon such street, alley, or public place.
   (D)   Certificate of occupancy. No new building or part thereof shall be
occupied, and no addition or enlargement of any existing building shall be
occupied, and no existing building after being altered or moved shall be
occupied, and no change of occupancy shall be made in any existing building or
part thereof, until the Inspection Department has issued a certificate of
occupancy therefor. A temporary certificate of occupancy may be issued for a
portion or portions of a building which may safely be occupied prior to final
completion and occupancy of the entire building. Application for a certificate
of occupancy may be made by the owner or his or her agent after all final
inspections have been made for new buildings, or, in the case of existing
buildings, after supplying the information and data necessary to determine
compliance with this chapter, the appropriate regulatory codes, and the Zoning
Chapter for the occupancy intended. The Inspection Department shall issue a
certificate of occupancy when, after examination and inspection, it is found
that the building in all respects conforms to the provisions of this chapter,
the regulatory codes, and the Zoning Chapter for the occupancy intended.
(1996 Code, § 150.24) (Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.025 OVERSIGHT NOT TO LEGALIZE VIOLATION.
   No oversight or dereliction of duty on the part of any inspector or other
official or employee of the Inspection Department shall be deemed to legalize
the violation of any provision of this chapter or any provision of any
regulatory code herein adopted.
(1996 Code, § 150.25) (Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.026 POWERS OF INSPECTION OFFICIALS.
   (A)   Authority. Inspectors are authorized, empowered, and directed to
enforce all the provisions of this chapter and the regulatory codes applicable
as herein provided.
   (B)   Right of entry. Inspectors shall have the right of entry on any
premises within the jurisdiction of the regulatory codes herein adopted at
reasonable hours for the purpose of inspection or enforcement of the
requirements of this chapter and the regulatory codes, upon presentation of
proper credentials.
   (C)   Stop orders. Whenever any building or structure or part thereof is
being demolished, constructed, reconstructed, altered, or repaired in a
hazardous manner, or in violation of any provision of this chapter or any other
county ordinance, or in violation of any provision of any regulatory code
herein adopted, or in violation of the terms of the permit or permits issued
therefor, or in such manner as to endanger life or property, the appropriate
inspector may order such work to be immediately stopped. Such order shall be in
writing to the owner of the property or to his or her agent, or to the person
doing the work, and shall state the reasons therefor and the conditions under
which the work may be resumed.
(1996 Code, § 150.26) (Ord. passed - -)
PERMITS
§ 150.040 REGISTRATION OF CONTRACTORS.
   Every person carrying on the business of building contractor, plumbing
contractor, heating contractor, air conditioning contractor, or electrical
contractor within the county shall be registered at the office of the
Inspection Department giving name, place of business, and state license number
if required to be licensed by state law and this chapter.
(1996 Code, § 150.40) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 150.041 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Building permit. No person shall commence or proceed with the
construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair, removal, or demolition of any
building or structure, or any part thereof, without a written permit from the
Inspection Department; provided, however, that no building permit shall be
required for work the total cost of which does not exceed $1,000 and which does
not involve any change of the structural parts of the stairways, elevators,
fire escapes, or other means of egress of the buildings or the structure in
question. The County Board of Health approval is required where the sewage
system cannot be connected to a city or other approved sewage treatment system.
   (B)   Plumbing permit. No person shall commence or proceed with the
installation, extension, or general repair of any plumbing system without a
written permit therefor from the Inspection Department; provided, however, no
permit shall be required for minor repairs or replacements on the house side of
a trap to an installed system of plumbing if such repairs do not disrupt the
original water supply or the waste or ventilating systems. County Board of
Health approval is required for property that cannot be connected to a city or
other approved sewage treatment system.
   (C)   Heating, air conditioning permit. No person shall commence or proceed
with the installation, extension, alteration, or general repair of any
electrical wiring, devices, appliances, or equipment without a written permit
therefor from the Inspection Department; provided, however, that no permit
shall be required for minor repair work such as the replacement of lamps or the
connection of portable devices to suitable receptacles which have been
permanently installed; provided, further, no permit shall be required for the
installation, alteration, or repair of the electrical wiring, devices,
appliances, and equipment installed by, or for, an electrical public utility
corporation for the use of such corporation in the generation, transmission,
distribution, or metering of electrical energy, or for the use of such
corporation in the operation of signals or the transmission of intelligence.
(1996 Code, § 150.41) (Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.042 ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMITS TO DELINQUENT TAXPAYERS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BUILDING PERMIT. Building permits as defined by G.S. § 153A-349.51.
      DELINQUENT PROPERTY TAXES. All property taxes delinquent prior to, on,
and after the effective date of this chapter which have not been paid.
      INSPECTION DEPARTMENT. The County Inspection Department.
      PERSON or PERSONS. Includes every person or other entity in whose name
property is lawfully held situated in the county and in whose name such
property is listed or required to be listed for ad valorem tax purposes.
      PROPERTY. Any property listed or required to be listed for ad valorem tax
purposes situated wholly or in part in the county, the tax situs for which is
the county.
      TAX ADMINISTRATION OFFICE and TAX ADMINISTRATOR. The County Tax
Administration Office and the County Tax Administrator.
   (B)   A building permit or permits shall not be issued under G.S. § 153A-357
(a)(1) to any person or persons who owe(s) delinquent property taxes on
property owned by the person or persons situated in the county.
   (C)   Any person or persons applying for a building permit shall first apply
to the Tax Administration Office for certification by the Tax Administrator
that such person or persons owes no delinquent property taxes. Application
shall be made upon a form to be prepared by the Tax Administrator and shall
show the applicant name, address, location, and tax map number of the proposed
construction site, and shall contain a statement certifying that the applicant
owes no delinquent taxes on any property in the county. Upon receipt of such
application, the County Tax Administrator shall determine whether in fact any
such taxes are owed and delinquent and if not shall certify to this effect on a
form prepared by the Tax Administrator directed to the Inspection Department.
In the event of a determination that any taxes are owed and delinquent,
certification shall be refused.
   (D)   In the event the Tax Administrator shall refuse to issue to any person
or persons the certificate provided for in division (C) above, the applicant
may within three days thereof request a review and redetermination and the Tax
Administrator shall within three days of receiving such request in writing
notify the applicant of the grounds on which refusal is based, which
notification shall be mailed to the applicant by certified mail return receipt
to the address set forth on the application.
(1996 Code, § 150.42) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 150.043 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Written application shall be made for all permits required by this
chapter, and shall be made on forms provided by, and completed by, the
Inspection Department.
   (B)   Such application shall be made by the owner of the building or
structure affected, or by his or her authorized agent or representative, and,
in addition to such other information as may be required by the appropriate
inspector to enable him or her to determine whether the permit applied for
should be issued, shall show the following:
      (1)   Name, residence, and business of owner;
      (2)   Name, residence, and business of authorized agent or representative
if any; and
      (3)   Name and address of the contractor, if any, together with evidence
that he or she has obtained a certificate from the appropriate state licensing
board for such contractors, if such be required for the work involved in the
permit for which application is made.
(1996 Code, § 150.43) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 150.044 PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   Detailed plans and specifications shall accompany each application for
permit for any building or structure where plans and specifications are deemed
necessary by the appropriate inspector in order for him or her to determine
whether the proposed work complies with the appropriate regulatory codes. Plans
shall be drawn to scale with sufficient clarity to indicate the nature and
extent of the work proposed, and will conform to the provisions of this chapter
and the appropriate regulatory codes. Where plans and specifications are
required, a copy of the same shall be kept at the work until all authorized
operations have been completed and approved by the appropriate inspector.
(1996 Code, § 150.44) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 150.045 LIMITATIONS ON ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   (A)   No building permit shall be issued for any building or structure the
estimated total cost of which is more than $50,000 unless the work is to be
performed by a licensed general contractor. A permit may, however, be issued to
a person building his or her own primary residence, providing that any and all
subcontractors be licensed.
   (B)   No building permit shall be issued for any building or structure,
other than a one- or two-family dwelling, the estimated total cost of which is
more than $75,000, unless the plans bear the seal of a registered architect or
a registered engineer.
   (C)   Where any provision of the General Statutes or any ordinance requires
that work be done by a licensed specialty contractor of any kind, no permit for
such work shall be issued unless it is to be performed by such licensed
specialty contractor.
   (D)   Where detailed plans and specifications are required under this
chapter, no building permit shall be issued unless such plans and
specifications have been provided.
(1996 Code, § 150.45) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 150.046 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   When proper application for a permit has been made, and the appropriate
inspector is satisfied that the application and the proposed work comply with
the provisions of this chapter and the appropriate regulatory codes, he or she
shall issue such permit, upon payment in advance of the proper fee or fees as
hereinafter provided in §
150.050.
(1996 Code, § 150.46) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 150.047 REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   The appropriate inspector may revoke and require the return of any permit by
notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason for such revocation.
Permits shall be revoked for any material departure from the approved
application, plans or specifications; for refusal or failure to comply with
proper orders of the inspector; for refusal or failure to comply with the
requirements of this chapter and the appropriate regulatory codes; or the false
statements or misrepresentations made in securing such permit.
(1996 Code, § 150.47) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 150.048 TIME LIMITATIONS OF VALIDITY OF PERMITS.
   All permits issued under this chapter shall expire by limitation six months
after the date of issuance if the work authorized by the permit has not been
commenced. If after commencement the work is discontinued for a period of 12
months, the permit therefor shall immediately expire. No work authorized by any
permit which has expired shall hereafter be performed until a new permit
therefor has been secured.
(1996 Code, § 150.48) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 150.049 CHANGES IN WORK.
   After a permit has been issued, changes or deviations from the terms of the
application and permit, or changes or deviations from the plans or
specifications involving any work under the jurisdiction of this chapter, or of
any regulatory code adopted herein, shall not be made until specific written
approval of such changes or deviations has been obtained from the Inspection
Department.
(1996 Code, § 150.49) (Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.050 PERMIT FEES CALCULATION.
   Fees for permits shall be based upon the total estimated cost of the
proposed work, including all subcontractors if any, but in no case shall the
total estimated cost be less than the market value of similar proposed work
complying with the appropriate regulatory codes. Plans shall be drawn to scale
with sufficient clarity to indicate the nature and extent of the work proposed,
and will conform to the provisions of this chapter and the appropriate
regulatory codes. Where plans and specifications are required, a copy of the
same shall be kept at the work until all authorized operations have been
completed and approved by the appropriate inspector.
(1996 Code, § 150.50) (Ord. passed - -)
FEES
§ 150.065 EXISTING AND NEW STRUCTURES.
Editor’s note:  
   All rates and fees have been removed from this code of ordinances. A
reasonable fee and rate, as determined from time to time by the Board of
Commissioners, shall be collected for such services.
(1996 Code, § 150.60) (Res. passed - -)
§ 150.066 RE-INSPECTION FOR NONCOMPLIANCE.
   First re-inspection for noncompliance: no charge.
(1996 Code, § 150.62) (Ord. passed - -)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 150.080 ENFORCEMENT OF HOUSING CODE.
   The Inspection Department shall be responsible for the enforcement of any
ordinances or codes adopted by the Board of County Commissioners relating to
the repair, closing, and demolition of dwellings unfit for human habitation,
pursuant to G.S. Chapter 160A, Article 19, Part 6.
(1996 Code, § 150.80) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 150.081 ENFORCEMENT OF ZONING.
   (A)   No permit for alteration, repair, or construction of any building or
structure shall be issued unless the plans and specifications show that the
building or structure, and its proposed use, will be in compliance with
applicable provisions of the Zoning Chapter.
   (B)   No permit for alteration, repair, or construction of any building or
structure shall be issued until a zoning permit has first been issued by the
appropriate official charged with enforcement of the Zoning Chapter.
(1996 Code, § 150.81) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 150.082 EQUITABLE ENFORCEMENT.
   Whenever a violation is denominated a misdemeanor under the provisions of
this chapter, the county, either in addition to or in lieu of other remedies,
may initiate appropriate action or proceedings to prevent, restrain, correct,
or abate the violation or to prevent the occupancy of the building involved.
(1996 Code, § 150.82) (Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.083 ENFORCEMENT OF INSULATION REGULATIONS.
   In addition to the duties set out herein, the Inspection Department shall
have the duty of administering and enforcing the provisions of the county
insulation regulations as set forth in the county code.
(1996 Code, § 150.83) (Ord. passed - -)
Cross-reference:
   Insulation contractors, see
Chapter 111
§ 150.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   A penalty of no more than 10% of the cost of the building permit shall
be assessed upon failure to obtain a building permit; provided, however, that
such remedy shall be in addition to other remedies or penalties herein
provided.
   (B)   If any person shall violate this chapter or any of the provisions
hereof, such person shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not
more than $50 or imprisoned for not more than 30 days as by law provided.
   (C)   Further, a violation of the above section of this code shall be a
violation of G.S. § 14-4 and such violation shall be classified as a Class 3
misdemeanor with a maximum fine of up to $450, except that any violations of §§
150.999,
154.99,
155.999, and
156.999 shall not be a violation of G.S. § 14-4 and shall not be considered a
misdemeanor.
(1996 Code, § 150.99) (Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 151: WATERSHED PROTECTION
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Definitions
   
151.02   Establishment of watershed overlay districts
   
151.03   Intent
Watershed Areas
   
151.15   Critical area (WS-III-CA); Hunting Creek Watershed
   
151.16   Balance of watershed (WS-III-BW); Hunting Creek Watershed
   
151.17   Critical area (WS-IV-CA); Yadkin River Watershed
   
151.18   Protected area (WS-IV-PA); Yadkin River Watershed
   
151.19   Stream buffer areas required
   
151.20   Cluster development
Administration and Enforcement
   
151.35   Applicability
   
151.36   Exceptions and applicability
   
151.37   Administration
Cross-reference:
   Provisions relating to the Board of Adjustment and administration and
enforcement of zoning regulations, see §§
155.230 through
155.237 and
155.280 through
155.286
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL USE OF WATER. The use of waters for stock watering, irrigation,
and other farm purposes.
   ANIMAL UNITS. A unit of measurement developed by the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency that is used to compare different types of animal operations.
One hundred ANIMAL UNITS equals 70 dairy cows, 100 beef cattle, 250 hogs, 50
horses, 1,000 sheep, 5,500 turkeys, 3,000 chickens with liquid manure systems,
10,000 chickens with continuous overflow waterers, or 500 ducks.
   BALANCE OF WATERSHED. The area adjoining and upstream of the critical area
in the WS-II or WS-III watersheds.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs). A structural or nonstructural management-
based practice used singularly or in combination to reduce nonpoint source
inputs to receiving waters in order to achieve water quality protection goals.
   BUILT-UPON AREA (IMPERVIOUS AREA). Includes the portion of a development
project that is covered by impervious or partially impervious cover including
buildings, pavement, gravel areas (e.g., roads, parking lots, paths),
recreation facilities (for example, tennis courts), and the like. (Note: wooden
slatted decks and the water area of a swimming pool are considered pervious.)
   CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT. The grouping of buildings in order to conserve land
resources and provide for innovation in the design of the project including
minimizing stormwater runoff impacts. This term includes nonresidential
development as well as single-family residential and multi-family developments.
For the purpose of this chapter, planned unit development and mixed use
development are considered as CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT.
   CRITICAL AREA. The area adjacent to a water supply intake or reservoir where
risk associated with pollution is greater than from the remaining portions of
the watershed. The CRITICAL AREA is defined as extending either one-half mile
from the normal pool elevation of the reservoir in which the intake is located
or to the ridge line of the watershed (whichever comes first); or one-half mile
upstream from the intake located directly in the stream or river (run-of-the-
river), or the ridge line of the watershed (whichever comes first). Local
governments may extend the CRITICAL AREA as needed. Major landmarks such as
highways or property lines may be used to delineate the outer boundary of the
CRITICAL AREA if these landmarks are immediately adjacent to the appropriate
outer boundary of one-half mile.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any land-disturbing activity which adds to the amount of
impervious or partially impervious cover on a land area, or which otherwise
decreases the infiltration of precipitation into the soil.
   DISCHARGING LANDFILL. A facility with liners, monitoring equipment, and
other measures to detect and/or prevent leachate from entering the environment,
and in which the leachate is treated on-site and discharged to a receiving
stream.
   EXISTING DEVELOPMENT. Those projects that are built or those projects that
at a minimum have established a vested right under state zoning law as of the
effective date of this chapter.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL. Any substance listed as such in: SARA (Superfund
Amendments and Reauthorization Act § 302, Extremely Hazardous Substances, being
42 U.S.C. § 11002), CERCLA (Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation
and Liability Act of 1980, Hazardous Substances, being 42 U.S.C. Part 9601
(14)), or § 311 of CWA (Clean Water Act, Oil and Hazardous Substances, being 33
U.S.C. Part 1321).
   INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT. Any nonresidential development that requires an
NPDES (national pollutant discharge elimination system) permit for an
industrial discharge and/or requires the use or storage of any hazardous
material for the purpose of manufacturing, assembling, finishing, cleaning, or
developing any product or commodity.
   LANDFILL. A facility for the disposal of solid waste on land in a sanitary
manner in accordance with G.S. Chapter 130A, Article 9. For the purpose of this
chapter, this term does not include composting facilities.
   NONRESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT. All development other than residential
development, agriculture, and silviculture.
   PROTECTED AREA. The area adjoining and upstream of the critical area in a
WS-IV watershed. The boundaries are defined as ten miles upstream and draining
to the intake located directly in the stream or river.
   RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT. Buildings for residence such as attached and
detached single-family dwellings, apartment complexes, condominiums,
townhouses, cottages, and the like, and their associated outbuildings such as
garages, storage buildings, gazebos, and the like, and customary home
occupations.
   RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT, SINGLE-FAMILY. Any development where:
      (1)   No building contains more than one dwelling unit;
      (2)   Every dwelling unit is on a separate lot; and
      (3)   Where no lot contains more than one dwelling unit.
   STREAM BUFFER. An area of natural or planted perennial vegetation through
which stormwater runoff flows in a diffuse manner so that the runoff does not
become channelized and which provides for infiltration of the runoff and
filtering of pollutants. The BUFFER is measured landward from the normal pool
elevation of impounded structures and from the bank of each side of streams or
rivers.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, including but not limited to
buildings, which requires location on the land or attachment to something
having permanent location on the land.
   TOXIC SUBSTANCE. Any substance or combination of substances (including
disease causing agents), which after discharge and upon exposure, ingestion,
inhalation, or assimilation into any organism, either directly from the
environment or indirectly by ingestion through food chains, has the potential
to cause death, disease, behavioral abnormalities, cancer, genetic mutations,
physiological malfunctions (including malfunctions or suppression in
reproduction or growth) or physical deformities in such organisms or their off-
spring or other adverse health effects.
   VARIANCE, MAJOR WATERSHED. A major variance would completely eliminate a
management requirement, or reduce a management requirement by more than 10%. A
major variance shall be reviewed by the County Board of Adjustment and by the
State Environmental Management Commission.
   VARIANCE, MINOR WATERSHED. Any reduction not considered a major one. It
shall be reviewed and approved by the County Board of Adjustment as specified
in §
155.260.
   WATER DEPENDENT STRUCTURE. Any structure for which the use requires a access
to, or proximity to, or located within, surface waters to fulfill its basic
purpose, such as boat ramps, boat houses, docks, and bulkheads. Ancillary
facilities such as restaurants, outlets for boat supplies, parking lots, and
commercial boat storage areas are not WATER DEPENDENT STRUCTURES.
   WATERSHED. The entire land area contributing surface drainage to a specific
point (for example, the water supply intake.)
(1996 Code, § 151.01) (Ord. passed 12-20-1993; Ord. passed 10-21-1997)
§ 151.02 ESTABLISHMENT OF WATERSHED OVERLAY DISTRICTS.
   Within the county planning jurisdiction the following watershed overlay
districts shall be established:
   (A)   Hunting Creek WS-III-CA (Critical Area);
   (B)   Hunting Creek WS-III-BW (Balance of Watershed);
   (C)   Yadkin River WS-IV-CA (Critical Area): indicates critical areas for
the Cooleemee, Salisbury, Winston-Salem, Davidson, and Davie water supply
intakes on the Yadkin or South Yadkin River; and
   (D)   Yadkin River WS-IV-PA (Protected Area): indicates the protected area
for the same intakes listed in division (C) above.
(1996 Code, § 151.02) (Ord. passed 12-20-1993; Ord. passed 10-21-1997)
§ 151.03 INTENT.
   The watershed overlay districts are established to impose higher development
standards around or upstream from drinking water supplies than generally
imposed on land uses in the planning area. The intent is to maintain current
development patterns in order to prevent the risks of pollution from more
intense land uses (urbanization). The classifications of watersheds are based
on current or expected land development patterns: a WS-III will have a low-to-
moderate intensity pattern; and a WS-IV will have a moderate to high land-use
intensity pattern. Because the risk of pollution is directly related to the
proximity to the water supply, development standards are higher in the critical
area than in the balance of the watershed.
(1996 Code, § 151.03) (Ord. passed 12-20-1993; Ord. passed 10-21-1997)
WATERSHED AREAS
§ 151.15 CRITICAL AREA (WS-III-CA); HUNTING CREEK WATERSHED.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   All uses allowed in the underlying zoning districts where the
watershed is located, unless specially excluded in division (B) below.
      (2)   Agriculture subject to the provisions of the Food Security Act of
1985 and the Food, Agriculture, Conservation and Trade Act of 1990.
Agricultural activities conducted after January 1, 1993 shall maintain a
minimum ten-foot vegetative buffer, or equivalent control as determined by the
Soil and Water Conservation Commission, along all perennial waters indicated on
the most recent versions of USGS 1:24,000 (7.5 minutes) scale topographic maps
or as determined by local government studies. Animal operations greater than
100 animal units shall employ BMPs by July 1, 1994 recommended by the Soil and
Water Conservation Commission.
      (3)   Silviculture, using best management practices required to implement
the provisions of the Forest Practices Guidelines Related to Water Quality (15A
NCAC 01l.0101 through 15A 01l.0209).
   (B)   Prohibited uses. The Water Supply Watershed Protection Rules
specifically exclude the following uses in designated drinking water supply
watersheds:
      (1)   Landfills;
      (2)   Sites for application of sludge/residuals or petroleum contaminated
soils; and
      (3)   The storage of toxic and hazardous materials unless a spill
containment plan is implemented.
   (C)   Density and built-upon limits.
      (1)   Single-family residential development shall not exceed one dwelling
unit per acre on a project-by-project basis. No residential lot shall be less
than one acre; and
      (2)   All other residential and nonresidential development shall not
exceed 12% built-upon area on a project-by-project basis. For the purpose of
calculating built-upon area, the total project area shall include total acreage
in the tract on which the project is to be developed.
(1996 Code, § 151.22) (Ord. passed 12-20-1993) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.16 BALANCE OF WATERSHED (WS-III-BW); HUNTING CREEK WATERSHED.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   All uses allowed in the underlying zoning districts where the
watershed is located, unless specially excluded in division (B) below.
      (2)   Agriculture, subject to the provisions of the Food Security Act of
1985, 16 U.S.C. §§ 3801 et seq.
      (3)   Silviculture, using best management practices required to implement
the provisions of the Forest Practices Guidelines Related to Water Quality (15A
NCAC 01l.0101 through 15A 01l.0209).
   (B)   Prohibited uses. The Water Supply Watershed Protection Rules
specifically exclude the following uses in designated drinking water supply
watersheds:
      (1)   Discharging landfills; and
      (2)   The storage of toxic or hazardous materials unless a spill
containment plan is implemented.
   (C)   Density and built-upon limits.
      (1)   Single-family residential development shall not exceed two dwelling
unit per acre, as defined on a project-by-project basis. No residential lot
shall be less than one-half acre.
      (2)   All other residential and nonresidential development shall not
exceed 24% built-upon area on a project-by-project basis except that up to 10%
of the balance of the watershed may be developed to 70% built-upon area on a
project-by-project basis. This allocation shall be handled as a special use
district zoning permit issued by the Board of Commissioners. In order for the
Board of Commissioners to approve a 10/70 request, the following criteria shall
be met by the applicant:
         (a)   The property under consideration shall be zoned for industrial
or commercial uses. In the event the proposed development is for public or
nonprofit development, educational buildings or facilities, or otherwise serves
a significant economic development purpose for the county, the property may be
zoned residentially;
         (b)   The property under consideration shall be served by public water
and public sewer to accommodate a densely developed site. In the case where
public sewer is not accessible, on-site sewage disposal shall be approved by
the County Health Department or the state, whichever applies;
         (c)   The development proposed shall begin construction within 12
calendar months of the approval of the special use permit. In the event that
construction has not commenced within 12 months, the applicant may apply for 1
six-month time extension. This extension may be granted by the Board of
Commissioners only upon sufficient information, presented by the applicant,
that practicable difficulties beyond the control of the applicant have resulted
in a delay in the start of construction;
         (d)   A site plan shall be submitted showing:
            1.   The location of all buildings and uses on the property;
            2.   The location, extent, and types of supporting facilities such
as parking lots, driveways, and access streets;
            3.   The timing of development;
            4.   The location, extent, and details of landscaped and buffer
areas;
            5.   The positioning of other special purpose areas on the tract;
and
            6.   The petitioners shall incorporate in any future conveyance of
the property and file on the public record, a detailed description of the
special use and all conditions imposed.
         (e)   In the event of a significant change from the approved use or
site plan, the special use permit shall be invalid and the petitioner shall re-
apply to the Board of Commissioners.
   (D)   Total project area. For purposes of calculating built-upon area, total
project area shall include total acreage in the tract on which the project is
to be developed.
(1996 Code, § 151.22.1) (Ord. passed 12-20-1993; Ord. passed 1-20-1998; Ord.
passed 10-18-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.17 CRITICAL AREA (WS-IV-CA); YADKIN RIVER WATERSHED.
   (A)   Application. Only new development activities that require an erosion/
sedimentation control plan under state law or approved local program are
required to meet the provisions of these watershed regulations when located in
a WS-IV watershed.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   All uses allowed in the underlying zoning districts where the
watershed is located, unless specially excluded in division (C) below;
      (2)   Agriculture subject to the provisions of the Food Security Act of
1985, 16 U.S.C. §§ 3801 et seq.. Agricultural activities conducted after
January 1, 1993 shall maintain a minimum ten-foot vegetative buffer, or
equivalent control as determined by the Soil and Water Conservation Commission,
along all perennial waters indicated on the most recent versions of USGS 1:
24,000 (7.5 minutes) scale topographic maps or as determined by local
government studies. Animal operations greater than 100 animal units shall
employ BMPs by July 1, 1994 recommended by the Soil and Water Conservation
Commission; and
      (3)   Silviculture, using best management practices required to implement
the provisions of the Forest Practices Guidelines Related to Water Quality (15A
NCAC 01l.0101 through 15A 01l.0209).
   (C)   Prohibited uses. The Water Supply Watershed Protection Rules
specifically exclude the following uses in designated drinking water supply
watersheds:
      (1)   New landfills;
      (2)   Sites for land application of sludge/residuals or petroleum
contaminated soils; and
      (3)   The storage of hazardous materials unless a spill containment plan
is implemented.
   (D)   Density and built-upon limits.
      (1)   Single-family residential development shall not exceed one dwelling
unit per one-half acre; and
      (2)   All other residential and nonresidential development shall not
exceed 24% built-upon area on a project-by-project basis. For purposes of
calculating the built-upon area, total project area shall include total acreage
in the tract on which the project is to be developed.
(1996 Code, § 151.23) (Ord. passed 12-20-1993) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.18 PROTECTED AREA (WS-IV-PA); YADKIN RIVER WATERSHED.
   (A)   Application. Only new development activities that require an erosion/
sedimentation control plan under state law or approved local program are
required to meet the provisions of these watershed regulations when located in
the WS-IV watershed.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   All uses allowed in the underlying zoning districts where the
watershed is located, unless specially excluded in division (B)(2) or (3)
below;
      (2)   Agriculture, subject to the provisions of the Food Security Act of
1985, 16 U.S.C. §§ 3801 et seq.; and
      (3)   Silviculture, using best management practices required to implement
the provisions of the Forest Practices Guidelines Related to Water Quality (15A
NCAC 01l.0101 through 15A 01l.0209).
   (C)   Prohibited uses. The Water Supply Watershed Protection Rules
specifically exclude the following use in designated drinking water supply
watersheds: the storage of toxic and hazardous materials, unless a spill
containment plan is implemented.
   (D)   Density and built-upon limits.
      (1)   Single-family residential development shall not exceed one dwelling
unit per one-half acre, with curb and gutter or one-third acre, without curb
and gutter.
      (2)   All other residential and nonresidential development shall not
exceed 24% built-upon area on a project-by-project basis with curb and gutter
street system, or 36% built-upon area, without a curb and gutter system; except
that up to 10% of the balance of the watershed may be developed to 70% built-
upon area on a project-by-project basis. This allocation shall be handled as a
special use district zoning permit issued by the Board of Commissioners. In
order for the Board of Commissioners to approve a 10/70 request, the following
criteria shall be met by the applicant:
         (a)   The property under consideration shall be zoned for industrial
or commercial uses. In the event the proposed development is for public or
nonprofit development, educational buildings or facilities, or otherwise serves
a significant economic development purpose for the county, the property may be
zoned residentially;
         (b)   The property under consideration shall be served by public water
and public sewer to accommodate a densely developed site. In the case where
public sewer is not accessible, on-site sewage disposal shall be approved by
the County Health Department or the state, whichever applies;
         (c)   The development proposed shall begin construction within 12
calendar months of the approval of the special use permit. In the event that
construction has not commenced within 12 months, the applicant may apply for 1
six-month time extension. This extension may be granted by the Board of
Commissioners only upon sufficient information, presented by the applicant,
that practicable difficulties beyond the control of the applicant have resulted
in a delay in the start of construction;
         (d)   A site plan shall be submitted showing:
            1.   The location of all buildings and uses on the property;
            2.   The location, extent, and types of supporting facilities such
as parking lots, driveways, and access streets;
            3.   The timing of development;
            4.   The location, extent, and details of landscaped and buffer
areas;
            5.   The positioning of other special purpose areas on the tract;
and
            6.   The petitioners shall incorporate in any future conveyance of
the property and file on the public record, a detailed description of the
special use and all conditions imposed.
         (e)   In the event of a significant change from the approved use or
site plan, the special use permit shall be invalid and the petitioner shall re-
apply to the Board of Commissioners.
   (E)   Total project area. For purposes of calculating built-upon area, total
project area shall include acreage in the tract on which the project is to be
developed.
(1996 Code, § 151.24) (Ord. passed 12-20-1993; Ord. passed 1-20-1998; Ord.
passed 10-18-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.19 STREAM BUFFER AREAS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Stream buffer. A minimum 30-foot vegetative buffer is required along
all perennial waters indicated on the most recent versions of USGS 1:24,000
(7.5 minute) scale topographic maps or as determined by local government
studies. Desirable artificial stream bank or shoreline stabilization is
permitted.
   (B)   Development in buffers. No new development is allowed in the buffer;
water dependent structures and public projects such as road crossings and
greenways may be allowed where no practical alternative exists. These
activities should minimize built-upon surface area, direct runoff away from the
surface waters and maximize the utilization of stormwater best management
practices (BMPs).
(1996 Code, § 151.25) (Ord. passed 12-20-1993)
§ 151.20 CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Minimum lot sizes are not applicable to single-family cluster
development projects; however, the total number of lots shall not exceed the
number of lots allowed for single-family detached developments as stated in §§
151.15,
151.16,
151.17, and
151.18. Density or built-upon area for the project shall not exceed that
allowed for the critical area, protected area, or balance of watershed,
whichever applies.
   (B)   All built-upon area shall be designed and located to minimize
stormwater runoff impact to the receiving waters and minimize concentrated
stormwater flow.
   (C)   The remainder of the tract shall remain in a vegetated or natural
state. The title to the open space area shall be conveyed to an incorporated
homeowners’ association for management; to a local government for preservation
as a park or open space; or to a conservation organization for preservation in
a permanent easement. Where a property association is not incorporated, a
maintenance agreement shall be filed with the property deeds.
(1996 Code, § 151.26) (Ord. passed 10-21-1997)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 151.35 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   These watershed overlay district regulations shall apply to land-use
activities within the areas designated as a public water supply watershed by
the State Environmental Management Commission. These watersheds shall be
defined and established on the map entitled, “Watershed Protection Map of the
County,” which is adopted simultaneously herewith. The watershed map and all
explanatory matter contained thereon accompanies and is made a part of these
regulations.
   (B)   In the event the classification of a watershed changes, the
regulations appropriate to the new classification shall apply to the watershed;
or if a regulated watershed becomes deregulated, the provisions of this chapter
shall not apply to the watershed from the date of declassification.
(1996 Code, § 151.40) (Ord. passed 12-20-1993)
§ 151.36 EXCEPTIONS AND APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The watershed overlay districts impose an additional layer of
regulations over existing zoning requirements. When a conflict occurs between
the zoning district standards and the overlay district standards, the more
restrictive shall prevail. Under no situations will development be permitted in
designed drinking supply watersheds that violate the Water Supply Watershed
Rules as adopted by the State Environmental Management Commission.
   (B)   It is not the intent that these regulations interfere with any
easement, covenants, or other agreements between parties. However, if the
provisions of these regulations impose greater restrictions or higher standards
for the use of a building or land, then the provisions of these regulations
shall control.
   (C)   All land use activities shall be regulated by the watershed protection
regulations in designated drinking supply watersheds except existing
development, as defined in §
151.01, is not subject to the requirements of this chapter. Expansions to
structures classified as existing development must meet the requirements of
this subchapter; however, the built-upon area of the existing development is
not required to be included in the density calculations.
(1996 Code, § 151.41) (Ord. passed 12-20-1993)
§ 151.37 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Recordkeeping. The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall enforce the
provisions of the Zoning Chapter as specified in §
155.280. Within the watershed overlay districts, he or she shall have the
following additional duties:
      (1)   Submit copies of all amendments upon adoption to the Division of
Water Quality;
      (2)   Maintain list of all variances, including a description of each
project receiving a variance and the reasons for granting the variance, and
submit a copy each calendar year to the Division of Water Quality by January 1
of each calendar year;
      (3)   Keep records of the jurisdiction’s utilization of the provision
that a maximum of 10% of the non-critical area of the Hunting Creek Watershed
(WS-III-BW) and the Yadkin River Watershed (WS- IV-PA) may be developed to a
maximum of 70% built-upon area;
      (4)   Calculate the following information for the Hunting Creek watershed
and the Yadkin River Watershed: the total acres of non-critical area, total
acres eligible to be developed under the 10/70 option, and maintain individual
records for each project with the following information: location, number of
acres built-upon, site plan, and use; and
      (5)   Monitor land-use activities in the watershed to identify situations
that may threaten water quality. He or she shall report these situations to the
agency with direct regulatory responsible for these activities.
   (B)   Appeals. All appeals from the decision of the Zoning Enforcement
Officer shall be submitted to the Board of Adjustment (see §
155.234). Further, any appeals from the Board of Adjustment shall be to the
Superior Court within 30 days (see §
155.237), not to the County Board of Commissioners.
   (C)   Amendments. All amendments to the watershed regulations shall be
handled as specified in §§
155.250 through
155.253. Under no circumstances shall the county amend, supplement, or change
the watershed regulations that would cause the regulations to violate the
watershed protection rules as adopted by the State Environmental Management
Commission. All amendments shall be filed with the State Division of
Environmental Management, State Division of Environmental Health, and the State
Division of Community Assistance.
   (D)   Watershed variances.
      (1)   Minor variances. The Board of Adjustment shall handle minor
variances as specified in §
155.235.
      (2)   Major variance.
         (a)   If a MAJOR VARIANCE (see definition) is request, the Board of
Adjustment, after making a favorable decision in granting the request, shall
prepare a preliminary record of the hearing. The preliminary record of the
hearing shall include:
            1.   The variance application;
            2.   The hearing notices;
            3.   The evidence presented;
            4.   Motions, offers of proof, objections to evidence, and rulings
on them;
            5.   Proposed findings and exceptions; and
            6.   The proposed decision, including all conditions proposed to be
added to the permit.
         (b)   The information shall be sent to the State Environmental
Management Commission for its review as follows in division (D)(2)(c).
         (c)   The Environmental Management Commission (EMC) shall review the
preliminary record and determine whether or not:
            1.   The request qualifies as a major variance;
            2.   The property owner can secure no reasonable return from, nor
make any practical use of, the property, unless the proposed variance is
granted; and
            3.   The variance, if granted, will not result in a serious threat
to the water supply. Based on its findings the EMC shall approve the variance
as proposed or approve the proposed variance with conditions and stipulations,
or disapprove it. The EMC shall prepare a decision and send it to the County
Board of Adjustment. This Board shall prepare a final decision, based on the
determination of the EMC.
      (3)   Comments. In designated drinking water supply watersheds, the
Zoning Enforcement Officer shall notify and allow a reasonable comment period
for any jurisdictions within the watershed and the entity using the water
supply for consumption of a proposed variance to the watershed regulations.
Local governments may submit any comments to the Zoning Enforcement Officer
before the public hearing by the County Board of Adjustment.
   (E)   Boundary determination. The watershed boundaries are delineated on
county zoning maps. Boundaries were drawn to avoid dividing tracts in single
ownership, so some parts of a tract may be outside the watershed or protected
area. If a property owner can demonstrate his or her land drains into another
watershed or into the receiving stream below the intake in the same watershed,
the Zoning Enforcement Officer can exempt that specific area from the watershed
regulations.
(1996 Code, § 151.42) (Ord. passed 12-20-1993; Ord. passed 10-21-1997; Ord.
passed 1-20-1998)
CHAPTER 152: LAND FARMING
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Definitions
   
152.02   Title
   
152.03   Authority
   
152.04   Purpose
   
152.05   Monitoring and assistance
   
152.06   Federal law adopted (Code of Federal Regulations)
Land Farming
   
152.20   Special use permit required
   
152.21   Transportation of soil for land farming regulated
   
152.22   Enforcement
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOREMEDIATION. The natural process in which microorganisms (that is,
bacteria) break down petroleum products in the soil.
   ENHANCED BIOREMEDIATION. The addition of microorganisms or chemicals to
speed up the natural rate of breakdown of petroleum products in the soil.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. As follows:
      (1)   Any waste classified as hazardous by any federal or state statute;
      (2)   Any waste classified as hazardous by rule or regulation of any
federal or state agency;
      (3)   Any waste classified as hazardous by any ordinance, rule, or
regulation heretofore or hereafter adopted by the county or any department or
agency thereof;
      (4)   Any waste that is ignitable, reactive, or corrosive; or
      (5)   Any waste which when improperly handled, treated, transported, or
disposed of can lead to an increase in mortality or morbidity.
   LAND FARMING. A method of removing petroleum compounds from soils.
Contaminated soils are removed from the ground, spread over a given area, and
periodically tilled to speed up the release of VOCs and breakdown of the
contaminants.
      (1)   On-site land farming/bioremediation which is defined as LAND
FARMING wherein all contaminated soils are placed on the same contiguous tract
from which they are removed; and
      (2)   Off-site land farming/bioremediation which is defined as any other
treatment of soils other than on-site land farming, including but not limited
to dedicated contaminated soil facilities wherein soils are brought in from
other tracts on a repeated basis.
   REMEDIATION. The process of cleaning up contamination.
   VOLATILE ORGANIC COMPOUND (VOC). Carbon-containing compounds that readily
vaporize (that is, change from a liquid to a gas) at normal temperatures and
pressures.
(1996 Code, § 152.01) (Ord. passed 2-7-1994)
§ 152.02 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the County Land Farming
Chapter.
(1996 Code, § 152.02) (Ord. passed 2-7-1994)
§ 152.03 AUTHORITY.
   The Board of County Commissioners shall regulate the location and management
of petroleum contaminated soil, more specifically the proper remediation and
prevention of improperly exposed and handled petroleum contaminated soil,
within the jurisdiction of the county in order to protect the health, safety,
and welfare of its citizens and the peace and dignity of the county as provided
in G.S. § 153A-121.
(1996 Code, § 152.03) (Ord. passed 2-7-1994)
§ 152.04 PURPOSE.
   The purposes of this chapter are to:
   (A)   Regulate the cleanup of sites containing underground storage tanks
which have contained petroleum products or any other materials that remain, or
waste of which are, or may be, hazardous; and
   (B)   Regulate the technique of treating and disposing of soil-containing
petroleum hydrocarbons, commonly known as land farming.
(1996 Code, § 152.04) (Ord. passed 2-7-1994)
§ 152.05 MONITORING AND ASSISTANCE.
   The county recognizes that it is primarily the function of appropriate
federal and state agencies to monitor the transportation, treatment, and
disposal of hazardous waste and waste and soil containing hydrocarbons.
However, the county recognizes that such agencies are frequently understaffed
and underfunded. One purpose of this chapter is, therefore, to supplement and
complement the activities of federal and state agencies in the areas covered by
this chapter.
(1996 Code, § 152.05) (Ord. passed 2-7-1994)
§ 152.06 FEDERAL LAW ADOPTED (CODE OF FEDERAL REGULATIONS).
   The provisions of the regulations contained in 40 C.F.R. § 262.11 as they
now exist and are hereafter amended, are adopted as regulations of the county
as fully and to the same extent as if all of the regulations were fully set
forth herein.
(1996 Code, § 152.06) (Ord. passed 2-7-1994)
LAND FARMING
§ 152.20 SPECIAL USE PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Prior to land farming petroleum contaminated soils utilizing bioremediation,
enhanced bioremediation, or any similar technique, a special use permit shall
be obtained from the County Board of Adjustment.
(1996 Code, § 152.20) (Ord. passed 2-7-1994) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.21 TRANSPORTATION OF SOIL FOR LAND FARMING REGULATED.
   Persons, firms, or corporations engaged in transporting petroleum
contaminated soil in the county shall at all times have in their possession a
manifest describing the soils being transported, the hydrocarbon contamination,
the point of origination and the designation of the soils, and be prepared to
exhibit the manifest to the County Zoning Department, its agent, employees, and
contractors and anyone else authorized and designated to enforce these
regulations.
(1996 Code, § 152.21) (Ord. passed 2-7-1994)
§ 152.22 ENFORCEMENT.
   All persons who shall own, lease, or have possession of any property upon
which any underground storage tank is located, or who have any interest in such
property, or who shall be the agent, employee, or contractor of any such person
shall, prior to engaging in the treatment or disposal technique known as land
farming:
   (A)   Comply with the provisions of 40 C.F.R. §§ 262.11 and 262.12;
   (B)   Satisfy the County Zoning Department that they have so complied by
submitting to the County Zoning Department such test results and data as it may
require for a determination that the material proposed for land farming is
suitable for such treatment technique;
   (C)   Submit to the County Zoning Department a sworn statement from an
approved testing laboratory that the soil proposed for land farming is non-
hazardous as defined by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), and
that such determination was made by the use of EPA-approved testing procedures,
including the TCLP test as that term is used by the EPA;
   (D)   Submit written acknowledgment from the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency, the State Department of Environment, Health, and Natural Resources,
Division of Environmental Management, Ground Water Section, or any appropriate
regulatory agencies having jurisdiction that the waste or soil has been
determined to be non-hazardous, and that the person shall present all permits
and licenses required by any appropriate regulatory agency to conduct the
activity prior to any land farming;
   (E)   In the case of on-site land farming/bioremediation, certify to the
County Zoning Department that the soil to be disposed of will not be:
      (1)   Deposited closer than 250 feet from any regularly flowing stream,
creek, or river;
      (2)   Closer than 500 feet to any source of drinking water; or
      (3)   Closer than 500 feet to any residence, school, hospital,
playground, or recreational park area.
   (F)   In the case of off-site land farming/bioremediation, certify to the
County Zoning Department that the soil to be disposed of will not be:
      (1)   Deposited closer than 1,000 feet from any regularly flowing stream,
creek, or river;
      (2)   Closer than 1,000 feet to any source of drinking water; or
      (3)   Closer than 1,000 feet to any residence, school, hospital,
playground, or recreational park area.
   (G)   Submit to the County Zoning Department certificates from the owner of
the property upon which the soil is to be deposited that he or she has read
this chapter and consents to allow his or her land to be so used; and
   (H)   Receive from the County Zoning Department written permission to
proceed with the proposed land farming.
(1996 Code, § 152.22) (Ord. passed 2-7-1994)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall allow his or her land to be used for the
treatment or disposal of hazardous waste in a manner inconsistent with this
chapter and the provisions hereof, which are incorporated by reference herein,
shall be guilty of violating this chapter.
   (B)   Any person who shall dispose of, or procure the disposal of, any soil
containing petroleum hydrocarbons, or any other hazardous waste, in violation
of the terms of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and punished as
provided for in §
10.99.
   (C)   Any other violation of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor and
punished as provided for in §
10.99.
   (D)   Each day a violation of this chapter shall constitute a separate
offense. This chapter may also be enforced by injunctive relief or such civil
remedy as may be appropriate.
   (E)   Further, a violation of the above section of this code shall be a
violation of G.S. § 14-4 and such violation shall be classified as a Class 3
misdemeanor with a maximum fine of up to $450, except that any violations of §§
150.999,
154.99,
155.999, and
156.999 shall not be a violation of G.S. § 14-4 and shall not be considered a
misdemeanor.
(1996 Code, § 152.99) (Ord. passed 2-7-1994)
CHAPTER 153: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Definitions
   
153.02   Statutory authorization
   
153.03   Findings of fact
   
153.04   Statement of purpose
   
153.05   Objectives
   
153.06   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
153.07   Basis for establishing the special flood hazard areas
   
153.08   Establishment of floodplain development permit
   
153.09   Compliance
   
153.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
153.11   Interpretation
   
153.12   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Flood Hazard Reduction
   
153.25   General standards
   
153.26   Specific standards
   
153.27   Standards for floodplains without established base flood elevations
   
153.28   Standards for riverine floodplains with BFE but without established
floodways or non-encroachment areas
   
153.29   Floodways and non-encroachment areas
   
153.30   Standards for areas of shallow flooding (Zone AO)
Administration and Enforcement
   
153.45   Designation of Floodplain Administrator
   
153.46   Floodplain development application, permit, and certification
requirements
   
153.47   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
   
153.48   Corrective procedures
   
153.49   Variance procedures
Legal Status
   
153.60   Effect on rights and liabilities under the existing flood damage
prevention ordinance
   
153.61   Effect upon outstanding floodplain development permits
 
   
153.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure located on the same
parcel of property as the principal structure and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure. Garages, carports, and
storage sheds are common urban ACCESSORY STRUCTURES. Pole barns, hay sheds, and
the like qualify as ACCESSORY STRUCTURES on farms, and may or may not be
located on the same parcel as the farm dwelling or shop building.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING BUILDING). An extension or increase in the floor
area or height of a building or structure.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated Zone AO on a community’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with base flood depths determined to be from one to
three feet. These areas are located where a clearly defined channel does not
exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate, and where
velocity flow may be evident.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. See SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA).
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). A determination of the water surface elevations
of the base flood as published in the Flood Insurance Study. When the BFE has
not been provided in a special flood hazard area, it may be obtained from
engineering studies available from a federal, state, or other source using
FEMA-approved engineering methodologies. This elevation, when combined with the
freeboard, establishes the regulatory flood protection elevation.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   CHEMICAL STORAGE FACILITY. A building, portion of a building, or exterior
area adjacent to a building used for the storage of any chemical or chemically
reactive products.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
   DISPOSAL. As defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(6). The discharge, deposit,
injection, dumping, spilling, leaking, or placing of any solid waste into or on
any land or water so that the solid waste or any constituent part of the solid
waste may enter the environment or be emitted into the air or discharged into
any waters, including groundwaters.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building which has its lowest elevated
floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear walls, posts, piers,
pilings, or columns.
   ENCROACHMENT. The advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation,
buildings, structures, or development into a floodplain, which may impede or
alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A
manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities
for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) was
completed before the initial effective date of the floodplain management
regulations adopted by the community.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD INSURANCE. The insurance coverage provided under the National Flood
Insurance Program.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, on which both the special flood hazard
areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community are delineated.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). An examination, evaluation, and determination
of flood hazards, corresponding water surface elevations (if appropriate),
flood hazard risk zones, and other flood data in a community issued by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency. The FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY report includes
Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMs) and Flood Boundary and Floodway Maps (FBFMs),
if published.
   FLOOD PRONE AREA. See FLOODPLAIN.
   FLOOD ZONE. A geographical area shown on a Flood Hazard Boundary Map or
Flood Insurance Rate Map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the
area.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The individual appointed to administer and enforce
the floodplain management regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. Any type of permit that is required in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter, prior to the commencement of
any development activity.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including but not limited
to emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations, and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances, and other applications of police power. This term describes
federal, state, or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide
standards for preventing and reducing flood loss and damage.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation facilities,
structures, and their contents.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   FREEBOARD. The height added to the base flood elevation (BFE) to account for
the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater that
the height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such
as wave action, blockage of bridge openings, and the hydrological effect of
urbanization of the watershed. The base flood elevation plus the FREEBOARD
establishes the regulatory flood protection elevation.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY. A facility which cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located in close proximity to water, limited to a
docking or port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or
passengers, shipbuilding, or ship repair. The term does not include long-term
storage, manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITY. As defined in G.S. Chapter 130A,
Article 9, a facility for the collection, storage, processing, treatment,
recycling, recovery, or disposal of hazardous waste.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE (HAG). The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface, prior to construction, immediately next to the proposed walls of the
structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE.
      (1)   Any structure that is:
         (a)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places
(a listing maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
         (b)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
         (c)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic landmarks
in communities with a certified local government (CLG) program; or
         (d)   Certified as contributing to the historical significance of a
historic district designated by a community with a certified local government
(CLG) program.
      (2)   Certified local government (CLG) programs are approved by the U.S.
Department of the Interior in cooperation with the State Department of Cultural
Resources through the State Historic Preservation Officer as having met the
requirements of 16 U.S.C. §§ 1470 et seq., the National Historic Preservation
Act of 1966, as amended.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG). The elevation of the ground, sidewalk, or patio
slab immediately next to the building, or deck support, after completion of the
building.
   LOWEST FLOOR.  LOWEST FLOOR of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access, or limited storage in an area other than
a basement area, is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR, provided that
such an enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of
the applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, not including the land value and that of
any accessory structures or other improvements on the lot. MARKET VALUE may be
established by independent certified appraisal; replacement cost depreciated
for age of building and quality of construction (actual cash value); or
adjusted tax assessed value.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of this chapter, the National Geodetic Vertical
Datum (NGVD) as corrected in 1929, the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) as
corrected in 1988, or other vertical control datum used as a reference for
establishing varying elevations within the floodplain, to which base flood
elevations (BFEs) shown on a FIRM are referenced. Refer to each FIRM panel to
determine datum used.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the START OF CONSTRUCTION commenced
on or after the effective date of the initial floodplain management regulations
and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NON-ENCROACHMENT AREA. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot
as designated in the Flood Insurance Study report.
   POST-FIRM. Construction or other development for which the START OF
CONSTRUCTION occurred on or after the effective date of the initial Flood
Insurance Rate Map.
   PRE-FIRM. Construction or other development for which the START OF
CONSTRUCTION occurred before the effective date of the initial Flood Insurance
Rate Map.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. At least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure is above ground.
   PUBLIC SAFETY and/or NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV). A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light-
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REFERENCE LEVEL. The top of the lowest floor for structures within special
flood hazard areas designated as Zone A1-A30, AE, A, A99, or AO.
   REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. The base flood elevation plus the
freeboard. In special flood hazard areas where base flood elevations (BFEs)
have been determined, this elevation shall be the BFE plus two feet of
freeboard. In special flood hazard areas where no BFE has been established,
this elevation shall be at least four feet above the highest adjacent grade.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. To bring the structure or other development into
compliance with state and community floodplain management regulations, or, if
this is not possible, to reduce the impacts of its noncompliance. Ways that
impacts may be reduced include protecting the structure or other affected
development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement provisions of the
chapter or otherwise deterring future similar violations, or reducing federal
financial exposure with regard to the structure or other development.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, and the like.
   SALVAGE YARD. Any nonresidential property used for the storage, collection,
and/or recycling of any type of equipment, and including but not limited to
vehicles, appliances, and related machinery.
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY. Any facility involved in the disposal of
solid waste, as defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(35).
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SITE. As defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(36), any place
at which solid wastes are disposed of by incineration, sanitary landfill, or
any other method.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). The land in the floodplain subject to a 1%
or greater chance of being flooded in any given year, as determined in §
153.07.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement, or other
improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start means
either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site,
such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual START
OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of the building, whether or not that alteration affects
the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, a manufactured home, or a gas,
liquid, or liquefied gas storage tank that is principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure during any
one-year period whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before-
damaged condition would equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the
structure before the damage occurred. See definition of SUBSTANTIAL
IMPROVEMENT.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any combination of repairs, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement of a structure, taking place
during any one-year period for which the cost equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred substantial
damage, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
      (1)   Any correction of existing violations of state or community health,
sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been identified by the
community code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in §§
153.25 through
153.30 and
153.45 through
153.49 is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as that documentation is
provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION (WSE). The height, in relation to mean sea level, of
floods of various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of riverine
areas.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel, or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
(1996 Code, § 153.01) (Ord. passed 9-2-2008)
§ 153.02 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The legislature of this state has in G.S. Chapter 143, Article 21, Part 6; §
153A-121; and Chapter 153A, Article 18, Parts 3 and 4, delegated to local
governmental units the responsibility to adopt regulations designed to promote
the public health, safety, and general welfare. Therefore, the Board of
Commissioners does ordain as follows in this chapter.
(1996 Code, § 153.02) (Ord. passed 9-2-2008)
§ 153.03 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood prone areas within the jurisdiction of the county are
subject to periodic inundation which results in loss of life, property, health,
and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services,
extraordinary public expenditures of flood protection and relief, and
impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public health,
safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities and by the
occupancy in flood prone areas of uses vulnerable to floods or other hazards.
(1996 Code, § 153.03) (Ord. passed 9-2-2008)
§ 153.04 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions within flood prone areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water or erosion hazards or that result in damaging increases
in erosion, flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities that
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and all other development that may
increase erosion or flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(1996 Code, § 153.04) (Ord. passed 9-2-2008)
§ 153.05 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are to:
   (A)   Protect human life, safety, and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business losses and interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities (such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone, cable and sewer lines, streets, and bridges)
that are located in flood prone areas;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas; and
   (G)   Ensure that potential buyers are aware that property is in a special
flood hazard area.
(1996 Code, § 153.05) (Ord. passed 9-2-2008)
§ 153.06 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all special flood hazard areas within the
jurisdiction, including extra- territorial jurisdictions (ETJs), if applicable,
of the county and within the jurisdiction of any other community whose
governing body agrees, by resolution, to such applicability.
(1996 Code, § 153.06) (Ord. passed 9-2-2008)
§ 153.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   (A)   The special flood hazard areas are those identified under the
cooperating technical state (CTS) agreement between this state and FEMA in its
Flood Insurance Study (FIS) and its accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps
(FIRM) for the county dated September 17, 2008, which are adopted by reference
and declared to be a part of this chapter.
   (B)   The initial Flood Insurance Rate Maps are as follows for the
jurisdictional areas at the initial date:
      (1)   Davie County Unincorporated Area, March 21, 1980;
      (2)   Mocksville, Town of, dated September 17, 2008;
      (3)   Cooleemee, Town of, dated September 17, 2008; and
      (4)   Bermuda Run, Town of, dated September 17, 2008.
(1996 Code, § 153.07) (Ord. passed 9-2-2008)
§ 153.08 ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities within special flood hazard areas determined in accordance with the
provisions of §
153.07.
(1996 Code, § 153.08) (Ord. passed 9-2-2008)
§ 153.09 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted,
altered, or developed in any way without full compliance with the terms of this
chapter and other applicable regulations.
(1996 Code, § 153.09) (Ord. passed 9-2-2008)
§ 153.10 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(1996 Code, § 153.10) (Ord. passed 9-2-2008)
§ 153.11 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(1996 Code, § 153.11) (Ord. passed 9-2-2008)
§ 153.12 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
consideration. Larger floods can and will occur. Actual flood heights may be
increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not imply that
land outside the special flood hazard areas or uses permitted within such areas
will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create
liability on the part of the county or by any officer or employee thereof for
any flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any
administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
(1996 Code, § 153.12) (Ord. passed 9-2-2008)
FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 153.25 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas the following provisions are required:
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be designed
(or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, and
lateral movement of the structure;
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage;
   (C)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damages;
   (D)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as
to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components during
conditions of flooding to the regulatory flood protection elevation. These
include but are not limited to HVAC equipment, water softener units, bath/
kitchen fixtures, ductwork, electric/gas meter panels/boxes, utility/cable
boxes, hot water heaters, and electric outlets/switches;
   (E)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into floodwaters;
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding;
   (H)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a structure
which is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall meet the
requirements of new construction as contained in this chapter;
   (I)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the repair, reconstruction, or
replacement of a building or structure existing on the effective date of this
chapter and located totally or partially within the floodway, non-encroachment
area, or stream setback, provided there is no additional encroachment below the
regulatory flood protection elevation in the floodway, non-encroachment area,
or stream setback, and provided that such repair, reconstruction, or
replacement meets all of the other requirements of this chapter;
   (J)   New solid waste disposal facilities and sites, hazardous waste
management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage facilities shall not
be permitted. A structure or tank for chemical or fuel storage incidental to an
allowed use or to the operation of a water treatment plant or wastewater
treatment facility may be located in a special flood hazard area only if the
structure or tank is either elevated or floodproofed to at least the regulatory
flood protection elevation and certified in accordance with the provisions of §
153.46(C);
   (K)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall be
consistent with the need to minimize flood damage;
   (L)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water
systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage;
   (M)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards;
   (N)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
received all necessary permits from those governmental agencies for which
approval is required by federal or state law, including § 404 of the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. Part 1334;
   (O)   When a structure is partially located in a special flood hazard area,
the entire structure shall meet the requirements for new construction and
substantial improvements; and
   (P)   When a structure is located in multiple flood hazard zones or in a
flood hazard risk zone with multiple base flood elevations, the provisions for
the more restrictive flood hazard risk zone and the highest base flood
elevation shall apply.
(1996 Code, § 153.30) (Ord. passed 9-2-2008)
§ 153.26 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation (BFE) data has
been provided, as set forth in §§
153.07 or
153.27, the following provisions, in addition to the provisions of §
153.25, are required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure (including manufactured homes) shall have the
reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the regulatory
flood protection elevation, as defined in §
153.01.
   (B)   Nonresidential construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or other nonresidential structure
shall have the reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the
regulatory flood protection elevation, as defined in §
153.01. Structures located in A, AE, AO, and A1-30 Zones may be floodproofed to
the regulatory flood protection elevation in lieu of elevation, provided that
all areas of the structure, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, below the regulatory flood protection elevation are watertight with
walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water, using structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and the effect of buoyancy. For AO Zones, the floodproofing elevation
shall be in accordance with §
153.30(B). A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the standards of this division (B) are satisfied. Such certification shall be
provided to the Floodplain Administrator as set forth in §
153.46(C), along with the operational and maintenance plans.
   (C)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   New and replacement manufactured homes shall be elevated so that
the reference level of the manufactured home is no lower than the regulatory
flood protection elevation, as defined in §
153.01.
      (2)   Manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement, either
by certified engineered foundation system, or in accordance with the most
current edition of the State Regulations for Manufactured Homes adopted by the
Commissioner of Insurance pursuant to G.S. § 143-143.15. Additionally, when the
elevation would be met by an elevation of the chassis 36 inches or less above
the grade at the site, the chassis shall be supported by reinforced piers or
engineered foundation. When the elevation of the chassis is above 36 inches in
height, an engineering certification is required.
      (3)   All enclosures or skirting below the lowest floor shall meet the
requirements of division (D) of this section.
      (4)   An evacuation plan must be developed for evacuation of all
residents of all new, substantially improved, or substantially damaged
manufactured home parks or subdivisions located within flood prone areas. This
plan shall be filed with and approved by the Floodplain Administrator and the
local Emergency Management Coordinator.
   (D)   Elevated buildings. A fully enclosed area, of new construction and
substantially improved structures, which is below the lowest floor:
      (1)   Shall not be designed or used for human habitation, but shall only
be used for parking of vehicles, building access, or limited storage of
maintenance equipment used in connection with the premises. Access to the
enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow for parking of vehicles
(garage door) or limited storage of maintenance equipment (standard exterior
door), or entry to the living area (stairway or elevator). The interior portion
of such enclosed area shall not be finished or partitioned into separate rooms,
except to enclose storage areas;
      (2)   Shall be constructed entirely of flood- resistant materials at
least to the regulatory flood protection elevation; and
      (3)   Shall include, in Zones A, AO, AE, and A1-30, flood openings to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on walls by allowing for the
entry and exit of floodwaters. To meet this requirement, the openings must
either be certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed
the following minimum design criteria:
         (a)   A minimum of two flood openings on different sides of each
enclosed area subject to flooding;
         (b)   The total net area of all flood openings must be at least one
square inch for each square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding;
         (c)   If a building has more than one enclosed area, each enclosed
area must have flood openings to allow floodwaters to automatically enter and
exit;
         (d)   The bottom of all required flood openings shall be no higher
than one foot above the adjacent grade;
         (e)   Flood openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other
coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions; and
         (f)   Enclosures made of flexible skirting are not considered
enclosures for regulatory purposes and, therefore, do not require flood
openings. Masonry or wood underpinning, regardless of structural status, is
considered an enclosure and requires flood openings as outlined above.
   (E)   Additions/improvements.
      (1)   Additions and/or improvements to pre- FIRM structures, when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are either:
         (a)   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvements
must be designed to minimize flood damages and must not be any more
nonconforming than the existing structure; or
         (b)   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
      (2)   Additions to post-FIRM structures with no modifications to the
existing structure other than a standard door in the common wall shall require
only the addition to comply with the standards for new construction.
      (3)   Additions and/or improvements to post-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are either:
         (a)   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvements
only must comply with the standards for new construction; or
         (b)   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
   (F)   Recreational vehicles. Recreational vehicles shall either:
      (1)   Be on-site for fewer than 180 consecutive days and be fully
licensed and ready for highway use (a recreational vehicle is ready for highway
use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by
quick-disconnect type utilities, and has no permanently attached additions); or
      (2)   Meet all the requirements for new construction.
   (G)   Temporary nonresidential structures. Prior to the issuance of a
floodplain development permit for a temporary structure, the applicant must
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a plan for the removal of such structure
(s) in the event of a hurricane, flash flood, or other type of flood warning
notification. The following information shall be submitted in writing to the
Floodplain Administrator for review and written approval:
      (1)   A specified time period for which the temporary use will be
permitted. Time specified may not exceed three months, renewable up to one
year;
      (2)   The name, address, and phone number of the individual responsible
for the removal of the temporary structure;
      (3)   The time frame prior to the event at which a structure will be
removed (minimum of 72 hours before landfall of a hurricane or immediately upon
flood warning notification);
      (4)   A copy of the contract or other suitable instrument with the entity
responsible for physical removal of the structure; and
      (5)   Designation, accompanied by documentation, of a location outside
the special flood hazard area to which the temporary structure will be moved.
   (H)   Accessory structures.
      (1)   When accessory structures (sheds, detached garages, and the like)
are to be placed within a special flood hazard area, the following criteria
shall be met:
         (a)   Accessory structures shall not be used for human habitation
(including working, sleeping, living, cooking, or restroom areas);
         (b)   Accessory structures shall not be temperature-controlled;
         (c)   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential;
         (d)   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the
building site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
         (e)   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance with
the provisions of §
153.25(A);
         (f)   All service facilities such as electrical shall be installed in
accordance with the provisions of §
153.25(D); and
         (g)   Flood openings to facilitate automatic equalization of
hydrostatic flood forces shall be provided below regulatory flood protection
elevation in conformance with the provisions of division (D)(3) of this
section.
      (2)   An accessory structure with a footprint less than 150 square feet
that satisfies the criteria outlined above does not require an elevation or
floodproofing certificate. Elevation or floodproofing certifications are
required for all other accessory structures in accordance with §
153.46(C).
(1996 Code, § 153.31) (Ord. passed 9-2-2008)
§ 153.27 STANDARDS FOR FLOODPLAINS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS.
   Within the special flood hazard areas designated as Approximate Zone A and
established in §
153.07, where no base flood elevation (BFE) data has been provided by FEMA, the
following provisions, in addition to the provisions of §
153.25, shall apply.
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements or new development shall be permitted within a distance of 20 feet
each side from the top of the bank or five times the width of the stream,
whichever is greater, unless certification with supporting technical data by a
registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating that such
encroachments shall not result in any increase in flood levels during the
occurrence of the base flood discharge.
   (B)   The BFE used in determining the regulatory flood protection elevation
shall be determined based on the following criteria:
      (1)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is available from other
sources, all new construction and substantial improvements within such areas
shall also comply with all applicable provisions of this chapter and shall be
elevated or floodproofed in accordance with standards in §§
153.25 and
153.26;
      (2)   When floodway data is available from a federal, state, or other
source, all new construction and substantial improvements within floodway areas
shall also comply with the requirements of §§
153.26 and
153.29;
      (3)   All subdivision, manufactured home park and other development
proposals shall provide base flood elevation (BFE) data if development is
greater than five acres or has more than 50 lots/manufactured home sites. Such
base flood elevation (BFE) data shall be adopted by reference in accordance
with §
153.07 and utilized in implementing this chapter; and
      (4)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is not available from a
federal, state, or other source as outlined above, the reference level shall be
elevated or floodproofed (nonresidential) to or above the regulatory flood
protection elevation, as defined in §
153.01. All other applicable provisions of §
153.26 shall also apply.
(1996 Code, § 153.32) (Ord. passed 9-2-2008)
§ 153.28 STANDARDS FOR RIVERINE FLOODPLAINS WITH BFE BUT WITHOUT ESTABLISHED
FLOODWAYS OR NON-ENCROACHMENT AREAS.
   Along rivers and streams where BFE data is provided by FEMA or is available
from another source, but neither floodway nor non-encroachment areas are
identified for a special flood hazard area on the FIRM or in the FIS report,
the following requirements shall apply to all development within such areas:
   (A)   Standards of §§
153.25 and
153.26; and
   (B)   Until a regulatory floodway or non-encroachment area is designated, no
encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial improvements, or
other development shall be permitted unless certification with supporting
technical data by a registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating
that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all
other existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point within the
community.
(1996 Code, § 153.33) (Ord. passed 9-2-2008)
§ 153.29 FLOODWAYS AND NON-ENCROACHMENT AREAS.
   (A)   Areas designated as floodways or non-encroachment areas are located
within the special flood hazard areas established in §
153.07. The floodways and non-encroachment areas are extremely hazardous areas
due to the velocity of floodwaters that have erosion potential and carry debris
and potential projectiles.
   (B)   The following provisions, in addition to standards outlined in §§
153.25 and
153.26, shall apply to all development within such areas.
      (1)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements and other developments shall be permitted unless:
         (a)   It is demonstrated that the proposed encroachment would not
result in any increase in the flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood, based on hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with
standard engineering practice and presented to the Floodplain Administrator
prior to issuance of floodplain development permit; or
         (b)   A conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR) has been approved
by FEMA. A letter of map revision (LOMR) must also be obtained upon completion
of the proposed encroachment.
      (2)   If division (A) above is satisfied, all development shall comply
with all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   No manufactured homes shall be permitted, except replacement
manufactured homes in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision,
provided the following provisions are met:
         (a)   The anchoring and the elevation standards of §
153.26(C); and
         (b)   The non-encroachment standard of division (A) of this section.
(1996 Code, § 153.34) (Ord. passed 9-2-2008)
§ 153.30 STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (ZONE AO).
   (A)   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
153.07 are areas designated as shallow flooding areas. These areas have special
flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three feet where a
clearly defined channel does not exist and where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate.
   (B)   In addition to §§
153.25 and
153.26, all new construction and substantial improvements shall meet the
following requirements:
      (1)   The reference level shall be elevated at least as high as the depth
number specified on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), in feet, plus a
freeboard of two feet, above the highest adjacent grade; or at least four feet
above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number is specified;
      (2)   Nonresidential structures may, in lieu of elevation, be
floodproofed to the same level as required in division (A) above so that the
structure, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, below that
level shall be watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage
of water and with structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. Certification is
required in accordance with §§
153.26(B) and
153.46(C); and
      (3)   Adequate drainage paths shall be provided around structures on
slopes, to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed structures.
(1996 Code, § 153.35) (Ord. passed 9-2-2008)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.45 DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Director of Development Services or his or her designee, hereinafter
referred to as the Floodplain Administrator, is hereby appointed to administer
and implement the provisions of this chapter.
(1996 Code, § 153.45) (Ord. passed 9-2-2008)
§ 153.46 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT APPLICATION, PERMIT, AND CERTIFICATION
REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Application requirements. Application for a floodplain development
permit shall be made to the Floodplain Administrator prior to any development
activities located within special flood hazard areas. The following items shall
be presented to the Floodplain Administrator to apply for a floodplain
development permit:
      (1)   A plot plan drawn to scale, which shall include but shall not be
limited to the following specific details of the proposed floodplain
development:
         (a)   The nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area of
development/disturbance; existing and proposed structures, utility systems,
grading/pavement areas, fill materials, storage areas, drainage facilities, and
other development;
         (b)   The boundary of the special flood hazard area as delineated on
the FIRM or other flood map as determined in §
153.07, or a statement that the entire lot is within the special flood hazard
area;
         (c)   Flood zone(s) designation of the proposed development area as
determined on the FIRM or other flood map as determined in §
153.07;
         (d)   The boundary of the floodway(s) or non-encroachment area(s) as
determined in §
153.07;
         (e)   The base flood elevation (BFE) where provided as set forth in §§
153.07,
153.27, or
153.47;
         (f)   The old and new location of any watercourse that will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
         (g)   The certification of the plot plan by a registered land surveyor
or professional engineer.
      (2)   Proposed elevation, and method thereof, of all development within a
special flood hazard area, including but not limited to:
         (a)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the proposed
reference level (including basement) of all structures;
         (b)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any
nonresidential structure in Zones AE, A, or AO will be floodproofed; and
         (c)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any proposed
utility systems will be elevated or floodproofed.
      (3)   If floodproofing, a floodproofmg certificate (FEMA Form 81-65) with
supporting data and an operational plan that includes but is not limited to
installation, exercise, and maintenance of floodproofing measures;
      (4)   A foundation plan, drawn to scale, which shall include details of
the proposed foundation system to ensure all provisions of this chapter are
met. These details include but are not limited to:
         (a)   The proposed method of elevation, if applicable (such as fill,
solid foundation perimeter wall, solid backfilled foundation, open foundation
on columns/posts/piers/piles/shear walls); and
         (b)   Openings to facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic
flood forces on walls in accordance with §
153.26(D)(3) when solid foundation perimeter walls are used in Zones A, AO, AE,
and A1-30.
      (5)   Usage details of any enclosed areas below the lowest floor;
      (6)   Plans and/or details for the protection of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems to be located and
constructed to minimize flood damage;
      (7)   Certification that all other local, state, and federal permits
required prior to floodplain development permit issuance have been received;
      (8)   Documentation for placement of recreational vehicles and/or
temporary structures, when applicable, to ensure that the provisions of §
153.26(F) and (G) are met; and
      (9)   A description of proposed watercourse alteration or relocation,
when applicable, including an engineering report on the effects of the proposed
project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the effects on
properties located both upstream and downstream; and a map (if not shown on
plot plan) showing the location of the proposed watercourse alteration or
relocation.
   (B)   Permit requirements. The floodplain development permit shall include
but not be limited to:
      (1)   A description of the development to be permitted under the
floodplain development permit;
      (2)   The special flood hazard area determination for the proposed
development in accordance with available data specified in §
153.07;
      (3)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
reference level and all attendant utilities;
      (4)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
protection of all public utilities;
      (5)   All certification submittal requirements with timelines;
      (6)   A statement that no fill material or other development shall
encroach into the floodway or non- encroachment area of any watercourse, as
applicable;
      (7)   The flood openings requirements, if in Zones A, AO, AE, or A1-30;
and
      (8)   Limitations of below BFE enclosure uses (if applicable) (such as
parking, building access, and limited storage only).
   (C)   Certification requirements.
      (1)   Elevation certificates.
         (a)   An elevation certificate (FEMA Form 81-31) is required prior to
the actual start of any new construction. It shall be the duty of the permit
holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the
elevation of the reference level, in relation to mean sea level. The Floodplain
Administrator shall review the certificate data submitted. Deficiencies
detected by such review shall be corrected by the permit holder prior to the
beginning of construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure to
make required corrections shall be cause to deny a floodplain development
permit.
         (b)   An elevation certificate (FEMA Form 81-31) is required after the
reference level is established. Within seven calendar days of establishment of
the reference level elevation, it shall be the duty of the permit holder to
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the elevation of the
reference level, in relation to mean sea level. Any work done within the seven-
day calendar period and prior to submission of the certification shall be at
the permit holder’s risk. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the
certificate data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be
corrected by the permit holder immediately and prior to further work being
permitted to proceed. Failure to submit the certification or failure to make
required corrections shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the project.
         (c)   A final as-built elevation certificate (FEMA Form 81-31) is
required after construction is completed and prior to certificate of
compliance/occupancy issuance. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of final as-built
construction of the elevation of the reference level and all attendant
utilities. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data
submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
permit holder immediately and prior to certificate of compliance/occupancy
issuance. In some instances, another certification may be required to certify
corrected as-built construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure
to make required corrections shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a
certificate of compliance/occupancy.
      (2)   Floodproofing certificate. If nonresidential floodproofmg is used
to meet the regulatory flood protection elevation requirements, a floodproofing
certificate (FEMA Form 81-65), with supporting data, an operational plan, and
an inspection and maintenance plan are required prior to the actual start of
any new construction. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to
the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the floodproofed design
elevation of the reference level and all attendant utilities, in relation to
mean sea level. Floodproofing certification shall be prepared by or under the
direct supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by
same. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data, the
operational plan, and the inspection and maintenance plan. Deficiencies
detected by such review shall be corrected by the applicant prior to permit
approval. Failure to submit the certification or failure to make required
corrections shall be cause to deny a floodplain development permit. Failure to
construct in accordance with the certified design shall be cause to withhold
the issuance of a certificate of compliance/occupancy.
      (3)   Manufactured home. If a manufactured home is placed within Zones A,
AO, AE, or A1-30 and the elevation of the chassis is more than 36 inches in
height above grade, an engineered foundation certification is required in
accordance with the provisions of §
153.26(C)(2).
      (4)   Watercourse modifications. If a watercourse is to be altered or
relocated, a description of the extent of watercourse alteration or relocation;
a professional engineer’s certified report on the effects of the proposed
project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the effects to
properties located both upstream and downstream; and a map showing the location
of the proposed watercourse alteration or relocation shall all be submitted by
the permit applicant prior to issuance of a floodplain development permit.
      (5)   Certification exemptions. The following structures, if located
within Zones A, AO, AE or A1-30, are exempt from the elevation/floodproofing
certification requirements specified in divisions (C)(1) and (2) of this
section:
         (a)   Recreational vehicles meeting requirements of §
153.26(F)(1);
         (b)   Temporary structures meeting requirements of §
153.26(G); and
         (c)   Accessory structures less than 150 square feet meeting
requirements of §
153.26(H).
(1996 Code, § 153.46) (Ord. passed 9-2-2008)
§ 153.47 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Floodplain Administrator shall perform, but not be limited to the
following duties:
   (A)   Review all floodplain development applications and issue permits for
all proposed development within special flood hazard areas to assure that the
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
   (B)   Review all proposed development within special flood hazard areas to
assure that all necessary local, state, and federal permits have been received;
   (C)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Department of Crime Control
and Public Safety, Division of Emergency Management, State Coordinator for the
National Flood Insurance Program prior to any alteration or relocation of a
watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA);
   (D)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is maintained;
   (E)   Prevent encroachments into floodways and non-encroachment areas unless
the certification and flood hazard reduction provisions of §
153.29 are met;
   (F)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the
reference level (including basement) and all attendant utilities of all new and
substantially improved structures, in accordance with §
153.46(C);
   (G)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which all
new and substantially improved structures and utilities have been floodproofed,
in accordance with the provisions of §
153.46(C);
   (H)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of all public
utilities in accordance with the provisions of §
153.46(C);
   (I)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, obtain
certifications from a registered professional engineer or architect in
accordance with the provisions of §§
153.26(B) and
153.46(C);
   (J)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of boundaries
of the special flood hazard areas, floodways, or non-encroachment areas (for
example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions), make the necessary interpretation. The person
contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity
to appeal the interpretation as provided in this subchapter;
   (K)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data has not been provided in
accordance with §
153.07, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation (BFE)
data, along with floodway data or non-encroachment area data available from a
federal, state, or other source, including data developed pursuant to §
153.27(B)(2), in order to administer the provisions of this chapter;
   (L)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is provided but no floodway or
non-encroachment area data has been provided in accordance with §
153.07, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any floodway data or non-
encroachment area data available from a federal, state, or other source in
order to administer the provisions of this chapter;
   (M)   When the lowest floor and the lowest adjacent grade of a structure or
the lowest ground elevation of a parcel in a special flood hazard area is above
the base flood elevation, advise the property owner of the option to apply for
a letter of map amendment (LOMA) from FEMA. Maintain a copy of the letter of
map amendment (LOMA) issued by FEMA in the floodplain development permit file;
   (N)   Permanently maintain all records that pertain to the administration of
this chapter and make these records available for public inspection,
recognizing that such information may be subject to 5 U.S.C. § 52a, the Privacy
Act of 1974, as amended;
   (O)   Make on-site inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant to
a floodplain development permit progresses, the Floodplain Administrator shall
make as many inspections of the work as may be necessary to ensure that the
work is being done according to the provisions of the local ordinance and the
terms of the permit. In exercising this power, the Floodplain Administrator has
a right, upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises
within the jurisdiction of the community at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action;
   (P)   Issue stop-work orders as required. Whenever a building or part
thereof is being constructed, reconstructed, altered, or repaired in violation
of this chapter, the Floodplain Administrator may order the work to be
immediately stopped. The stop-work order shall be in writing and directed to
the person doing or in charge of the work. The stop-work order shall state the
specific work to be stopped, the specific reason(s) for the stoppage, and the
condition(s) under which the work may be resumed. Violation of a stop-work
order constitutes a misdemeanor;
   (Q)   Revoke floodplain development permits as required. The Floodplain
Administrator may revoke and require the return of the floodplain development
permit by notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason(s) for the
revocation. Permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the
approved application, plans, and specifications; for refusal or failure to
comply with the requirements of state or local laws; or for false statements or
misrepresentations made in securing the permit. Any floodplain development
permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state or local law may
also be revoked;
   (R)   Make periodic inspections throughout the special flood hazard areas
within the jurisdiction of the community. The Floodplain Administrator and each
member of his or her Inspections Department shall have a right, upon
presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
territorial jurisdiction of the Department at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action;
   (S)   Follow through with corrective procedures of §
153.48;
   (T)   Review, provide input, and make recommendations for variance requests;
   (U)   Maintain a current map repository to include but not be limited to the
FIS report, FIRM, and other official flood maps and studies adopted in
accordance with §
153.07, including any revisions thereto including letters of map change issued
by FEMA. Notify state and FEMA of mapping needs; and
   (V)   Coordinate revisions to FIS reports and FIRMS, including letters of
map revision based on fill (LOMR-F) and letters of map revision (LOMR).
(1996 Code, § 153.47) (Ord. passed 9-2-2008) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.48 CORRECTIVE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Violations to be corrected. When the Floodplain Administrator finds
violations of applicable state and local laws, it shall be his or her duty to
notify the owner or occupant of the building of the violation. The owner or
occupant shall immediately remedy each of the violations of law cited in such
notification.
   (B)   Actions in event of failure to take corrective action. If the owner of
a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action, the
Floodplain Administrator shall give the owner written notice by certified or
registered mail to the owner’s last known address or by personal service,
stating:
      (1)   That the building or property is in violation of the floodplain
management regulations;
      (2)   That a hearing will be held before the Floodplain Administrator at
a designated place and time, not later than ten days after the date of the
notice, at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by
counsel and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
      (3)   That following the hearing, the Floodplain Administrator may issue
an order to alter, vacate, or demolish the building; or to remove fill as
applicable.
   (C)   Order to take corrective action. If, upon a hearing held pursuant to
the notice prescribed above, the Floodplain Administrator shall find that the
building or development is in violation of this chapter, he or she shall issue
an order in writing to the owner, requiring the owner to remedy the violation
within a specified time period, not less than 60 calendar days, nor more than
180 calendar days. Where the Floodplain Administrator finds that there is
imminent danger to life or other property, he or she may order that corrective
action be taken in such lesser period as may be feasible.
   (D)   Appeal. Any owner who has received an order to take corrective action
may appeal the order to the local elected governing body by giving notice of
appeal in writing to the Floodplain Administrator and the Clerk within ten days
following issuance of the final order. In the absence of an appeal, the order
of the Floodplain Administrator shall be final. The local governing body shall
hear an appeal within a reasonable time and may affirm, modify and affirm, or
revoke the order.
   (E)   Failure to comply with order. If the owner of a building or property
fails to comply with an order to take corrective action for which no appeal has
been made or fails to comply with an order of the governing body following an
appeal, the owner shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished at the
discretion of the court.
(1996 Code, § 153.48) (Ord. passed 9-2-2008) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.49 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment as established by the county, hereinafter
referred to as the Appeal Board, shall hear and decide requests for variances
from the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board may appeal
such decision to the court, as provided in G.S. Chapter 7A.
   (C)   Variances may be issued for:
      (1)   The repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon the
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure’s continued designation as a historic structure and that the variance
is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure;
      (2)   Functionally dependent facilities if determined to meet the
definition as stated in §
153.02, provided provisions of divisions (I)(2), (3), and (5) below have been
satisfied, and such facilities are protected by methods that minimize flood
damages during the base flood and create no additional threats to public
safety; or
      (3)   Any other type of development, provided it meets the requirements
of this section.
   (D)   In passing upon variances, the Appeal Board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location as defined
under §
153.02 as a functionally dependent facility, where applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the Comprehensive Plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      (11)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (E)   A written report addressing each of the above factors shall be
submitted with the application for a variance.
   (F)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of
this chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes and objectives of this
chapter.
   (G)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation (BFE) and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and that such construction
below the base flood elevation increases risks to life and property, and that
the issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base flood
elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to $25
per $100 of insurance coverage. Such notification shall be maintained with a
record of all variance actions, including justification for their issuance.
   (H)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency and
this state upon request.
   (I)   Conditions for variances.
      (1)   Variances shall not be issued when the variance will make the
structure in violation of other federal, state, or local laws, regulations, or
ordinances.
      (2)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway or
non-encroachment area if the variance would result in any increase in flood
levels during the base flood discharge.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (4)   Variances shall only be issued prior to development permit
approval.
      (5)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, or
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
(1996 Code, § 153.49) (Ord. passed 9-2-2008)
LEGAL STATUS
§ 153.60 EFFECT ON RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES UNDER THE EXISTING FLOOD DAMAGE
PREVENTION ORDINANCE.
   (A)   This chapter in part comes forward by re-enactment of some of the
provisions of the Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance enacted July 7, 1975, as
amended, and it is not the intention to repeal but rather to re-enact and
continue to enforce without interruption of such existing provisions, so that
all rights and liabilities that have accrued thereunder are reserved and may be
enforced. The enactment of this chapter shall not affect any action, suit, or
proceeding instituted or pending. All provisions of the Flood Damage Prevention
Ordinance of this county enacted on July 7, 1975, as amended, which are not
reenacted herein, are repealed.
   (B)   The date of the initial flood damage prevention ordinance for each
municipal jurisdiction within the county is as follows: Town of Mocksville,
dated August 1, 2000.
(1996 Code, § 153.60) (Ord. passed 9-2-2008)
§ 153.61 EFFECT UPON OUTSTANDING FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMITS.
   Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the plans,
construction, size, or designated use of any development or any part thereof
for which a floodplain development permit has been granted by the Floodplain
Administrator or his or her authorized agents before the time of passage of
this chapter; provided, however, that when construction is not begun under such
outstanding permit within a period of six months subsequent to the date of
issuance of the outstanding permit, construction, or use shall be in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter.
(1996 Code, § 153.61) (Ord. passed 9-2-2008)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall constitute a
misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any
of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $50
or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both. Each day such violation
continues shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing herein contained
shall prevent the county from taking such other lawful action as is necessary
to prevent or remedy any violation.
(1996 Code, § 153.99) (Ord. passed 9-2-2008)
CHAPTER 154: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
154.01   Definitions
   
154.02   Title
   
154.03   Purpose
   
154.04   Authority
   
154.05   Jurisdiction
   
154.06   Services and permits
   
154.07   Transfer of lots
Plat Preparation and Approval Procedure
   
154.20   Technical review
   
154.21   Recordation
   
154.22   Sketch design plan
   
154.23   Preliminary plat
   
154.24   Final plat
Standards of Design
   
154.40   Name of subdivision
   
154.41   Streets and roads
   
154.42   Lots
   
154.43   Easements
   
154.44   Suitability of land
   
154.45   Stormwater drainage
   
154.46   Placement of monuments
   
154.47   Construction procedures
   
154.48   Requirements for non-state maintained roads
Administration and Enforcement
   
154.60   Variances
   
154.61   Variance procedures
   
154.62   Required findings
   
154.63   Registration of regulations and plats
   
154.64   Amendments
   
154.65   Abrogation
 
   
154.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Water Supply Systems
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUFFER STRIP. A strip of land no less than five feet in width containing
evergreen shrubs spaced not more than five feet apart, and not less than one
row of dense shrubs five feet or more in height after three growing seasons
which shall be planted, trimmed and maintained continuously in a healthy
growing condition by the property owner. (Optional: where evergreen shrubs are
deemed inappropriate because of limited lot space or other reasons, a wooden
structure screen fence manufactured of suitable salt treated pine, or cedar,
cypress, or redwood lumber not less than five feet or more than eight feet high
may be erected and maintained in good condition by the property owner with the
approval and/or recommendation of the Planning Board of the county.)
   CORNER LOT. A lot abutting upon two or more streets at an intersection.
   COUNTY COMMISSIONERS. The County Board of Commissioners.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A short street permanently terminated at one end by a vehicular
turnaround.
   DEDICATION. A gift by a property owner to another party without any
consideration being received for transfer. The dedication is made by written
instrument and is completed with a written acceptance.
   EASEMENT. A grant by the property owner for use by the public, a
corporation, or person(s), of a strip of land for specified purposes.
   FLOOD PRONE AREAS. Areas indicated on the flood hazard boundary maps of the
Federal Emergency Management Agency to be susceptible to inundation during a
100-year flood. In the absence of 100-year flood data, other flood data may be
used if approved by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).
   LINEAL FAMILY. Shall include only direct lineal descendants (children,
grandchildren, great grandchildren), direct lineal ascendants (father, mother,
grandfather, grandmother) and spouses as defined in G.S.§§ 29-2(4) and 104A-1.
   LOT. A portion of a subdivision, or any other parcel of land intended as a
unit for transfer of ownership or for development or both. In determining the
area and dimensions of a LOT, no part of the right-of-way of a road may be
included.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision, a plat which has been
recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds of the county prior to the
adoption of these regulations, or a lot described by metes and bounds, the
description of which has been recorded prior to the adoption of these
regulations.
   MAJOR SUBDIVISION. All subdivisions containing three or more lots.
   MANUFACTURED HOME (MOBILE HOMES). A large trailer built on a chassis with a
body outfitted as a home, meant to be parked more or less permanently at a
location differing from travel trailers and campers that are not considered
mobile homes. The size of the body of these homes in width for single-wides
vary from eight to 14 feet and for double-wides up to 28 feet. Body lengths
range from 32 to 83 feet. When two or more such units are designed and built at
the factory to be joined together they shall be considered to be one home.
   MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS. All sizes, setbacks, and other requirements of these
regulations are minimum requirements and may be increased.
   MINOR SUBDIVISIONS. All subdivisions not defined as major subdivisions.
   OFFICIAL MAPS and PLANS. Any maps and plans officially adopted by the County
Commissioners as a guide for development in the county.
   OPEN SPACE. An area (land and/or water) generally lacking in human-made
structures and reserved for enjoyment.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD). A permitted use designed to provide for
developments incorporating a single type or a variety of residential and
related uses which are planned and developed as a unit. Such development may
consist of individual lots or common buildings sites. Common open space must be
an element of the plan related to affecting the long-term value of the entire
development.
   PLANNING BOARD. The Planning Board of the county.
   PLANNING DIRECTOR. The Planning Director of the County Planning Department.
   PRIVATE STREET. An undedicated private right-of-way which affords access to
abutting properties and requires a subdivision streets disclosure statement in
accordance with G.S. § 136-102.6.
   PUBLIC OR COMMUNITY SEWAGE SYSTEM. A single system of sewage collection,
treatment, and disposal owned and operated by a sanitary district, a
metropolitan sewage district, a water and sewer authority, a county or
municipality or a public utility, constructed and operated in compliance with
the applicable requirements of the State Department of Environment, Health, and
Natural Resources, Division of Environmental Management.
   PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM. A system for the provision to the public of piped water
for human consumption if the system services 15 or more service connections or
which regularly serves 25 or more individuals. Two or more water systems that
are adjacent and are owned and operated by the same supplier of water and that
together serve 15 or more service connections or 25 or more persons is a PUBLIC
WATER SYSTEM.
   RECREATION AREA or PARK. An area of land or combination of land and water
resources that is developed for active and/or passive recreation pursuits with
various human-made features that accommodate such activities.
   RESERVATION. A reservation of land does not involve any transfer of property
rights. It simply constitutes an obligation to keep property free from
development for a period of time.
   SHALL. The action referred to is always mandatory and not merely directory.
   STREET (ROAD). A dedicated and accepted public right-of-way for vehicular
traffic.
   STREETS and RURAL ROADS.
      (1)   Roads.
         (a)   PRINCIPAL ARTERIAL. A rural link in a network of continuous
routes serving corridor movements having trip length and travel density
characteristics indicative of substantial statewide or interstate travel and
existing solely to serve traffic. This network would consist of interstate
routes and other routes designated as PRINCIPAL ARTERIALS.
         (b)   MINOR ARTERIAL. A rural link in a network joining cities and
larger towns and providing intrastate and intercounty service at relatively
high (55 mph) overall travel speeds with minimum interference to through
movement. This network would primarily serve traffic.
         (c)   MAJOR COLLECTOR. A road which serves major intracounty travel
corridors and traffic generators and provides access to the arterial system.
         (d)   MINOR COLLECTOR. A road which provides service to small local
communities and links the locally important traffic generators with rural
areas.
         (e)   LOCAL ROAD. A road providing access for adjacent land and for
travel over relatively short distances.
      (2)   Streets.
         (a)   MAJOR THOROUGHFARES. MAJOR THOROUGHFARES consist of interstate,
other freeway and expressway links, and major streets that provide for the
expeditious movement of volumes of traffic within and through urban areas.
         (b)   MINOR THOROUGHFARES. MINOR THOROUGHFARES are important streets
in the city system and perform the function of collecting traffic from local
access streets and carrying it to the major thoroughfare system. MINOR
THOROUGHFARES may also supplement major thoroughfares assisting in minor
through traffic movement and may also serve abutting property.
         (c)   LOCAL STREET. A local street provides access to abutting land
and access to higher systems. It offers the lowest level of mobility and
through traffic is usually discouraged.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person, firm, corporation, or duly authorized agent who
subdivides or develops any land deemed to be a SUBDIVISION as defined herein.
   SUBDIVISION. As follows.
      (1)   All divisions of a tract or parcel of land into two or more lots,
building sites or other divisions, when any one or more of those divisions are
created for the purpose of sale or building development, whether immediate or
future, and includes all division of land involving the dedication of a new
street or a change in existing streets, but the following shall not be included
within this definition nor be subject to the regulations established herein:
         (a)   The combination or recombination of portions of previously
subdivided and recorded lots if the total number of lots is not increased and
the resultant lots are equal to, or exceed, the standards of the county as
shown in its subdivision regulations;
         (b)   The public acquisition by purchase of strips of land for the
widening or opening of streets;
         (c)   The division of land into parcels greater than five acres where
the grantor or developer records a right-of-way agreement prior to or
simultaneously with the recording of the deed, which said agreement provides
for access to the parcel by right-of-way at least 50 feet in width and contains
an agreement for construction and maintenance of the road;
         (d)   The division of a tract in single ownership whose entire area is
not greater than two acres into not more than three lots, where no street
right-of-way is involved and where the resultant lots are equal to or exceed
the standards of the county, as shown in these regulations;
         (e)   MINOR SUBDIVISIONS as this section which abut state maintained
roads or meet State Department of Transportation (DOT) specifications for
secondary roads and involve no utility extensions and where the resultant lots
are equal to, or exceed, the standards of the county as shown in these
regulations. This exemption does not apply to parcels, tracts, or lots which
have been previously subdivided within the past five years;
         (f)   The division of land pursuant to an order of the General Court
of Justice; nor
         (g)   The conveyance of a lot or tract for the purpose of dividing
land among persons related within the third degree of lineal kinship if the
resultant lots are equal to or exceed the standard of the county as shown in
its ordinances and regulations.
      (2)   Plats falling under exemptions of divisions (1)(a), (b), (c), (d),
(e), (f), and (g) of this definition shall be stamped “No Approval Required by
the County Planning Department” and signed by its authorized representative
before recording in the office of the Register of Deeds of the county.
      (3)   Plats falling under exemptions of division (1)(g) of this
definition shall be stamped with the following certificate:
   I (we) hereby understand that this plat is approved as exempt from the
Subdivision Ordinance of Davie County. This is a family subdivision and is for
the exclusive purpose of conveying land among family members within the third
degree of lineal kinship. These lots/tracts shall not be used for the purpose
of sale or building development, either now or in the future, except for those
family members. Additional approvals may be required by Davie County or its
successor agency before any subsequent sale or building development may occur.
                                                                      
   Owner(s)                        Date
   I further acknowledge that my lineal family members who will be conveyed the
newly created family lots are:
   1.
                                                                                                                     
Lot#         , and
      (Name)                  (Relationship)
   2.
                                                                                                                      
Lot#         , and
      (Name)                  (Relationship)
   3.
                                                                                                                      
Lot#         , and
      (Name)                  (Relationship)
   4.
                                                                                                                      
Lot#         , and
      (Name)                  (Relationship)
   5.
                                                                                                                      
Lot#         , and
      (Name)                  (Relationship)
   TOWNHOUSES. A group of single-family attached dwellings, each dwelling
situated on its own individual lot. Ownership is passed in fee simple, subject
only to party wall rights by agreements set forth in the restrictive covenants.
(1996 Code, § 154.01) (Ord. passed 3-21-1994; Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed - -;
Ord. passed 3-20-2006; Ord. passed 3-20-2006)
§ 154.02 TITLE.
   These regulations shall be known and may be cited as the Subdivision
Regulations for the county, and may be referred to as the Subdivision
Regulations.
(1996 Code, § 154.02) (Ord. passed 3-21-1994)
§ 154.03 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of these regulations is to support and guide the subdivision of
land within the jurisdiction of the county in order to promote the public
health, safety, and general welfare of the citizens of the county. These
regulations are designed to promote an orderly use of the land; for
coordination of streets and highways within proposed subdivisions with existing
or planned streets and highways; for the reservation of rights-of-way or
easements for street and utility purposes; for the distribution of population
and traffic which shall avoid congestion and overcrowding; to provide for
water, sewerage, parks, and school and playgrounds; and to facilitate the
further resubdivision of larger tracts into smaller parcels of land.
(1996 Code, § 154.03) (Ord. passed 3-21-1994)
§ 154.04 AUTHORITY.
   These regulations are adopted under the authority of G.S. Chapter 153A,
Article 18, Part 2.
(1996 Code, § 154.04) (Ord. passed 3-21-1994)
§ 154.05 JURISDICTION.
   These regulations shall govern each and every subdivision of land within the
county, except those lands lying within the jurisdiction of any municipality,
unless such municipality formally requests the county to enforce these
regulations within the municipality’s area of jurisdiction. Any municipal
governing body may, upon one-year written notice, withdraw its approval of
these County Subdivision Regulations and those regulations shall have no
further effect within the municipality’s jurisdiction.
(1996 Code, § 154.05) (Ord. passed 3-21-1994)
§ 154.06 SERVICES AND PERMITS.
   No street shall be recommended for acceptance for maintenance by the State
Department of Transportation, nor shall any permit be issued by any
administrative agent of the county, nor shall water, sewer, or other county
facilities or services be extended to, or connected with, any subdivision until
the provisions of these regulations are met. The construction of public roads
shall be inspected by the State Department of Transportation for compliance
with its standards.
(1996 Code, § 154.06) (Ord. passed 3-21-1994)
§ 154.07 TRANSFER OF LOTS.
   (A)   The provisions of this section shall not prohibit any owner or its
agent from entering into contracts to sell or lease by reference to an approved
preliminary plat, for which a final plat has not yet been properly approved
under this chapter or recorded with the Register of Deeds, provided the
contract does all of the following:
      (1)   Incorporates as an attachment a copy of the preliminary plat
referenced in the contract, and obligates the owner to deliver to the buyer a
copy of the recorded plat prior to closing and conveyance;
      (2)   Plainly and conspicuously notifies the prospective buyer or lessee
that a final subdivision plat has not been approved or recorded at the time of
the contract, that no governmental body will incur any obligation to the
prospective buyer or lessee with respect to the approval of the final
subdivision plat, that changes between the preliminary and final plats are
possible, and that the contract or lease may be terminated without breach by
the buyer or lessee if the final recorded plat differs in any material respect
from the preliminary plat;
      (3)   Provides that, if the approved and recorded final plat does not
differ in any material respect from the plat referred to in the contract, the
buyer or lessee may not be required by the seller or lessor to close any
earlier than five days after the delivery of a copy of the final recorded plat;
and
      (4)   Provides that, if the approved and recorded final plat differs in
any material respect from the preliminary plat referred to in the contract, the
buyer or lessee may not be required by the seller or lessor to close any
earlier than 15 days after the delivery of the final recorded plat, during
which 15-day period the buyer or lessee may terminate the contract without
breach or any further obligation, and may receive a refund of all earnest money
or prepaid purchase price.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not prohibit any owner or its
agent from entering into contracts to sell or lease land by reference to an
approved preliminary plat, for which a final plat has not been properly
approved under this chapter or recorded with the Register of Deeds, where the
buyer or lessee is any person who has contracted to acquire or lease the land
for the purpose of engaging in the business of construction of residential,
commercial, or industrial buildings on the land, or for the purpose of resale
or lease of the land to persons engaged in that kind of business; provided that
no conveyance of that land may occur, and no contract to lease it may become
effective, until after the final plat has been properly approved under this
chapter and recorded with the Register of Deeds.
(1996 Code, § 154.07) (Ord. passed 3-20-2006)
PLAT PREPARATION AND APPROVAL PROCEDURE
§ 154.20 TECHNICAL REVIEW.
   (A)   (1)   Technical review. All subdivision plans submitted to the
Planning Department shall be subject to a technical review prior to the
preliminary approval by the Planning Board.
      (2)   Pre-application meeting.
         (a)   A person intending to submit an application for a preliminary
plat approval is strongly encouraged to confer with Planning staff before
submitting the application.
         (b)   At such conference, the Planning staff shall explain the
requirements applicable to the application, and shall identify potential
conflicts with applicable standards.
   (B)   TRC membership. The Technical Review Committee (TRC) shall consist of
members from the County Departments of Planning and Zoning, Environmental
Health, Inspections, Fire Marshal, Public Utilities. The County Manager and
County Attorney may also be invited to provide comments. Other interested
state, federal, and local agencies may be invited to attend as necessary.
   (C)   TRC responsibilities. The Technical Review Committee is responsible
for reviewing all subdivisions as defined under §
154.01 of these regulations. TRC shall provide the subdivider with comments and
suggestions to ensure compliance with this and any other applicable
regulations.
   (D)   Acceptance of application.
      (1)   The Planning staff shall review a submitted application and
determine whether it complies with submittal requirements.
      (2)   If the application does not comply with submittal requirements,
Planning staff shall notify the applicant of the submittal deficiencies, and
invite the applicant to revise the application and correct the deficiencies.
      (3)   If or when the application complies with all submittal
requirements, the Planning staff shall accept the application as complete and
notify the applicant of its acceptance for review.
   (E)   Staff review.
      (1)   Staff review.
         (a)   After accepting an application as complete, Planning staff shall
refer it to the Technical Review Committee (TRC).
         (b)   The TRC shall review the application to determine whether the
proposed subdivision complies with all applicable regulations, identify any
noncompliant features of the proposal, and whenever feasible, suggest
modifications to correct noncompliant features.
         (c)   Before taking final action on the plat, the TRC will submit
copies of the plat and any other accompanying materials to the following
agencies, if deemed appropriate by the Planning Director or designee:
            1.   The District Highway Engineer, as to proposed streets,
highways, and drainage systems;
            2.   The County Health Department, as to proposed water and
sewerage systems;
            3.   The County Manager;
            4.   The County School Board, as to proposed school sites;
            5.   The U.S. Post Office (Postal Service), as to proposed street
names;
            6.   The State Department of Environment and Natural Resources and
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers;
            7.   The U.S. Soil Conservation Service, as to soil analysis and
drainage; and
            8.   Such other agencies the Planning Director or designee may deem
necessary.
         (d)   The Planning staff shall notify the applicant of the identified
noncompliant features and suggested modifications, and invite the applicant to
discuss the review comments.
      (2)   Opportunity to revise application.
         (a)   Following receipt of staff review comments, and any discussions
thereof with the Planning staff, the applicant shall either:
            1.   Ask Planning staff to prepare a staff report of the
application as submitted; or
            2.   Notify Planning staff of intent to revise the application to
address staff comments and submit a revised application.
         (b)   If the Planning staff receives no response within ten days after
notifying the applicant of the application’s noncompliant features, he or she
shall presume that the applicant asks that the staff take action on the
application as submitted.
         (c)   If the applicant submits a revised application, Planning staff
shall determine whether it continues to comply with submittal requirements.
         (d)   On accepting a revised application as complete, Planning staff
shall review it for correction of previously identified compliant features.
(1996 Code, § 154.20) (Ord. passed 3-21-1994; Ord. passed 5-1-2006)
§ 154.21 RECORDATION.
   (A)   No plat of a subdivision within the jurisdiction of the county shall
be recorded by the Register of Deeds until final approval has been given by the
County Planning Board and signed by the County Planning Board Chairperson and/
or Planning Director. To obtain final approval of a final plat, the subdivider
shall follow the steps in this section.
   (B)   Building permits required pursuant to G.S. § 153A-357 may be denied
for lots that have been illegally subdivided. In addition to other remedies, a
county may institute any appropriate action or proceedings to prevent the
unlawful subdivision of land, to restrain, correct, or abate the violation, or
to prevent any illegal act or conduct.
(1996 Code, § 154.21) (Ord. passed 3-21-1994; Ord. passed 3-20-2006) Penalty,
see §
154.99
§ 154.22 SKETCH DESIGN PLAN.
   When appropriate, the subdivider shall submit to the Planning Director a
sketch plan prior to submitting a preliminary plat.
   (A)   Copies. A minimum of four copies of a sketch plan shall be submitted.
   (B)   Scale. A sketch design shall be drawn at a scale of approximately one
inch to 100 feet unless the size of the property dictates a larger scale.
   (C)   Contents. The sketch design plan shall depict or show the information
listed under plat requirements, §
154.23(B) letter “S”, for sketches as shown below.
   (D)   Flood data. Flood data certification shall be required.
   (E)   TRC review. The Technical Review Committee shall review the sketch
design plan for general compliance with the regulations and shall advise the
subdivider, or his or her authorized agent, of the recommendations for
improvement of the sketch design.
   (F)   Restrictions. Any existing and current deed restrictions or
restrictive covenants on property to be developed shall be attached to the
preliminary plat.
(1996 Code, § 154.22) (Ord. passed 3-21-1994)
§ 154.23 PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   A preliminary plat and appropriate plans shall be submitted to the Planning
Department at least ten working days prior to the regularly scheduled
Planning Board meeting, for every subdivision of land located within the
territorial jurisdiction of the county.
   (A)   Number of copies. Eight blue or black line copies of the preliminary
plat shall be submitted. Only one copy of additional required plans shall be
submitted unless the Planning Director deems a need for more copies.
   (B)   Plat requirements. Sketch, preliminary, and final plats shall depict
or contain the information indicated on the following table. The letters “S,”
“P,” and “F” shall indicate that the information is required for sketch,
preliminary, and final plats, respectively.
Plat Requirements
Plat Requirements
   A title block containing:
      Name of the subdivision and phase (if applicable);
      Name, address, and telephone number of owner and owner’s agent;
S,    Date or dates survey was conducted and plat was prepared;
P,    Scale denoted graphically and numerically;
F     Name and address of registered land surveyor, land planner, architect, or
   engineer responsible for the subdivision. The registration number and seal of
   the responsible engineer or surveyor shall be required at final approval; and
      Name of township, county, and state in which subdivision is located.
S, Sketch vicinity map showing the relationship between the proposed subdivision
P, and the surrounding area.
F
P, Tax parcel number of tract(s) to be divided.
F
S, North arrow according to G.S. § 47-30 and the Standards of Practice for Land
P, Surveying in North Carolina.
F
S,
P, Total acreage of tract to be subdivided.
F
S,
P, Number of lots created and average lot size within subdivision.
F
P, Boundary survey of tract to be subdivided, distinctly and accurately represented
F  with all bearings and distances shown.
S,
P, Proposed lot lines, block number, and dimensions of lots.
F
S, Existing and proposed property lines on the tract to be subdivided and on
P, adjoining properties.
F
S, The names of adjacent land owners with lot, block, or parcel identifier or other
P, legal reference where applicable.
F
S,
P, The names of any adjoining subdivisions of record or proposed and under review.
F
S,
P, Existing structures on the tract to be subdivided.
F
S, Existing waterways, railroads, bridges, culverts, storm drains, and corporate
P, limits, county lines, or township boundaries, both on the land to be subdivided
F  and the land immediately adjoining.
P, The name and location of any property or buildings within the proposed
F  subdivision or within any contiguous property that is located on the U.S.
   Department of Interior’s National Register of Historic Places.
P, Location of all wooded areas, 404 wetlands, rock outcrops, ponds, streams, or
F  other natural feature.
P, Location and acreage of recreation area to be:
F
      Donated to the general public; or
      Location, acreage, and location of improvements for recreation area to be
   maintained as per §
   154.42(C)(8) of these regulations if land is to be donated in lieu of a fee
P, The exact location of the flood hazard boundary area, floodway, and floodway
F  fringe areas as determined by the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s 100-year
   flood levels.
   Erosion and sedimentation control plans shall be submitted with the preliminary
   plat. All plans must conform to the Sedimentation and Pollution Control Act of
P  1973 and a letter of approval from the State Department of Environment, Health,
   and Natural Resources, Division of Land Resources shall accompany the
   preliminary plats.
P, The zoning classifications of the tract to be subdivided shall be shown.
F  Setbacks for the respective zoning classification shall be indicated on the
   plat.
P, Minimum building lines shall be delineated on each lot within the subdivision or
F  indicated by lot on the plat.
P  Accompanying the preliminary plat shall be a permit from the U.S. Army Corps of
   Engineers for all planned crossing of 404 wetlands within the subdivision.
P, A note shall be included on the plat that indicates if the proposed subdivision
F  is to be served by public or individual water supply and public or individual
   sewage treatment systems.
   If on-site sewage treatment and disposal systems are proposed, individual lot-
   by-lot evaluations shall be made prior to preliminary plat approval. Upon
P  application to the Environmental Health Office, the developer shall accurately
   map to scale, rough-stake and partially clear those lots to be evaluated by the
   Environmental Health Office.
   If a public sewage treatment system is proposed, a letter from the County Health
   Department or State Department of Environment, Health, and Natural Resources,
   Division of Environmental Management (depending on the type of system) shall be
P  presented with the preliminary plat. This letter shall state that a site
   investigation has been made and that the site is suitable for the proposed
   system. All plans for the proposed system shall be under review by the
   appropriate authority and a copy of such plans shall be presented to the County
   Planning Department as requested.
   If a public sewage treatment system is proposed, a permit shall be presented
   from the proper permitting agency for the proposed system. If a permit has not
F  yet been obtained, a letter from the proper permitting agency shall be presented
   which states that plans for construction of the facility have been approved.
   (See Zoning Chapter for additional special use permit requirements.)
   If a public water system is proposed, a letter shall be provided from the State
   Department of Environment, Health, and Natural Resources, Division of
P  Environmental Health stating that a site visit has been conducted and the well
   site has been approved. This letter shall be required prior to preliminary
   approval.
F  If a public water system is proposed, a well construction permit from the State
   Division of Health Services shall be presented with the final plat.
   The plans for proposed utility layouts, including sanitary sewers, storm sewers,
   water distribution lines, natural gas, telephone, and electric service,
P, illustrating connections to existing systems. Plans must show line sizes, the
F  location of fire hydrants, blowoffs, manholes, pumps, force mains, and gate
   valves, if appropriate, and shall include profiles based upon mean sea level
   datum for sanitary and storm sewers.
P, The location and dimension of all planned road, utility, or drainage easements.
F
P  The method of installation of utilities (underground or overhead) shall be
   indicated on the preliminary plat.
P, The location and dimension of all proposed and existing streets.
F
P, Existing and platted dedicated streets and rights-of-way on adjoining properties
F  and within the proposed subdivision.
P, Pavement widths.
F
P  Design engineering data for all corners and curves, including sight distances.
P  Typical street cross-sections (accompanying the preliminary plat).
P, Proposed names of all streets.
F
   Type of street dedication. All streets must be designated as either “public” or
   “private.” Where public streets are involved, the subdivider must submit the
   subdivision map typical cross-section to the State Department of Transportation
   District Highway Office for review. These plans shall include: a complete site
   layout, including any proposed future expansion; horizontal alignment indicating
   general curve data on site layout plan; vertical alignment indicated by percent
   grade, PI station and vertical curve length on site plan layout; the district
P, engineer may require the plotting of the ground profile and grade line for roads
F  where special conditions or problems exist, typical section indicating the
   pavement design and width and the slopes, widths and details for either the curb
   and gutter or the shoulder and ditch proposed; drainage facilities and drainage
   areas. Street name signs shall be provided at all subdivision street
   intersections and at any other point within the subdivision as deemed necessary
   by the Planning Director. Signs shall be of a county-approved design and shall
   be ordered and paid for by the developer prior to final approval. Installation
   of the signs shall occur after final approval is granted.
   All final plats shall be accompanied by a written statement from the State
   Department of Transportation, Division of Highways stating that the roads within
F  the subdivision are paved and constructed to DOT standards. This shall apply to
   all public and private roads. When a performance guarantee is presented to cover
   road improvement costs, this requirement shall be applied alter the completion
   of road construction.
   When streets are privately dedicated for maintenance, a statement explaining the
F  status of the street must be provided in accordance with §
   154.41(C)(9) of these regulations.
   If any street is proposed to intersect with a state maintained road, the
P  subdivider must present written driveway approval as required by the State
   Department of Transportation, Division of Highways’ manual on Driveway
   Regulations.
   Roadway length shall be indicated for each block and cul-de-sac within the
P  subdivision. Length shall be indicated from intersection to intersection where
   applicable.
   All plats shall be required to provide sufficient engineering data to determine
   readily and reproduce on the ground every straight or curved line, street line,
   lot line, right-of-way line, easement line, and setback line. These shall
F  include dimensions, bearings or deflection angles, radii, central angles and
   tangent distance for the centerline of curved property lines that are not the
   boundary line of curved streets. All dimensions shall be measured to the nearest
   0.01 of a foot and all angles to the nearest 20 seconds.
   Property corner ties, as required by G.S. § 47-30, shall be required as
F  specified in §
   154.46(A) of these regulations.
F  Monuments, markers, and control points shall be accurately described and
   located.
P  A topographic map with contour intervals of two feet or less may be required to
   accompany the preliminary plat as specified by the Planning Director.
P, When deemed necessary due to the nature of the land to be subdivided or
F  peculiarities in the proposed layout, an environmental impact statement may be
   required by the Planning Board pursuant to G.S. Chapter 113.
   Deed restrictions, homeowners’ association rules, and/or bylaws or similar
F  covenants proposed for the subdivision shall be presented prior to final
   approval.
F  A note shall be included on the final plat giving the surveyed distance from the
   nearest road or street intersection to a front boundary line of the subdivision.
 
    (C)   Staff action.
      (1)   On application. Following the applicant’s request for the staff
action on the original application or staff review of a revised application,
the Planning Director or designee shall review and make findings as to the
proposed subdivision’s compliance with all applicable provisions of this
chapter.
         (a)   Based on those findings, the Planning Director or designee shall
decide, in writing, to approve the application as submitted, or approve the
application subject to conditions, or deny the application.
            1.   If the application is denied or approved subject to
conditions, the decision shall state the reasons for the denial or the
conditions of approval.
            2.   Any conditions of approval shall be limited to requiring
specific actions and/or minor changes or additions to, or restrictions on, the
proposed subdivision that are deemed necessary to ensure compliance with
applicable provisions of this chapter.
         (b)   Planning staff shall file the decision and send a copy to the
applicant, along with a written notice that the decision becomes final, unless
the applicant:
            1.   Submits to Planning staff a written request that the
application be forwarded to the Planning Board; and
            2.   Does so within seven days after receiving a copy of the
Planning staff’s decision.
         (c)   1.   If the applicant submits such a request within the
prescribed time period, the Planning Director or designee shall forward the
application to the Planning Board for further review and a final decision.   
            2.   The decision of the Planning Director or designee shall
represent the staff report and recommendation for Planning Board action on the
application.
      (2)   If application is accompanied by a variance request. Following the
applicant’s request for a staff action on the original application, or staff
review of a revised application, the Planning Director or designee shall review
and, based on findings as to the proposed subdivision’s compliance with all
applicable provisions of this chapter, prepare a staff report noting the
application’s noncompliant features, and recommending that the Planning Board
approve the application as submitted, or approve the application subject to
conditions, or deny the application.
   (D)   Development in stages. When a subdivision is to be developed in
stages, a sketch plan may be required. The preliminary plat shall be submitted
with a minimum of five lots for each stage. Approval of the preliminary plat
shall become null and void after 12 months if the developer does not submit the
final plat unless an extension of time is applied for and granted by the
Planning Director. This requirement is not to be construed as prohibiting a
subdivider from retaining any portion of a tract, a part of which is to be
subdivided acreage.
   (E)   Review by agencies. The District Highway Engineer shall issue a
certificate of approval before any applicable subdivision plat is recorded with
the office of the Register of Deeds. Failure on the part of the other agencies
to act within 30 days after the preliminary plat has been submitted to the
Planning Board shall be deemed as approval.
   (F)   Review and action by Planning Board.
      (1)   Submittal to Board.
         (a)   If the applicant requests that the application be forwarded to
the Planning Board, in accord with §
154.23(C)(1)(b) above, or if the application is accompanied by a variance
request. Planning staff shall schedule the application for review by the
Planning Board at the Board’s next available regularly scheduled meeting.
         (b)   At a reasonable time before the meeting, staff shall send copies
of the application and the staff report to the applicant and members of the
Planning Board.
      (2)   Board review and action.
         (a)   At its meeting, the Planning Board shall review the application
and staff report.
         (b)   Based on findings as to the proposed subdivision’s compliance
with all applicable provisions of this chapter, the Board shall take action to
approve the application as submitted, approve the application subject to
conditions, or deny the application.
         (c)   The Board shall limit conditions of approval to requiring
specific actions and/or minor changes or additions to, or restrictions on, the
proposed subdivision that it deems reasonably necessary to ensure compliance
with applicable provisions of this chapter.
         (d)   If the Board denies the application, it shall identify its
reasons for doing so.
      (3)   Opportunity to revise application.
         (a)   If the Board discusses the application, the applicant may,
before the Board takes final action, ask the Board for permission to revise the
application to address concerns raised by the Board’s discussion.
         (b)   If the Board grants the request, the revised application shall
be submitted to the Planning staff, and shall be reviewed in the same manner as
an original application.
      (4)   Notice of decision.
         (a)   The Planning staff shall send the applicant written notice of
the Planning Board’s final decision on the application, and shall file a copy
of the decision in his or her office.
         (b)   If the application is denied, the notice shall state the Board’s
reasons for its decision.
   (G)   Preliminary plat approval required. The preliminary plat shall be
approved by the Planning Director or designee or Planning Board prior to any
grading, construction, installation of improvements, or preparation of the
final plat.
   (H)   Timely review of applications. The Planning staff or Planning Board
shall review and take action on each preliminary plat that meets the
requirements of these regulations, within 45 days after first consideration by
the Technical Review Committee.
(1996 Code, § 154.23) (Ord. passed 3-21-1994; Ord. passed 7-1-1996; Ord. passed
9-20-2004; Ord. passed 5-1-2006)
§ 154.24 FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   Preparation of final plat and installation of improvements. Upon
approval of the preliminary plat by the County Board of Commissioners, the
subdivider may proceed with the preparation of the final plat and the
installation and arrangements for required improvements, or guarantee their
installation.
   (B)   Performance guarantee. When the required improvements have not been
completed prior to submission of the final plat, the developer is required to
guarantee the completion of the required improvements by means satisfactory to
the Planning Director in consultation with the developer’s engineers and/or
surveyors in an amount equal to the estimated cost of construction of the
required improvements. Performance guarantees may be reviewed by the Planning
Board at the request of the Planning Director. Performance guarantees shall run
for a period of one year and may be renewed for successive one-year periods
upon written approval from the Planning Director.
   (C)   Defects guarantee.
      (1)   The Planning Board shall require a guarantee on utility taps,
ramps, streets, pavement, sidewalks, drainage facilities, and water and sewer
lines and other improvements against defects for one year from the date of
acceptance of construction and/or installation. The amount shall be determined
by the Planning Director in consultation with the developer’s engineers and/or
surveyors. One of the guarantees listed under division (B) above shall be used.
      (2)   The above defects guarantee requirement will, however, be satisfied
if the developer presents written evidence satisfactory to the Planning
Director that the contractor building the required improvements guarantees the
improvements for a period of one year from the date of acceptance of
construction and/or installments.
   (D)   The final plat. The final plat shall constitute only that portion of
the preliminary plat which the subdivider proposes to record and develop at the
time; such portion shall conform to all the requirements of these regulations.
   (E)   Plat submitted. The subdivider shall submit the final plat, so marked,
to the Planning Director. The Planning Director shall have 30 days to review
the final plat. The final plat shall not be submitted more than 12 months after
the date on which the preliminary plat was approved unless a written extension
of this time limit is granted by the Planning Director on or before the one-
year anniversary date of approval. Otherwise such approval shall be null and
void.
   (F)   Plat prepared. The final plat shall be prepared by a land surveyor
licensed and registered to practice in the state. The final plat shall conform
to the preliminary plat as it was approved.
   (G)   Number of copies. Eight copies of the final plat shall be submitted.
Two of these shall be on sepia suitable for reproduction to be submitted after
recording with the Register of Deeds. Six shall be black or blue prints.
   (H)   Size of sheets. Final plats shall have an outside marginal size of 18
by 24 inches.
   (I)   Fees. Submission of the final plat must be accompanied by a filing fee
established by the Board of Commissioners in the county Zoning Chapter. (See §
155.286.)
   (J)   Required certifications. The following signed certificates shall
appear on all copies of the final plat which are submitted to the Planning
Board by the subdivider:
      (1)   Certificate of ownership and dedication.
         I (we) hereby certify that I am (we are) the owner(s) of the property
described hereon, which is located in the subdivision jurisdiction of Davie
County and that I hereby adopt this subdivision plan with my free consent,
established minimum building setback lines and dedicate all streets, alleys,
walks, parks, and other sites and easements to public or private use as noted.
                                                            
         Owners                  Date
      (2)   Certificate of approval of private (on- site) sewage disposal
systems.
         I hereby certify that the County Health Department has evaluated the
Subdivision entitled        with respect to criteria and conditions established
by state law or promulgated thereunder and the same is found to comply with
such criteria and conditions EXCEPT as found in such evaluation. For details of
this evaluation and for limitations, see the written report on file at the
Department.
         IMPORTANT NOTICE: THIS CERTIFICATE DOES NOT CONSTITUTE A PERMIT OR
APPROVAL OF INDIVIDUAL LOTS IN THE SUBDIVISION FOR INSTALLATION OF SEWAGE
FACILITIES.
                                                            
         Date         County Health Official
(certificate not required for subdivisions which are connected, or will be
connected, to existing publicly-owned and operated water supply and sewage
disposal systems.)
      (3)   Certificate of survey and accuracy.
         I, ___________, certify that this map was (drawn by me) (drawn under
my supervision) from (an actual survey made by me) (an actual survey made under
my supervision) (deed description recorded in Book ___, Line___, Page____, and
the like) (other); that the error of closure as calculated by latitudes and
departures is 1:_____, that the boundaries not surveyed are shown as broken
lines plotted from information found in Book___, Page___; that this map was
prepared in accordance with G.S. § 47-30 as amended. Witness my hand and seal
this       day of         , 20 __.
                                                 
         Registered Land Surveyor
                                          
         License or Registration Number
      (4)   Declaration of road design and construction (subdivider to maintain
or not maintain roads):
         I hereby declare that, to the best of my knowledge, the non-state
maintained road(s) allowed under §§
154.40 through
154.47 of the County Subdivision Regulations and which are a part of this
subdivision have been designed and (will be) built to the standards of the
regulation. I also hereby declare that once the road(s) is constructed to the
required standards, I will (no longer) be responsible for maintenance of these
roads.
      (5)   Perpetual ownership and/or maintenance of streets, roads, and
rights-of-way. By written document sufficient for recording in the Office of
the Register of Deeds, either an owners’ association is created and established
by the subdivider through the recording of restrictive covenants or other
documents creating the association, or an agreement satisfactory to the
Planning Board is provided by the developer, for the perpetual ownership and/or
maintenance of streets and right-of-way within the subdivision, and/or which
provides exclusive access to the subdivision of all future lot owners, then the
street and rights-of-way may be designated as “private residential streets.” In
such cases the subdivider shall grant to or dedicate to either the owner’s
association or to the property owners within the subdivision rights-of-way for
all streets in accordance with the private residential street standards set
forth hereafter, but the subdivider shall not be required to dedicated the
street rights-of-way for public use. All private residential streets shall be
designed and constructed in accordance with the standards set forth in this
section.
      (6)   Disclaimer in wetland. If any wetland areas are located on the
final plat, the following disclaimer shall be required:
         Section 404 jurisdictional wetland areas shown on this plat reflect
the laws and published regulations in effect at the time of Planning Board
review and approval of this subdivision. Amendments to the wetlands
jurisdictional regulations may occur and, as such, wetland area boundary lines
could be subject to change. A reevaluation by a Corps of Engineers
representative is recommended within three years after plat approval to ensure
the accuracy of jurisdictional boundaries at the time of development.
   (K)   Review procedure. Final plats shall be reviewed under the following
procedure:
      (1)   (a)   The Planning Director shall approve or disapprove the final
plat within 30 days of submittal. If the Planning Director approves the final
plat, such approval shall be indicated on each copy of the final plat by the
following signed certificate:
            I hereby certify that the subdivision plat shown hereon has been
found to comply with the County Subdivision Regulations, with the exception of
such variances, if any, as are noted in the minutes of the Planning Board and
that it has been approved for recording in the Office of the Register of Deeds.
It is hereby noted that such approval for recordation does not include approval
to install and utilize sanitary facilities nor does it include approval for the
construction or occupancy of buildings or structures.
                                                                   
            Director, County Planning Department
         (b)   If the Planning Director disapproves the final plat, the
Planning Director shall state in writing the reasons for such action. One copy
of this statement shall be transmitted to the subdivider within ten days of
disapproval; one copy shall be retained by the Planning Director. If the final
plat is disapproved, the subdivider may make such changes as will bring the
final plat into compliance with these regulations and resubmit for
reconsideration by the Planning Director.
         (c)   The approval or denial of a final subdivision plat may be
appealed to the County Board of Adjustment in accordance with §
155.234. The Board of Adjustment shall decide all petitions for appeal from the
decision made by the Planning Director to approve or deny a final plat. Any
reversal, modification, or affirmation of a decision made by the Planning
Director will be entered in writing in the minutes of the Board of Adjustment
with the justification set forth. The Board of Adjustment may decide to reverse
or modify the decision under appeal upon finding an error in the application of
these regulations on the part of the Planning Director.
      (2)   The final plat shall be approved by the County Board of
Commissioners prior to recording.
   (L)   Distribution of copies. When the final plat is approved by the
Planning Director, the final plat shall be returned to the subdivider. Two
reproducible copies shall be filed by the subdivider with the Register of Deeds
of the county.
   (M)   Abbreviated procedure. The abbreviated procedure affords the sale of
lots and/or tracts of land which qualify as subdivisions under the definition
in the state statutes, but which have little impact on the county. Subdivisions
of lands which involve no street right-of-way dedication, no utility
extensions, ten lots or less, and ten total acres or less may follow the
abbreviated procedure. This procedure requires only a final plat be submitted
to the Planning Director for approval. If the area proposed for subdivision is
part of a larger tract which the subdivider owns, or has an option on or legal
interest in, the subdivision shall not qualify under the abbreviated procedure.
The Planning Director shall approve or disapprove the final plat of an
abbreviated subdivision pursuant to division (K) of this section.
   (N)   Recording of the final plat. The subdivider shall file the approved
final plat with the Register of Deeds of the county for recording within six
months after the date of the Planning Director’s approval; otherwise, such
approval shall be null and void.
   (O)   Resubdivision procedures. For any replatting or resubdivision of land,
the same procedure, rules, and regulations shall apply as prescribed herein for
an original subdivision except that lot sizes may be varied on an approved plat
after recording provided that:
      (1)   No lot or tract of land shall be created or sold that is smaller
than the size shown on the approved plat;
      (2)   Drainage, easements, or rights-of-way shall not be changed;
      (3)   Street alignment and block sizes shall not be changed;
      (4)   Property lines between the back of the lots shall not be changed;
      (5)   The rear portion of lots shall not be subdivided from the front
part; and
      (6)   The character of the area shall be maintained.
   (P)   Maintenance of required improvements.
      (1)   The subdivider is responsible for maintenance of all required
improvements, including rights-of-way, to the standards of this chapter until
such time as a unit of government, public or private utility, homeowners’
association, property owners’ association, lot owner, or other legal entity
assumes formal, legal responsibility for maintenance of the improvements. The
record plat must include the subdivider’s signed and notarized acknowledgment
of this responsibility. The subdivider must also provide each prospective buyer
of any lot shown on the record plat with written disclosure of the subdivider’s
responsibility for maintaining required improvements.
         Subdivision Disclosure Statement
      1.   All required improvements have been certified as complete except for
the listed improvements and these shall be completed by the following dates:
                                                           
         Improvement         Date
      2.   As Subdivider                        , am (are) responsible for:
         a.   Construction of all required improvements in accordance with the
approved preliminary plat and construction plans;
         b.   Completion of all improvements per schedule above;
         c.   Maintenance of each required improvement until assumed by:
                                                           
         Improvement         Entity
         d.   Provision to the prospective buyer of any lot shown on this
record plat with a written disclosure of (a) my (our) responsibility for
completing and maintaining the required improvements and its schedule.
                                                           
         Signature         Notary
      (2)   Perpetual ownership and/or maintenance of private streets, roads,
and rights-of-way. By written document sufficient for recording in the office
of the Register of Deeds, either an owners’ association is created and
established by the subdivider through the recording of restrictive covenants or
other documents creating the association, or an agreement satisfactory to the
Planning Board is provided by the developer, for the perpetual ownership and/or
maintenance of streets and right-of-way within the subdivision, and/or which
provides exclusive access to the subdivision of all future lot owners, then the
street and rights-of-way may be designated as “private streets.” In such cases
the subdivider shall grant to or dedicate to either the owner’s association or
to the property owners within the subdivision rights-of-way for all streets in
accordance with the private street standards set forth hereafter, but the
subdivider shall not be required to dedicate the street rights-of-way for
public use. All private streets shall be designed and constructed in accordance
with the standards set forth in this chapter.
(1996 Code, § 154.24) (Ord. passed 3-21-1994; Ord. passed 9-20-2004; Ord.
passed 1-18-2005; Ord. passed 11-6-2006)
STANDARDS OF DESIGN
§ 154.40 NAME OF SUBDIVISION.
   The name of the subdivision shall not duplicate the name of an existing
subdivision within the county’s jurisdiction.
(1996 Code, § 154.40) (Ord. passed 3-21-1994)
§ 154.41 STREETS AND ROADS.
   (A)   New subdivisions, generally. In any new subdivision the street layout
shall conform to the arrangement, width, and location indicated by any official
plans or maps for the county. In areas for which such plans have not been
completed, the streets shall be designed and located in proper relation to
existing and proposed streets, to the topography, to such natural features as
streams, to public convenience and safety, and to the proposed use of land to
be served by such streets. All streets shall provide for the continuation or
appropriate projection of principal streets in surrounding areas and provide
reasonable means of ingress and egress for surrounding tracts.
   (B)   Construction standards.
      (1)   All streets and roads within subdivisions or accessing proposed
subdivisions, unless qualifying as exempt under division (C)(1) of this
section, shall be paved and constructed according to the secondary road
specifications of the North Carolina Department of Transportation (NCDOT)
pursuant to “Subdivision Roads, Minimum Construction Standards.” All streets
shall be required to show a minimum 60-foot right-of-way on the final plat
unless the State Department of Transportation approves a smaller right-of-way
or the project is a MINOR SUBDIVISION as defined in these regulations.
      (2)   The following subdivision roads shall be exempt from meeting
secondary roads specifications of NCDOT:
         (a)   Roads in minor subdivisions where no adjacent land is owned or
under option to the subdivider (one- and two-lot subdivisions only);
         (b)   Roads which are unpaved but are maintained by the North Carolina
Department of Transportation;
         (c)   Roads which cannot be built to NCDOT standards without violating
any local, state, or federal laws (related to wetlands and marshes);
         (d)   Roads within a planned unit development where a homeowner’s
association has been formed to maintain a private road;
         (e)   Roads within subdivisions where each lot within the subdivision
is at least five acres, as defined in division (C)(7) of this section; and
         (f)   Roads within campground subdivisions.
   (C)   General road standards.
      (1)   Access.
         (a)   Separation. Where a subdivision is proposed adjacent to a major/
minor arterial/collector and access is proposed onto the major/minor arterial
by driveways and/or intersecting roads, said driveways and/or intersecting
roads may be required to be separated according to North Carolina Department of
Transportation or county standards, whichever permits the freer and safer flow
of traffic.
         (b)   Alternative access. Where a subdivision is proposed adjacent to
major/minor arterial or major collector, lots shall be required to have no
direct access to such roads if alternative access from a road of lower
classification is possible.
         (c)   Access to major thoroughfares.
            1.   It is the intent of this regulation to limit access onto a
major thoroughfare where appropriate, in order to maintain the traffic capacity
and encourage smooth traffic flow.
            2.   In situations where strict compliance with this provision is
impossible or impractical due to topographic conditions, configuration of the
parcel to be subdivided, or other condition beyond the control of the
subdivider, other approaches may be permitted or the property owner may be
exempted from the requirements in divisions (C)(1)(c)3. and 4., below.
            3.   Where a tract of land to be subdivided borders on an existing
minor arterial or major collector, access from a subdivision or individual lot
directly onto a major thoroughfare may be regulated by requiring:
               a.   That rear or side yards abut the minor arterial or major
collector, and the front or side yards abut an existing parallel local road;
               b.   That a parallel local road be created and that roads
internal to the subdivision access the local road at a 90-degree angle. The
rear or side yards of terminal lots must abut the major thoroughfare;
               c.   That a marginal access or service road be constructed,
parallel to and separated by a buffer strip from, the minor arterial or major
collector. The access road may have access to the major thoroughfare at
suitable points and shall serve as the principal access road to the
subdivision. No direct access from the lots onto the major thoroughfare will be
allowed; or
               d.   That another access design, such as joint (shared)
driveways, be used to achieve the intent of this regulation.
            4.   Where a tract of land to be subdivided borders on an existing
or proposed minor collector, access from a subdivision or individual lot
directly onto a major thoroughfare may be regulated by requiring that another
access design, such as joint (shared) driveways, be used to achieve the intent
of this regulation.
            5.   The following criteria shall be considered when the proposed
design for such subdivisions or individual lots is reviewed:
               a.   The thoroughfare’s road classification;
               b.   Traffic counts as related to capacity;
               c.   Functional classification;
               d.   Ultimate cross-sectional design of the major thoroughfare;
and
               e.   The sight distance of approaching traffic from the point
where any proposed access intersects the major thoroughfare.
         (d)   Turn lanes on adjoining major thoroughfare. Where a subdivision
is proposed adjacent to a major thoroughfare and access is proposed onto the
major thoroughfare, left-turn storage or right-turn deceleration lanes may be
required on the major thoroughfare or intersection according to State
Department of Transportation or county standards, whichever permits the freer
and safer flow of traffic.
         (e)   Major thoroughfare right-of-way dedication or reservation.
            1.   Dedication of right-of-way abutting existing major
thoroughfares.
               a.   If a subdivision site abuts an existing major thoroughfare
with a right-of-way width less than that recommended in the County Thoroughfare
Plan; and
               b.   Development in the proposed subdivision is expected to add
a significant amount of traffic onto that major thoroughfare, then the
subdivision shall include dedication of any additional right-of-way along the
site’s frontage on the major thoroughfare that is needed to widen the right-of-
way to 35 feet from the centerline of the roadway.
            2.   Proposed new thoroughfares.
               a.   Incorporation of thoroughfare. If the County Transportation
Plan proposes a new major thoroughfare across part of a subdivision site, and
an alignment for the thoroughfare has been determined to a reasonable degree of
certainty (for example, as a centerline alignment on a functional design plan),
and the thoroughfare could appropriately serve to provide direct access to the
subdivision (for example, it would not be a freeway or other restricted-access
road), then the subdivision shall incorporate the major thoroughfare into its
internal road layout by having one of the subdivision roads run along the
proposed thoroughfare alignment. Such road, however, need only be constructed
to NCDOT standards for a residential collector road.
               b.   Reservation of future right-of-way.
                  i.   If the County Transportation Plan proposes a new major
thoroughfare, other than one defined in provision (C)(1)(e)2.a. above, across
part of a subdivision site;
                  ii.   An alignment for the thoroughfare has been determined
to a reasonable degree of certainty (for example, as a centerline alignment on
a functional design plan); and
                  iii.   The county’s development regulations reasonably allow
the subdivider to both realize the maximum lot density allowed by the site’s
zoning and physical characteristics and avoid developing that part of the site
needed as future right-of-way for the proposed thoroughfare, then the
subdivision shall include reservation of the thoroughfare’s future right-of-
way, that is, it shall not include lots or other development within the land
area needed as the thoroughfare’s future right-of-way. Land area needed as
future right-of-way shall be determined from NCDOT plans where available, or
otherwise by applying half the right-of- way width recommended in the County
Transportation Plan along each side of the thoroughfare’s proposed centerline
alignment.
               c.   Applicability.
                  i.   If neither provision (C)(1)(e)2.a. or b. above applies
to a proposed subdivision across which a major thoroughfare is proposed, then
no incorporation of the major thoroughfare or reservation of future right-of-
way for the major thoroughfare is required.
                  ii.   The Planning Board or Planning Director, as
appropriate, may not delay approval of a particular subdivision plan for
failure to comply with provision (C)(1)(e)2.b. above for more than three years
after the date the application for plan approval has been accepted by the
Planning Director as complete.
         (f)   Multiple driveway (street) accesses. Multiple driveway accesses
into a subdivision may be required to provide additional ingress and egress. In
determining whether to require multiple accesses, the Project Review Committee
shall consider the following:
            1.   The overall number of lots served by the street system;
            2.   The number of interconnections with adjoining properties;
            3.   The proposed street system pattern;
            4.   The configuration of the tract of land; and
            5.   The amount of road frontage available.
      (2)   Street layout.
         (a)   Relationship to network. The proposed street layout within a
subdivision shall be coordinated with the existing and proposed road network
within the surrounding area (as established on adopted transportation plans and
the road layout within existing and approved subdivisions in the general area),
including the extension and interconnection of roads between adjacent
properties where appropriate to the development of a local road network. A
network of extended and interconnected local roads is intended to provide each
parcel in the general area the safe, convenient, and efficient means of access
that will ensure the orderly development of the parcel and the area, provide a
wholesome community environment, ensure the effective and efficient provision
of emergency and other public services, and help to avoid degradation of
existing roads and highways.
         (b)   Required road extensions to adjoining property. A proposed road
shall be extended to an adjacent property, or a connecting road shall be
provided to the adjacent property, wherever such extension or connection is
deemed desirable to the development of a local road network serving the general
area.
            1.   If it is determined that the required road extension or
connection should serve as part of a through road within a local road network,
or as part of a non-through road that would provide access to an area with a
development potential of more than 12 dwelling units, it shall be:
               a.   Designed and constructed as a public road to the adjacent
property; and
               b.   Located so as to best ensure the safe, convenient, and
efficient movement of traffic within a local road network as well as the
orderly development of adjacent properties.
            2.   If the road to be extended or connected to an adjacent
property cannot serve as part of a through road within a local road network
because physiographical characteristics (for example, rivers, lakes, ponds,
steep slopes, or flood hazard areas) or other intervening human-made
characteristics (for example, railroads, freeways, parks, or existing
development) make it impractical to extend the road beyond the adjacent
property, and it would provide access to an area with a development potential
of 12 dwelling units or less, the subdivider shall grant an easement for the
road to the benefit of the adjacent property. The easement shall:
               a.   Give the current and future owner(s) of the adjacent
property the right to construct the road as either a public or private road and
to dedicate the easement as a public road right-of-way if the road is
constructed as a public road; and
               b.   Have a right-of-way width, and include adjacent
construction easements, necessary to allow the construction of a public road
meeting the standards of this chapter.
            3.   Guidelines for requiring “stub roads” to adjoining properties:
               a.   Stub roads to adjacent properties shall be required in
order to allow for orderly development of the road network. Therefore:
                  i.   The orderly development of the road network necessitates
that at least two means of access will be provided to the subdivision and to
all lots within the subdivision except where properties are accessed by a cul-
de-sac conforming with division (C)(3) of this section.
                  ii.   All adjacent properties must be considered when
determining appropriate locations for stub roads. No more than one stub road
shall be required for the sole purpose of providing access to a single
landlocked parcel, but more than one may be required for the purpose of good
traffic flow.
               b.   Stub roads to adjacent properties shall be required except
when the Planning Board or Planning Director, as appropriate, determines that:
                  i.   Physical barriers or environmentally sensitive area
should not be crossed (for example, railroads, watercourses, steep topography,
or flood areas);
                  ii.   The stub road would connect properties where the zoning
or land uses are incompatible, and the connection would create traffic
detrimental to residential land uses;
                  iii.   There is a large discrepancy in the size of the
adjacent parcel (a smaller parcel being subdivided may not have to provide a
stub to a much larger parcel, if other, more desirable, interconnections are
available to the large parcel);
                  iv.   The stub road would eventually provide a direct
connection between thoroughfares which would encourage through traffic at
levels inappropriate for the type of road provided (for instance, it might be
appropriate to provide such a connection with a collector road rather than with
a local access road); and
                  v.   The stub road would connect to property for which
development rights have been sold for a public purpose and access to the
property is not desirable for orderly development of the road network.
               c.   Stub roads should be designed, constructed, and maintained
according to applicable standards of the State Department of Transportation for
the following reasons:
                  i.   To circumvent dispute regarding responsibility for
maintenance and who has the right to use the road;
                  ii.   To allow neighboring subdivisions to build adjoining
public roads;
                  iii.   To avoid legal issues of requiring a dedicated strip
to be paved at a later date than subdivision approval; and
                  iv.   The existence of a road, which may be extended, is
known to buyers and subsequent owners of neighboring properties.
            4.   The following standards apply to all stub roads:
               a.   A temporary turnaround (either a standard bulb cul-de-sac)
must be provided at the end of any stub road in excess of 400 feet in length
that is planned for extension into future sections of the subdivision or onto
adjacent property. Temporary turnarounds must comply with the following:
                  i.   The turnaround must be constructed in a temporary
easement, located either on-site or off-site;
                  ii.   The developer of the adjacent property making a road
connection to the existing stub road shall be responsible for the removal of
the turnaround and for the restoration of the area at the time that the road
connection is made; and
                  iii.   The turnaround must comply with the cul-de-sac
dimensional standards of this section.
               b.   Additionally, any plat containing a stub road shall include
the following note:
                  The road system shown on this plat includes one or more stub
roads that are intended to be connected to the adjacent property at such time
that the property is developed. The interconnection of neighborhoods with a
road network ensures the efficient flow and dispersal of traffic and provides
for additional points of ingress and egress for emergency vehicles.
      (3)   Cul-de-sacs length.
         (a)   Cul-de-sacs shall be no less than 200 feet nor more than 1,320
feet in length, except where in the opinion of the Planning Board or Planning
Director existing topography or size of the parcel require a modification.
         (b)   A cul-de-sac’s length is measured from the center point of its
turnaround, along the centerline of its right-of-way and that of any
intervening roads, to the centerline of the right-of-way of the nearest through
road.
         (c)   Permanent cul-de-sac roads shall be provided at the closed end
with a circular turnaround having a minimum driving surface radius of 35 feet
and minimum right-of-way radius of 50 feet. At the point where the road widens
into the cul-de-sac, the driving surface shall have a minimum turn radius of 35
feet, and the right-of-way shall have a minimum radius of 25 feet.
      (4)   Block length.
      (5)   Block widths.
      (6)   Intersection design. Corners and intersections shall be designed as
follows.
         (a)   All roads shall intersect as nearly as possible at right angles,
and no road shall intersect with another at an angle of less than 60 degrees.
Other arrangements may be approved only if they will reduce traffic hazards and
provide smooth traffic flow at an intersection.
         (b)   When a centerline offset (jog) occurs at an intersection, the
distance between the centerlines of the intersecting roads shall not be less
than 135 feet.
         (c)   An intersection shall not include more than four road
approaches.
         (d)   The edge of pavement at intersections shall be rounded with the
following radii minimum:
            1.   Private roads with private roads: 25 feet; and
            2.   All other intersections: 30 feet.
         (e)   Adequate sight distances shall be provided at all intersections
between streets and at driveway intersections with streets.
      (7)   Reserve strips and non-access reservations. Reserve strips or non-
access reservations that control access to roads, waterways, parks or the like,
and other reserved strips shall be permitted only if their purpose, location,
dimensions and manner of control is approved by the Planning Board, Planning
Director as appropriate.
      (8)   Construction plans. Plans for proposed public streets shall be
approved by NCDOT and the County Planning Department prior to commencement of
construction activities and final plat approval.
         (a)   Roads must meet standards. Any extension of an existing road or
any creation of a new road must meet or exceed the standards of this section.
         (b)   Minimum construction standards for non-state maintained roads in
subdivisions with each lot containing at least five acres shall be those set
forth in Subdivision Roads Minimum Construction Standards by the State
Department of Transportation (July 1, 1979 and subsequent amendments) except
for the requirements of a stone base and paved surface. No graded road shall be
muck, pipe clay, organic matter, or other unsuitable material. A minimum right-
of-way of 50 feet shall always be required. A three-inch paved or concrete
apron shall be provided for a non-state maintained road or access easement that
proposes connection to an existing state system road. Such apron shall be the
width of the travel portion of the road and extend a minimum of 15 feet from
the edge of the state system road.
         (c)   Permits for connection to state roads:
            1.   An approved State Department of Transportation driveway
connection permit is required for the following:
               a.   Connection of a subdivision street to any existing state
system road;
               b.   Any new lot that is created and proposes access to any
existing state system road that is identified as a major or minor arterial in
the County Transportation Plan;
               c.   Three or more lots created and proposing access to any
existing state system road; or
               d.   Any access easement that is created to serve two or more
lots that propose access to any existing state system road.
            2.   This permit is required prior to any construction which
connects the subdivision road, driveway or access easement to the state system
road and shall be submitted prior to final plat approval.
      (9)   Setbacks. Setbacks for five-acre lots shall be the same as required
in §
154.42(C)(5).
      (10)   Disclosure statement. A subdivision street disclosure statement
shall be issued in accordance with G.S. § 136-102.6, designating the
appropriate person, homeowners’ association, or other group that will maintain
the non-state maintained streets in each subdivision in the future.
      (11)   Road names.  The names of the streets shall not duplicate the name
of any existing road or street within the county and shall be approved by
County GIS/Addressing prior to final plat approval.
      (12)   Road signs. The subdivider shall be required to reimburse the
county for providing and placing street name signs to county standards at all
intersections within the subdivision. This fee shall be paid before final plat
approval.
      (13)   Nonresidential subdivision design standards.
         (a)   The design standards as set forth in this section are the
minimum design standards to be used by the nonresidential subdivider. Unless
otherwise set forth, the standards and procedures established elsewhere in this
chapter as applicable to all subdivisions shall apply to nonresidential
subdivisions as well.
         (b)   In nonresidential subdivisions, the streets and other accessways
shall be planned in connection with: the groupings of buildings; location of
rail facilities; provision of alleys; truck loading and maneuvering areas;
walks and parking areas so as to minimize conflict of movement between the
various types of traffic.
         (c)   In industrial subdivisions, collector streets shall be planned
to serve industrial areas exclusively and shall connect with arterial streets
so that no industrial traffic will be directed onto any residential streets.
         (d)   Street rights-of-way shall be planned to be extended to the
boundaries of any adjoining land planned for industry, except for severe
physical conditions or if the Project Review Committee finds such extension is
not in accordance with the approved plans of the area.
         (e)   Notwithstanding the other provisions of this chapter, the
minimum width of streets adjacent to areas designed, proposed or zoned for
commercial or industrial use may be increased by the Planning Director or
Project Review Committee to such extent as may be deemed necessary to assure
the free flow of through traffic without interference from parked or parking
motor vehicles.
            1.   A street serving an industrial/commercial subdivision shall
have a minimum right-of-way width of 50 feet, and a 36-foot paved section.
Additional right-of-way and pavement may be required at intersections for
deceleration lanes and turn lanes, as specified by NCDOT or the County Project
Review Committee.
            2.   When lots or blocks in a proposed commercial or industrial
subdivision front on any limited-access highway or arterial street, the
subdivider may be required to dedicate and improve a marginal access street to
provide ingress and egress to and from such lots or blocks.
            3.   Permanent cul-de-sac roads shall be provided at the closed end
with a circular turnaround having a minimum driving surface radius of 45 feet
and minimum right-of-way width of 100 feet. At the point where the road widens
into the cul-de-sac, the driving surface shall have a minimum turn radius of 35
feet, and the right-of-way shall have a minimum radius of 25 feet.
            4.   Off-street loading shall be arranged to eliminate street
maneuvering by vehicles using loading facilities.
            5.   Commercial/industrial driveway main entrances shall have a
minimum throat width of 35 feet. If a raised median is provided in the driveway
throat, the driveway width shall be widened as necessary to accommodate the
number of ingress and egress lanes required, with a minimum ingress lane width
of 18 feet. The minimum driveway median width shall be four feet and the
maximum width shall be ten feet. The nose of the median shall be no less than
seven feet and no more than 15 feet from the gutter flow line.
(1996 Code, § 154.41) (Ord. passed 3-21-1994; Ord. passed 11-6-2006)
§ 154.42 LOTS.
   (A)   Lots sizes, shapes, and locations shall be made with due regard to
topographic conditions, soil types, contemplated use, and the surrounding
natural and human-made uses. Land designated as a floodplain by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) shall always be designated on all lots,
tracts, or plats when presented. Under no circumstances will required lot areas
contain street rights-of-way.
   (B)   Every lot shall front on or abut a minimum of 25 feet on a publicly-
dedicated or maintained street except in PUD areas that have been approved by
the County Planning Board.
   (C)   Lots shall comply with the following requirements.
      (1)   Lots served by both public water and public sewer shall have an
area not less than 8,000 square feet, a width at the building line of not less
than 70, nor be less than 100 feet deep. Planned unit developments are exempt.
      (2)   Lots served by public water but not by public sewer shall have an
area not less than 30,000 square feet, a lot width at the building line of not
less than 80 feet, nor be less than 150 feet deep. Planned unit developments
are exempt.
      (3)   Lots served by neither public water nor public sewer shall have an
area not less than 40,000 square feet, a lot width at the building line of not
less than 100 feet, nor be less than 150 feet deep.
      (4)   All lots in a major subdivision that are accessed by a publicly-
dedicated or maintained street shall meet the following requirements:
         (a)   Lot width. 150 feet shall be the minimum width of each lot. The
measurement shall be made from one side property line to the other at the
building at the building setback line.
         (b)   Front yard setback. 60 feet shall be minimum setback of the
principal structure, measured from the nearest point of the building and the
right-of-way line.
         (c)   Side yard setback. 30 feet shall be the minimum side yard for
each principal building, measured from the nearest point of the building and
the side lot line.
      (5)   No driveway on any lot shall be located within 30 feet of a street
right-of-way intersection.
      (6)   The minimum building setback from the property line or road right-
of-way line shall be specified in this chapter.
      (7)   Any part of the property located in the road right-of-way shall not
be included in the minimum lot area.
      (8)   Townhouses and other types of attached single-family structures:
         (a)   For lots with individual septic tanks, all shall comply with the
minimum lot area requirements of divisions (C)(2) and (3) above or by a
combination of lot area and open space; and
         (b)   Lots served by public water and public sewer shall have:
            1.   A minimum lot size of 2,000 square feet and a minimum lot
width of not less than 20 feet;
            2.   A front yard setback of not less than 30 feet;
            3.   A rear yard setback of not less than 30 feet; and
            4.   No side yard setback requirements except on corner lots. This
corner side yard setback shall not be less than one-half the front yard setback
requirement measured from the exterior building line of the principal
structure.
         (c)   Five-foot access easements shall be reserved in each rear yard
and ten-foot access easements shall be located between each principal building;
         (d)   No dwellings shall be connected on more than two sides by common
walls; and
         (e)   Each townhouse shall be provided with at least two parking
spaces, ten by 20 feet in size.
      (9)   Recreation and open space.
         (a)   Requirement. Every person or corporation that subdivides land
for residential purposes under the requirements contained in these regulations
shall also be required to dedicate a portion of such land; to provide cash-in-
lieu-of-land payment; or to provide a combination of land, cash, and facility
development acceptable to the county for the purposes of developing park,
recreation, and open space sites to serve the residents of the neighborhood in
which the subdivision is located or in the immediate area of the subdivision.
Subdivisions which develop and maintain their own park or recreational areas
that meet or exceed the standards set forth herein are exempt. Planned unit
developments are exempt.
         (b)   Amount of land.
            1.   The amount of land required to be dedicated by a subdivider
shall be based on:
               a.   The total number of dwelling units or lots;
               b.   The most recent U.S. Bureau of the Census figures for an
average family size in the county;
               c.   Minimum park and recreation standard factor of eight acres
per 1,000 persons or 0.008 acres per person; and
               d.   A variable density factor.
            2.   Example 1. 100 dwelling units x 2.5 (average family size) x
.008 (recreational standard) x 1.0 (variable density factor) = 2 acres
dedicated for recreation.
         (c)   Variable density factor table.
Acreage Average per Dwelling Unit or Lot Variable Density Factor
Acreage Average per Dwelling Unit or Lot Variable Density Factor
0.0 - 0.1                                1.8
0.1 - 0.2                                1.6
0.2 - 0.3                                1.4
0.3 - 0.4                                1.2
0.4 - 0.5                                1.0
0.5 - 0.6                                0.9
0.6 - 0.7                                0.8
0.7 - 0.8                                0.7
0.8 - 0.9                                0.6
0.9 - 1.0                                0.5
1.0 or above                             0.0
 
         (d)   Acreage average per dwelling unit. Acreage average per dwelling
unit or lot is computed by dividing the combined total acreage of all dwelling
units or lots by the number of dwelling units or lots. For computation
purposes, land dedicated or reserved for other purposes such as streets,
alleys, and other purposes other than residential shall not be used in
determining average acreage. In no case shall a developer be required to
dedicate more than 30% of the acreage of a development.
         (e)   Variable density factor. Variable density factor is designed to
provide an adjustment to subdivision plats which contain average lot sizes of
one-half acre and above. This adjustment is used since subdivisions with larger
lots contain more open space, and thus, fewer lots and greater park acreage.
Conversely, those subdivision plats that create lots or units which average
less than four-tenths acre are adjusted due to the density of development and
the inherent increased demand for more public recreation and park land. The
adjustments for large lots or for small lots are based on a sliding scale
reflecting degree of density.
         (f)   Criteria for evaluating suitability. Criteria for evaluating
suitability of proposed recreation, parks, and open space areas shall include
but not be limited to the following as determined by the County Planning Board
in consultation with the Mocksville-Davie Recreation Department:
            1.   Unity. The dedicated land shall be a single parcel except
where it is determined that two or more parcels would be in the public
interest. The Planning Board may require that the parcels be connected by a
path up to 30 feet in width in addition to the recreation land requirement;
            2.   Location. The dedicated land shall be located so as to serve
the recreation needs of the immediate neighborhood within the subdivision;
            3.   Useable land. The shape, topography, and subsoils of the
dedicated land shall be such as to be useable for parking and active
recreation. Lakes and marsh may not be included in computing dedicated land
area unless acceptable to the Planning Board; and
            4.   Accessibility. Public access to the dedicated land shall be
provided either by an abutting street or public easement. Such public easement
shall be at least 30 feet in width.
         (g)   Permissible amounts. A developer may use the figure of $5,000
per acre of dedicated recreational land or market value, whichever is less, as
required in division (C)(9)(b) of these regulations. The county shall purchase
recreational land or areas to serve the subdivision or development in the
immediate area.
         (h)   Dedication adjustments. The Planning Board may, in cases of an
unusual or exceptional nature, allow adjustments in the dedication requirements
established in these regulations. Such adjustments shall be reviewed by the
County Recreation Department. An unusual or exceptional nature may include but
not be limited to land within the development set aside for private recreation
or proposed expenditures for recreational facilities or equipment.
         (i)   Expenditures of recreation funds. Expenditures of recreation
funds shall be determined by the County Board of Commissioners.
         (j)   Excess donation. If the land donated in a section of a
subdivision exceeds the requirement in division (C)(9)(b) below, the difference
can be applied to future sections.
         (k)   Future plans. If the overall master plan of a subdivision shows
future recreation areas not included in the section receiving final plat
approval, the donation of recreation land (or fees) shall not be required.
However, if the amount of recreation land required by these regulations are not
developed within one year of final plat approval, division (C)(9)(b) or
division (C)(9)(g) below shall immediately apply.
         (l)   Cash-in-lieu-of-land payments. Cash-in-lieu-of-land payments
shall be spent only on capital improvements for county-sponsored recreational
programs.
      (10)   Campground subdivision.
         (a)   The minimum size of a campground subdivision shall be one acre.
         (b)   Gross density shall not exceed 20 lots per gross acre.
         (c)   Each lot shall be clearly staked in accordance with these
regulations.
         (d)   One all-weather (for example, stone or other suitable material)
automobile parking space shall be provided for each lot, to be located outside
of any public right-of-way or any street within the subdivision.
         (e)   Each lot shall abut upon an improved road of at least 20 feet in
width, which shall be covered with at least four inches of stone or other
approved surface and which shall have access to a public street or road. Road
maintenance agreements shall be prepared whereby the road is maintained by a
subdivision association or other suitable arrangement.
         (f)   Each subdivision shall be served by a sewer system approved by
the County Health Department or the State Department of Environment, Health,
and Natural Resources, Division of Environmental Management.
         (g)   Each lot shall be served by a public water system approved by
the County Health Department or the State Department of Environment, Health,
and Natural Resources, Division of Environmental Health, Public Water Supply
Section.
         (h)   A central service building containing the necessary toilet and
other plumbing and electrical fixtures shall be provided. It shall be located
within or immediately adjacent to the subdivision. If the subdivision is
divided by a state maintained road, a central service building shall be
provided on each side of the road. The service buildings shall meet all state
and county requirements. There shall be at least one shower, one lavatory, and
one commode for each ten lots.
         (i)   A sanitary station shall be provided consisting of at least: a
trapped four-inch sewer riser pipe connected to the subdivision sewer system
surrounded at the inlet by a concrete apron sloped to the drain and provided
with a suitable hinged cover and a water outlet to permit periodic washdown of
the immediate adjacent area.
         (j)   Permanent or semipermanent structures or any vehicle designed as
permanent living quarters shall not be allowed. These structures shall include
but not be limited to porches, carports, awnings, or any other structure not
intended to be temporary.
         (k)   Minimum lot and setback requirements:
            1.   Lot size. 1,500 square feet; and
            2.   Lot width. 30 feet.
         (l)   All central service buildings, swimming pools, water and sewer
facilities and other services for the use of lot owners shall be maintained by
a lot owners’ association.
         (m)   All common open space must be conveyed by the following method:
by leasing or conveying title (including beneficial ownership) to a
corporation, association, or other legal entity.
         (n)   The terms of such lease or other instrument of conveyance must
include provisions suitable to the Planning Board to guarantee:
            1.   The continued use of such land for the intended purposes;
            2.   Continuity of proper maintenance for the portions of the open
land requiring maintenance; and
            3.   When appropriate, the availability of funds required for such
maintenance.
         (o)   Campground subdivisions shall reserve not less than 20% of gross
acreage as open space. The open space should be proportionally distributed
throughout the total residential area as nearly as possible.
         (p)   A minimum of 25% of the required open space shall be developed
for recreational purposes and the recreation space may be located in one or
more sites within the total subdivision. Recreation space may be natural or
landscaped for the use of active or passive recreation.
         (q)   The developer shall file in the office of the Register of Deeds
of the county legal documents which will produce the aforesaid guarantees and
will provide a method for restricting the use of common space for the
designated purposes prior to the sale of any lot or lots.
         (r)   All other appropriate standards, procedures, and requirements of
these regulations shall pertain to campground subdivisions if they are not
addressed in division (C)(11) below.
      (11)   All water lines and related appurtenances installed in
subdivisions under the authority of these regulations shall be built to
standards of the county, if connected to the County Water System. Plans shall
be approved by the county and the State Department of Environment, Health, and
Natural Resources, Division of Environmental Health.
(1996 Code, § 154.42) (Ord. passed 3-21-1994; Ord. passed 10-3-2011; Ord.
passed 2-5-2024)
§ 154.43 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Drainage easements. Where a subdivision is traversed by a stream or
drainage way, an easement shall be provided conforming with the lines of the
stream, and of sufficient width to be adequate for the purpose.
   (B)   Buffer strips. A buffer strip of up to 20 feet in width may be
required by the Planning Board adjacent to a major street or commercial or
industrial area. This strip shall be in addition to the normally required lot
dimension; shall be part of the platted lot; and shall be reserved only for the
planting of trees and shrubs by the developer.
(1996 Code, § 154.43) (Ord. passed 3-21-1994)
§ 154.44 SUITABILITY OF LAND.
   Land subject to flooding, improper drainage, or erosion, or that is for
topographical or other reasons unsuitable for residential use as determined by
the Planning Board, shall not be platted for residential use nor for any other
uses that will continue or increase the danger to health, safety, or property
unless the hazards can be, and are, corrected.
   (A)   Prevention of flood damage. Lands known to be within a floodplain or
any area known to be subject to flooding shall be identified on the preliminary
and final plats. Appropriate deed restrictions shall be filed for those lands
subject to flooding prohibiting their development for dwelling or other uses
unless the sites are flood-protected as follows. (See also
Chapter 153, Flood Damage Prevention.)
      (1)   No structures or fill shall be placed in the floodway which would
interfere with the natural watercourse.
      (2)   Streets and utilities lines and structures may be placed within the
floodplain only if their elevation is raised above maximum flood heights or if
they are otherwise flood-protected.
      (3)   Dwellings and self-contained sewage disposal units (if used) shall
be built at an elevation above maximum flood heights.
   (B)   Fill areas. Areas that have been used for disposal of solid waste
shall not be subdivided into commercial or residential building sites. This
shall include those areas that have been used for the disposal of trash,
demolition waste, and other waste materials.
(1996 Code, § 154.44) (Ord. passed 3-21-1994)
§ 154.45 STORMWATER DRAINAGE.
   (A)   Requirement. The subdivider shall provide an adequate drainage system
for the proper drainage of all surface water. The design of such a system shall
be approved by the County Planning Board and the State Sedimentation Pollution
Control Act of 1973, G.S. §§ 113A-50 through 113A-60.
   (B)   Surface water. No surface water shall be channeled into a sanitary
sewer.
   (C)   Existing systems. Where feasible, the subdivider shall connect to an
existing storm drainage system.
   (D)   New surface drainage systems. Where an existing storm drainage system
cannot feasibly be extended to the subdivision, a surface drainage system shall
be designed to protect the proposed development from water damage. The ten-year
storm data should be used as a minimum basis for storm drainage design as
available.
(1996 Code, § 154.45) (Ord. passed 3-21-1994)
§ 154.46 PLACEMENT OF MONUMENTS.
   (A)   Whenever a person, firm, or corporation shall divide any parcel of
real estate into lots and lay-off streets, it shall be the duty of the surveyor
to cause two or more monuments of such development to be designated as “control
corners” and to place at such control corners monuments adequately marked which
shall be of such material and affixed to the earth in such manner as to assure
a great degree of permanency. Any lot or lots sold or otherwise transferred and
located in a subdivision and described by metes and bounds shall be described
in a manner to include reference to the location of the lot or lots with
respect to the subdivision’s control corner if such exists. All monuments shall
be shown on the final plat.
   (B)   (1)   Property corner tie. At least one corner of the property
surveyed shall be designated by course and distance (tie) from a control
monument as established by the North Carolina Geodetic Survey (NCGS) or by the
National Geodetic Survey (formerly USC & GS). When the property lying within
2,000 feet of such monument or marker is not available, the tie shall be made
to some pertinent and readily recognizable land marker or identifiable point,
physical object, or structure. The tie must be shown on the prepared plat by
bearing and distance and/or by coordinates, with a statement identifying the
markers and certifying an accuracy of at least 1:10,000.
      (2)   Markers. All lot corners, all points where street lines intersect,
and all angle points and points of curve in each street shall be marked with
rigid metal pipe not less than one-half inch in diameter and not less than 20
inches long. Concrete control markers are also acceptable.
      (3)   Standards. For the purpose of these regulations all land surveying
shall be performed in accordance with the Standards of Practice for Land
Surveying in North Carolina, latest revisions.
(1996 Code, § 154.46) (Ord. passed 3-21-1994)
§ 154.47 CONSTRUCTION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Plan approval. No construction or installation of improvements shall
commence in a proposed subdivision until the preliminary plans and
specifications have been approved by the Planning Board. Clearing underbrush
and draining surface and subsurface water is not included.
   (B)   Access. The administrator of these regulations shall have access to
premises and structures during reasonable hours to make those inspections as
deemed necessary by him or her to ensure compliance with these regulations.
   (C)   Inspection. The subdivider, prior to starting any work within the
subdivision, shall make arrangements with the administrator of these
regulations to provide for adequate inspection. All completed work must then be
inspected and approved before release of the sureties.
   (D)   Erosion control. The subdivider shall cause all grading, excavations,
open cuts, side slopes, and other land surface disturbances to be so mulched,
seeded, sodded, or otherwise protected by plans approved under the
Sedimentation Pollution Control Act of 1973, G.S. §§ 113A-50 through 113A-60,
and subsequent amendments.
   (E)   Water supply specifications. All public water systems under the
jurisdiction of these regulations shall be built to the specifications of the
county unless the system is tied into a municipal system.
(1996 Code, § 154.47) (Ord. passed 3-21-1994)
§ 154.48 REQUIREMENTS FOR NON-STATE MAINTAINED ROADS.
   (A)   Minimum construction standards for non- state maintained roads in
subdivisions consisting of ten lots or less, with the developer owning or
having no interest in any adjoining property, and with each lot containing at
least five acres, shall be as set forth in this regulation.
   (B)   No graded road shall be muck, pipe clay, organic matter, or other
unsuitable material.
   (C)   A minimum right-of-way of 50 feet shall always be required with four
inches of ABC stone, 12 feet wide.
(1996 Code, § 154.48) (Ord. passed 4-3-1995)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 154.60 VARIANCES.
   Where, because of severe topographical or other conditions peculiar to the
site, strict adherence to the provisions of these regulations would cause an
unnecessary hardship, the Planning Board may authorize a variance to the terms
of these regulations only to the extent that is absolutely necessary and not to
an extent which would violate the intent of these regulations. (See §§
154.61 and
154.62.) Any variances thus authorized shall be noted in the minutes of the
County Planning Board.
(1996 Code, § 154.60) (Ord. passed 3-21-1994)
§ 154.61 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Conditions. The County Planning Board may authorize a variance from
the terms and conditions of these regulations when the Board finds that undue
hardship may result from strict compliance with the terms and conditions of
these regulations. Any requests for a variance shall be signed by the
subdivider or his or her duly authorized representative and shall specify in
detail the requested variances and the facts and justification of the requested
variance. When deciding variance requests, the Planning Board shall follow
quasi-judicial procedures.
   (B)   Sketch.  The variance request shall be accompanied by a sketch plan or
sketch design meeting the requirements of §
154.22(E) of these regulations. The variance request shall be presented at the
same time the preliminary plan or design is considered by the Planning Board.
   (C)   Variance request.
      (1)   Following consideration of the variance request, the Planning Board
may either approve or deny the variance request in whole or in part. In the
event the Planning Board grants a variance, it shall be the minimum variance
necessary in order to allow the applicant reasonable use of his or her land.
Any variance granted by the Planning Board shall require an affirmative vote of
two-thirds of the members of the Board present at the meeting in which the
variance is requested.
         (a)   Example 1. 2/3 × 7 = 14/3 or 4 & 2/3 or 5 members.
         (b)   Example 2. 2/3 × 4 = 8/3 or 2 & 2/3 or 3 members.
      (2)   If the variance requested is denied by the Planning Board, the
applicant may appeal to the County Board of Commissioners.
(1996 Code, § 154.61) (Ord. passed 3-21-1994; Ord. passed 3-20-2006)
§ 154.62 REQUIRED FINDINGS.
   (A)   In granting any variance, the Planning Board or County Board of
Commissioners shall make the findings required below, taking into account the
nature of the proposed subdivision and its surrounding area, the existing use
of the land in the vicinity, the number of persons to reside or work in the
proposed subdivision, the probable affect of the proposed subdivision upon
traffic conditions in the vicinity, public services available to the
subdivision (fire, rescue squad, public utilities, and the like), and other
health and safety factors which may have an affect upon the subdivision and the
property owners and residents therein.
   (B)   The variance shall be denied unless the County Planning Board or
County Commissioners shall find from the evidence:
      (1)   That there are special circumstances or conditions affecting the
property such that the strict application of the provisions of these
regulations would deprive the applicant of the reasonable use of his or her
land;
      (2)   That the variances are necessary for the preservation and enjoyment
of a substantial property right of the applicant;
      (3)   That the circumstances giving rise to the need of the variance are
peculiar to this parcel of land (its location, size, history of development, or
relationship to surrounding properties, easement, and the like) and are not
generally characteristics of other parcels in the jurisdiction of these
regulations; and
      (4)   That the granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the
public health, safety, and welfare or injurious to other property in the
territory in which the property is situated.
(1996 Code, § 154.62) (Ord. passed 3-21-1994)
§ 154.63 REGISTRATION OF REGULATIONS AND PLATS.
   (A)   In accordance with G.S. § 153A-332, the Board of County Commissioners
shall file a copy of these regulations with the Register of Deeds of the county
upon adoption.
   (B)   The Register of Deeds shall not, after the effective date of these
regulations, record a plat of subdivision of land lying within the jurisdiction
of these regulations that has not been approved in accordance with the
provisions contained herein; nor shall the Clerk of Superior Court order the
recording of a plat if the recording would be in conflict with the provisions
or intent of these regulations.
(1996 Code, § 154.63) (Ord. passed 3-21-1994)
§ 154.64 AMENDMENTS.
   The County Board of Commissioners may from time to time amend the terms of
these regulations, but no amendment shall become effective unless it shall have
been proposed by, or shall have been submitted to, the Planning Board for
review and recommendation. The Planning Board shall have 40 days within which
to submit its recommendation. Failure to do so shall be deemed to have
recommended approval of the amendment. A public hearing shall then be held by
the Board of County Commissioners.
(1996 Code, § 154.64) (Ord. passed 3-21-1994)
§ 154.65 ABROGATION.
   It is not intended that these regulations repeal, impair, abrogate, or
interfere with any existing easements, covenants, deed restrictions,
agreements, rules, regulations, or permits previously adopted or issued
pursuant to law. However, where these regulations impose greater restrictions,
the provisions of these regulations shall govern.
(1996 Code, § 154.65) (Ord. passed 3-21-1994)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   After the effective date of these regulations, any person who, being
the owner or the agent of the owner of any land located within the jurisdiction
of these regulations, intentionally violates these regulations shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor, for the conviction of which the maximum penalty permitted by
law as set forth in §
10.99 may be imposed. Each day’s continuing violation is a separate and
distinct offense.
   (B)   Further, a violation of the above section of this code shall be a
violation of G.S. § 14-4 and such violation shall be classified as a Class 3
misdemeanor with a maximum fine of up to $450, except that any violations of §§
150.999,
154.99,
155.999, and
156.999 shall not be a violation of G.S. § 14-4 and shall not be considered a
misdemeanor.
(1996 Code, § 154.99) (Ord. passed 3-21-1994)
APPENDIX A: WATER SUPPLY SYSTEMS
WATER SUPPLY SYSTEMS
   (A)   Water supply systems serving 15 or more connections and/or 25 or more
people are classified as public water supplies by state law and plans and
specifications must be approved by the State Department of Environment, Health,
and Natural Resources, Division of Environmental Health, Public Water Supply
Section.
   (B)   Water supply systems serving from two to 15 connections, inclusive,
may be regulated by the County Board of Health and plans should be approved by
the County Health Department.
   (C)   Plans for public and community sewer systems constructed for
subdivisions which will result in new discharges of effluent into surface
waters must be approved by the County Board of Adjustment and the State
Department of Environment, Health, and Natural Resources, Division of
Environmental Management. Permit applications shall be filed at least 180 days
in advance of the planned discharge.
   (D)   Individual water supplies should be located, constructed, and operated
in accordance with State Division of Health Services Bulletin Number 476,
“Protection of Private Water Supplies.”
   (E)   Individual sewage disposal systems must be installed and maintained in
accordance with the “Rules and Regulations Governing the Disposal of Sewage
from any Residence, Place of Business or Place of Public Assembly” in the state
and the regulations of the County Board of Health. State Division of Health
Services Bulletin Number 519, “Residential Sewage Disposal Plants,” contains
helpful information.
(1996 Code, Ch. 154 Appendix) (Ord. passed 3-21-1994)
CHAPTER 155: ZONING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
155.001   Definitions
   
155.002   Purpose
   
155.003   Authority
   
155.004   Title
   
155.005   Territorial jurisdiction
   
155.006   Incorporation of Zoning Map
   
155.007   Bona fide farms exempt
General Regulations
   
155.020   Zoning to apply to every building and use
   
155.021   Nonconforming uses and buildings
   
155.022   Only the principal building to be on any lot; lot must abut on a
street
   
155.023   Reduction of lot prohibited
   
155.024   Obstruction to vision at street intersections
   
155.025   Lot of record; date and permitted use
   
155.026   Same adjoining and vacant lots
   
155.027   Side yards on corner lots
   
155.028   Front yard setbacks
   
155.029   Exceptions to height limits
   
155.030   Development standards for manufactured homes
   
155.031   Junked or wrecked cars and manufactured homes
   
155.032   Modular classrooms, modular offices, and construction trailers
   
155.033   Communication towers; development standards
   
155.034   Mining and dredging of sand
   
155.035   Rural retreats and resorts
   
155.036   Regulation of package wastewater treatment plants, public or private
Parking
   
155.050   General parking standards
   
155.051   Use of parking lots permitted
   
155.052   Enforcement
   
155.053   Schedule of parking spaces
   
155.054   Parking aisles
Loading and Unloading
   
155.070   Area to be required
   
155.071   Schedule of loading spaces
   
155.072   Enforcement
Signs
   
155.090   Purpose
   
155.091   Sign descriptions
   
155.092   Signs permitted in all districts
   
155.093   Signs permitted in all districts subject to the limitations imposed
   
155.094   Signs prohibited in all districts
   
155.095   Signs subject to state laws
   
155.096   Maintenance and removal
   
155.097   Minimum design standards
   
155.098   Permit required
   
155.099   Permit application
   
155.100   Nonconforming signs
   
155.101   Signs permitted in residential districts
   
155.102   Signs permitted in commercial and industrial districts
Establishment of Districts
   
155.120   Use districts
   
155.121   District boundaries
   
155.122   Rules governing boundaries
   
155.123   Use requirements by district
   
155.124   Other uses not specifically listed
   
155.125   Table of use districts
Conditions
   
155.130   Conditions on table of uses
Intent and Dimensional Requirements
   
155.140   Residential-Agricultural District (R-A)
   
155.141   Residential District (R-20)
   
155.142   Residential-Suburban District (R-12)
   
155.143   Residential-Multiple Dwelling District (R-8)
   
155.144   Residential Manufactured Home District (R-M)
   
155.145   Highway Business District (H-B)
   
155.146   Community Shopping District (C-S)
   
155.147   Industrial Districts
   
155.148   Quality Design Overlay District (OD)
   
155.149   Cooleemee Zoning Overlay District
   
155.150   Neighborhood Business District (N-B)
   
155.151   Special Purpose District (S-P)
Special Use District
   
155.160   Use districts
   
155.161   Procedures for regular districts
   
155.162   Procedures for watershed overlay districts
Group Developments
   
155.170   Technical Review Committee
   
155.171   Recreational land requirement for multiple-family dwellings
   
155.172   Landscaping and buffer requirements
Security Training Operations and Services Facility
   
155.176   Specific standards
   
155.177   Firearms and explosives training
   
155.178   Driver training and vehicle maintenance
   
155.179   Site plan
   
155.180   Miscellaneous
Agribusiness
   
155.185   Purpose
   
155.186   Design requirements
   
155.187   Additional requirements
Temporary Uses
   
155.190   Temporary use permits
Planning Board
   
155.210   Establishment of Planning Board
   
155.211   Organization
   
155.212   Meetings
   
155.213   Duties
   
155.214   Director
Board of Adjustment
   
155.230   Purpose of Board of Adjustment
   
155.231   Establishment of Board of Adjustment
   
155.232   Officers and duties
   
155.233   Rules of conduct for members
   
155.234   Meetings of the Board of Adjustment
   
155.235   Hearings and notice
   
155.236   Decisions of the Board of Adjustment
   
155.237   Stay of proceedings
   
155.238   Change in kind of non- conforming use
   
155.239   Variances
   
155.240   Special use permits
   
155.241   Appeals of the Board of Adjustment
   
155.242   Liability
Changes and Amendments
   
155.250   General provisions
   
155.251   Public notification requirements
   
155.252   Protest petition requirements
   
155.253   Application for amendment
Vested Rights
   
155.260   Definitions
   
155.261   Purpose
   
155.262   Establishment of a zoning vested right
   
155.263   Approval procedures and approval authority
   
155.264   Duration
   
155.265   Termination
   
155.266   Fees
   
155.267   Limitations
   
155.268   Repealer
   
155.269   Effective date
Administration and Enforcement
   
155.280   Zoning Enforcement Officer
   
155.281   Zoning permit required
   
155.282   Application for zoning compliance permit
   
155.283   Conflict with other regulations
   
155.284   Interpretation; conflicts
   
155.285   Reenactment and repeal of existing zoning regulations
   
155.286   Schedule of fees
 
   
155.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Application for Zoning Amendment
   
Appendix B:   Certification Form
   
Appendix C:   Example Decommissioning Plan
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABBREVIATED LAND SUBDIVISION.  A relatively small subdivision of land with
only a final plat review being required when the subdivision does not involve
street dedication or no more than ten lots on no more than ten acres. Further,
the ABBREVIATED LAND SUBDIVISION process may be used only where the subdivision
includes all contiguous land under the ownership or control of the sponsor.
   ACCESSORY COMMUNICATION FACILITY.  An antenna configuration that is attached
to a building, water tower, or other existing structure where the communication
facility is customarily incidental to the main or principal building or
structure.
   ADULT ESTABLISHMENT.  Any principal or accessory structure or use of land
that meets the definition of ADULT ESTABLISHMENT as set forth in G.S. §§ 14-
202.10 et seq. (Licensed health massage/body work therapists shall not be
considered an adult massage business.)
   AGRIBUSINESS.  Any individual, partnership, corporation, or organization
primarily supplying services or goods (such as equipment, feeds, or supplies)
to producers, or marketable agricultural products, including greenhouses,
nurseries, farm cooperatives, and the like, which are not otherwise
specifically defined as agriculture by state law. In addition, AGRIBUSINESS
shall include the sale of farm and seafood food products and other agricultural
products which are customarily sold at local “farmer’s markets” located
throughout the States of Virginia, North Carolina and South Carolina and at
certified farm stand.
   AGRICULTURE.  Land or structures primarily used for cultivating soils,
producing crops, or raising livestock; the storage, processing, or sale of
products raised on the premises; or as otherwise defined by the General
Statutes. Structures customarily accessory to agricultural uses and located on
the same parcel as an agricultural use shall be included in this definition. In
addition, AGRICULTURE shall include the sale of farm and seafood food products
and other agricultural products which are customarily sold at “farmer’s
markets” located throughout the States of Virginia, North Carolina and South
Carolina and at certified farm stand.
   AGRITAINMENT.  Events and activities that allow for recreation,
entertainment, and tourism in conjunction with agriculture support and services
directly associated with ongoing agricultural activities on-site that are for
profit. Events and activities include the following: hay rides, corn mazes, hay
mazes, petting zoos (farm animals only), living historical farms, farm tours
(for profit), and agricultural festivals. The AGRITAINMENT enterprise shall be
operated and maintained by the owner, operator, or occupant of the farm on
which it is located. Multiple properties in common ownership are acceptable for
AGRITAINMENT as long as they are considered a single farm entity. The
AGRITAINMENT enterprise shall only be permitted in conjunction with agriculture
support and services directly associated with ongoing agricultural activity on-
site.
   AGRITOURISM. Farm-related enterprises that operate for the enjoyment and
education of the public, which bring together tourism and agriculture.
Enterprises include those that are for profit and those that are provided to
the public free of charge.
   AIRPORT. Landing fields, parking and service facilities, passenger and
baggage terminals, and related facilities for the operation, service, fueling,
repair, storage, charter, sales, and rental of aircraft. The word aircraft
shall include fixed-wing as well as rotary-wing craft.
   AMUSEMENT, COMMERCIAL INDOOR. Any business establishment which is primarily
engaged in providing an amusement activity such as a video arcade, billiard
parlor, skating rink, or similar activity as a principal use to the general
public, but does not include indoor motion picture theaters.
   AMUSEMENT, COMMERCIAL OUTDOOR. Any business establishment which is primarily
engaged in providing an amusement activity such as a miniature golf course,
skateboard course, water slide, mechanical ride, par 3 golf course, golf
driving range, or go-cart course, fish ranch, or similar activity to the
general public, but does not include outdoor motion picture theaters, raceways,
drag strips, or motorcycle courses.
   APARTMENT HOUSE. A building or portion thereof used or designed as a
residence for two or more families living independently of each other.
   ARTIST STUDIO. A place where works of art are created or similar activities
occur as listed below, including a dwelling unit for the artist, designer, or
teacher; such unit shall have but one kitchen, and shall be occupied by no more
than four unrelated people, or by any number of persons immediately related by
blood, marriage, or adoption:
      (1)   Craftwork studio or shop in which individual pieces are created,
displayed, and sold, consisting of one or more of the following: ceramics/
pottery, fabrics, inlays, needlework, knitting, weaving, leather work,
woodwork, metal work, or glass work; or
      (2)   Professional studio or academy for the teaching of the arts, the
following of which are examples but not exclusive: fine arts, dance, drama,
photography, music, martial arts, but not including health treatment or adult
amusement.
   ASPHALT AND CONCRETE PLANT AND CONTRACTORS. A facility preparing asphalt
and/or concrete mixtures for street and driveway paving, including contractors
engaged in asphalt and/or cement work. This definition includes only those uses
in the following NAICS group(s):
 
324121 Asphalt Paving Mixture and Block Manufacturing
333120 Construction Machinery Manufacturing
 
   AUTOMATIC TELLER MACHINE. A type of banking and financial services with
automated or self- service banking features with no staff or personnel
provided.
   BANKING AND FINANCIAL SERVICES. A facility engaged in deposit banking or
extending credit in the form of loans. This definition includes only those uses
in the following NAICS group(s):
 
5221 Depository Credit Intermediation
5222 Nondepository Credit Intermediation
 
   BILLBOARD. Outdoor structure or display, pictorial or otherwise, either
freestanding or attached to a building, which advertises or attracts attention
to a business, commodity, service, or other activity conducted, sold, or
offered elsewhere than on the premises where displayed.
   BONA FIDE FARM. Crop lands, timber lands, pasture lands, apple orchards,
idle or other farm lands as well as any farm houses, barns, poultry houses, and
tenant houses for workers, as long as such houses shall be in the same
ownership as the farm and located on the farm.
    BROADCAST STUDIO. An establishment primarily engaged in providing two-way
radio/telephone communication services, telephone voice and data
communications, telegraph services, radio and television broadcasting, or cable
and other pay television services, but excluding those uses classified as
utilities. This definition includes only those uses in the following NAICS
group(s):
 
5151 Radio and Television Broadcasting
 
   BUFFER STRIP. A strip of land no less than ten feet in width, containing
evergreen shrubs spaced not more than five feet apart, and not less than one
row of dense shrubs to be three feet or more in height after planting and be
five feet or more in height after three growing seasons, shall be planted,
trimmed, and maintained continuously in a healthy growing condition by the
property owner. In lieu of this, a screening fence or wall of eight to ten feet
in height so constructed as to provide at least equivalent screening from
adjoining properties may be used. No building, driveway, or parking area shall
occupy any part of the BUFFER STRIP.
   BUILDING, ACCESSORY.  A structure customarily incidental and subordinate to
the main or principal building, and located on the same lot. The structure must
meet the North Carolina State Building Code. This term shall include swimming
pools, satellite dishes, and pre-constructed buildings, which are built
specifically for storage and/or other accessory uses.
   BUILDING CONTRACTORS, GENERAL. An establishment providing general
contracting and/or building construction services for residential, farm,
industrial, or commercial uses, and which typically does not involve outdoor
storage of machinery or equipment. This definition includes only those uses in
the following NAICS group(s):
 
2381 Foundation, Structure and Building Exterior Contractors
2382 Building Equipment Contractors
2383 Building Finishing Contractors
 
   BUILDING CONTRACTORS, HEAVY. An establishment providing general contracting
and/or building construction services other than for buildings, such as
highways and streets, bridges, sewers, and flood control projects, and which
may involve outdoor storage of machinery or equipment. This definition includes
only those uses in the following NAICS group(s):
 
2371   Utility System Construction
2373   Highway, Street, Bridge, Construction Contractors
2379   Other Heavy and Civil Engineering Construction
238120 Structural Steel Erection Contractors
238910 Site Preparation Contractors
 
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance from the mean elevation of the
finished grade along the front of a building to the highest point of a flat
roof; or to the deck line of a mansard roof; or the mean height level between
eaves and ridge for gable, hip, gambrel, and pitch roofs.
   BUILDING MATERIALS SUPPLY. An establishment engaged in selling lumber and a
general line of building materials and hardware to the public. This definition
includes only those uses in the following NAICS group(s):
 
4441 Building Materials and Supplies Dealer (Retail)
 
   BUILDING PRESENTATION. The direction of the architectural front façade of a
building in relation to the street or public space.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL.  A building in which is conducted the principal use of
the lot on which it is located. In any residential district any structure
containing a dwelling unit shall be deemed to be a principal building on the
lot on which it is located.
    BUILDING SETBACK LINE. A line establishing the minimum allowable distance
between the main or front wall of any building, excluding the outermost three
feet of any uncovered porches, steps, eaves, gutters, and similar fixtures, and
the street right-of-way line (or the assumed right-of-way line) when measured
perpendicularly.
   CAR WASH, AUTOMATIC. An unattended, automated, mechanical facility for the
washing of automobiles, small recreational vehicles, and light trucks wherein
the customer remains in the vehicle during the service.
   CAR WASH, FULL SERVICE. An attended facility wherein the customer pays for
the labor, materials, and equipment necessary to wash or otherwise clean an
automobile, small recreational vehicle, or light truck. This type of CAR WASH
may or may not be partially automated. Typically, the customer does not remain
in the vehicle during the service.
   CAR WASH, INDUSTRIAL. Mechanical facilities for the washing, vacuuming, and
waxing of large automobiles and heavy machinery.
   CAR WASH, SELF-SERVICE. A car wash wherein the customer provides labor and
where no self-propelled wash racks are provided.
   CEMETERY. Land and facilities, including offices and chapels, used for the
burial of the dead.
   CERTIFICATE OF ZONING COMPLIANCE. A statement, signed by the Zoning
Enforcement Officer, stating that the plans for a building, structure, or use
of land complies with this chapter, the County Health Department, and the State
Department of Human Resources, Division of Health Services.
   CHURCH or RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION. A facility of a church, temple, synagogue,
or other nonprofit religious organization operated for worship and which may
include religious training or study.
   COMMUNICATION TOWER. A structure, either freestanding or attached to a
building or another structure, which is intended to support antennas or related
devices used to transmit or receive communication signals through the air.
These structures are specifically identified as stealth, monopole, lattice, or
guyed towers.
   COMMUNICATION TOWER, STEALTH.  The housing of communication antennas within
a building or on a structure so that the antennas are disguised as some other
permitted structure or use.
   CONDOMINIUM. A dwelling unit owned as a single-family home within a
multiple-unit property together with an undivided portion of ownership in areas
and facilities held in common with other property owners in the development.
CONDOMINIUMS may take a number of forms such as attached townhouses,
apartments, or other forms of residential structures. The common areas and
structures may include underlying land, parking areas, recreation facilities,
swimming pools, and in the case of an apartment house, hallways, basements,
heating units, and elevators.
   CONGREGATE CARE FACILITY. A licensed multi-unit facility which provides
housing, part-time medical care, shared food preparation and dining areas, and
recreational facilities, as well as significant social facilities to meet the
needs of the elderly. CONGREGATE CARE FACILITIES do not include nursing care
institutions or similar institutions devoted primarily to the care of the
chronically ill or incurable.
   CONVENIENCE STORE. Any retail establishment offering for sale gasoline,
diesel fuel, kerosene, automotive products, prepackaged food products,
household items, and/or other goods commonly associated with the same, and
having a gross floor area of less than 5,000 square feet.
   DAY CARE FACILITY. Any day care center or child care arrangement that
provides day care for more than five children unrelated to the operator and for
which a payment fee or grant is received, excluding foster homes, public or
private schools which provide a course of grade school instruction to children
of public school age, summer day or residence camps, or bible schools.
   DRY CLEANING AND LAUNDRY SERVICES. A building, portion of a building, or
premises used for the collection and distribution of dry cleaning or the
cleaning of fabrics, textiles, wearing apparel, or articles of any sort without
the immersion of such articles in volatile solvents, including but not limited
to petroleum distillates and/or chlorinated hydrocarbons and any process
incidental thereto. It is intended that uses in this category shall not pose a
significant threat to the health and safety of the public or adjacent uses and
that such may legally discharge all liquid waste into a public sanitary sewer
or private septic system.
   DWELLING, ACCESSORY (ATTACHED OR DETACHED). A habitable living unit added
to, created within, or detached from a single-family dwelling that provides
basic requirements for living, including but not limited to areas for sleeping,
eating, cooking and sanitation. Accessory units may not be subdivided or
otherwise segregated in ownership from the primary residence structure.
      (1)   An accessory dwelling may be attached, within or separate from the
principal dwelling.
      (2)   The principal use of the lot shall be residential and the principle
structure on the lot shall be a single-family residential building.
      (3)   No more than one accessory dwelling shall be permitted on a single
lot of record in conjunction with the principal dwelling unit.
      (4)   The accessory dwelling shall be owned by the same person as the
principal dwelling.
      (5)   The accessory dwelling shall not be served by a driveway separate
from that serving the principal dwelling unless the accessory dwelling is
accessed from a rear alley and the principal dwelling is accessed from a
street. A corner lot may be served by a separate driveway if approved by the
County Development Services.
      (6)   A detached accessory dwelling shall be located in the rear yard.
      (7)   The owner of the accessory dwelling shall live on the parcel
containing the accessory dwelling.
      (8)   A detached accessory dwelling shall be the lesser of 1,100 square
feet or 75% of the living area of the principal dwelling and may have no more
than two bedrooms; the structure may be a dwelling only or may combine a
dwelling with garage, workshop, studio or similar accessory use.
      (9)   No accessory dwelling unit shall be smaller than 600 square feet.
      (10)   A manufactured home shall not be used as an accessory dwelling
unit.
   DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. A building or portion of a building used or designed
as residence for three or more families living independently of each other,
including apartment houses, apartment hotels, and group housing projects.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY.  A detached building designed for or occupied
exclusively by one family.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building arranged or designed to be occupied by two
families living independently of each other.
   EASEMENT. A grant by a property owner of a strip of land for specified
purpose and use by the public, a corporation, or an individual.
   EXTERMINATORS. An establishment primarily engaged in exterminating and
controlling birds, mosquitoes, rodents, termites, and other insects and pests
(except for crop production and forestry production). Establishments providing
fumigation services are included in this industry. This definition includes
only those uses in the following NAICS group(s):
 
561710 Exterminating and Pest Control Services
 
   FAMILY. One or more individuals occupying a premises and living as a single,
nonprofit housekeeping unit.
   FAMILY CARE FACILITY. A home with support and supervisory personnel that
provides room and board, personal care, and habitation services in a family
environment for no more than six resident handicapped persons.
   FEED AND SEED STORE. Establishments primarily engaged in the retail sale of
supplies directly related to the day-to-day activities of agricultural
production.
   FLEA MARKET. An occasional or periodic market held in an open area or
structure where groups of individual sellers offer goods for sale to the
public. FLEA MARKETS are not considered temporary activities. This definition
includes only those uses in the following NAICS group(s):
 
454390 Other Direct Selling Establishments
 
   FLOOD. The temporary overflowing of water onto land which is usually devoid
of surface water.
   FLOOD FRINGE. The portion of the floodplain outside of the floodway based on
the total area inundated during the regulatory base flood.
   FLOOD, 100-YEAR. A flood having one chance in 100 of being equaled or
exceeded in any one year.
   FLOODPLAIN. The channel and the relatively flat area adjoining the channel
of a natural stream or river which has been or may be covered by floodwater.
The FLOODPLAIN consists of the flood fringe and the floodway.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a natural stream or river and portion of the
floodplain adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to carry and
discharge the floodwater or flood flow of any natural stream or river.
   FRUIT AND VEGETABLE MARKET. An establishment primarily engaged in retailing
fresh fruits and vegetables. This definition includes only those uses in the
following NAICS group(s):
 
445230 Fruit and Vegetable Market
 
   FUNERAL HOME. An establishment engaged in undertaking services, such as
preparing the human dead for burial and in arranging and managing funerals.
This definition includes crematories and mortuaries. This definition includes
only those uses in the following NAICS group(s):
 
8122 Death Care Services
 
   GARAGE, PRIVATE (RESIDENTIAL).  A building housing not more than the number
of vehicles in use by the family occupying the main structure to which the
private garage is attached or detached and in which space may be used for an
incidental home occupation.
   GREENHOUSE, COMMERCIAL. A building usually made largely of glass or plastic
where the temperature and humidity can be regulated for the cultivation of
delicate or out-of-season plants. Plants are raised to be sold to the general
public or to wholesalers.
   GREENHOUSE, PRIVATE. A temperature-controlled building used for the raising
of plants for the personal enjoyment of the property owner or his or her
tenant.
    GROSS FLOOR AREA. The total floor area of all buildings in a project
including easements, mezzanines, and upper floors, exclusive of stairways and
elevator shafts. It excludes separate service facilities outside the main
building such as boiler rooms and maintenance shops.
   GROUP DEVELOPMENT. A group of two or more principal structures built on a
plot of land not subdivided into the customary streets and lots designed for
occupancy by separate families, businesses, or other enterprises.
   GROUP HOME A. A transitional housing facility with support and supervisory
personnel licensed by the state and operated by a nonprofit corporation
chartered pursuant to G.S. Chapter 55A, which provides room and board, personal
care, and rehabilitation services in a supportive family environment for not
more than six residents, exclusive of supervisory personnel, including but not
limited to handicapped persons, older adults, foster children, and abused
individuals.  This use shall include family care homes as defined in state law.
This use shall not serve primarily as an alternative to incarceration, shall
not include individuals who are dangerous to others, as defined in G.S. § 122C-
3(11)b, and shall not include persons living together as a fraternal, sororal,
social, honorary, or professional organization.
   GROUP HOME B.  A transitional housing facility with support and supervisory
personnel licensed by the state and operated by a nonprofit corporation
chartered pursuant to G.S. Chapter 55A, which provides room and board, personal
care, and rehabilitation services in a supportive family environment for not
more than 12 residents, exclusive of supervisory personnel, including but not
limited to handicapped persons, older adults, foster children, and abused
individuals. This unit shall not serve primarily as an alternative to
incarceration, shall not include individuals who are dangerous to others, as
defined in G.S. § 122C-3(11)b, and shall not include persons living together as
a fraternal, sororal, social, honorary, or professional organization.
   HABILITATION FACILITY A. Any facility in which one to eight handicapped
persons receive habitation services, rehabilitation services, or engage in
recreational activities, regardless of whether these services and activities
are therapeutic or educational in nature. These facilities are licensed by the
state and do not provide room and board. This definition does not include the
principal uses elementary schools or secondary schools. These facilities are
intended to serve handicapped persons as defined in state law, in accordance
with rights provided by applicable laws.
   HABILITATION FACILITY B. Any facility in which more than eight handicapped
persons receive habilitation services, rehabilitation services, or engage in
recreational activities, regardless of whether these services and activities
are therapeutic or educational in nature. These facilities are licensed by the
state and do not provide room and board. This definition does not include the
principal uses elementary schools or secondary schools. These facilities are
intended to serve handicapped persons as defined in state law, in accordance
with rights provided by applicable laws.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TREATMENT FACILITY. A building, structure, or use of
land devoted, or intended to be devoted, primarily to changing by any method,
technique, or process, including incineration or neutralization, the physical,
chemical, or biological character of any hazardous material so as to neutralize
such material or render it non-hazardous, safer for transport, amenable for
recovery, amenable for storage, or reduced in bulk. Such a use may also contain
temporary storage facilities normally associated with these operations and of
sufficient size to conduct a commercially feasible operation. However, under no
circumstances is a HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TREATMENT FACILITY to be construed to be
any of the following:
      (1)   A facility which manufactures hazardous materials from component
non-hazardous materials;
      (2)   A facility or location for the long-term or perpetual storage of
hazardous materials; or
      (3)   A facility for the treatment of hazardous materials which is
clearly subordinate, incidental, and related to the principal structure,
building or use of land and is located on the same lot as the principal
structure, building, or use.
   HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE. Any chemical defined as a hazardous chemical in G.S. §
95-174, consisting of any element, chemical compound, or mixture of elements
and/or compounds which is a physical hazard or a health hazard. Physical
hazards include but are not limited to chemicals, which are combustible,
explosive, flammable, and reactive. Health hazards include but are not limited
to chemical, which are carcinogens, toxins, corrosives, or irritants.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. A solid waste, or combination of solid wastes, which
because of its quantity, concentration, or physical, chemical, or infectious
characteristics may:
      (1)   Cause or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or an
increase in serious irreversible or incapacitating reversible illness; or
      (2)   Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or
the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of, or
otherwise managed.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITY. Any commercial hazardous waste facility
which accepts hazardous waste from the general public or from another person
for a fee, but does not include any facility owned or operated by a generator
of hazardous waste solely for its own use. A HAZARDOUS WASTE FACILITY means a
facility for the collection, storage, processing, treatment, recycling,
recovery, or disposal of hazardous waste. This definition includes hazardous
materials treatment facilities as defined herein.
    HOME OCCUPATION, INCIDENTAL. A home occupation is permitted accessory to
any dwelling unit in accordance with the following requirements.
      (1)   The home occupation must be clearly incidental to the residential
use of the dwelling and must not change the essential residential character of
the dwelling.
      (2)   No merchandise or commodity should be sold on the premises.
      (3)   A home occupation conducted in an accessory structure shall be
housed only in a garage or other accessory structure typically associated with
a dwelling.
      (4)   The use shall employ no more than one person who is not a resident
of the dwelling.
      (5)   A home occupation housed within the dwelling shall occupy no more
than 25% of the total floor area of the dwelling.
      (6)   There shall be no visible outside display of stock-in-trade which
is sold on the premises.
      (7)   There shall be no outdoor storage or visible evidence of equipment
or materials used in the home occupation, excepting equipment or materials of a
type and quality that could reasonably be associated with the principal
residential use.
      (8)   Operation of the home occupation shall not be visible from any
dwelling on an adjacent lot, nor from a street.
      (9)   Only vehicles used primarily as passenger vehicles will be
permitted in connection with the conduct of the home occupation, and all
parking must be off the street and other than in the required front yard.
      (10)   The home occupation shall not utilize mechanical, electrical, or
other equipment which produces noise, electrical or magnetic interference,
vibration, heat, glare, or other nuisances outside the dwelling or accessory
structure housing the home occupation.
      (11)   Outdoor kilns used for the firing of pottery shall be provided
with a semi-opaque screen to obstruct the view from the street and from
adjacent properties located in residential districts, shall have a secured work
area, and shall be a minimum of ten feet from abutting property lines.
      (12)   No advertising signs shall be permitted.
   HOSPITAL. A facility providing medical, psychiatric, or surgical services
for sick or injured persons, including emergency treatment, diagnostic
services, training, research, and administration. This definition includes only
those uses in the following NAICS group(s):
 
622 Hospitals
 
   HOTEL (MOTEL).  A building or other structure kept, used, maintained,
advertised as, or held out to the public to be a place where sleeping
accommodations are supplied, for pay, to transient or permanent guests or
tenants, where rooms are furnished for the accommodations of such guests, and
having or not having one or more dining rooms, restaurants, or cafes where
meals or lunches are served to such transient or permanent guests, such
sleeping accommodations and dining rooms, restaurants, or cafes, if existing,
being conducted in the same building or buildings. This definition includes
only those uses in the following NAICS group(s):
 
721110 Hotels (except Casino Hotels) and Motels
 
   JUNK OR ABANDONED MANUFACTURED HOME.
      (1)   A manufactured home that is not being occupied as a dwelling and
does not provide complete, independent living facilities for one family,
including permanent provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking, and
sanitation, or a manufactured home that has not received the proper permits to
be located within the county’s jurisdiction;
      (2)   A manufactured home which is a health or safety hazard as a result
of the attraction of insects or rodents, conditions creating a fire hazard,
dangerous condition constituting a threat to anyone, or frequent use by
vagrants as living quarters in the absence of sanitary facilities; or
      (3)   Any manufactured home that was originally designed and intended for
residential or other approved use, which has been vacant or not in active use,
regardless of purpose or reason, for a period of one year. To be considered
active use, the manufactured home shall have been lawfully connected to
electric utility; public or private water supply; and public or private sewage
disposal systems.
   JUNK YARD. An establishment operated or maintained for the purpose of
storing, dismantling, salvaging, recycling, buying, or selling scrap or used
materials such as paper products or articles such as machinery, vehicles,
appliances, and the like, regardless of whether such material is for sale.
   JUNKED or WRECKED MOTOR VEHICLES. Motor vehicles which are not registered
with the state, do not have current state inspection stickers, or either:
      (1)   Are incapable of operation; or
      (2)   Are partially dismantled.
   KENNEL. A facility engaged in the breeding and raising animals, particularly
dogs and cats, and offering them for sale. The term facility shall be defined
as any run, pen, fenced area, or accessory building or structure where animals
are either temporarily or permanently encased, enclosed, or sheltered. This
definition of KENNEL facility does not include a single-family dwelling or its
attached structures. The use of privately raising or breeding of animals
without selling is not considered a KENNEL.
   LANDFILL. A method of disposing of solid waste in a sanitary manner without
creating nuisances or hazards to public health or safety by utilizing the
principles of engineering to confine the solid waste to the smallest practical
area, to reduce it to the smallest practical volume, and to cover it with a
layer of compacted earth at the end conclusion of each day’s operation, or at
such more frequent intervals as may be necessary.
   LAUNDERETTES and LAUNDROMATS. An establishment primarily engaged in
operating facilities with coin-operated or similar self-service laundry and dry
cleaning equipment for customer use on the premises. The establishment includes
supplying and servicing coin-operated or similar self-service laundry and dry
cleaning equipment for customer use in places of business operated by others
such as apartments and dormitories. This definition includes only those uses in
the following NAICS group(s):
 
812310 Coin-Operated Laundries and Drycleaners
 
   LIBRARY, PUBLIC. A publicly operated facility housing a collection of books,
magazines, audio and video tapes, or other material for use by the general
public.
   LOT. As follows:
      (1)   Includes the meanings PLOT, PARCEL, or TRACT; and
      (2)   A parcel of land in single ownership occupied or intended for
occupancy by a principal building together with its accessory buildings
including the open space required under this chapter. For the purpose of this
chapter, LOT shall mean any number of contiguous lots or portions of lots upon
which one principal building and its accessory buildings are located or are
intended to be located.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot which occupies the interior angle at the intersection of
two street lines which make an angle of more than 45 degrees and less than 135
degrees with each other. The street line forming the least frontage shall be
deemed the front of the lot except where the two street lines are equal, in
which case the owner shall be required to specify which is the front when
requesting a zoning permit.
   LOT, DEPTH. The depth of a lot, for the purpose of this chapter, is the
distance measured in the mean direction of the side lines of the lot from the
midpoint of the front lot line to the midpoint of the opposite main rear line
of the lot.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot with frontage on only one
street or access easement.
   LOT LINE. A line or series of connected line segments bounding a lot.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. The line which separates the lot from a street right-of-
way. Corner lots shall have only one front lot line.
   LOT LINE, INTERIOR. A side lot line, which separates one lot from another
lot.
   LOT LINE, REAR. That lot line which is opposite and most distant from the
front lot line, except in the case of a triangular lot, a line ten feet in
length, entirely within the lot, parallel to, and at the maximum distance from
the front lot line, or a chord thereof if the front lot line is curved, shall
be considered as the rear lot line for purposes of determining the required
rear yard. In cases where neither of these conditions is applicable, the Zoning
Administrator shall designate the rear lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. A lot line other than a front or rear lot line.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision, a plat of which has
been recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds of the county prior to the
adoption of this chapter, or a lot described by metes and bounds, and recorded
prior to the adoption of this chapter.
   LOT, THROUGH. An interior lot having frontage on two streets.
   LOT WIDTH. The distance between side lot lines measured at the building
setback line.
   MALL. See SHOPPING CENTER.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A dwelling unit that is composed of one or more
components, each of which was substantially assembled in a manufacturing plant
and designed to be transported to the home site on its own chassis; a dwelling
unit that exceeds 40 feet in length and eight feet in width; a dwelling unit
that is constructed in accordance with the National Manufactured Home
Construction and Safety Standards; and a dwelling unit that is not constructed
in accordance with the standards of the North Carolina State Building Code for
one- and two-family dwellings.
      (1)   CLASS A. A MANUFACTURED HOME constructed after July 1, 1976 and
that meets or exceeds the construction standards promulgated by the Department
of Housing and Urban Development that were in effect at the time of
construction and that satisfies the following additional criteria:
         (a)   Is a multi-sectional home (i.e., double-wide, triple-wide);
         (b)   The pitch of the MANUFACTURED HOME’S roof has a minimum vertical
rise of 2.2 feet for each 12 feet of horizontal run and the roof is finished
with shingles;
         (c)   The exterior siding consists predominately of vinyl or aluminum
horizontal lap siding, wood or hardboard, or other non-glare surface;
         (d)   A continuous, permanent brick masonry or stone curtain wall or
foundation, unpierced except for ventilation and access, is installed under the
MANUFACTURED HOME; and
         (e)   The tongue, axles, removable towing apparatus, and transporting
lights are removed after final placement on the site.
      (2)   CLASS B. A MANUFACTURED HOME constructed after July 1, 1976 and
that meets or exceeds the construction standards promulgated by the Department
of Housing and Urban Development that were in effect at the time of
construction and that satisfies the following additional criteria:
         (a)   Is a single-section home (i.e., single-wide);
         (b)   The pitch of the manufactured home’s roof has a minimum vertical
rise of 2.2 feet for each 12 feet of horizontal run and the roof is finished
with shingles;
         (c)   The exterior siding consists predominately of vinyl or aluminum
horizontal lap siding, wood or hardboard, or other non-glare surface;
         (d)   A continuous, permanent brick, masonry, or stone curtain wall or
foundation, unpierced except for ventilation and access, is installed under the
MANUFACTURED HOME; and
         (e)   The tongue, axles, removable towing apparatus, and transporting
lights are removed after final placement on the site.
      (3)   CLASS C. A manufactured home constructed after July 1, 1976 and
that meets or exceeds the construction standards promulgated by the Department
of Housing and Urban Development that were in effect at the time of
construction and that satisfies the following additional criteria: a
continuous, non-flammable/non-combustible curtain wall, skirting, permanent
masonry or other approved product curtain wall or foundation, unpierced except
for ventilation and access, is installed under the MANUFACTURED HOME.
      (4)   CLASS D.  A manufactured home that does not meet the definition of
a Class A, Class B, or Class C MANUFACTURED HOME.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. A plot of ground, together with all contiguous or
adjoining parcels of land, that is owned or controlled by the same person,
persons, family, partnership, corporation, company, or affiliates which has
been planned or improved for the placement and rental of either four or more
manufactured homes or four or more land sites for placement of manufactured
homes for dwelling or sleeping purposes. For purposes of this chapter only, a
contract for deed, written lease with option to purchase, or similar written
promise to convey land between unrelated parties upon a condition subsequent
shall be considered to be a conveyance.
   MANUFACTURED HOME SPACE. Any parcel of ground within a manufactured home
park designed for the exclusive use of one mobile home.
   MANUFACTURING A. A manufacturing establishment primarily engaged in the
fabrication or assembly of products from pre-structured materials or
components. Because of the nature of its operations and products, MANUFACTURING
A produces little or no noise, odor, vibration, glare, and/or air and water
pollution, and, therefore, has minimal impact on surrounding properties. This
definition may include the uses in the following NAICS group(s):
      3149      Other Textile Product Mills
      315      Apparel Manufacturing
      336991   Motorcycle, Bicycle and Parts Manufacturing
      3369      Other Transportation Equipment
      3399      Other Miscellaneous Manufacturing
   MANUFACTURING B. A manufacturing establishment primarily engaged in the
manufacture of foodstuffs, textiles, electrical components or tobacco products,
and the fabrication of wood, leather, water or plastic products. Because of the
nature of its operations and products, MANUFACTURING B could impact immediately
adjoining properties due to noise, odor, vibration, glare, and/or air and water
pollution. This definition may include the uses in the following NAICS group
(s):
      3119      Other Food Manufacturing
      3122      Tobacco Manufacturing
      313      Textile Mills
      3169      Other Leather and Allied Product Manufacturing
      3219      Other Wood Product Manufacturing
      3231      Printing and Related Support Activities
      3261      Plastics Product Manufacturing
      3341      Computer and Peripheral Equipment Manufacturing
      3342      Communications Equipment Manufacturing
      3343      Audio and Video Equipment
      3344      Semiconductor and Other Electronic Component Manufacturing
      3351      Electric Lighting Equipment Manufacturing
      3353      Electrical Equipment Manufacturing
      337      Furniture and Related Products Manufacturing
      3391      Medical Equipment and Supplies Manufacturing
   MANUFACTURING C. A manufacturing establishment primarily engaged in the
processing and manufacturing of materials or products not otherwise classified
under Manufacturing A, Manufacturing B, or other use defined in this section.
MANUFACTURING C includes the processing and manufacturing of products from
extracted or raw materials, the assembly of large or heavy machinery, and the
storing or using of flammable, explosive, hazardous, or toxic materials in the
manufacturing processes. Because of the nature of its operations and products,
MANUFACTURING C may impact surrounding properties due to noise, odor,
vibration, glare, and/or air and water pollution. This definition may include
the uses in the following NAICS group(s):
      3133      Textile and Fabric Finishing and Fabric Coating Mills
      3161      Leather and Hide Tanning and Finishing
      321114   Wood Preservation
      3212      Veneer, Plywood, and Engineered Wood Product Manufacturing
      3221      Pulp, Paper and Paper Board
      3241      Petroleum and Coal Products Manufacturing
      3259      Other Chemical Product and Preparation Manufacturing
      3262      Rubber Product Manufacturing
      3271      Clay Product and Refractory Manufacturing
      3272      Glass and Glass Product Manufacturing
      3279      Other Nonmetallic Mineral Product Manufacturing
      331      Primary Metal Manufacturing
      3329      Other Fabricated Metal Product Manufacturing
      3333      Commercial and Service Industry Machinery Manufacturing
      3353      Electrical Equipment Manufacturing
      3359      Other Equipment and Component Manufacturing
      3369      Other Transportation Equipment Manufacturing
      322      Paper Manufacturing
   MASSAGE AND BODY WORK THERAPY.  Any massage or body work therapy as defined
by the State Massage and Bodywork Therapy Practice Act, G.S. §§ 90-621 et seq.,
provided by a person licensed as provided therein to perform such therapy.
   MEAT PACKING PLANT. An establishment primarily engaged in the slaughtering
of cattle, hogs, sheep, lambs, and calves for meat to be sold or to be used on
the same premises in canning, cooking, curing, and freezing, and in making
sausage, lard, and other products. The definition includes all uses in the
following NAICS group(s):
 
3116 Animal Slaughtering and Processing
 
   MEDICAL AND SURGICAL OFFICES. An establishment primarily engaged in
furnishing medical and surgical services to individuals and licensed for such
practice by the state. This definition includes only those uses in the
following NAICS group(s):
 
6211 Offices of Physicians
6212 Offices of Dentists
6213 Offices of Other Health Practitioners
 
   MEDICAL OR DENTAL LABORATORY. An establishment primarily engaged in
providing professional analytic or diagnostic services to the medical
profession, or to the patient, on direction of a physician; or an establishment
primarily engaged in making dentures, artificial teeth, and orthodontic
appliances to order for the dental profession. This definition includes only
those uses in the following NAICS group(s):
 
6215 Medical and Diagnostic Laboratories
3391 Medical Equipment and Supplies Manufacturing
 
   MINING AND DREDGING OF SAND. The in- channel or near-channel extraction of
sand, NAICS Codes 212321, Construction Sand or Gravel Dredging, and 212322,
Industrial Sand Pits and Dredging. Also included within this definition is the
surface removal of accumulated sand not within a stream or water body.
   MINI-WAREHOUSE. A building or group of buildings in a controlled-access and
fenced compound that contains varying sizes of individual, compartmentalized,
and controlled-access stalls or lockers for the dead storage of customers’
goods or wares.
   MODULAR HOME. A dwelling unit constructed in accordance with the standards
set forth in the North Carolina State Building Code and composed of components
substantially assembled in a manufacturing plant and transported to the
building site for final assembly on a permanent foundation.
   MOTOR VEHICLE BODY OR PAINT SHOP. An establishment primarily engaged in body
work, painting, or customizing of automobiles or other motor vehicles. This
definition includes only those uses in the following NAICS group(s):
 
81112 Automotive Body, Paint, Interior and Glass Repair
 
   MOTOR VEHICLE REPAIR AND MAINTENANCE. An establishment engaged in providing
mechanical automotive maintenance and repair, such as engine repair, exhaust
system replacement and transmission repair, and/or providing other related
services, such as upholstery or glass replacement. This use includes service
stations but does not include body work or painting. This definition includes
only those uses in the following NAICS group(s):
 
8111  Automotive Repair and Maintenance
81112 Automotive Body, Paint, Interior and Glass Repair
 
   MOTOR VEHICLE SALES, RENTAL, AND LEASING. Any use where automobiles, other
motor vehicles, or manufactured homes are stored and/or displayed for the
purpose of sale or lease as an entire or complete unit. This definition
includes only those uses in the following NAICS group(s):
 
4411  Automobile Dealers
4412  Other Motor Vehicle Dealers
45393 Manufactured (Mobile) Home Dealers
5321  Automotive Equipment Rental and Leasing
 
   NONCONFORMING USE or STRUCTURE. Any use of a building or land which does not
conform to the use regulations of this chapter for the district in which it is
located, either at the effective date of this chapter or as a result of
subsequent amendments which may be incorporated into this chapter.
   NURSING CARE INSTITUTION. A licensed healthcare facility, however named,
governmental or non-governmental, which provides in-patient care to six or more
non-related persons for whom planned and continued medical or nursing
attention, or both, are indicated in contrast to the occasional or incidental
care provided in congregate care facilities. A NURSING CARE INSTITUTION may be
designed and marketed specifically for the elderly, physically handicapped, or
both, but not specifically for mentally ill persons who are dangerous to others
as defined in G.S. § 122C-3(11)b.
   OBSTRUCTION. Any structure, fence, shrub, tree, bush, flower, plant, motor
vehicle, or any other object that obscures, impairs, or prevents view or sight
through, over, or across the horizontal or vertical distance area.
   OPTICAL SERVICES.  An establishment where health practitioners engage in the
practice of optometry by providing patients with eye examinations to determine
visual acuity or the presence of visual problems. OPTICAL SERVICES also include
the prescription and sale of such products as eye glasses, contacts, or other
instruments intended to enhance visual perception.
   OPEN SPACE. Unroofed storage area, whether fenced or not.
   PACKAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any sewage treatment facility which discharges onto
the ground surface or into any stream, lake, or other body of water, but not
including ground absorption sanitary treatment systems under the jurisdiction
of the County Health Department.
   PARKING, LOT OR DECK. A principal or accessory use of a zoning lot, with or
without a parking structure, for use as a place for the temporary or long-term
parking of motor vehicles.
   PARKING SPACE. A storage of not less than ten by 20 feet for one automobile,
plus the necessary access space. It shall be always located outside the
dedicated street right-of-way.
   PAWN or PAWN TRANSACTION. A written bailment of personal property as
security for debt, redeemable on certain terms within 180 days, unless renewed,
and with an implied power of sale on default.
   PAWN SHOP.  The location at which, or the premises in which, a pawnbroker
regularly conducts business.
   PAWNBROKER. A person engaged in the business of lending money on the
security of pledged goods and who may also purchase merchandise for resale from
dealers and traders.
   PERSON. Includes a firm, association, corporation, trust, and company, as
well as an individual.
   PET CARE SERVICES (EXCEPT VETERINARY SERVICES). This industry comprises
establishments primarily engaged in providing pet care services (except
veterinary) such as boarding, grooming, sitting, and training pets.
   PLANNED DEVELOPMENT.  An area of a minimum contiguous size, as specified
herein, to be planned, developed, operated, and maintained according to
approved plans as a single entity and containing one or more structures with
appurtenant common areas.
   PLANNED INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT. A planned development consisting primarily
of industrial uses but which may also include retail service and recreational
uses to accommodate employees of the principal industrial uses within the
development.
   PLANNING BOARD. The Planning Board of the county.
   PROFESSIONAL OFFICES.  An establishment primarily engaged in providing:
engineering, architectural, and surveying services; accounting, auditing, and
bookkeeping services; public relations services; legal services; real estate
services; the services of insurance agents, brokers, and carriers; the services
of security and commodity brokers; and the services of bank holding companies.
This definition includes only those uses in the following NAICS group(s):
5111 Newspaper, Periodical, Book, and Database Publishers
5112 Software Publishers
5231 Securities and Commodity Contracts Intermediation and Brokerage
5241 Insurance Carriers
5242 Agencies, Brokerages, and other insurance related activities
5312 Offices or Real Estate Agents and Brokers
5411 Legal Services
5412 Accounting, Tax Preparation, Bookkeeping, and Payroll Services
5413 Architectural, Engineering and Related Services
5415 Computer System Design and Related Services
5416 Management, Scientific and Technical Consulting Services
5418 Advertising and Related Services
5511 Management of Companies and Enterprises
5614 Business Support Services
5615 Travel Arrangement and Reservation Services
 
   PROGRESSIVE CARE COMMUNITY. An area of land including one or more buildings
under unified management, planned and developed as a unit to provide for the
traditional residency and care of the elderly in a full range of living and
care arrangements which includes at least two of the following: independent
living and care, congregate care, or nursing care institutions.
   PUBLIC BUILDINGS. The offices of the executive, legislative, judicial,
administrative, and regulatory branches of federal, state, and local
governments. This definition includes only those uses in the following NAICS
group(s):
 
92 Public Administration
 
   PUBLIC SAFETY FACILITY. A facility operated by a public agency, a private
contractor thereof, or by a private nonprofit volunteer organization and used
for the base of operations and/or housing of equipment or personnel for the
provision of dispatched public safety services including law enforcement, fire
protection, rescue services, and/or emergency medical services. Such a facility
may contain living quarters for on-duty personnel. Facilities for the
maintenance of equipment housed at the operation site are also permitted.
   PUBLIC SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. A system serving two or more dwelling units
and approved by the County Division of the District Health Department and the
State Department of Water and Air Resources.
   PUBLIC USE. Any area, building, or structure held, used, or controlled
exclusively for public purposes by any department or brand of the federal
government, this state, or the county government under the direct authority of
the Board of County Commissioners, the County School Board or any other quasi-
public entities, without reference to the ownership of the building or
structures or the realty upon which it is situated.
    PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY. Any water supply furnishing potable water to ten or
more residences or businesses or combination of businesses or residences.
Approval by the Division of Health Services, Department of Human Resources, is
required.
   PUBLIC WORKS FACILITY. All production, storage, transmission, and recovery
facilities for water, sewerage, telephone, and other similar utilities owned or
operated by any public agency or by any utility subject to the jurisdiction of
the State Utilities Commission.
   QUASI-PUBLIC USE. An entity whose use is essentially public, as in services
rendered, although it is under private ownership or control.
   RECREATION, ACTIVE. Leisure-time activities, usually of a formal nature and
often preformed with others, requiring equipment and taking place at prescribed
places, sites or fields. ACTIVE RECREATION space may include facilities such as
ballfields, tennis courts, or swimming pools, or tot-lots and other similar
type play areas. ACTIVE RECREATION space may also be used for picnicking,
boating, fishing, swimming, outdoor games and sports, equestrian-activities,
and activities incidental and related to the foregoing, all on a non-commercial
basis.
   RECREATION, PASSIVE. Activities that involve relatively inactive or less
energetic activities, such as walking, sitting or picnicking.
   RESEARCH LABORATORY. An establishment primarily engaged in commercial
research and providing testing services such as calibration and certification
of instruments, food testing services, forensic laboratories, metallurgical
testing, and industrial X-ray inspection services, and the like. This
definition includes only those uses in the following NAICS group(s):
 
5417 Scientific Research and Development Services
 
   RESTAURANT (WITH DRIVE-THROUGH SERVICE). An establishment which delivers
prepared food and/or beverages to customers in motor vehicles, regardless of
whether or not it also serves prepared food and/or beverages to customers who
are not in motor vehicles, for consumption either on or off the premises. This
definition includes only those uses in the following NAICS group(s):
 
722110 Full Service Restaurants
722211 Limited Service Restaurants
722212 Cafeterias, Grill Buffets and Buffets
722213 Snack and Nonalcoholic Beverage Bars
 
   RESTAURANT (WITHOUT DRIVE-THROUGH SERVICE). An establishment which serves
prepared food and beverages primarily to customers seated at tables or counters
located within the building or designated outdoor seating areas. This includes
cafes, tea rooms, and outdoor cafes and other uses listed in the following
NAICS groups:
 
722110 Full Service Restaurants
722211 Limited Service Restaurants
722212 Cafeterias, Grill Buffets and Buffets
722213 Snack and Nonalcoholic Beverage Bars
 
   RETAIL, GENERAL. An establishment primarily engaged in selling goods to the
public. This definition includes only those uses in the following NAICS group
(s):
44131 Automotive Parts and Accessories Stores (Indoor Sales Only)
442   Furniture and Home Furnishings Stores
443   Electronics and Appliance Stores
44413 Hardware stores
446   Health and Personal Care Stores
448   Clothing and Clothing Accessories Stores
451   Sporting Goods, Hobby, Book, and Music Stores
452   General Merchandise Stores
453   Miscellaneous Store Retailers
      (Excluding 45393, Manufactured Home Dealers)
 
   RETAIL, NONSTORE. A use that retails merchandise using nonstore methods,
such as the broadcasting and publishing of direct-response advertising, direct
solicitation, and electronic shopping. This definition includes only those uses
in the following NAICS group(s):
 
4541 Electronic Shopping and Mail- Order Houses
4542 Vending Machine Operators
4543 Direct Selling Establishments (Excluding On-Site Fuel Storage)
 
   RETAIL STORE, LARGE. A single retail or wholesale use which occupies no less
than 65,000 square feet of gross floor area, typically requires high parking-
to-building area ratios, and has a regional sales market. Such stores include
but are not limited to membership warehouse clubs that emphasize bulk sales,
discount stores, and department stores.
   RETAIL STORE, MEDIUM.  A single retail or wholesale use which occupies
between 25,000 and 65,000 square feet of gross floor area, typically requires
moderate parking-to-building area ratios, and has a local sales market.
   RETAIL STORE, SMALL. A single retail or wholesale use which occupies less
than 25,000 square feet of gross floor area, typically requires low parking-to-
building area ratios, and has a local or neighborhood sales market.
   RIDING STABLES. An establishment where horses are boarded and cared for,
where instruction in riding, jumping, and showing is offered, or where horses
may be hired for riding.
   RURAL RESORT AND RETREAT. A private establishment consisting of a detached
structure or structures located in a rural setting in which lodging units are
offered to transients for compensation as the principal use, along with
conference and meeting facilities, restaurant and/or banquet facilities, and
recreational amenities of a rural nature.
   RURAL RESORT/RETREAT AND CONFERENCE CENTER. This category provides
commercial hospitality lodgings in spacious settings that are principally
intended for vacationing, relaxation and conference activities for visitors to
the community. Permitted are single-family dwellings (attached or detached)
guest homes, or an accessory apartment to be used only by employees or owners
of the resort and retreat. Permitted also are tourist lodgings, with commonly
incidental, recreation-oriented uses, including golf courses, horseback riding,
swimming, tennis, and other similar outdoor activities; as well as facilities
contained within the principal resort building: restaurants, health clubs,
professional business offices and conference and meeting facilities.
   SAWMILL. A facility where logs are sawn, split, shaved, stripped, chipped,
or otherwise processed to produce wood products, not including the processing
of timber for use on the same lot by the owner or resident of that lot. This
definition includes only those uses in the following NAICS group(s):
 
321113 Sawmills
 
   SCHOOL, PUBLIC. A structure used primarily by and for any two or more age or
grade levels in grades kindergarten through 12 and operated by the public
school system or approved by the State Department of Public Instruction as
meeting the requirements of state law. Any school for children age six or under
not meeting these requirements shall be considered a day care facility for
purposes of this chapter. This definition includes only those uses in the
following NAICS group(s):
 
6111 Elementary and Secondary Schools
 
   SCHOOL, VOCATIONAL OR PROFESSIONAL. A use providing education or training in
business, commerce, language, or other similar activity or occupational
pursuit, and not otherwise defined as a home occupation, college or university,
or elementary or secondary school. This definition includes only those uses in
the following NAICS group(s):
 
6112 Junior Colleges
6113 Colleges, Universities and Professional Schools
6114 Business School and Computer and Management Training
6115 Technical and Trade Schools
6116 Other Schools and Instruction
 
   SECURITY TRAINING OPERATIONS AND SERVICES.  A facility located on at least
25 contiguous acres, which provides the following services: explosives
training; driver training (including vehicle maintenance facility to support
driver training activities); towers that are 100 feet tall or less and are used
in connection with security training; emergency response training; office,
clerical, research, and services related to SECURITY TRAINING OPERATIONS AND
SERVICES.
   SELF-CONTAINED TRAVEL TRAILERS. A travel trailer which may operate
independently of connections to electricity, water, and sewer for a limited
period of time, having its own battery or LP gas system or both, to operate
lights, refrigerator, stove, and heater; having a water tank with a pressure
system; and having a holding tank with a toilet.
   SERVICE STATION.  A building or lot dedicated to the rendering of services
such as the sale of gasoline, oil, grease, and accessories, and the minor
repair of automobiles, excluding body work, overhauling, and painting.
   SERVICES A, BUSINESS. An establishment primarily engaged in providing a
service(s) to businesses and, to a lesser extent, individuals. All merchandise
and rental equipment is stored inside enclosed buildings. BUSINESS SERVICES A
includes the following list of uses (including NAICS groups and all
subcategories not elsewhere listed):
 
5322  Consumer Goods Rental
5414  Specialized Design Services
5415  Computer Systems Design and Related Services
5614  Business Support Services
56141 Document Prep Services
 
   SERVICES B, BUSINESS. An establishment primarily engaged in providing
services to commercial and business establishments. Operations may include
large-scale facilities and storage of merchandise and equipment outside
enclosed buildings. BUSINESS SERVICES B includes the following list of uses
(including related NAICS groups and all subcategories not elsewhere listed):
 
5323   General Rental Centers
5418   Advertising, Public Relations, and Related Services
561622 Locksmiths
5617   Services to Buildings and Dwellings
8113   Commercial and Industrial Machinery and Equipment (except Automotive and
       Electronic) Repair and Maintenance
8114   Personal and Household Goods Repair and Maintenance
8123   Dry Cleaning and Laundry Services
 
   SETBACK. The minimum required horizontal distance between a structure and
the property line, street right-of-way line, street centerline or access
easement.
   SETBACK, FRONT. Any setback from a street or road, as measured from the edge
of the public right-of-way or edge of access easement.
   SETBACK LINES.  The lines on the front, rear, and sides of a lot which
delineates the area within which a structure may be built and maintained
according to the district regulations.
   SETBACK, SIDE. Any interior property line setback other than a rear setback.
   SHOOTING RANGE, INDOOR. The use of a completely enclosed structure for
archery and/or the discharging of firearms for the purposes of target practice
or temporary competitions.
   SHOOTING RANGE, OUTDOOR. The use of land for archery and/or the discharging
of firearms for the purposes of target practice or temporary competitions.
   SHOPPING CENTER.  A building or group of buildings with two or more uses,
either connected or freestanding, which is designed with common parking,
pedestrian movement, ingress and egress, and used for the sale of merchandise
or services to the public. SHOPPING CENTERS shall be construed to include all
outparcels, whether or not developed, and shall permit any permitted within the
zoning district in which it is located except for those uses that require
outdoor storage.
   SHOPPING CENTER, LARGE. A shopping center totaling 65,000 square feet or
more of gross floor area.
   SHOPPING CENTER, MEDIUM.  A shopping center containing between 25,000 and
65,000 square feet of gross floor area.
   SHOPPING CENTER, SMALL. A shopping center totaling 25,000 square feet or
less of gross floor area.
   SIGN. Any device, fixture, placard, or structure that uses any color, form,
graphic, illumination, symbol, or writing to advertise, announce the purpose
of, or identify the purpose of a person or entity, or to communicate
information of any kind to the public.
   SIGN AREA. The entire face of a sign and all wall work, including
illuminating tubing incidental to its decoration, shall be included for
measurement of sign areas, excluding architectural trim and structural
embellishments. In the case of an open sign made up of individual letters,
figures, or designs, the spaces between such letters, figures, or designs shall
be included as part of the SIGN AREA. In computing SIGN AREA, only one side of
a double-face sign structure shall be considered.
   SIGN, COMMERCIAL. Any sign located in a district zoned for commercial uses.
   SIGN, FREESTANDING. Any sign which is attached to or mounted upon the ground
by means of one or more upright posts, pillars, or braces placed upon the
ground by means of one or more upright posts, pillars, or braces place upon the
ground, and which is not attached to any building (excludes billboards, poster
panels, and outdoor advertising signs).
   SIGN, INDUSTRIAL. Any sign located in a district zoned for industrial uses.
   SIGN, LOCAL INTEREST. A sign of a temporary nature used to advertise or
announce a particular event, usually of local concern.
   SIGN, OFF-SITE (BILLBOARD). One advertising device used to disseminate
information concerning a person, place, or thing not pertaining to the use of
the land upon which it is located.
   SIGN, ON-SITE. Signs relating in subject matter to the premises where
located, or to products, accommodations, services, or activities on the
premises.
   SIGN, PERMANENT. Signs erected, located, or affixed in a manner enabling
continued use of the sign for a relatively long, unspecified period of time.
   SIGN, PROJECTING. A sign projecting from the exterior wall of a building or
suspended from and supported by the underside of a horizontal surface, such as
a canopy.
   SIGN, RESIDENTIAL. Any sign located in a district zoned for residential
uses.
   SOLAR ENERGY GENERATING FACILITY.  A solar collection system that generates
electricity from sunlight to a wholesale electricity beneficiary. These solar
farms shall consist of a minimum of three individual photovoltaic modules
(solar panels) which are in assembly of solar cell to generate electricity.
This energy beneficiary(ies) shall not be located on the energy facility site.
This definition does not include solar devices for single family homes or any
solar devices which are an accessory to a primary use. This definition includes
only those uses in the following NAICS group(s):
 
221114 Solar Electric Power Generation
 
   STREET. A dedicated and accepted public right- of-way for vehicular traffic
which affords the principal means of access to abutting properties.
   STRUCTURE. As follows:
      (1)   Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires more or
less permanent location on the ground, or which is attached to something having
a more or less permanent location on the ground.
      (2)   An edifice or a building of any kind; in the broadest sense, any
product or piece of work artificially built up or composed of parts and joined
together in some definite manner.
   TEMPORARY STRUCTURE. A building placed on a lot for a specific purpose which
is to be removed within a specified time period. Examples of TEMPORARY
STRUCTURES are monitoring stations, mobile classrooms, construction trailers
and guard houses, and produce stands.
    THEATER, DRIVE-IN. An establishment for the outdoor viewing of motion
pictures by patrons while in motor vehicles. This definition includes only
those uses in the following NAICS group(s):
 
512132 Drive-In Motion Picture Theaters
 
   THEATER, INDOOR. An establishment for the indoor viewing of motion pictures
by patrons. This definition includes only those uses in the following NAICS
group(s):
 
512131 Motion Picture Theaters (except Drive-Ins)
 
   USE, ACCESSORY. A use of land or portion thereof customarily incidental and
subordinate to the principal use of the land and located on the same lot with
the principal use.
   USE, TEMPORARY. A use established for a limited duration with the intent to
discontinue such use upon the expiration of the time period.
   USED FOR. Includes the meaning DESIGNED FOR.
   VARIANCE. A modification of the existing Zoning Chapter by the County Board
of Adjustment when strict enforcement of this chapter would cause undue
hardship owing to circumstances unique to the individual property where the
variance is granted.
   VETERINARY SERVICES. Any facility used for the purpose of giving licensed
medical treatment to animals or pets and any other customarily incidental
treatment of the animals, such as grooming, boarding, or selling of pet
supplies. This definition includes only those uses in the following NAICS group
(s):
 
54194 Veterinary Services
81291 Pet Care Services (except Veterinary)
 
   WAREHOUSING. Establishments primarily engaged in the warehousing, storage
and distribution of general merchandise, refrigerated goods, and farm products.
This definition includes only those uses in the following NAICS group(s):
 
4931 Warehousing and Storage
 
   WAREHOUSING, SELF-STORAGE. Establishments primary engaged in the rental or
leasing of mini-warehouses and self-storage units. This definition includes
only those uses in the following NAICS group(s):
 
531130 Lessors of Mini-Warehouses and Self-Storage Units
 
   WHOLESALE TRADE A. An establishment primarily engaged in selling durable and
non-durable goods to retailers; to industrial, commercial, institutional, farm,
construction contractors; or for professional business uses; or to other
wholesalers. Merchandise is stored inside enclosed buildings. Activities,
including physically assembling, sorting, and grading goods in large lots and
breaking bulk lots for redistribution in smaller lots, are conducted inside
enclosed buildings in such a way as to have a minimal impact on surrounding
properties. Operations with over 25% of sales to retail customers require the
appropriate retail zoning district. This definition includes only those uses in
the following NAICS group(s):
4231 Motor Vehicle Supplies and New Parts Wholesalers
4232 Furniture and Home Furnishing Wholesalers
4233 Lumber and Other Construction Materials Wholesalers
4234 Professional and Commercial Equipment and Supplies Wholesaler
4236 Household Appliances and Electrical and Electronic Goods Wholesalers
4237 Hardware, Plumbing and Heating Equipment and Supplies Wholesalers
4239 Miscellaneous Durable Goods Wholesalers
4241 Paper and Paper Products Wholesalers
4242 Drugs and Druggists Sundries Wholesalers
4243 Apparel, Piece Goods and Notions Wholesalers
4244 Grocery and Related Products Wholesalers
4248 Beer, Wine and Distilled Alcoholic Beverage Wholesalers
4249 Miscellaneous Non-Durable Goods Wholesalers (except 42491 Farm Supplies
     Wholesalers)
 
   WHOLESALE TRADE B. An establishment primarily engaged in selling durable and
non-durable goods to retailers; to industrial, commercial, institutional, farm,
construction contractors; or to professional business uses; or to other
wholesalers. Merchandise may be stored outside or inside enclosed buildings.
Activities, including physically assembling, sorting, and grading goods in
large lots, and breaking bulk lots for redistribution in smaller lots, may be
conducted outside enclosed buildings. Operations with over 25% of sales to
retail customers require the appropriate retail zoning district. This
definition includes only those uses in the following NAICS group(s):
 
4231   Motor Vehicle and Motor Vehicle Parts and Supplies Wholesalers (except
       42314 Motor Vehicle Parts Used Wholesalers)
4235   Metal and Mineral (excluding Petroleum Wholesalers)
4238   Machinery, Equipment and Supplies Wholesalers
4245   Farm Product Raw Material Wholesalers
4246   Chemical and Allied Products Wholesalers
424901 Farm Supplies Merchant Wholesalers
 
   WINE TASTING ROOM. A facility in which wine products grown or processed on
the owner’s property may be tasted and sold. This definition shall also include
the following associated uses as permitted: gift/retail sales, assembly areas,
meeting rooms, dining and catering facilities, and a restaurant facility, if
expressly requested and permitted. The facility must be operated in association
with an existing vineyard (bona fide farm) located on the same property, or
multiple adjoining properties in same ownership.
   WINERY. A manufacturing facility or establishment engaged in the processing
of grapes to produce wine or wine-like beverages as defined by the General
Statutes.
   YARD. An open space on the same lot with a principal building, unoccupied
and unobstructed from the upward, except where encroachments and accessory
buildings are expressly permitted.
   YARD, FRONT. The yard extending across the full width of the lot and lying
between the front lot line and the front setback line as required in this
chapter.
   YARD, INTERIOR SIDE. The yard extending along the length of the lot between
the required front yard and the required rear yard, and between the side lot
line and the side building setback line, as required in this chapter, provided
that the side lot line is not adjacent to a public street right-of-way.
   YARD, REAR. An open, unoccupied space extending the full width of the lot
and situated between the rear line of the lot and the rear line of the building
projected to the side lines of the lot.
   YARD, SIDE. An open, unoccupied space situated between the side line of the
building and the adjacent side line of the lot and extending from the rear line
of the front yard to the front line of the rear yard.
   YARD, STREET SIDE. The yard extending along the length of the lot between
the required front yard and the required rear yard adjacent to a public right-
of-way or private access easement, and between the side lot line and the side
building setback line as required in this chapter.
(1996 Code, § 155.001) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984; Ord. passed 7-29-1985; Ord.
passed 11-20-1989; Ord. passed 11-20-1989; Ord. passed 4-3-1995; Ord. passed
12-16-1996; Ord. passed 6-23-1997; Ord. passed 11-16-1998; Ord. passed 2-16-
2004; Ord. passed 5-16-2005; Ord. passed 3-20-2006; Ord. passed 5-1-2006; Ord.
passed 5-1-2006; Ord. passed 6-5-2006; Ord. passed 12-4-2006; Ord passed 1-5-
2009; Ord. passed 3-2-2009; Ord. passed 11-1-2010; Ord. passed 8-1-2011; Ord.
passed 8-1-2011; Ord. passed 8-1-2011; Ord. passed 11-7-2011; Ord. passed 11-7-
2011; Ord. passed 7-16-2012; Ord. passed 11-4-2013; Ord. passed 7-14-2014; Ord.
passed 6-5-2017; Ord. passed 5-3-2021; Ord. passed 8-1-2022)
§ 155.002 PURPOSE.
   The purposes of this chapter are to promote the public health, safety,
morals, and general welfare of the county; promote the orderly development of
the area; lessen congestion on the roads and streets; secure safety from fire,
panic, and other dangers; provide adequate light and air; prevent the
overcrowding of land; avoid undue concentration of population; and facilitate
the adequate provision of transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks, and
other public requirements.
(1996 Code, § 155.002) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984)
§ 155.003 AUTHORITY.
   The Board of County Commissioners of the county enacts this chapter in
pursuance of the authority granted by G.S. Chapter 153A, Article 18.
(1996 Code, § 155.003) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984)
§ 155.004 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the Zoning Chapter of the county, and may be
referred to as zoning chapter or Zoning Code, and the map referred to is
identified by the title Official Zoning Map, and may be known as the zoning
map.
(1996 Code, § 155.004) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984)
§ 155.005 TERRITORIAL JURISDICTION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the zoning jurisdiction of the county shall
include the land outside the corporate limits of Mocksville’s extraterritorial
planning jurisdiction.
(1996 Code, § 155.005) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984)
§ 155.006 INCORPORATION OF ZONING MAP.
   The Official Zoning Map, and all notations, references, and other
information shown on the map are incorporated by reference and made a part of
this chapter.
(1996 Code, § 155.006) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984)
§ 155.007 BONA FIDE FARMS EXEMPT.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to bona fide farms. This
chapter does not exercise any controls over crop lands, timber lands, pasture
lands, apple orchards, idle or other farm lands, nor over any farm house, barn,
poultry house, or other farm buildings including tenant or other houses for
persons working on the farms, as long as such homes shall be in the same
ownership as the farm and located on the farm. Such agricultural uses maintain
the openness of the land and achieve the purposes of this chapter without the
need for regulation. Residences for non-farm use or occupancy and other non-
farm uses shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter.
(1996 Code, § 155.007) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984)
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 155.020 ZONING TO APPLY TO EVERY BUILDING AND USE.
   (A)   No building or land shall be used or occupied and no building or part
shall be erected, moved, or altered, except in conformity with the regulations
for the district in which it is located.
   (B)   No building shall be erected or altered so as to exceed the height
limit, to accommodate or house a greater number of families, to occupy a
greater percentage of the lot area, or to have narrower or smaller rear, front,
or side yards than are required as specified in the regulations for the
district in which it is located.
   (C)   No part of a yard or other open space required about any building for
the purposes of complying with the provisions of this chapter shall be included
as a part of a yard or other open space similarly required for another
building.
(1996 Code, § 155.020) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984)
§ 155.021 NONCONFORMING USES AND BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Nonconforming uses.
      (1)   A nonconforming use of any building or land shall not be enlarged
or extended. However, a nonconforming use of any building may be extended to
any portion of such building which was, at the time such use became
nonconforming, manifestly arranged or designed for such use.
      (2)   A nonconforming use may be changed from one nonconforming use to
another similar nonconforming use.
      (3)   No structural alterations shall be made in a building housing a
nonconforming use, except routine maintenance up to 10% of the tax value of the
structure.
      (4)   A nonconforming use of any building or structure which is damaged
to an extent exceeding 75% of its then reproductive value, exclusive of
foundations, by fire, flood, explosion, earthquake, riot, or act of God, shall
be discontinued, and such building or structures shall be used only in
conformance with the provisions of the district in which it is located.
      (5)   If a nonconforming use is discontinued for a period of more than
180 days, any future use of the land or building shall be in conformity with
the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Nonconforming buildings and structures.
      (1)   A nonconforming building or structure shall not be enlarged or
extended unless such extension shall comply with all the requirements of this
chapter for the district in which it is located.
      (2)   A nonconforming building or structure, which is damaged to an
extent exceeding 75% of its then reproduction value, exclusive of foundations,
by fire, flood, explosion, earthquake, riot, or act of God, shall not be
reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
However, any single-family dwelling unit in any commercial district shall be
allowed to rebuild regardless of the extent of damage.
(1996 Code, § 155.021) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984)
§ 155.022 ONLY THE PRINCIPAL BUILDING TO BE ON ANY LOT; LOT MUST ABUT ON A
STREET.
   (A)   Every building erected or structurally altered shall be located on a
lot, and with the exception of group developments and manufactured home parks,
there shall be not more than one principal building (including manufactured
homes) and accessory buildings on a lot.
   (B)   No dwelling shall be erected on a lot or tract of land which does not
have access to at least one public street or road.
(1996 Code, § 155.022) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984; Ord. passed 5-16-2005)
§ 155.023 REDUCTION OF LOT PROHIBITED.
   No lot shall be reduced in size so that lot width, yard requirements, lot
area per dwelling unit, or other requirements of this chapter are not
maintained.
(1996 Code, § 155.023) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984)
§ 155.024 OBSTRUCTION TO VISION AT STREET INTERSECTIONS.
   In any district within the triangular area formed by joining points (with a
straight line) on the centerlines of intersection or intercepting streets 60
feet from their intersection, there shall be no obstruction to vision by
structures, grade, or foliage other than power or utility poles between a
height of three feet and a height of ten feet, measured above the average
elevation of the existing surface of each street at the centerlines.
(1996 Code, § 155.024) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984)
§ 155.025 LOT OF RECORD; DATE AND PERMITTED USE.
   (A)   In any district where residences are permitted, a lot having an area
or width less than the required area or width and having been a lot of record
on or before the effective date of this chapter, may be occupied by a single-
family dwelling. However, the minimum front, rear, and side yard requirements
for the district in which it is located shall be met.
   (B)   In the commercial districts, a lot having an area or width of less
than the required area or width and having been a lot of record on or before
the effective date of this chapter may be occupied by a permitted use. However,
all other requirements of the district shall be met.
(1996 Code, § 155.025) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984)
§ 155.026 SAME ADJOINING AND VACANT LOTS.
   If two or more adjoining and vacant lots of record are in a single ownership
after the effective date of this chapter and each lot individually has less
area or width than the minimum requirements of the district in which such lots
are located, these lots shall be considered as a single lot which meets the
minimum requirements of this chapter.
(1996 Code, § 155.026) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984)
§ 155.027 SIDE YARDS ON CORNER LOTS.
   In residential districts, the minimum width of the side yard along an
intersection of streets shall be at least 25 feet from the road right-of-way
line. Accessory buildings in the rear yard shall also comply with this
requirement.
(1996 Code, § 155.027) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984)
§ 155.028 FRONT YARD SETBACKS.
   (A)   The front yard requirements for the various districts shall not apply
to any lot where the front yard coverage on neighboring developed lots is less
than the minimum required front yard. This applies only if the developed lots
are located wholly or in part within 100 feet of each side of such lot and
within the same block and zoning district and fronting on the same street or
road as such lot. In such cases, the front yard on this lot may be less than
the required front yard, but not less than the average of the existing front
yards on the developed lots, provided that the front yard on such lot shall not
be less than one-half of the required front yard.
   (B)   All measurements for front yard and corner side yards shall be made
from the state road right-of- way line.
   (C)   Permitted Non-Residential uses and structures within any residential
zoning district shall meet the required setback for a principal building.
(1996 Code, § 155.028) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984; Am. Ord. passed 2-2-2015)
§ 155.029 EXCEPTIONS TO HEIGHT LIMITS.
   Roof structures for the housing of communication towers, elevators,
stairways, tanks, ventilating fans, or similar equipment required to operate
and maintain the building, skylight, towers, steeples, flagpoles, chimneys,
wireless masts, water tanks, silos, or similar structures may be erected above
the height limits specified in this chapter, but no roof structure or any space
above the height limit shall be allowed for the purpose of providing additional
floor space for residential or commercial use.
(1996 Code, § 155.029) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984; Ord. passed 12-16-1996)
§ 155.030 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   (A)   General requirements. All manufactured homes, either on individual
lots or in parks, shall meet the following standards.
      (1)   All units shall be skirted with a solid, nonflammable material.
      (2)   All units shall be set up and anchored in accordance with G.S. §§
143-144 et seq., the Uniform Standards for Manufactured Homes Act, as revised.
      (3)   All manufactured homes shall be properly skirted after the final
inspection but prior to the activation of electrical service to the home.
   (B)   Manufactured home prohibited uses. Manufactured homes designed in
accordance with state and federal standards and intended to be used as dwelling
units shall not be used for any other purpose (including storage, accessory
structures, or any nonresidential use).
   (C)   Manufactured home as a temporary use. A manufactured home may be
permitted as a temporary use according to the following standards:
      (1)   Hardship. See §
155.190; and
      (2)   Construction or reconstruction of a permanent site-built dwelling.
A temporary use permit may be approved by the Zoning Enforcement Officer for up
to two years. The permit may be renewed for one additional two-year period upon
a showing by the applicant that the single-family site-built dwelling will be
completed within the two-year permit renewal and that unnecessary hardship
would result if the permit were not renewed. The following information shall be
submitted and requirements met before the Zoning Enforcement Officer may
approve a temporary use permit for a manufactured home:
         (a)   A completed application form;
         (b)   The manufactured home shall meet the standards for a Class C
manufactured home;
         (c)   Information which validates the age, size, model number, and
serial number of the manufactured home. A copy of the current bill of sale,
current title, or certified tax listing form from the county in which the home
is presently located may be used to validate the age, size, model number, and
serial number;
         (d)   An approved on-site wastewater system permit from the County
Environmental Health Department or evidence of an approved connection to a
public sewer system;
         (e)   A site plan with the proposed location of the manufactured home
and the single-family dwelling to be built on the property showing. The
manufactured home shall be located as near to the side or rear of the property
as practicable (subject to location of the on-site sewage disposal system);
         (f)   An application for a zoning permit and building permit including
house plans for the single-family site-built dwelling. A valid building permit
shall be required to be issued prior to the issuance of the temporary use
permit;
         (g)   All applicable fees shall be paid; and
         (h)   The manufactured home shall be removed no later than 14 days
following the issuance of the certificate of occupancy for the single-family
site-built dwelling. Failure to remove the manufactured home shall be
considered a violation of this Zoning Code.
   (D)   Nonconforming manufactured home replacement standards. Any proposed
replacement of a nonconforming manufactured home shall occur no more than six
months from the date the existing nonconforming home is removed from the
property. If the replacement manufactured home has not been permitted within
six months of the removal of the existing nonconforming manufactured home, only
a valid conforming use (as listed in §
155.130) shall be established on the lot. The following information shall be
submitted and requirements met prior to a zoning compliance permit being
approved:
      (1)   The replacement manufactured home shall be the same age or newer
than the existing nonconforming manufactured home, but in any case shall not be
manufactured prior to July 1, 1976;
      (2)   If the existing nonconforming manufactured home has been removed
from the property prior to applying for a zoning compliance permit for the
replacement home, the property owner shall submit a notarized statement
certifying the actual date the existing nonconforming manufactured home was
removed from the property and stating the name and contact information of the
person(s) responsible for removing the home;
      (3)   A notarized statement which validates the age, size, model number,
and serial number of the replacement manufactured home. A copy of the current
bill of sale, current title, or certified tax listing form from the county in
which the home is presently located may be used to validate the age, size,
model number, and serial number;
      (4)   A notarized statement which validates the age, size, model number,
serial number, and location of the existing nonconforming manufactured home. A
copy of the current bill of sale, current title, or certified tax listing form
from the County Tax Assessor may be used to validate the age, size, model
number, and serial number. A survey prepared by a state licensed land surveyor
may be required to certify the location of the existing nonconforming
manufactured home; and
      (5)   Any other information required as part of the application for a
zoning compliance permit (see §
155.282).
   (E)   Enforcement procedures. When the Zoning Enforcement Officer has
determined that the person responsible (defined as the manufactured home owner,
or the property owner in the case of a leased lot), has not taken steps to
implement the requirements of this section, the Zoning Enforcement Officer
shall send the person responsible a registered letter by first class U.S. mail
notifying the person responsible of the violation. The person responsible shall
have 30 days from the date the letter was placed in the U.S. mail to bring the
manufactured home into compliance with the applicable standard of the Zoning
Code.
(1996 Code, § 155.030) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984; Ord. passed 5-16-2005) Penalty,
see §
155.999
§ 155.031 JUNKED OR WRECKED CARS AND MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   (A)   Purpose. This section is enacted to protect the health, safety, and
general welfare of the people of Davie County pursuant to powers granted under
G.S. §§ 153A-132, 153A-136, and 153A-140, the Davie County Code, and subsequent
re-codifications and/or amendments, and other applicable legislation, as may be
adopted in the future.
   (B)   Objectives. The principal objectives of this section are:
      (1)   To prevent injury and illness to occupants of property and the
public and to remove public nuisances.
      (2)   To provide countywide standards for the abatement of public
nuisances including, but not limited to solid waste, junked motor vehicles and
abandoned manufactured homes.
      (3)   To establish responsibility of involved parties and assure that
people are not unnecessarily exposed to dangers of public nuisances.
   (C)   Junk or wrecked cars. Junked or wrecked cars may be stored on a lot.
This storage period shall not exceed one month, except where the Board of
Adjustment may grant an extension because of specific circumstances. The Zoning
Enforcement Officer shall notify the property owners by certified mail when a
violation has occurred. The property owner shall have one month from the date
the letter was sent to comply with the requirements of this section.
   (D)   Abandoned manufactured homes unlawful; removal authorized. It shall be
unlawful for the registered owner or persons entitled to the possession of an
abandoned manufactured home, or for the registered owner, lessee, or occupant
of the real property upon which an abandoned manufactured home is located, to
cause or allow a manufactured home to be an abandoned manufactured home.
(1996 Code, § 155.031) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984; Am. Ord. passed 6-1-2015)
§ 155.032 MODULAR CLASSROOMS, MODULAR OFFICES, AND CONSTRUCTION TRAILERS.
   (A)   Modular classrooms. Modular classrooms shall meet the following
conditions.
      (1)   All modular classrooms shall be listed as such and shall not be
used for any other purpose.
      (2)   All modular classrooms shall require a zoning compliance permit.
      (3)   All modular classrooms shall be set up in accordance with all
applicable state and local codes.
      (4)   All modular classrooms shall be skirted with a non-flammable
material after the final inspection but prior to the activation of electrical
service to the modular classroom.
   (B)   Modular offices. Modular offices shall meet the following conditions.
      (1)   All modular offices shall be listed as such and shall not be used
for any other purpose.
      (2)   All modular offices shall require a zoning compliance permit.
      (3)   All modular offices shall be set up in accordance with all
applicable state and local codes.
      (4)   All modular offices shall be skirted with a non-flammable material
after the final inspection but prior to the activation of electrical service to
the modular office.
   (C)   Construction trailers. Construction trailers (job trailers) shall be
permitted only on a temporary basis and must meet the following conditions.
      (1)   All construction trailers shall be listed as such and shall not be
used for any other purpose.
      (2)   All construction trailers shall require a zoning compliance permit.
      (3)   All construction trailers shall be set up in accordance with all
applicable state and local codes.
      (4)   All construction trailers shall be removed no later than seven days
following the issuance of the certificate of occupancy for the principal
building for which the construction trailer was intended.
      (5)   If a construction trailer is relocated within the same development
site as originally permitted, a new zoning compliance permit shall be required.
(1996 Code, § 155.032) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984; Ord. passed 5-16-2005)
§ 155.033 COMMUNICATION TOWERS; DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   General requirements. All communication towers shall meet the
following requirements.
      (1)   Signage prohibitions. No signs or logos of any type shall be
allowed on any communication tower.
      (2)   Compliance with other regulations.  Any builder, user, carrier, and
the like shall submit documentation that the communication tower and antennas
will meet the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) standards and
applicable Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and Federal Aviation
Administration (FAA) regulations, and comply with all other federal, state, or
local laws and regulations. Approval by the FAA shall be submitted prior to the
issuance of a zoning or building permit. At the time of application for a
building or other county permit, the plans for the tower and antenna
construction shall be certified by a structural engineer licensed to work in
this state as meeting current safety and design standards of applicable codes.
      (3)   Co-location requirements.  Towers shall be designed and constructed
so as to support a minimum of three users.
      (4)   Subsequent co-location requirements. Subsequent co-location or
shared use on existing communication towers or other structures which do not
increase the height of the existing tower or structure shall not require a
special use permit.
      (5)   Security fencing. There shall be a minimum eight-foot high fence
installed around the perimeter of the tower compound. Security fencing shall
not be required for accessory communication facilities.
      (6)   Replacement or alternation of nonconforming communication towers.
Nonconforming towers shall be treated the same as any other nonconforming use.
      (7)   Removal of communication towers no longer in use. A tower whose
continuous use for communication purposes has been discontinued for a period of
180 consecutive days shall be removed by the owner. DISCONTINUANCE, for
purposes of this section, shall mean the voluntary termination or cessation of
a use of the original permitted use.
      (8)   Public service access. At the request of the local governing
authority a license shall be granted to the local governing authority to place
public service communication antennas or other public service telecommunication
devices on the communication tower, provided that such communication antennas
or other telecommunication devices do not interfere with function of the
antennas or array of antennas of the communication tower operator or other
existing service providers located on the communication tower.
   (B)   Specific requirements.
      (1)   Setback requirements. All communication towers adjacent to any
residential and nonresidential zoning district shall have a minimum setback of
100% of the tower’s height. For the purpose of this section, the height of an
accessory communication facility shall be determined by the distance by which
the accessory communication facility exceeds the height of principal structure
to which the accessory communication facility is attached. In no case, however,
shall the setback be less than the minimum setback required for the principal
building or structure in the zoning district in which the principal building or
structure is located.
      (2)   Co-location (shared use) requirements. Communication towers
proposed to be located within a five-mile radius of another communication tower
shall require co-location on such other communication tower. In the event that
co-location is not feasible, the Board of Adjustment may issue a special use
permit before a communication tower can be located within a five-mile radius of
another communication tower. In no instance shall a communication tower be
closer than one mile of another tower.
      (3)   Color. Communication towers shall be light gray except when
otherwise required by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA).
      (4)   Illumination. Communication towers in agricultural and residential
districts shall be illuminated only as required by the Federal Aviation
Administration (FAA). Illumination shall not be oriented to project lighting
onto surrounding residential properties.
(1996 Code, § 155.033) (Ord. passed 12-16-1996)
§ 155.034 MINING AND DREDGING OF SAND.
   The mining and dredging of sand from dry land, creeks, and rivers for
purposes other than public safety, navigation, and water quality performed by
or for a local, state, or federal governmental agency shall meet the following
additional requirements.
   (A)   Operations affected by regulations. Mining and dredging of sand shall
not include drag-line dredging. Permissible dredging shall only include vacuum
or suction-type dredging. Dredging performed by a property owner for the
purpose of property maintenance shall not be required to meet these development
standards when the total area of the land disturbance is one acre or less. This
shall not include a contract or lease for commercial dredging purposes by a
third party on behalf of a property owner.
   (B)   Access.  All mining and dredging operations shall obtain a driveway
permit, if needed, from the State Department of Transportation prior to any
activity. All such operations shall have direct access to a public street by
means of a dedicated driveway. Public streets providing access to the site
shall be adequate, as determined by the State Department of Transportation, to
safely support the vehicle traffic which will be generated by the operation.
   (C)   Cessation of activity and remediation. Whenever the mining and/or
dredging operation is completed, ceases activity for more than three years, or
is ordered to be permanently discontinued by any county, state, or federal
agency, all equipment and material associated with the activity shall be
removed from the property, and the land-based portion of the operation shall be
returned to a state consistent with the condition of the property which existed
prior to the commencement of mining and dredging. Failure to comply with this
section within the time stated in the reclamation plan shall subject the
operator and the property owner to any and all remedies permitted under this
chapter. In addition, failure to comply may also constitute a public health
nuisance and as such may be remedied by the county pursuant to G.S. § 153A-140.
   (D)   Conformance with other laws. Prior to commencement of activity, the
operator shall submit copies of all state and federal permits required for
legally conducting the activity and shall submit copies of amended permits if
approved.
   (E)   Equipment and land maintenance. All site-based equipment used in the
operation, which is visible from the river, an adjacent property, or a public
road, shall be maintained in a workmanlike manner free of significant rust or
other conditions which would make the equipment appear to be derelict. No
equipment not regularly and routinely used as part of the operation shall be
stored or otherwise kept on the site. Only routine or emergency maintenance of
site-based non-vehicular equipment associated with the mining and dredging
operation shall be permitted on the site. No oil, gasoline, or other hazardous
or toxic substance shall be permitted to drain onto the land and, if
accidentally spilled, shall be completely remedied. All land associated with
the operation shall be maintained free of litter and any other condition which
constitutes a public health nuisance.
   (F)   Flooding.  Whenever a mining and dredging operation would in the
course of its operation create an off-site flooding hazard, the operator,
before commencing any such activity, and at such other times during the mining
and dredging operation as may be necessary, shall take whatever necessary and
legal action is required to afford the same protection as if no mining and
dredging operation existed. No mining and dredging operation shall impede the
flow of any watercourse.
   (G)   Hazardous material.  If, at any time during the mining and dredging
operation, any governmental agency discovers or suspects that a hazardous
material exists within the river system that may be or has been extracted along
with the material being mined and dredged, the mining and dredging operation
shall cease. No activity shall recommence until such time as the Planning
Director or Zoning Enforcement Officer is satisfied that there is no threat to
the public.
   (H)   Hours of operation. Any part of the mining and dredging operation that
generates noise, dust, or odor, including the transport of material, shall be
limited to operating between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. Monday
through Friday and may not operate at all on Saturdays and Sundays.
   (I)   Operational plan. The petitioner shall submit the following
information with the application for special use permit:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the operator and the
name, address, and telephone number of a contact person;
      (2)   The nature of the operation and its purpose;
      (3)   The approximate date to begin the operation and its expected
duration;
      (4)   The estimated type and volume of extraction material;
      (5)   A description of the method of operation, including the disposition
of spoil and byproducts;
      (6)   The amount, location, and description of the equipment to be used
in the extraction process (photos if possible);
      (7)   The type and number of trucks and/or other equipment proposed to be
used to remove material from the site and the maximum number of trips per day
of such vehicles;
      (8)   Any phasing of the operation and the relationship of the various
phases;
      (9)   A reclamation plan stating when reclamation will commence, what
type of reclamation will be made and how, and how long reclamation will take to
complete (a maximum 90-day reclamation period will be permitted); and
      (10)   An acknowledgment of responsibility and a statement of action for
ensuring that all requirements of this section will be met prior to and
throughout the duration of any activity.
   (J)   Sedimentation control.  No mining and dredging equipment shall cause
erosion of the stream bank. No material generated as part of the mining and
dredging operation shall be carried by wind or water to any adjacent property,
public road, public right-of-way, or public easement. In addition, all public
roads shall remain free of spillage or material blown off of vehicles or
tracked by vehicles onto roads from the site. All sites shall have either a
sedimentation and erosion control plan approved by the State Division of Land
Quality or a sealed statement from an engineer registered in this state that
such a plan is not required by state law for any and all phases of the
operation.
   (K)   Setbacks. Setbacks are required from adjacent lots and occupied
dwellings not owned by the land owner where the mining and dredging operation
is located. No part of the land-based portion of any mining and dredging
operation, as shown on the site plan, shall be within 200 feet of an adjacent
lot or within 500 feet of an occupied dwelling unless the owner of the
adjoining lot or occupied dwelling grants an easement for the purpose of mining
and dredging, regardless of whether such lot or dwelling is immediately
adjacent to the lot on which the mining and dredging operation is located. No
part of any driveway or access road used for the transport of material or
equipment to or from the site may be located within 50 feet of an adjacent lot
or 200 feet from an occupied dwelling unless either a densely planted evergreen
buffer is installed, a plan for dust control from the access road and from
transport vehicles is approved by the Board of Adjustment, or an easement is
granted from the adjoining property owner to reduce the setback. Whenever two
or more adjoining lots are held in single ownership, such lots may be
considered as one lot for the purposes of meeting the setback requirements. If
the lot on which the mining and dredging operation is located is reduced in
size so that the dimensional requirements cannot be met, the mining and
dredging operation shall cease until the setbacks are met.
   (L)   Required buffers. The land-based portion of a mining and dredging
operation shall not cut or remove any existing trees closer than 50 feet from
the top of the stream bank, except that an access path to the stream no wider
than 25 feet may be cleared and stabilized to prevent erosion. No part of the
land-based portion of a mining and dredging operation shall be located closer
than 50 feet from the top of the stream bank. Any trees cut or cleared as part
of the mining and dredging operation shall be planted with similar native trees
within 90 days of the operation ceasing activity. Replanting shall be
coordinated with the County Soil and Water Conservation District regarding type
and quantity of plant material to achieve a condition as near to that which
existed prior to the clearing of any trees.
   (M)   Dust control.  Acceptable means of dust control may include a
combination of watering the access road, completely covering the cargo area of
the hauling vehicle with a tarp or other fabric cover, or other such measures
deemed necessary by the Board of Adjustment to prevent a nuisance to adjacent
properties.
   (N)   Site plan required. A site plan drawn to scale shall accompany any
application for a special use permit and shall include the following:
      (1)   The entire location of the land-based portion of the operation;
      (2)   The total water-based portion of the operation;
      (3)   The location and width of all roads and driveways serving the site;
      (4)   The proposed location of all equipment and materials storage areas;
      (5)   The location of any structures and other uses on the site;
      (6)   Calculations showing compliance with all size and dimensional
requirements;
      (7)   Location of all required buffers, if any;
      (8)   Dust control measures proposed; and
      (9)   Any other information required by this section and any other
information deemed necessary by the Planning Director or the Board of
Adjustment to demonstrate compliance with the provisions of this section.
   (O)   Size. The land-based portion of any mining and dredging operation
shall be located on a lot at least ten acres in size if the operation is less
than one acre in total land area, or on a lot at least 20 acres in size if the
operation is one acre or more in total land area. The land-based portion of any
mining and dredging operation shall not occupy more than 50% of the total lot
area on which it is located, including all storage, processing, parking, and
transportation facilities, but not including driveways and/or access roads
leading to the site from the public street. Whenever two or more adjoining lots
are held in single ownership, these lots may be considered as one lot for the
purposes of meeting the minimum lot size requirements of this division (O). If
at any time the lot on which the operation is located is reduced to less than
the required minimum lot size, the mining and dredging operation shall cease
until the minimum lot size is met.
   (P)   Term. The special use permit may be granted for a term of up to ten
years from the date of approval of the permit. Upon expiration of the permit,
application for a new permit may be submitted and shall contain all required
information to demonstrate compliance. The Board of Adjustment, in their
review, may consider existing conditions of the site, changes in development
patterns of the surrounding areas, or other issues related to the granting of
the permit.
(1996 Code, § 155.034) (Ord. passed 2-16-2004; Ord. passed 7-14-2014) Penalty,
see §
155.999
§ 155.035 RURAL RETREATS AND RESORTS.
   Rural retreats and rural resorts shall comply with the following standards.
   (A)   Parcel size. The minimum lot area of rural resorts and retreats shall
comply with division (K)(1) of this section.
   (B)   Separation requirement. When not located within a planned unit
development, rural retreats shall be appropriately sited so as not to infringe
on the character of any existing residential use or the natural topography of
the area.
   (C)   Setbacks. All new buildings, active recreational areas, parking, and
lighted areas shall meet the requirements of division (K)(3) of this section.
   (D)   Access. A dedicated easement or strip of land that is a minimum of 30
feet wide shall be provided to the site from a public road that has a minimum
18-foot wide travel portion width that consists of an all-purpose paved
material.
      (1)   For any establishment that is not located on a state maintained
road, a copy of the deed establishing the ingress/egress easement shall be
provided to the Planning Director. The deed shall demonstrate that the easement
may be used to support the establishment.
      (2)   Entrances and exits from the state maintained road shall provide
safe ingress and egress from roads, and shall be channeled to prevent
unrestricted access to and from the premises.
   (E)   Appearances. All structures used in conjunction with the resort/
retreat conference shall be designed and constructed to mimic the outward
appearance of single-family residences, garages typically found on single-
family residential lots in the county, and/or barns common to the county.
Exterior materials not commonly found in use on residential buildings in the
county and highly reflective materials shall not be permitted.
   (F)   Water and sewer. The establishment shall be served by public water and
sewer if located within a Highway Business District. Otherwise, the
establishment shall be served by a public or private water system and a private
wastewater collection and treatment system.
   (G)   Open space. A minimum of 75% of the site shall remain as open space.
      (1)   Recreational uses customarily incidental and subordinate to the
rural resort or retreat permitted in the open space area may include: swimming
pools and related facilities, boating facilities, tennis and other sports
courts, equestrian facilities, picnic areas, golf courses and related
facilities, ballfields, children’s play equipment and passive recreation
facilities. Driveways and parking areas supporting these recreational
facilities may also be located in the open space area.
      (2)   On-site recreation facilities shall be used only by employees,
trainees, or conferees.
   (H)   May be open to public. These establishments may be open to the general
public for patronage.
   (I)   Outdoor events. Outdoor events (e.g., weddings, receptions, parties,
concerts) or similar activities conducted for compensation shall be permitted
only upon application for a temporary zoning permit from the Zoning Enforcement
Officer, who may impose conditions regarding hours of operation, volumes of
amplified music, type and intensity of outdoor lighting, traffic control
measures, and similar health, safety, and welfare matters.
   (J)   Sales on-site. No products shall be sold on-site except for those that
are clearly incidental and integral to and necessary to the comfort and
convenience of resort visitors, including pro shops, personal necessities
shops, and gift shops.
   (K)   Additional standards. Rural retreats and resorts shall comply with the
following additional requirements in addition to the general standards
identified above. Where there is a conflict between these standards and the
general standards controlling the development of rural resorts and retreats,
these standards shall control.
      (1)   Intensity/character. The minimum lot area shall be as follows.
 
Use                                Size of Lot  Nos. of Guest  *Average Daily
                                   (Minimum)    Rooms          Users
Level I – Rural Retreat, small   10 acres     Up to 20 rooms Up to 100 users
scale
Level II – Rural Retreat, medium 20 acres     21-40 rooms    >100 and up to
scale                                                          150 users
Level III – Rural Retreat, large 30 acres     41-60 rooms    >150 and up to
scale                                                          200 users
*   Average daily users include employees and the trainees and conferees the
conference and training center is designed to accommodate. Service trips, which
are trips made to the facility for the purpose of delivering food, supplies,
and related material, are in addition to the average daily users.
 
      (2)   Size of use.
         (a)   Area.  The restaurant and banquet facilities on premises shall
not exceed 20% of the total floor area of the rural retreat or resort.
         (b)   Outdoor storage. No outdoor storage shall be permitted. This
shall include materials, equipment, parts, supplies, waste (except in approved
waste containers), and similar items. Approved waste containers shall be
located in the rear of the building and be completely screened from public
view.
      (3)   Yard standards. The minimum required yards shall be as follows.
         (a)   Level I – Rural Retreat: 150 feet minimum from all lot lines.
         (b)   Level II – Rural Retreat: 200 feet minimum from all lot lines.
         (c)   Level III – Rural Retreat: 250 feet minimum from all lot lines.
      (4)   Landscaping/buffering/screening.
         (a)   Landscaping/screening shall meet the requirements of §
155.172.
         (b)   Driveways shall not be located within a required buffer yard
area except as minimally necessary to access the site.
      (5)   Roads/access. There shall be no more than two points of access to a
rural retreat or resort. This requirement shall not preclude an additional
access for emergency vehicles only.
      (6)   Parking.
         (a)   General. Parking and loading shall be provided as required by §
155.050.
         (b)   Screening. All parking and storage for retail areas shall be
screened from adjoining properties used or zoned for residential or
agricultural purposes. If existing topography and natural vegetation does not
provide an adequate visual barrier, selective screening may be required.
      (7)   Exterior lighting standards. Pole-mounted exterior lighting. The
maximum height of pole-mounted exterior lighting shall be 25 feet.
         (a)   Shielded lighting/light element. Fully shielded lighting
fixtures shall be used in all areas. The light element (lamp or globe) of a
fixture shall not extend below the cutoff shield.
         (b)   Hours of operation. All exterior lighting shall be extinguished
from 10:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m., except for exterior lighting that is determined
necessary for security purposes.
         (c)   No lighting shall be directed onto adjacent property.
Floodlights or other high-intensity lighting shall be prohibited.
(1996 Code, § 155.035) (Ord. passed 12-4-2006) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.036 REGULATION OF PACKAGE WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANTS, PUBLIC OR PRIVATE.
   (A)   Package wastewater treatment plants, public or private, shall be a
permitted use in the Heavy Industrial (I-4) zone, upon approval of a special
use permit by the Board of Adjustment and in compliance with the standards set
forth in this section.
   (B)   The establishment and operation of package wastewater treatment
plants, public or private is regulated through this chapter to permit
facilities which could cause negative impacts or otherwise have operational
complexities requiring special consideration by the Board of Adjustment. Uses
permitted under this chapter shall comply with the terms of this chapter and
shall not generate appreciable amounts of noise, light, dust, odor, glare,
vibration, or traffic and they shall be well integrated into the area through
careful siting, buffering, and design, and shall meet the following
requirements.
      (1)   Dimensional requirements. 
         (a)   Lot size. Five acres (217,800 square feet) shall be the minimum
lot area. Any part of the property located in a public or private street right-
of-way or easement shall not be included in this minimum lot area.
         (b)   Setbacks. All principal buildings shall be set back a minimum of
50 feet from all property lines and zoning boundaries.
         (c)   Accessory buildings. Accessory buildings shall be limited to the
rear yard of a lot containing the principal building(s) (excluded from front
and side yards). These buildings shall not be located within 25 feet of any
street right-of-way or within ten feet of any lot line not a street right-of-
way line.
      (2)   Application. A completed application for a special use permit shall
include the following:
         (a)   A site plan showing the siting and size of all existing and
proposed topography at a contour interval of two feet and any officially
designated floodways and floodplains;
         (b)   Plans, elevations, and perspectives for all proposed structures
and descriptions of their operating characteristics including noise, odor,
lighting, and dust;
         (c)   A landscape plan showing, at the same scale as the site plan,
existing and proposed trees, shrubs, ground cover, and other landscaping
materials; and
         (d)   A map showing land uses and zoning classifications withing 1,000
feet of the site.
      (3)   Permit requirements. The following requirements shall be met by all
uses approved as part of the application for the special use permit.
         (a)   Covenants, conditions, and restrictions. All covenants,
conditions, and restrictions related to the ownership, use, maintenance, or
operation of the facility shall be submitted prior to any local, state, or
federal permits.
         (b)   Effluent. All effluent discharged from an approved package
treatment plant shall meet all local, state, and federal regulations at such
date of approval or as subsequently amended. Streams or water bodies receiving
effluent shall be monitored for compliance by the operator of the plant. Any
violation of local, state, or federal water quality standards shall immediately
be reported to the county.
         (c)   Expansion. No permitted facility shall be expanded, enlarged, or
intensified without proper application and approval by the county. Expansion,
enlargement, and intensification includes an increase in the number of
wastewater customers, volume, capacity, or other measurable quantity.
         (d)   Landscaping. A well-landscaped buffer shall be planted along all
property boundaries and zoning lot lines. Such buffer shall be a minimum of 15
feet in width at any point. Plantings shall consist of at least two rows of
evergreen shrubs or trees, planted seven feet on center, with each row
staggered such that no unobstructed openings of one foot or more shall exist
within two years of planting. Planting shall occur prior to a certificate of
occupancy or by the next planting season upon submittal of a landscaping bond
or letter of credit to guarantee the installation of required landscaping.
Plants shall be at least four feet in height and at least three feet in width
measured two feet above grade at planting. In the event that any plants die or
become diseased and have to be removed, a six-foot solid wood fence may be
required to be installed in the affected buffer area by the Zoning Enforcement
Officer after a finding that required landscaping is not being adequately
maintained.
         (e)   Legal form. Any operator of a package treatment plant shall be
licensed for such purpose in the state and shall submit proof of incorporation
or license to conduct business in this state. Such form is subject to periodic
review by the County Attorney as necessary to ensure compliance.
         (f)   Lighting. No outdoor lighting shall be installed other than
normal residential dusk-to-dawn lighting. No lighting shall be directed onto
adjacent property. Floodlights or other high-intensity lighting shall be
prohibited except to provide security as required by any state or federal
regulation.
         (g)   Noise. Equipment producing noise or sound in excess of 70
decibels shall be located no closer than 100 feet to the nearest property line
or zoning lot line.
         (h)   Odor. All treatment units are to be covered and off-air treated
for odor control prior to release to the atmosphere. Applicant must demonstrate
that odor from the plant will not adversely affect any residential development,
whether or not the development is served by the facility.
         (i)   Operation. All operation of an approved package treatment plant
shall be in accordance with all local, state, and federal regulations related
to such operation. The operator of the plant shall provide monthly reports to
the county showing that all required inspections and routine maintenance has
been performed, that all operators are properly licensed, and that sufficient
security is being maintained at all times in the form of liability insurance or
bond from a state-licensed surety company to cover any damage or violations of
applicable regulations. Any liability insurance or surety shall be in an amount
not less than $5,000,000, U.S.
         (j)   Outdoor storage. No outdoor storage of any kind shall be
permitted. This shall include materials, equipment, parts, supplies, and
similar items.
         (k)   Reclaimed water. Reclaimed water may be used for landscaping; in
no case shall it be used for any food crops.
         (l)   Security fencing. Security fencing, a minimum of eight feet in
height, shall be provided around the entire facility. All required security
fencing shall be placed on the interior of any required landscape buffers.
         (m)   Signage.  One identification sign, not to exceed four square
feet in area, shall be placed on-site to identify the responsible party,
operator, and emergency contact. A 24-hour emergency contact telephone number
shall be placed on the sign.
         (n)   Unsightly or nuisance conditions. Any unsightly or nuisance
condition related to the facility shall immediately be corrected upon notice by
the county. Continued unsightly or nuisance conditions shall be subject to a
fine not less than $5,000 per day, nonwaivable. Any fines assessed and
uncollected shall be liened against the property and may be collected in the
nature of a debt through foreclosure proceedings or other applicable remedy at
law.
         (o)   Violations. Violation of any condition of the approved permit
shall be subject to a fine not less than $5,000 per day, nonwaivable upon
proper notice and subject to appeal to the Board of Adjustment. Any fines
assessed and uncollected shall be liened against the property and may be
collected in the nature of a debt through foreclosure proceedings or other
applicable remedy at law.
      (4)   Required findings. The following findings shall be made by the
Board of Adjustment prior to approving any application for a permit or approval
of any certificate of occupancy for any package treatment plant permitted.
         (a)   There is not, on the date of application is filed, nor is there
planned within five years, a public sewer system with sufficient capacity to
serve the property or properties which will be served by the package plant
located within a reasonable distance to permit connection to the public sewer.
         (b)   Connection to a public sewer is not required as a condition of
any zoning approval relating to the property or properties which will be served
by the package plant.
         (c)   The County Environmental Health Department and the State
Department of Environment and Natural Resources have denied permission to
install, repair, or replace one or more individual sewage disposal systems to
serve the property or properties which will be served by the package plant.
         (d)   The applicant has been issued an NPDES discharge permit by the
State Department of Environment and Natural Resources prior to the final
approval of any local zoning and building permit for such facility.
         (e)   The applicant has provided sufficient security, as determined by
the Board of Adjustment, to ensure the continued operation and maintenance of
the package plant.
         (f)   The applicant has recorded and provided proof of recording to
the County Attorney, a declaration of covenants, conditions, and restrictions,
which is an equitable servitude running with the land to be served by the
package plant, which provides that:
            1.   The property or properties served by the package plant will be
assessed by the Board of Commissioners for its proportionate share of the costs
of continued operation and maintenance of the package plant if there is a
default by the applicant or operator and the security required by division (B)
(4)(f) of this section has been exhausted, no longer exists, or is not
available;
            2.   All users of the package plant will connect to the public
sewer when a public sewer with sufficient capacity to serve all users is
brought within the distance in which the property or properties served by the
package plant could be reasonably connected to the public sewer if the property
or properties were being developed then;
            3.   The property or properties served by the package plant will be
assessed by the county for its proportionate share of reimbursement of the
county’s cost of connecting the property or properties to the public sewer,
including local government fees in effect at the time of connection;
            4.   Upon connection of the users to the public sewer, the package
plant will be removed from the site and the land put to another use permitted
by applicable regulation, or be restored to a vacant condition consistent with
the natural or surrounding topography of the land;
            5.   The property or properties served by the package plant will be
assessed by the county for its proportionate share of reimbursement for the
county’s cost of removal of the package plant and restoration or change of use
of the land;
            6.   The assessments for the costs of operation and maintenance,
connection to the public sewer or removal of the package plant and restoration
or change of use of the land, or any combination of such assessments shall
constitute a lien upon the property or properties served by the package plant
which will become effective upon recording of a notice of lien by the county;
and
            7.   A written disclosure of all provisions of the permit will be
made to the property owners and subsequent owners by the developer/seller.
Acknowledgment of receipt of disclosure to all property owners shall be filed
with the county prior to connection to the sewer system served by the package
treatment plant.
         (g)   The applicant has complied with any special conditions required
by the Board of Adjustment.
(1996 Code, § 155.036) (Ord. passed 9-5-2006) Penalty, see §
155.999
PARKING
§ 155.050 GENERAL PARKING STANDARDS.
   (A)   Off-street parking space shall be provided in accordance with this
subchapter in all districts.
   (B)   The off-street parking required by this subchapter shall be permanent
space and shall not be used for any other purposes.
   (C)   Each parking space shall not be less than nine by 18 feet, exclusive
of adequate egress and ingress drives, landscaping, and maneuvering space.
   (D)   New parking areas on adjacent nonresidential and non-industrial
development sites shall be connected unless the county determines that
topography or other natural features prevents it.
   (E)   All off-street parking shall be served by interior circulation drives.
No private off-street parking spaces shall directly connect to public streets.
   (F)   All access driveways and required parking areas shall be paved with
asphalt, concrete, or brick pavers, except for areas used for overflow, special
events, and peak parking. This standard does not apply to single-family
detached residential lots or recreational uses, and shall only apply to that
portion of an industrial lot that is used for and serves employee and/or
visitor parking.
      (1)   All required parking spaces shall be clearly marked on the ground.
      (2)   Parking area edges shall be protected by suitable curbing, wheel
guards, or other means to prevent vehicular encroachment on a public right-of-
way or on an adjacent property.
      (3)   If a use, building, or structure having inadequate parking spaces
is increased by 50% or less, additional parking spaces shall only be required
if the addition is a new development.
      (4)   If a use, building, or structure having inadequate parking spaces
is increased by more than 50%, sufficient additional parking spaces shall be
required to bring the total development into conformance with these
regulations.
   (G)   Any non-paved surface used for overflow, special events, and peak
parking shall be maintained with crushed rock, stone, gravel, healthy, living
turf grass or similar ground cover. (This standard does not apply to single-
family detached residential lots.)
      (1)   Non-paved parking areas shall be located to the rear of the
principal building, and set back a minimum of 20 feet from the rear and side
property lines.
      (2)   (a)   A buffer strip shall be provided adjacent to non-paved
parking areas not maintained with healthy, living turf grass or similar ground
cover.
         (b)   This buffer strip shall be in addition to the normal lot setback
and landscaping requirements.
   (H)   Any non-paved surface used for parking or driveways on industrial
sites shall be maintained with crushed rock, stone, gravel, or similar
material.
   (I)   Stacking spaces shall be located entirely outside of a required
driveway or parking aisle needed to access required parking spaces.
   (J)   Vehicles in required stacking spaces shall not extend into any
required parking spaces, parking aisles, public or private rights-of-way, or
street access to the lot.
   (K)   Adequate on-site turnaround area shall be provided for all parking
spaces.
   (L)   Pedestrian walkways (crosswalks or sidewalks), at least five feet in
width, shall be installed to connect all required parking areas with public
access to buildings.
   (M)   Vehicle circulation in a parking lot shall consist of vehicle turns no
greater than 90 degrees. Vehicle turns shall be spaced no closer than 40 feet
apart.
   (N)   Any non-paved surface used for parking or driveways for recreational
uses shall be maintained with crushed rock, stone, gravel or similar material.
(1996 Code, § 155.050) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984; Ord. passed 8-18-2003; Ord.
passed 9-20-2004; Ord. passed 11-21-2005; Ord. passed 9-3-2013)
§ 155.051 USE OF PARKING LOTS PERMITTED.
   (A)   The required parking space for any number of separate uses may be
combined in one lot, but the required space assigned to one use may not be
assigned to another use at the same time.
   (B)   No portion of any street right-of-way shall be considered as
fulfilling or partially fulfilling the area requirements for off-street parking
required by the terms of this chapter.
(1996 Code, § 155.051) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984)
§ 155.052 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Each application for a zoning permit or certificate of occupancy shall
include information as to the location and dimensions of off-street parking
space and the means of ingress and egress between such space and a street. This
information shall be of sufficient detail to enable the Zoning Enforcement
Officer to determine whether or not the requirements of this chapter are met.
   (B)   The certificate of occupancy of the use of any structure or land where
off-street parking space is required shall be withheld by the Zoning
Enforcement Officer until the provisions of §
155.053 are fully met. If at any time such compliance ceases, any certificate
of occupancy which has been issued for the use of the property shall
immediately become void.
(1996 Code, § 155.052) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984)
§ 155.053 SCHEDULE OF PARKING SPACES.
   Parking shall be provided at the rate of one space per 500 square feet of
gross floor area except for the following.
   (A)   Office uses shall have at least one space per 300 gross square feet of
building area.
   (B)   Warehouse uses shall have at least one space per each employee on the
shift with highest employment plus one space per each vehicle in business use.
   (C)   Senior high schools shall have at least one space per employee, one
space per five students, and one space per each school bus kept on-site.
   (D)   Shopping centers shall have at least three spaces per 1,000 square
feet of gross floor area.
   (E)   Industrial manufacturing uses and warehouse storage associated with a
manufacturing use shall have at least one space per each employee on the shift
with highest employment plus one space per each vehicle in business use.
   (F)   Single-family and duplex residential units shall have at least two
spaces per unit.
   (G)   Multi-family residential units shall have at least one and one-half
spaces per unit.
   (H)   Civic, social, and fraternal organizations shall have at least one
space per 250 square feet of gross floor area.
   (I)   Auditoriums and places of public assembly shall have at least one
space per six seats or one space per 50 square feet of gross floor area if no
seats are provided.
   (J)   Drive-through facilities shall provide a minimum of five stacking
spaces per drive-through facility, window, or bay except for the following:
      (1)   Fast-food restaurants shall have an additional five stacking
spaces. A minimum of five of the total stacking spaces shall be located at or
prior to the ordering station;
      (2)   Non-automated car washes shall only be required to have a minimum
of two stacking spaces per bay, one of which is located for use as a dry-down
area; and
      (3)   Automated car washes shall be required to have an additional two
stacking spaces per wash bay.
   (K)   Elementary schools and junior high schools shall have at least one
space for each employee plus one space per classroom.
   (L)   Public recreational uses minimum parking requirements shall be
determined by the Planning Director based on similar uses, location of
recreational facility, number of employees, expected traffic generated and
other planning criteria and information. Any appeal of such a parking
determination shall be heard by the Board of Adjustment.
(1996 Code, § 155.053) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984; Ord. passed 8-18-2003; Ord.
passed 10-20-2003; Ord. passed 9-3-2013)
§ 155.054 PARKING AISLES.
   (A)   Aisles shall be a minimum of 24 feet in width if serving two-way
traffic and a minimum of 12 feet in width if serving one-way traffic.
   (B)   No parking aisle serving the general public that contains more than
ten parking spaces shall dead-end. Any parking aisle that dead-ends shall be
provided a suitable turnaround.
(1996 Code, § 155.054) (Ord. passed 8-18-2003)
LOADING AND UNLOADING
§ 155.070 AREA TO BE REQUIRED.
   (A)   At the time of the erection or expansion of any main building or part
which is used or is to be used for any commercial or industrial use, the
property owner or his or her authorized representative shall be required to
provide off-street loading and unloading space as specified in this subchapter.
   (B)   Off-street loading and unloading spaces shall be designed and
constructed so that all maneuvering to park vehicles for loading and unloading
can take place entirely within the premises. These spaces shall be provided so
as not to interfere with the free, normal movement of vehicles and pedestrians
on the public right-of-way.
(1996 Code, § 155.070) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984)
§ 155.071 SCHEDULE OF LOADING SPACES.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, an off-street loading berth shall have
minimum dimensions of 12 feet by 30 feet and 14 feet overhead clearance with
adequate means of ingress and egress.
   (B)   For any structure containing less than 20,000 square feet of gross
floor area, no berths shall be required. Larger structures, however, shall
provide berths as specified below.
   (C)   Schedule of loading spaces:
 
Floor Area of Commercial and Industrial Required Number of Berths
Uses (Sq. Ft.)
0 - 19,999                              0
20,000 - 39,999                         1
40,000 - 59,999                         2
60,000 - 109,999                        3
110,000 - 159,999                       4
Above 160,000                           Add 1 berth for each additional 80,000
                                        sq. ft. or fraction thereof
 
(1996 Code, § 155.071) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984)
§ 155.072 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Each application for a building and zoning permit or certificate of
occupancy shall include information as to the location and dimensions of off-
street loading and unloading space and the means of ingress and egress between
such space and a street. This information shall be in a sufficient detail to
enable the Zoning Enforcement Officer to determine whether or not the
requirements of this chapter are met.
   (B)   The certificate of occupancy of the use of any structure or land where
off-street loading and unloading space is required shall be withheld by the
Zoning Enforcement Officer until the provisions of this chapter are fully met.
If at any time such compliance ceases, any certificate of occupancy which has
been issued for the use of the property shall immediately become void and of no
effect.
(1996 Code, § 155.072) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984)
SIGNS
§ 155.090 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to permit signs of a commercial,
industrial, and residential nature in appropriate sites throughout the
community. Although signs are a necessary part of the community, the size and
placement of signs shall be controlled in order to protect property values, to
protect the physical appearance of the community, and to prohibit signs that
may contribute to traffic hazards.
(1996 Code, § 155.090) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984)
§ 155.091 SIGN DESCRIPTIONS.
   (A)   Advertising sign. A sign which directs attention to a business,
commodity or product, service, profession, activity, or entertainment not
conducted, sold, or offered upon the premises where such sign is located.
   (B)   Business sign. A sign which directs attention to a business,
profession, commodity or product, service, activity, or entertainment
conducted, sold, or offered upon the premises where such sign is located.
   (C)   Nameplate sign. An unlighted sign which states only the name and
title, or address, or both, of the occupant of the lot where the sign is
located.
   (D)   Directional sign. A sign indicating the direction to churches,
schools, hospitals, parks, scenic or historic sites, or other such public
places, including off-street parking and transportation terminals. Such signs
shall contain only the name and address of the public place.
   (E)   Temporary construction sign. A sign identifying the name and address
of the building or uses, the developers, and architect.
   (F)   Real estate sign. Sign advertising the property on which it is located
for sale, rent, or lease.
   (G)   Public signs. Signs and notices erected by, or at the direction of, an
authorized government official.
   (H)   Private signs. Signs erected other than by, or at the direction of, an
authorized government official.
   (I)   Identification sign. A permanent sign announcing the name of a park,
or other publicly owned or operated structure or facility located on the
premises at major entrances, and limited to announcing only the name of the
structure, facility, or development; the owners or developers; and the date of
its establishment.
   (J)   Projecting sign. A sign which is attached to the building wall and
extends more than 18 inches from the face of such a wall.
   (K)   Roof sign. Sign erected on, or over, the roof of a building.
   (L)   Freestanding sign. Sign erected on poles or other supports wholly or
partially independent of a building for support.
   (M)   Wall sign. Sign erected parallel to the face or outside wall of a
building, and supported throughout its entire length by the building and not
projecting more than 18 inches from the building.
   (N)   Suspended sign. A sign suspended beneath a canopy or marquee.
   (O)   Illuminated sign. A sign which has characters, letters, figures,
designs, or outlines illuminated by electric lighting or luminous tubes as part
of the sign.
   (P)   Indirectly illuminated sign. An illuminated, nonflashing sign whose
illumination is derived entirely from an external, artificial source that is
arranged and designed to prevent a visual traffic hazard or create a nuisance
on adjoining property.
   (Q)   Flashing sign. A sign, the illumination of which is not kept constant
in intensity at all times when in use, and which exhibits sudden or marked
changes in light or color effects. Illuminated signs which indicate time,
temperature, weather, or similar information shall not be considered flashing
signs.
(1996 Code, § 155.091) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984; Ord. 11-21-2005)
§ 155.092 SIGNS PERMITTED IN ALL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Signs required by law.
   (B)   Signs erected by, or at the direction of, an authorized municipal
official.
   (C)   Warning signs and no-trespassing signs.
(1996 Code, § 155.092) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984)
§ 155.093 SIGNS PERMITTED IN ALL DISTRICTS SUBJECT TO THE LIMITATIONS IMPOSED.
   (A)   Directional signs limited to six square feet in area, and provided
they are unilluminated and of a neat construction.
   (B)   Temporary signs or displays involved in campaigns of religious,
charitable, civic, fraternal, political, and similar organizations, or involved
in the celebrations of holidays or other special events including the opening
of new establishments.
   (C)   Temporary construction signs, unilluminated, shall be permitted on the
construction site.
   (D)   In nonresidence districts, one sign shall be permitted for each
separate street frontage of a lot pertaining to the sale, rent, or lease of the
lot or a building thereon, provided it shall not exceed 32 square feet of
surface area, and shall be unlighted. A notice indicating that a property has
been sold or leased may be affixed to such sign or signs provided the area of
such signs is not increased. All real estate signs shall be removed immediately
upon occupancy by the new tenant or owner.
(1996 Code, § 155.093) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984)
§ 155.094 SIGNS PROHIBITED IN ALL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   No private sign shall be erected or maintained which copies, imitates,
or approximates official street or highway signs, such as “stop” or “caution”
signs. No private sign shall be erected or maintained which involves flashing
illumination.
   (B)   No private sign shall be posed on any traffic control, street
lighting, power, telephone, or other utility pole, or on any tree along any
street or road, nor shall any private sign be permitted to be erected which in
any way interferes with any utility line.
   (C)   No sign that violates any provision of any law of the state relative
to outdoor advertising shall be erected or permitted.
   (D)   No private sign shall be erected in the public right-of-way, nor
project over the public right-of-way except as may be provided for under §
155.093(B). Wall signs, as defined in division (M) of §
155.091, shall be permitted to project up to 18 inches from a building wall
over the public right-of-way, if such projection is necessary to the
installation of the sign.
(1996 Code, § 155.094) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.095 SIGNS SUBJECT TO STATE LAWS.
   Signs and other sources of illumination adjacent to public street and
highways shall be subject to the provisions of G.S. § 136-32.2.
(1996 Code, § 155.095) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984)
§ 155.096 MAINTENANCE AND REMOVAL.
   All signs and sign structures shall be kept in good repair (including the
replacement of burned-out bulbs and broken plastic facing). The Zoning
Enforcement Officer shall have the authority to cause the removal of any unsafe
sign unless such signs are repaired and made otherwise to comply with the
requirements of this subchapter.
(1996 Code, § 155.096) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984)
§ 155.097 MINIMUM DESIGN STANDARDS.
   All freestanding and roof signs that exceed 20 feet in height shall be
structurally engineered to withstand 20 pounds per square foot of wind
pressure.
(1996 Code, § 155.097) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984)
§ 155.098 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   With the exception of temporary signs, a zoning permit shall be required for
all signs.
(1996 Code, § 155.098) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984)
§ 155.099 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   Applications for permits shall be submitted on forms obtained at the
office of the Zoning Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   Each application shall be accompanied by plans which shall:
      (1)   Indicate the proposed site by identifying the property by
ownership, location, and use;
      (2)   Show the location of the sign on the lot in relation to property
lines and buildings, zoning district boundaries, right-of-way lines, and
existing signs;
      (3)   Show size, character, complete structural specifications, and
methods of anchoring and support; and
      (4)   If warranted, the Zoning Enforcement Officer may require additional
information that will enable him or her to determine whether or not the sign
will be erected in conformance with this subchapter.
(1996 Code, § 155.099) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984)
§ 155.100 NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   Nonconforming on-site signs shall be removed at the discontinuance of a
business use. Property owners are responsible for removal of nonconforming
signs.
(1996 Code, § 155.100) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984)
§ 155.101 SIGNS PERMITTED IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   One nameplate sign shall be permitted, provided the surface area does
not exceed two square feet.
   (B)   One sign for each separate street frontage of a lot and pertaining to
the lease or sale of a building or property shall be permitted, provided it
shall not exceed six square feet in surface area and is unilluminated.
   (C)   Temporary signs.
      (1)   Temporary signs advertising a new subdivision or apartment
development on the land where it is placed shall be permitted, provided:
         (a)   Such signs do not exceed 40 square feet in surface area;
         (b)   Or no more than 15 feet nor less than two feet above ground;
         (c)   Or either unilluminated or indirectly illuminated;
      (2)   Only one such sign shall be erected at each dedicated street
entrance for a new subdivision, or, in the case, of new apartment development,
which does not involve a new dedicated street entrance, one such sign shall be
permitted at the major driveway entrance. The sign shall only contain the name
of the owner or agent causing the sign to be erected.
   (D)   One identification sign, as defined in this subchapter, not to exceed
24 square feet in surface area, shall be permitted for each major entrance to
the premises. In addition, a bulletin board may be permitted, provided the
total of 24 square feet is not exceeded by both bulletin board and
identification sign at any major entrance to the premises.
   (E)   One identification sign for each driveway entrance to a multi-family
or group housing development shall be permitted not to exceed six square feet
in surface area.
   (F)   Permanent signs identifying a subdivision shall be permitted, provided
such signs do not exceed 24 square feet in surface area, and are eight
unilluminated or indirectly illuminated.
   (G)   Schools and churches are permitted one freestanding sign containing a
maximum display area 32 square feet, and one changeable copy sign, which does
not exceed 24 square feet in display area, provided that:
      (1)   Total sign height does not exceed eight feet above ground level;
      (2)   The height of a sign shall be computed as the distance from the
base of the sign at normal grade to the top of the highest attached component
of the sign.
         (a)   Normal grade shall be construed to be the lower of:
            1.   Existing grade prior to construction; or
            2.   The newly established grade after construction, exclusive of
any filling, berming, mounding, or excavating.
         (b)   In cases in which the normal grade cannot reasonably be
determined, sign height shall be computed on the assumption that the elevation
of the normal grade at the base of the sign is equal to the elevation of the
nearest point of the crown of a public street, or the grade of the land at the
principal entrance to the principal structure on the lot, whichever is lower.
      (3)   Lighting for the sign is indirectly illuminated (no flood, spot, or
other light source directed at the sign); and
      (4)   (a)   In the case of more than one use per lot, the area of
individual freestanding signs shall be based on one square foot of sign area
per lineal street frontage of that portion of the lot used by each use.
         (b)   In no case shall the total area of freestanding signs on a lot
exceed one and one-half square feet for lineal foot of lot frontage.
(1996 Code, § 155.101) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984; Ord. passed 11-21-2005)
§ 155.102 SIGNS PERMITTED IN COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Wall and projecting business signs shall be permitted, provided that
the total area of such signs for any one building wall shall not exceed one-
third of the surface area of that wall.
   (B)   One freestanding business sign shall be permitted for each separate
street frontage of an establishment. The area of any such sign shall not exceed
one and one-half square feet of surface area for each lineal foot of lot
frontage on the street. In the case of more than one establishment per lot, the
area of individual freestanding signs shall be based on the street frontage of
that portion of the lot used by each establishment. In no case shall the total
area in freestanding business signs on a lot exceed one and one-half square
feet for lineal foot of lot frontage.
      (1)   Total sign shall not exceed eight feet above ground level.
      (2)   The height of a sign shall be computed as the distance from the
base of the sign at normal grade to the top of the highest attached component
of the sign.
         (a)   Normal grade shall be construed to be the lower of:
            1.   Existing grade prior to construction; or
            2.   The newly established grade after construction, exclusive of
any filling, berming, mounding, or excavating.
         (b)   In cases in which the normal grade cannot reasonably be
determined, sign height shall be computed on the assumption that the elevation
of the normal grade at the base of the sign is equal to the elevation of the
nearest point of the crown of a public street, or the grade of the land at the
principal entrance to the principal structure on the lot, whichever is lower.
      (3)   Lighting for the sign is indirectly illuminated (no flood, spot, or
other light source directed at the sign).
   (C)   One suspended business sign, not to exceed six square feet in surface
area, shall be permitted for each entrance to a building.
   (D)   Roof business signs shall be permitted, provided no portion of such
signs extends beyond the edge of any exterior wall, the height of the sign
above the roof does not exceed one-third of the height of the building on which
it is located, and the free passage from any part of the roof to any other part
is not prevented.
   (E)   Outdoor advertising signs (billboards) shall be permitted, provided
such signs are not located within 100 feet of any residential district or
within 300 feet of each other. Further, the face of any billboard shall be
limited to 400 square feet.
(1996 Code, § 155.102) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984; Ord. passed 11-21-2005)
ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS
§ 155.120 USE DISTRICTS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the county is divided into the following
zoning districts:
   (A)   R-A. Residential-Agricultural District;
   (B)   R-20. Residential District;
   (C)   R-12. Residential-Suburban District;
   (D)   R-8. Residential-Multiple Dwelling District;
   (E)   R-M. Residential-Mobile Home District;
   (F)   H-B. Highway Business District;
   (G)   N-B. Neighborhood Business District;
   (H)   C-S. Community Shopping District;
   (I)   G-I. General Industrial District;
   (J)   H-I. Heavy Industrial District;
   (K)   OD. Quality Design Overlay District, an overlay district containing
supplemental provisions which regulate site design.
(1996 Code, § 155.120) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984; Ord. passed 11-1-2010; Ord.
passed 5-3-2021)
§ 155.121 DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   The boundaries of these districts are established as shown on the map
entitled Official Zoning Map, which was made a part of this chapter in §
155.006.
(1996 Code, § 155.121) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984)
§ 155.122 RULES GOVERNING BOUNDARIES.
   Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of any zoning district as
shown on the zoning map, the following rules shall apply.
   (A)   Where such zoning boundaries are indicated as approximately following
street lines, alley lines, and lot lines existing on or before the effective
date of this chapter, such lines shall be construed to be such boundaries.
   (B)   Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately following the
centerlines of streets or highways, street lines, or railroad right-of-way
lines or such lines extended, such centerline, street lines, or railroad right-
of-way lines shall be construed to be such boundaries.
   (C)   Where district boundaries are so indicated that they are approximately
parallel to the centerlines of streets, highways, or railroads, or rights-of-
way of same, such district boundaries shall be construed as being parallel at
such distance as indicated on the zoning map. If no distance is given, such
dimensions shall be determined by use of the scale shown on the zoning map.
However, when boundaries of the R-20 District run parallel to a road and
dimensions are not given, it shall be assumed that the boundary lines run 500
feet from the road right-of-way.
   (D)   Where a district boundary line divides a lot in single ownership, the
district requirements for the least restricted portion of such lot shall be
deemed to apply to the whole lot, provided that such extensions shall not
include any part of such a lot more than 35 feet beyond the district boundary
line.
   (E)   In subdivided property, the location of zoning boundaries shall be
determined by use of the scale appearing on the map.
   (F)   In subdivided property, the location of zoning boundaries shall be
construed to be the nearest parallel lot lines; however, if the zoning
boundaries lie at a scaled distance greater than 25 feet from any parallel or
approximately parallel lot line, the boundary shall be determined by use of the
scale.
(1996 Code, § 155.122) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984)
§ 155.123 USE REQUIREMENTS BY DISTRICT.
   Within the various zoning districts as indicated on the Official Zoning Map,
and subject to all requirements and conditions specified in this chapter, land,
buildings, and structures shall only be used and buildings and structures shall
only be erected which are intended or designed to be used for uses listed in
the Table of Permitted Uses in §
155.125.
(1996 Code, § 155.123) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984)
§ 155.124 OTHER USES NOT SPECIFICALLY LISTED.
   The Zoning Enforcement Officer, in cases of questioned use, shall make a
determination whether or not the particular use is permitted in that district.
An aggrieved party may appeal such determination to the Board of Adjustment in
the manner set forth in §
155.233.
(1996 Code, § 155.124) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984)
§ 155.125 TABLE OF USE DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Types of uses by districts.
      (1)   X. Indicates permitted uses.
      (2)   S. Indicates special use required.
      (3)   P. Indicates permitted uses that must be approved by the Project
Review Committee to ensure compliance with the prescribed development
standards.
      (4)   P/C. Indicates permit required from Zoning Administrator; use must
meet additional conditions.
   (B)   Table of use districts.
For a printable PDF version of this table, click_here.
Table of Use Districts
Use R-A R-20 R-12 R-8 R-M H-B N-B C-S S-P G-I H-I
Table of Use Districts
Use                                                             R- R- R- R- R- H- N- C- S- G- H-
                                                                A  20 12 8  M  B  B  S  P  I  I
Agriculture
Agribusiness                                                    X
Agricultural uses not on bona fide farms as defined by this     P/ P/ P/ P/ P/
chapter, see §                                                 C  C  C  C  C
155.130
Greenhouses, private (noncommercial)                            X  S  S  S  S
Kennels, see §                                                 P/
155.130                                                         C
Pet care (except veterinary) services, see §                   S              P/
155.130                                                                        C
Pet shops without outside runs                                              X  X
Veterinary services without outside runs                        S  S           S  S  S
Solar energy generating facility, see §                                                P/
155.130(BB)                                                                             C
Education
Artist studio, see §                                           S  S              S
155.130
School, vocational or professional                              S  S           X     X
Day care facilities, see §                                     P/ P/ S  S  S  P/ P/ P/
155.130                                                         C  C           C  C  C
Research laboratories                                           S  S                       X
Libraries                                                       X  X  S  S  S  X  X  X
Public schools (K-12), colleges, universities, and private
schools housing a curriculum approximately the same as          X  X  X  X  X
ordinarily given in public school including Christian schools
Government
Landfills, provided that all public health regulations are met  S  S  S  S  S              X  X
Package treatment plants                                        S  S  S  S  S  S  S  S     S  S
Public buildings (administrative and service offices)           X  X  X  X  X  X  X
Public safety facilities                                        X  X  X  X  X  X  X
Public works and public utilities                               X  X  X  X  X  X  X
Security training operations and services facility              P                          P  P
Health
Hospital                                                                       X     X
Massage parlor                                                                 S     S
Medical laboratories                                                           X     X
Medical offices and clinics (including dental)                  S  S           X     X
Industrial
Planned industrial development, see §                                                     P/ P/
155.130                                                                                    C  C
Manufacturing A                                                                            X
Manufacturing B                                                                            X
Manufacturing C                                                                               X
Auction sales except livestock                                                             X
Auction sales with livestock                                                            X
Communication tower and accessory facilities                    S                          X  X
Concrete and asphalt products plant                                                     X     X
Dairy products finished processing and distributing facilities                             X
(excluding dairy farming operations)
Building contractors, general, see §                                          P/          P/
155.130                                                                        C           C
Building contractors, heavy, see §                                                        P/ P/
155.130                                                                                    C  C
Fruit and vegetable market                                                     X  X  X     X
Group developments (subject to §§
155.170-                                                                                   P  P
155.172)
Machine and welding shops                                                      X           X  X
Meat packing and poultry processing plants                                              X
Mining and dredging of sand, see §                             S                             S
155.034 for development standards
Mining and quarry operations, see §                                                          S
155.130
Sawmills, planing mills, pallet and basket factories                                          X
Trucking operations, commercial and industrial                                       S     X  X
Waste sites (hazardous), provided they are licensed by the
State Department of Human Resources, Division of Health                                 X
Services
Warehousing establishments, except for the storage of dangerous                            X  X
or offensive items such as uncured hides and explosives
Warehousing, self storage                                                      X     X     X
Wrecking yards or junk yards and similar types of used                                  P/
materials industries, see §                                                            C
155.130
Recreation
Drag racing course                                              S              S
Go-cart track                                                   S              S
Motor cross course (including bicycles without motors)          S              S
Miniature golf courses                                          S              S
Private airports                                                S  S                          X
Rural resort and retreat                                        S  S           X
Private recreational facilities, including parks, playgrounds,
golf courses (but excluding miniature golf), swimming pools,    S  S  S  S  S  X     X
fishing lakes, clubs, and lodges, and other similar uses that
cater exclusively to members or their guests
Public recreational facilities, including parks, playgrounds,
community centers, clubs, and lodges, golf courses, swimming    S  S  S  S  S
pools, fishing lakes, family camp grounds, and similar
recreational uses
Religion
Burial grounds not associated with any church shall be set back X  X  X  X  X
at least 20 feet from any property line
Churches and customary related uses excluding cemeteries        X  X  X  X  X  X     X
Churches and their customary related uses including cemeteries, P/ P/ P/ P/ P/
see §155.130                                                   C  C  C  C  C
Retail Trade and Services
Automatic teller machine                                                       X  X  X
Amusement, commercial, indoor                                                  X     X     X
Amusement, commercial, outdoor, see §                                         P/    P/    P/
155.130                                                                        C     C     C
Banking and financial services                                                 X  X  X
Broadcast studio                                                               X           X
Car wash, automatic, see §                                                    P/    P/    P/
155.130                                                                        C     C     C
Car wash, industrial, see §                                                               P/ P/
155.130                                                                                    C  C
Car wash, full service                                                         X     X     X
Car wash, self service, see §                                                 P/    P/    P/
155.130                                                                        C     C     C
Convenience store                                                              X  X  X     X
Retail, general                                                                X  X  X
Restaurant, with drive through service                                         X  X  X
Restaurant, without drive through service                                      X  X  X
Retail, nonstore                                                               X     X
Retail store, large                                                            X     X
Retail store, medium and small                                                 X     X
Riding stables                                                  S  S           X
Shopping center, small                                                         X     X
Shopping center, large                                                               X
Shopping center, medium                                                              X
Services A, business                                                           X  X  X
Services B, business, see §                                                   P/          P/
155.130                                                                        C           C
Shooting range, indoor                                                         X           X
Shooting range, outdoor                                         S              S              S
Wholesale trade A                                                              X           X
Wholesale trade B                                               S              X           X
Adult establishment, see §                                                    P/          P/ P/
155.130                                                                        C           C  C
Assembly halls, armories, and the like (public assembly                        X
facilities)
Auto parking lots                                                              X     X
Motor vehicle sales, rental and leasing, see §                                P/    P/
155.130                                                                        C     C
Automobile paint and body shops, see §                                        P/
155.130                                                                        C
Motor vehicle repair and maintenance                                           X     X
Backyard workshops as accessory use to a dwelling unit in a                    X     X
commercial district
Bicycle, motorcycles, lawn mowers, and power saw sales and                     X  X  X
service
Billiard and pool halls                                                        X     X
Building supplies stores, see §                                               P/    P/    P/
155.130                                                                        C     C     C
Cabinet, woodworking, and upholstery shops                                     X  X
Dry cleaning and laundry pick-up stations and dry cleaning                     X  X  X     X
plants, housing not more than 1,000 square feet
Exterminators                                                                  X     X
Farm machinery, sales, and service (equipment may be stored in                 X     X     X
flood plain)
Feed and seed stores                                                           X  X  X     X
Flea market                                                                    S
Floral shops, but no commercial greenhouses                                    X     X
Funeral homes and mortuaries                                                   X     X
Greenhouses, commercial, see §                                 S  S           P/ P/ P/    P/
155.130                                                                        C  C  C     C
Group development, commercial (subject to §§
155.170-                                                                       P     P
155.172).
Pawn shops                                                                     X     X
Launderettes and laundromats                                                   X     X
Locksmiths and gunsmiths                                                       X     X
Miniature golf courses, see also Recreation                                    X     X
Motels, hotels, tourist cottages                                               X     X
Office supplies and equipment, sales and service                               X     X
Optical goods stores and opticians                                             X     X
Pet shops without outside runs                                                 X     X
Professional offices                                                           X  X  X     X
Taxicab stands                                                                 X     X
Theaters, indoor                                                               X     X
Theaters, drive-in, see §                                                     P/
155.130                                                                        C
Trucking operations, private, see §                                           P/
155.130                                                                        C
Residential
Group home A                                                    X  X  X  X  X
Group home B                                                    X  X  X  X  X
Congregate care facility, see §                                P/ P/          P/
155.130                                                         C  C           C
Habilitation facility A, see §                                 P/ P/ S  S  S  P/    P/
155.130                                                         C  C           C     C
Habilitation facility B, see §                                 S  S  S  S  S  P/    P/
155.130                                                                        C     C
Nursing care institution, see §                                P/ P/          P/    P/
155.130                                                         C  C           C     C
Progressive care community, see §                              P/ P/ P/       P/    P/
155.130                                                         C  C  C        C     C
Backyard workshops for building tradesmen and small appliances  X  S
repair shops, but excluding open storage
Backyard workshops in any residential district with a lot of    X  S  S  S  S
20,000 square feet or more
Dwelling units, single-family                                   X  X  X  X  X
Dwelling units, two-family.                                     S  S     P  P
Dwelling units, multi-family                                          P  P
Dwelling units as accessory uses, attached or detached, see §  X  X
155.130
Group development, residential, subject to §§
155.170-                                                              P  P  P
155.172
Hotels                                                                         X     X
Class A manufactured homes on individual lots                   X  X        X
Class B manufactured homes on individual lots                   X           X
Class C manufactured homes on individual lots                   S           X
Class D manufactured homes on individual lots (Class D
manufactured homes shall not be permitted in Davie County)
Manufactured home due to hardship                               S  S  S  S  S
Manufactured home parks                                                     S
Temporary manufactured home (for the construction or            X  X
reconstruction of a site built single-family dwelling)
Others
Airports                                                        S  S                       S  S
Accessory uses and structures                                   X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X     X  X
Temporary, seasonal uses and structures, see § 155.130.28                     P/ P/ P/    P/ P/
                                                                               C  C  C     C  C
Modular classrooms, modular offices, and construction trailers,
see §                                                          X  X  X  X  X  X     X     X  X
155.032
Signs, billboards, see §                                                                  X  X
155.102
Signs, commercial, see §                                                      X  X  X
155.102
Signs, general, see §§
155.092 and                                                     X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X
155.093
Signs, industrial, see §                                                                  X  X
155.102
Signs, residential, see §                                      X  X  X  X  X
155.101
Temporary sawmills, see §                                      S  S  S  S  S
155.130
Temporary use, borrow pits, see §                              P/                         P/ P/
155.130                                                         C                          C  C
 
(Ord. passed 5-21-1984; Ord. passed 11-20-1989; Ord. passed 7-1-1996; Ord.
passed 12-16-1996; Ord. passed 11-16-1998; Ord. passed 2-16-2004; Ord. passed
5-16-2005; Ord. passed 3-20-2006; Ord. passed 5-1-2006; Ord. passed 6-5-2006;
Ord. passed 9-5-2006; Ord. passed 12-4-2006; Ord. passed 2-4-2008; Ord. passed
1-5-2009; Ord. passed 3-2-2009; Ord. passed 11-1-2010; Ord. passed 8-1-2011;
Ord. passed 8-1-2011; Ord. passed 11-7-2011; Ord. passed 11-7-2011; Ord. passed
7-16-2012; Ord. passed 11-4-2013; Ord. passed 2- -2017; Ord. passed 5-3-2021;
Ord. passed 12-21-2021; Ord. passed 7-11-2022)
CONDITIONS
§ 155.130 CONDITIONS ON TABLE OF USES.
   These conditions apply only to uses “permitted with conditions” or by
“special use permit” in the applicable zoning district as shown in §
155.125, Table of Use Districts.
   (A)   Agricultural uses not on a bona fide farm. All agricultural buildings
(private stables, cattle barns, and the like) shall be located at least 100
feet from any property line.
   (B)   Amusements, commercial, outdoor.
      (1)   Outdoor amusement facilities shall be separated by an opaque screen
from any abutting property located in a residential district;
      (2)   No permanently established amusement facilities, such as miniature
golf courses, skateboard courses, or mechanical rides shall be located within
200 feet of the closest point of any abutting property located in a residential
district; and
      (3)   Hours of operation shall be no earlier than 8:00 a.m. and no later
than 12:00 midnight.
   (C)   Artist studio.
      (1)   The number of employees shall be limited to no more than five total
(including the applicant and any family members).
      (2)   New buildings and accessory structures shall maintain the
traditional character and quality of detached single-family dwelling units by
using design elements, such as single points of entry noticeable from the
street, pitched roofs, visible trim or framing around windows, porches, and
chimneys.
      (3)   Maximum square footage footprint for all buildings shall be limited
to 3,500 square feet.
      (4)   All parking shall be located to the rear of the property.
      (5)   A 15-foot wide, well-landscaped buffer shall be planted along all
sides of the building and parking areas, where adjacent to residential
property. The required buffer shall consist of at least two rows of evergreen
shrubs or trees, planted seven feet on center, with each row staggered such
that no unobstructed openings of one foot or more shall exist within two years
of planting. Planting shall occur prior to a certificate of occupancy or by the
next planting season, upon submittal of a landscaping bond or letter of credit
to guarantee the installation of required landscaping. Plants shall be at least
four feet in height and at least three feet in width, measured two feet above
grade at planting. In the event that any plants die or become diseased and have
to be removed, a six-foot, solid wood fence may be required to be installed in
the affected buffer area by the Zoning Enforcement Officer, after a finding
that required landscaping is not being adequately maintained.
      (6)   Truck traffic to the business shall be limited to passenger
vehicles (pickup trucks) and two-axle parcel delivery trucks (UPS, Federal
Express, or similar parcel delivery services). No tandem or tractor trailer
trucks shall be permitted.
      (7)   No outdoor lighting shall be installed other than normal
residential dusk-to-dawn lighting. No lighting shall be directed onto adjacent
property.
      (8)   Floodlights or other high-intensity lighting shall be prohibited.
      (9)   No outdoor storage of any kind shall be permitted. Outdoor storage
includes materials, vehicles, equipment, parts, supplies of any type, or any
other item located on the property not contained within the building shown on
the site plan.
      (10)   Noise, air pollutant, vibration, dust, odor, direct or sky-
reflected glare that emanates beyond the boundaries of the property upon which
the use is located shall be prohibited.
    (D)   Adult establishment. The intent of these conditions is to prevent the
concentration of adult establishments, and to separate adult establishments
from residential neighborhoods, schools, religious institutions, child care
centers, parks, playgrounds, and to reduce secondary impacts of these
establishments on the surrounding neighborhoods. Adult establishments are
permitted in the Highway Business and Industrial Districts, subject to the
following conditions.
      (1)   The hours of operation for an adult establishment shall be limited
to the hours of 10:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
      (2)   No adult establishment shall be located within 1,000 feet of a
residentially zoned or residentially used property, church, school, public
park, or childcare center, as measured in a straight line from property line to
property line (not street distance). Adult establishments located within a
group development shall be a minimum 500 feet from any church or childcare
center within that development, measured from outside wall to outside wall.
      (3)   No such business shall locate within 1,000 feet of any other adult
establishment, as measured in a straight line from property line to property
line (not street distance).
      (4)   No more than one adult establishment may be located within the same
structure or on the same deeded lot.
      (5)   No other principal or accessory use may occupy the same building,
structure, property, or portion thereof with any adult establishment.
      (6)   An adult establishment shall not locate within a nonconforming
structure or nonconforming property.
      (7)   The gross floor area of any adult establishment shall not exceed
5,000 square feet, and all business-related activity shall be conducted within
the building.
      (8)   All performers or entertainment employees of adult establishments
shall perform on an elevated stage or platform, elevated from the main floor by
at least three feet.
      (9)   Treatment of windows, doors, and the like. All windows, doors,
openings, and the like for all adult uses shall be so located, covered,
screened or otherwise treated so that views into the interior of the
establishment are not possible.
      (10)    Except for signs as may be permitted by the underlying zoning
district, no printed material, slide, video, photograph, written text, live
show, or other visual presentation format shall be visible from outside the
walls of the establishment; nor shall any live or recorded voices, music or
sounds be heard from outside the walls of the establishment.
      (11)   Enclosed or fenced parking shall be prohibited.
      (12)   An adult establishment lawfully operated as a conforming use is
not rendered a nonconforming use by the subsequent change of a zoning district
or residence, church, school, public park, or childcare center use with respect
to the above spacing requirements.
   (E)   Auto sales, new and used.
      (1)   Motor vehicle sales, lease, and rental lots shall front on a major
or minor arterial. Drive-in service windows and service processing, stacking
and circulation lanes are prohibited in the established front setback of the
principal building and within 75 feet of the right-of-way in a principal
building’s side yard that abuts a major or minor thoroughfare. On-site stacking
lanes for drive-in service windows shall be a minimum of 200 feet in length if
accessed directly from a thoroughfare or minimum of 100 feet if accessed
directly from a street of lesser capacity.
      (2)   All signs on the site shall conform to the standards of this
chapter. Nonconforming signs, if present anywhere on the site, shall be removed
prior to issuance of a change of use permit, issuance of grading permit, or
commencement of new construction on the site.
      (3)   Vehicles for sale or lease may be displayed in the established
front yard under the following conditions:
         (a)   All new display areas must be paved with a decorative paving
material;
         (b)   No vehicle shall be displayed within 15 feet of the street
right-of-way; and
         (c)   A strip averaging eight feet in width, but in no case less than
five feet in width, located in the area of the lot between the street right-of-
way and the vehicle display area shall be heavily landscaped with evergreen
shrubs and flowering plants which are suitable for this climate and the growing
conditions present on the site. A recommended plant list for shrubs is
available from the County Planning Department. This strip shall be immediately
adjacent to the vehicle display area. The number of plantings may be reduced if
used in conjunction with and placed on the street side of an opaque, decorative
wall at least two and one-half feet in height. This requirement is in addition
to any other screening requirements established by this chapter.
      (4)   Outdoor storage of vehicles in process of repair and vehicles for
sale or lease that are in the process of dealer preparation for buyer/lessee
pickup are permitted as follows:
         (a)   Such storage areas are exempt from the interior landscaping
requirements for parking lots. However, the perimeter landscaping requirements
of parking lots shall apply to such storage areas; and
         (b)   Such storage areas may only be located behind the principal
building and/or its accessory buildings, and shall not be placed within 100
feet of any property line that abuts a thoroughfare or local public street.
      (5)   Businesses are prohibited from using amplified speaker/public
address systems except within fully enclosed building(s).
      (6)   Outdoor lighting shall meet all of the following requirements:
         (a)   The maximum height for lighting (pole mounted and wall mounted)
shall be 20 feet, including the base/mounting fixture;
         (b)   Floodlights are not permitted for parking lot illumination;
         (c)   Lighting shall be directed downward and light spillover
minimized with the use of hoods and similar devices; and
         (d)   Lighting fixtures that produce glare visible from adjacent
property(s) and public rights-of-way are prohibited.
   (F)   Automobile paint and body shops.
      (1)   Outdoor storage of any materials, machinery (excluding vehicles in
direct use by the business), scrap waste, junk, or the like shall be
prohibited.
      (2)   Any and all activities related to or including painting of
vehicles, vehicle parts, engines, or accessories shall be performed inside a
building or structure designed to accommodate spray painting.
      (3)   All spray painting rooms or structures shall be approved, prior to
construction, by the County Fire Marshal or the State Department of Air Quality
(whichever applies).
      (4)   Vehicles which are described in divisions (F)(4)(a) through (c)
below shall be stored, on the property, within a building or structure at all
times and such vehicles shall not be visible to any person on adjoining or
neighboring properties:
         (a)   Inoperable under their own power;
         (b)   Unregistered with the State Department of Motor Vehicles; or
          (c)   Unlicensed by the State Department of Motor Vehicles.
      (5)   Any and all vehicles to be serviced or worked on at the business
shall be kept completely within a screened and fenced area, such screen being a
minimum of six feet in height and designed to be visually impenetrable to any
person on adjoining or neighboring properties.
      (6)   All chemicals and paints be stored and disposed of in accordance
with all applicable environmental regulations and laws.
   (G)   Building contractors, general; heavy.
      (1)   All outdoor storage of non-passenger vehicles and building
materials shall be kept at least 100 linear feet from any adjacent residential
use and shall be located in a side or rear yard only. This setback requirement
may be reduced to 50 feet if the outdoor storage area is enclosed by a solid
fence of six minimum feet with approval from the Planning Director.
      (2)   No outdoor equipment or materials shall be visible to the public.
      (3)   Any materials within a fenced area shall not be stacked higher than
the fence.
   (H)   Building supply stores. All open storage is surrounded by a fence at
least six feet in height.
   (I)   Car wash, automatic.
      (1)   The outdoor service area of a car wash shall be placed and screened
in accordance with the standards for on-site parking.
      (2)   Car washes, vacuums, and similar service devices shall be a minimum
of 20 feet from the nearest portion of an adjacent residential zoning district
or residential use.
      (3)   Car washes accessory to a principal use shall be located in the
side or rear yard only.
   (J)   Car wash, industrial.
      (1)   The outdoor service area of a car wash shall be placed and screened
in accordance with the standards for on-site parking.
      (2)   Car washes, vacuums, and similar service devices shall be a minimum
of 20 feet from the nearest portion of an adjacent residential zoning district
or residential use.
      (3)   Car washes accessory to a principal use shall be located in the
rear yard only.
   (K)   Car wash, self-service.
      (1)   The outdoor service area of a car wash shall be placed and screened
in accordance with the standards for on-site parking.
      (2)   Car washes, vacuums, and similar service devices shall be a minimum
of 20 feet from the nearest portion of an adjacent residential zoning district
or residential use.
   (L)   Churches and their customary related uses, including cemeteries.
      (1)   Tombstones, crypts, monuments, and mausoleums must be located at
least 25 feet from any street right-of-way line or abutting property. Greater
setbacks shall be observed if otherwise required by the zoning district in
which it is located. Gravesites shall also be set back at least 20 feet from
any side or rear lot lines in cemeteries (or cemetery expansions).
      (2)   Sales of crypts shall be allowed as an accessory use on premises
(for cemeteries as a principal use only). No building in conjunction with such
sales shall be located closer than 20 feet from any side lot line abutting a
residential district and 40 feet from any such rear lot line.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, a minimum of
three acres shall be needed for any cemetery being developed as a principal
use.
   (M)   Day care facilities.
      (1)   Outdoor play and/or recreation areas shall be located behind the
front building line in the rear yard or side yard only. If located in the side
yard, a minimum side yard setback of ten feet shall be observed. On corner or
through lots, a minimum 20-foot setback as measured from the abutting street
right-of-way line shall be required.
      (2)   All outdoor play and recreation areas shall be surrounded by a
fence or wall at least four feet in height.
      (3)   Outdoor activities are limited to the fenced area between 8:00 a.m.
and 10:00 p.m.
      (4)   At least one off-street passenger loading/unloading space separate
from required parking shall be provided for each 20 people enrolled. Adequate
on-site turnaround area shall be provided for all loading/unloading and parking
spaces.
      (5)   Uses designed to accommodate more than 30 children shall have a
minimum lot size of one acre.
      (6)   Child care facilities shall comply with other conditions as
required by the Board of Adjustment to ensure compatibility with surrounding
properties.
   (N)   Greenhouses, commercial or nurseries. All structures are located at
least 100 feet from any property line.
   (O)   Habilitation facility, A or B.
      (1)   Outdoor activity areas shall be located behind the front building
line in the rear yard or side yard only. If located in the side yard, a minimum
side yard setback of ten feet shall be observed. On corner or through lots, a
minimum 20-foot setback as measured from the abutting street right-of-way line
shall be required.
      (2)   All outdoor activity areas shall be surrounded by a fence or wall
at least four feet in height.
      (3)   Outdoor activities shall be permitted only between the hours of 8:
00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
      (4)   At least one off-street passenger loading/unloading space separate
from required parking shall be provided for each 20 people enrolled.
   (P)   Kennel.
      (1)   All structures, buildings, or enclosed areas used for the operation
shall be a minimum of 100 feet from all property lines.
      (2)   Sewage disposal system and sanitation control methods as approved
by the County Health Department shall be required. This provision shall include
but not be limited to the sanitary removal or disposal of all solid waste,
carcasses, or any other items deemed necessary for removal or disposal because
of unsafe or unsanitary conditions by the Health Department.
      (3)   Number of adult animals per minimum lot size shall be as follows:
         (a)   One to five animals: five acres;
         (b)   Six to ten animals; ten acres; and
         (c)   Eleven plus animals: 20 acres.
      (4)   Security fencing shall be provided outside the kennel facility.
      (5)   A Type B buffer shall be required around the kennel facility if
fencing is not opaque.
       (6)   Animals are to be on a leash at all times when they are outside
the kennel.
      (7)   No other commercial activity may take place on the property.
   (Q)   Mining and quarry operations.
      (1)   Buffer strips shall be provided as defined in §
155.001.
      (2)   All mining openings and quarries shall be enclosed by a substantial
wire or masonry fence not less than five feet in height if determined necessary
for safety; if a strand-type barbed-wire fence is provided, it shall have at
least five strands of wire in conformance with the standards of the State
Department of Labor.
      (3)   Normally, blasting operations shall be conducted only between the
hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., except when mining safety standards as
defined by the U.S. Bureau of Mines dictate otherwise.
      (4)   All blasting, drilling, and other sources of noise vibrations,
flying debris, and dust shall be conducted in such a way as to cause the
minimum nuisance or hazard to adjacent or neighboring properties at any time.
      (5)   No extractive use or process shall pollute or impede the normal
flow of any stream or water course.
      (6)   No extractive use or process shall be conducted in such a way as to
produce a flooding hazard to adjacent or neighboring properties at any time.
   (R)   Nursing care institutions and congregate care facilities.
      (1)   Any facility which is licensed to have more than 50 residents shall
maintain a side setback of at least 20 feet and a rear setback of at least 40
feet when the side or rear yard is in or abuts a residential district. Driveway
access to accessory structures shall be through the main entrance to the
facility. Accessory structures shall be arranged to provide for adequate on-
site vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
      (2)   Any portion of a building which contains living areas shall be set
back a minimum of 15 feet from internal driveways and parking areas. This
standard shall only apply to the living areas of buildings which contain a
mixture of uses such as offices, storage, and living areas.
      (3)   Any building greater than 10,000 square feet or one story in height
shall be a minimum of 50 feet from any adjoining property lines and include a
Type A buffer. The setback shall be increased five feet for each additional
5,000 square feet over 10,000 square feet and increased ten feet for each story
above one when the building is adjacent to a residentially zoned lot.
      (4)   Acceptable materials for additions and new construction include
wood, brick, stone, stucco, vinyl, and similar materials designed to give the
exterior a residential appearance. Under no circumstances shall metal siding,
not intended to mimic traditional wood siding used on residential structures,
or unfinished concrete block be permitted.
   (S)   Pet care (except veterinary) services.
      (1)   There shall be no outdoor runs.
      (2)   The setback from property lines shall be increased by 50 feet if
located adjacent to a residentially zoned lot.
   (T)   Progressive care community.
      (1)   Accessory buildings shall only include accessory dwellings
containing no more than four dwelling units, recreation centers, and similar
facilities, dining halls, and maintenance buildings. All other buildings shall
be principal buildings the use of which shall be for congregate or nursing
care.
       (2)   Driveway access to accessory structures shall be through the main
entrance to the community.
      (3)   Structures shall be arranged to provide for adequate on-site
vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
      (4)   Paved walkways shall be provided between accessory dwellings, the
principal building, and all common facilities such as dining halls and
recreation centers.
      (5)   All lease/sale arrangements for accessory dwellings shall be under
the direct control of the management company responsible for the progressive
care community.
      (6)   Principal and accessory buildings shall be predominately designed
and constructed with architectural features common to residential structures,
including but not limited to the following features: roof pitch, façade
material, and size, type, and placement of windows and doors. Acceptable
materials for additions and new construction include wood, brick, stone,
stucco, vinyl, and similar materials designed to give the exterior a
residential appearance. Under no circumstances shall metal siding, not intended
to mimic traditional wood siding, or unfinished concrete block be permitted.
      (7)   Any building greater than 10,000 square feet or one story in height
shall be a minimum of 50 feet from any adjoining property lines and include a
Type A buffer. The setback shall be increased five feet for each additional
5,000 square feet over 10,000 square feet and increased ten feet for each story
above one when the building is adjacent to a residentially zoned lot.
      (8)   No site shall have a density greater than ten units per acre for
accessory residential dwellings. For the purposes of calculating density all
land lying underneath and within 20 feet of any congregate care or nursing care
facility and all loading/unloading, garbage collection, and parking areas
associated with congregate care or nursing care facilities shall be excluded
from the total acreage.
      (9)   A minimum of five acres shall be required. All land used for the
progressive care community shall be contiguous and shall not be divided or
transected by public roads, private roads granting easement(s) to tracts of
land not included within the community, or natural features which would
visually and functionally divide the development, including but not limited to
preventing the free flow of pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
      (10)   All structures are limited in occupancy to persons aged 62 years
or older, the physically handicapped, and their spouses except for rooms or
units occupied by resident staff personnel performing duties directly related
to the operation of the facility.
   (U)   Services B, business. All storage, repair, and maintenance of
equipment shall occur inside an enclosed building or shall be restricted to the
rear yard and screened entirely from the view of adjacent lots and public
streets.
   (V)   Temporary, seasonal uses and structures. The establishment of
temporary sales lots for farmers markets, Christmas trees, and other seasonal
agricultural products, plus related goods, is permitted for up to a maximum of
three months upon the issuance of a temporary use permit by the Zoning
Administrator. The following conditions shall apply.
      (1)   The storage of goods in or sale of goods from trailer(s) on the
site shall be prohibited.
      (2)   The use may only be located on a vacant lot or on a lot occupied by
a nonresidential use.
      (3)   Off-street parking may be provided behind or to the side of the
established use, but not forward of the required front setback.
      (4)   On-site parking may be provided on a dust-free, pervious surface
area and need not comply with additional paving requirements.
   (W)   Theaters, drive-in.
      (1)   No part of any theater screen, projection booth, or other building
shall be located closer than 500 feet to any property line or public right-of-
way.
      (2)   No parking space shall be located closer than 100 feet to any
residential district.
      (3)   The theater screen shall not face a major street.
      (4)   Parking space off of the street shall be provided for patrons
awaiting admission in an amount of not less than 10% of the vehicular capacity
of the theater.
   (X)   Trucking operations, private. All operations shall be conducted within
an enclosed structure with no open storage of supplies or service equipment
permitted.
    (Y)   Temporary sawmills.
      (1)   This shall not be in operation for more than one year.
      (2)   All sawmill structures shall be leveled and the premises cleared up
within six months after discontinuance.
   (Z)   Wrecking yards or junk yards and similar types of used materials
industries. Operations shall be conducted within a structure or on a lot
enclosed by a solid fence at least six feet in height, and the uses will have
limited injurious effect on the public interest or welfare.
   (AA)   Planned industrial development.
      (1)   A planned development shall require the submittal of a site plan as
well as a preliminary subdivision plat in accordance with the Subdivision
Regulations. A final subdivision plat shall be approved and recorded for any
phase of the development prior to the issuance of any zoning or building
permits to construct any principal buildings within the development. Final
subdivision plats shall meet the requirements of the subdivision regulations.
Any redivision of approved and platted lots within the planned development is
subject to plat review and approval.
      (2)   Building setbacks may be reduced within the planned development to
allow for zero lot line buildings. All required minimum setbacks shall be
maintained from a defined outer boundary of the planned development as shown on
the site plan and subdivision plan.
      (3)   Individual outparcels and lease lots for freestanding individual
principal uses shall maintain the building setbacks within the planned
development of the zoning district where the planned development is located.
      (4)   Front, side, and rear yards shall be established by the site plan
and shown on all subdivision plats for each lot within the development.
      (5)   Shared parking shall be permitted within the development.
Appropriate legal documents (e.g., covenants, conditions, and restrictions, and
the like) establishing the shared use and access for parking, loading, and
driveways shall be submitted with the final subdivision plat.
      (6)   Planned developments shall be subject to review by the Project
Review Committee at the discretion of the Planning Director.
      (7)   All utility, road, and site infrastructure plans shall be reviewed
by the appropriate staff to determine consistency with adopted policies and
future plans of the county. Site improvements are the responsibility of the
developer unless the county finds it is in its best interest to provide any
portion of necessary improvements.
      (8)   A planned development shall consist of a minimum of five acres of
contiguous land area not separated by existing public streets or public bodies
of water.
      (9)   All other applicable zoning requirements shall apply within the
development.
   (BB)   Solar energy generating facility (SGF).
      (1)   Site and operation standards.
         (a)   Solar energy generation structure shall not exceed a height of
15 feet.
         (b)   All equipment producing noise or sound, including inverters,
shall be set back 250 feet from any property line adjacent to any residentially
zoned district.
         (c)   All storage must be located indoors. No outdoor storage shall be
allowed.
         (d)   The facility shall be enclosed with a security fence with a
minimum height of eight feet. Fencing may include wildlife permeable fencing
eight feet in height without barbed wire using the design standards approved by
the N.C. chapter of the Nature Conservancy.
         (e)   Buffer required. The buffer shall be installed around the
perimeter of the facility and be at minimum 35' in width. The buffer shall be
located adjacent to the property line and between the property line and the
fence. The buffer shall consist of three rows of evergreen plants no less than
six feet at planting, in staggered rows. One row shall be of a variety that
reaches at least 25' in height; one row of a variety that reaches 15 feet in
height; and one row of evergreen shrubs that will reach a height of at least
six feet. At least three varieties or types of plants shall be used. The buffer
shall reach 80% opacity within four growing seasons.
         (f)   Required vegetative buffers shall be permanently maintained, and
dead or diseased plants shall be replaced for the life of the facility. A
landscaping plan for routine and permanent maintenance shall be submitted and
approved as part of the application process. The plan shall include types of
plants proposed. All vegetation shall be suitable for local soils and climate.
The plan shall be filed in the Planning office. Failure to maintain the buffer
as required shall result in zoning violations as provided in the Davie County
Zoning Ordinance. The solar operator shall annually certify to the Planning
Department that maintenance has been performed.
         (g)   Areas around the solar panels should be planted in native
grasses or in pollinator friendly habitat or a combination thereof.
         (h)   Solar facilities may not have exterior lighting.
         (i)   The solar facility shall be designed and located to avoid glare
or reflection onto adjacent properties and adjacent roadways and shall not
interfere with traffic or create a safety hazard.
         (j)   Battery storage shall be allowed as an accessory use and shall
be setback 300 feet from any property line to a lot featuring a residence.
         (k)   No facility shall be larger than 100 acres. As required in §
155.151, the minimum acreage is 25 acres.
         (l)   An emergency access plan shall be submitted to the Fire Marshal
and emergency services for review and approval prior to issuance of a zoning
permit. Emergency services may require the facility owner to provide annual
safety materials, education and/or training in order to safely respond to on
site emergencies.
         (m)   The facility operator may provide any special equipment that may
be required to ensure the safety of fire and rescue personnel when responding
to an emergency at the facility at no cost to the county.
         (n)   In case of emergencies, a sign stating the owner’s contact
information including name, address, and phone number shall be located at the
entrance of the facility. Typical warning signs at the entrance shall also be
required.
         (o)   The owner or future owner of the property on which a solar
energy generating facility is installed assumes all risk associated with
diminished performance of said system caused by any present or future adjacent
structure or landscaping that may interfere with the system’s ability to
produce power at its rated capacity, regardless of when that adjacent structure
or landscaping is constructed or installed.
         (p)   Facilities are exempt from parking requirements if there is not
a building component.
         (q)   No more than 75% of a solar generating facility tract of
property may be covered with panels.
         (r)   Facilities shall be maintained in good working condition and be
free from debris and nuisances.
         (s)   A copy of applicable state and federal permits shall be
submitted with the zoning permit application i.e. NCDOT, NCDENR, FAA.
         (t)   Any other conditions found necessary by staff or the Board of
Commissioners to meet the standards of this section.
         (u)   Every two years the facility is subject to inspection by the
county to ensure compliance with all provisions. The facility operator shall
provide access to the facility and correct any deficiencies upon receipt of
notice from the Planning Department within 45 days.
         (v)   The facility owner shall keep and maintain adequate liability
insurance for the facility and supply proof of effective liability insurance to
the county on an annual basis. The facility owner shall minimally obtain
commercial general liability insurance of not less than $2,000,000 general
aggregate limit (other than premises and products- completed operations),
$2,000,000 premises and products completed operations aggregate limit,
$1,000,000 personal and advertising injury limit, $1,000,000 each occurrence
limit, and $100,000 fire damage limit. For facilities that include battery
storage the fire damage limit shall be $500,000. All insurance companies must
be licensed in North Carolina and be acceptable to Davie County. Insurance
policies shall be endorsed (i) to show Davie County as additional insured, as
their interests may appear; and (ii) to amend cancellation notice to 30 days,
pursuant to North Carolina law. Certificates of insurance shall be signed by a
licensed North Carolina agent and be amended to show “30 days’ notice of change
or cancellation will be given to Davie County by certified mail.” Failure of
the county to demand such certificates or other evidence of full compliance
with these insurance requirements or failure of the county to identify a
deficiency from evidence provided shall not be construed as a waiver of the
facility owner’s obligation to maintain such insurance.
      (2)   Approval requirements. The following are required in order to be
considered for recommendation by the Planning Board and approval by the Board
of County Commissioners:
         (a)   A site plan, drawn and stamped by a North Carolina licensed
surveyor or engineer, shall be submitted showing the following: the location
and dimensions of all proposed areas for the placement of solar panels,
screening/fencing and related improvements; any preexisting structures on the
same lot; and principal structures on other properties that would affect the
placement of solar panels; parking and access areas; location of any proposed
solar access easements. Location where wiring is brought together for
interconnection to system components and/or the local utility power grid and
the location of the disconnect switch; any proposed new structures; and any
other relevant elements as requested by staff.
         (b)   The county shall be provided copies of any lease agreement,
solar access easement, and a copy of the decommissioning plan for removal of
the system/equipment. All other applicable local and state approvals shall be
submitted as part of the zoning permit. The property owner and/or permit holder
shall submit any changes in the lease to the county within 45 days of the
revision. All financial and personal information may be redacted.
         (c)   Approvals from the North Carolina Utilities Commission and the
Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity (CPCN) shall be provided to
Planning Staff with the application for a zoning map amendment.
         (d)   Utility notification. No grid tied photovoltaic system shall be
approved until evidence has been given to the Planning Department that the
owner has been approved by the utility company to install the system.
         (e)   Material specifications and the model number from the panel
manufacturer shall be provided in addition to horizontal and vertical
(elevation) to scale drawings with dimensions of proposed solar collector
panels, inverters and energy storage structures shall be provided with the
application for a zoning map amendment.
         (f)   Solar panels used in the project must be shown to be
manufactured in their as- installed form to be free from any perfluoroalkyl
substances ("PFAS"). This includes, but is not limited to, certification that
no polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) films were applied to panels after their
manufacture. The county may request proof of this provision at its discretion
before, during, and after the installation of the photo-voltaic panels.
         (g)   Documentation regarding the type and quantity of battery storage
units and configurations, if onsite battery storage systems are to be used. Any
battery storage technology that contains PFAS must be noted in the application.
If the project intends on using PFAS containing battery storage technology, a
containment plan and a separate decommissioning plan from the plan described
below must be submitted for approval. If the battery decommissioning plan
includes recycling as a method for disposition of the spent batteries, the name
of the recycling facility permitted to accept PFAS-containing batteries must be
provided. If the project does not intend to use PFAS-containing batteries,
certification from the battery manufacturer must be provided stating that the
batteries used do not contain PFAS.
         (h)   Prior to the meeting, members of the Planning Board and Board of
Commissioners should visit the property requesting a solar facility.
         (i)   A visual impact analysis demonstrating the project shall be
supplied, if deemed necessary by the county, in order to minimize the impact on
the visual character of the county. The applicant shall provide accurate, to
scale, photographic simulations showing the relationship of the facility and
its associated amenities and development to its surroundings. The photographic
simulations shall show such views of solar structures from locations such as
property lines and roadways as deemed necessary by the county as part of the
application for a zoning map amendment.
         (j)   A Phase 1 Environmental Site Assessment prepared by a duly
licensed professional in the State of North Carolina is required as part of the
application for a zoning map amendment.
         (k)   A copy of the erosion and sedimentation control plan prepared by
a North Carolina licensed engineer and approved by the NC Department of
Environmental Quality ("NCDEQ") shall be provided with the application.
         (l)   Other relevant studies, reports, certifications, information,
documents and approvals as may be reasonably requested by the county to ensure
compliance with this division (BB). Recognizing the unique environmental
challenges of such facilities, studies that may be required under this division
may include but are not limited to the following:
            1.   Field surveys for all state or federal listed species that are
protected under state or federal law;
            2.   Geologic reports mapping and describing geological resources
such as bedrock outcrops, groundwater recharge zones, seeps, springs and
general characterization of groundwater resources;
            3.   Surface water resources including wetlands;
            4.   Site specific soil surveys to include information on prime
farmland soils as classified by the USDA Natural Resources Conservation
Service, hydric soils and hydric components of non-hydric soil series, soil
erodibility, agricultural suitability and site index for growing timber;
            5.   Environmental constraints analysis;
            6.   Other studies of the project site, receiving waters, and
adjacent or nearby natural and environmental resources as may be requested by a
county agency.
      (3)   Decommissioning. A decommissioning plan shall be prepared by a
North Carolina licensed third party professional engineer and shall include
terms/provisions that state or include the following minimum requirements:
         (a)   A decommissioning plan signed by the party responsible for
decommissioning and the landowner (if different) describing the plan shall be
provided to Planning staff with the application for a zoning permit. The
applicant shall provide evidence that the signed decommissioning plan was
recorded with the Register of Deeds.
         (b)   The plan shall include an estimated cost of decommissioning, as
described below.
         (c)   The land owner or tenant must notify the county when the site is
abandoned.
         (d)   Solar farm owners shall have 12 months to complete
decommissioning of the solar facility if no electricity is generated for a
continuous period of 12 months. This period may be extended by the Board of
Adjustment, if evidence is provided that the delay is due to circumstances
beyond the facility owner/operator's reasonable control.
         (e)   Decommissioning shall include removal of solar collectors,
cabling, electrical components, and any other associated facilities down to 36
inches below grade.
         (f)   Disturbed earth shall be graded and re-seeded, unless the
landowner requests in writing that the access roads or other land surface areas
are not to be restored.
         (g)   The owner of the facility is required to establish and maintain
a financial assurance in favor of the county for the decommissioning of the
facility in the form of certified funds, cash escrow, bond from a financial
institution acceptable to the county, or irrevocable letter of credit in an
amount at least equal to the greater of $100,000 per installed (nameplate) MW
or 125% of the estimated cost of decommissioning the facility as prepared by a
professional third-party engineer licensed in North Carolina with experience in
preparing decommissioning estimates. This engineer shall be selected by Davie
County, and the cost of creating the decommissioning analysis shall be
reimbursed to the county by the facility owner. Such estimated cost shall equal
the total projected cost of decommissioning plus at least a 10% allowance for
estimated administrative costs related to a default of the facility owner and
at least a 3% annual inflation factor. Said financial assurance shall ensure
that sufficient funds are available for decommissioning the facility and
reclamation of the property to its condition prior to commencement of
activities on the site, even if the owner of the facility becomes insolvent or
ceases to reside in, be incorporated in, do business, or maintain assets in
North Carolina. Said financial assurance must be provided to the county prior
to the issuance of any permits for the construction and installation of a
facility. Should the facility owner elect to use a bond, it must renew
automatically, and be from a company on the U.S. Department of Treasury's
Listing of Certified Companies. Should the facility owner elect to use an
irrevocable letter of credit, it must be for the entire estimated life of the
facility and be issued by a federally chartered bank with a branch in Davie
County in favor of Davie County. The institution issuing the guarantee shall
provide to the county a notice no less than 90 days in advance of any renewal,
cancellation, termination or expiration of the guarantee. The bond or other
guarantee shall be held by Davie County or in escrow with a financial
institution designated as an official depository of the county and shall remain
in full force and effect until any necessary site restoration is completed to
restore the site to a condition reasonably comparable to that which existed
prior to the creation of the facility. In the event the facility owner fails to
properly decommission the facility pursuant to the requirements of this
division (BB), the proceeds from the bond or other guarantee shall be used by
the county to decommission the facility.
         (h)   Three years after the facility is activated and every third year
interval thereafter, or upon change of ownership of either the property or the
facility, a review of the decommissioning plan and a cost analysis shall be
updated by a North Carolina licensed engineer in accordance with the procedure
provided in division (G) above and the amount of the financial assurance held
by the county shall be adjusted to the greater of: (i) the inflation adjusted
value of $100,000 per installed (nameplate) MW; or (ii) 125% of the updated
cost of decommissioning. Any changes or updates to the decommissioning plan
shall be recorded with the Davie County Registry of Deeds.
         (i)   Failure to comply with any requirement in this section may
result in the termination and revocation of all prior approvals and permits;
further, the county shall be entitled to make immediate demand upon, and/or
retain any proceeds of, the surety, which shall be used for the decommissioning
and/or removal of the facility, even if still operational.
(1996 Code, § 155.130) (Ord. passed 11-1-2010; Ord. passed 8-1-2011; Ord.
passed 11-7-2011; Ord. passed 11-4-2013; Ord. passed 2- -2017; Ord. passed 12-
21-2021; Ord. passed 7-11-2022) Penalty, see §
155.999
INTENT AND DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS
§ 155.140 RESIDENTIAL-AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT (R-A).
   (A)   Intent. The R-A Residential-Agricultural District is established to
maintain a rural development pattern where single-family housing dwellings are
intermingled with agricultural uses. Generally, houses will be separated from
one another by open fields or wooded areas. The impact of one homeowner’s
activities on his or her neighbors will be less than if the property owners
were located side by side in a subdivision. Consequently, the property owner
may have more freedom to use his or her land as he or she sees fit. Therefore,
some limited commercial uses will be permitted along with residential and
agricultural uses; however, the intent is clearly to exclude commercial and
industrial uses or residential subdivisions that require public services
(principally water and sewer systems) before they are generally needed in the
area.
   (B)   Dimensional requirements.
      (1)   Lot size. Thirty thousand square feet shall be the minimum lot area
per dwelling unit or any other alternative as described in §
155.142.
      (2)   Lot width. One hundred feet shall be the minimum width of each lot.
The measurement shall be made from one side property line to the other at the
building setback line.
      (3)   Front yard setback.  Forty feet shall be the minimum setback of the
principal structure, measured from the nearest point of the building and the
right-of-way line.
      (4)   Side yard setback.  Fifteen feet shall be the minimum side yard for
each principal building, measured from the nearest point of the building and
the side lot line.
      (5)   Rear yard setback. Thirty feet shall be the minimum rear yard for
each principal building, measured from the point of the building nearest the
rear lot line and the rear lot line.
      (6)   Accessory building. Accessory buildings shall be limited to the
rear yard of a lot containing a principal building. These buildings shall not
be located within 25 feet of any street right-of-way or within ten feet of any
lot line not a street right-of-way line.
         (a)   Accessory buildings may be located in the front of side yard
provided the lot is used for single-family purposes and is greater than one
acre in size (area). In such a case, the residential accessory building shall
be set back from the road right-of-way a minimum of 100 feet and 25 feet from
any other lot line.
         (b)   Residential carports may be permitted in the side yard of a
single-family dwelling, provided such carports meet the side yard setback of a
principal structure for the applicable zoning district. For the purposes of
this section, a RESIDENTIAL CARPORT shall be defined as an accessory building
consisting of a roof where the side walls are open and where the purpose of
such a structure is to provide covered parking for noncommercial (passenger)
motor vehicles. The storage of materials or equipment, other than motor
vehicles, in a residential carport is prohibited if the carport is not located
in the rear yard.
      (7)   Off-street parking. Requirements specified in §§
155.050 through
155.054 of this chapter.
   (C)   Dimensional requirements, two-family dwelling.
      (1)   Lot size. The minimum lot size for two-family dwellings shall be
twice what is required for the underlying district. However, when these units
are served by an individually owned septic tank system, the lot size shall be
determined by the County Health Department. In no case shall a unit served by
an individually-owned septic tank system have a lot area less than 20,000
square feet.
      (2)   Lot width. One hundred feet shall be the minimum width of the first
dwelling with an additional 20 feet for the second unit.
      (3)   Front yard setback. Forty feet shall be the minimum setback of the
principal structure, measured from the nearest point of the building and the
right-of-way line.
      (4)   Side yard setback. Fifteen feet shall be the minimum side yard for
each principal building, measured from the nearest point of the building to the
side lot line for duplex units (two-unit dwellings).
      (5)   Rear yard setback. Thirty feet shall be the minimum rear yard for
each principal building, measured from the point of the structure nearest the
rear line and the rear lot line.
      (6)   Accessory buildings. Accessory buildings shall be limited to the
rear yard off lot containing a principal building (excluded from the front and
side yards). These buildings shall not be located within ten feet of any street
right-of-way or within five feet of any lot line not a street right of way.
      (7)   Off-street parking. Requirements specified in §§
155.050 through
155.053 of this chapter.
(1996 Code, § 155.140) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984; Ord. passed 1-5-2009; Ord.
passed 3-1-2010; Ord. passed 10-3-2011)
§ 155.141 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (R-20).
   (A)   Intent.  The R-20 Residential District is established for residential
areas where public services, such as public water and sewer, may not be
available; however, housing units are located on one-half acre lots or larger,
often within established subdivisions. Because housing units are generally
closer together than in the R-A Residential-Agricultural District, there are
more restrictions on uses that might infringe on neighboring homeowners.
   (B)   Dimensional requirements.
      (1)   Lot size. Thirty thousand square feet shall be the minimum lot area
per dwelling unit or any other alternative as described in §
155.142.
      (2)   Lot width.  One hundred feet shall be the minimum width of each
lot. The measurement shall be made from one side property line to the other at
the building setback line.
      (3)   Front yard setback.  Thirty feet shall be the minimum setback of
the principal structure, measured from the nearest point of the building and
the right-of-way line.
      (4)   Side yard setback.  Fifteen feet shall be the minimum side yard for
each principal building, measured from the nearest point of the building and
the side lot line.
      (5)   Rear yard setback.  Thirty feet shall be the minimum rear yard for
each principal building, measured from the point of the building nearest the
rear lot line and the rear lot line.
      (6)   Accessory buildings.  Accessory buildings shall be limited to the
rear yard of a lot containing a principal building. These buildings shall not
be located within 25 feet of any street right-of-way or within ten feet of any
lot line not a street right-of-way line.
         (a)   Accessory buildings may be located in the front of side yard
provided the lot is used for single-family purposes and is greater than one
acre in size (area). In such a case, the residential accessory building shall
be set back from the road right-of-way a minimum of 100 feet and 25 feet from
any other lot line.
         (b)   Residential carports may be permitted in the side yard of a
single-family dwelling provided such carports meet the side yard setback of a
principal structure for the applicable zoning district. For the purposes of
this section a RESIDENTIAL CARPORT shall be defined as an accessory building
consisting of a roof where the side walls are open and where the purpose of
such a structure is to provide covered parking for noncommercial (passenger)
motor vehicles. The storage of materials or equipment, other than motor
vehicles, in a residential carport is prohibited if the carport is not located
in the rear yard.
      (7)   Off-street parking. Requirements specified in §§
155.050 through
155.054 of this chapter.
   (C)   Dimensional requirements, two-family dwelling.
      (1)   Lot size. The minimum lot size for two-family dwellings shall be
twice what is required for the underlying district. However, when these units
are served by an individually owned septic tank system, the lot size shall be
determined by the County Health Department. In no case shall a unit served by
an individually-owned septic tank system have a lot area less than 20,000
square feet.
      (2)   Lot width. Eighty feet shall be the minimum width of the first
dwelling with an additional 20 feet for the second unit.
      (3)   Front yard setback. Thirty-five feet shall be the minimum setback
of the principal structure, measured from the nearest point of the building and
the right-of-way line.
      (4)   Side yard setback. Ten feet shall be the minimum side yard for each
principal building, measured from the nearest point of the building to the side
lot line for duplex units (two-unit dwellings).
      (5)   Rear yard setback. Twenty feet shall be the minimum rear yard for
each principal building, measured from the point of the structure nearest the
rear line and the rear lot line.
      (6)   Accessory buildings. Accessory buildings shall be limited to the
rear yard off lot containing a principal building (excluded from the front and
side yards). These buildings shall not be located within ten feet of any street
right-of-way or within five feet of any lot line not a street right of way.
      (7)   Off-street parking. Requirements specified in §§
155.050 through
155.053 of this chapter.
(1996 Code, § 155.141) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984; Ord. passed 1-5-2009; Ord.
passed 3-1-2010; Ord. passed 10-3-2011)
§ 155.142 RESIDENTIAL-SUBURBAN DISTRICT (R-12).
   (A)   Generally. The R-12 Residential-Suburban District is established for
residential developments on lots smaller than in the R-A and R-20 Districts.
Unlike the other two residential districts, single-family dwellings along with
duplexes and multi-family units will be permitted in the same district. Because
of the density of development (the number of units per acre), these districts
will be limited to high growth areas where public utilities are scheduled.
   (B)   Dimensional requirements, single-family units.
      (1)   Lot size. Eight thousand square feet shall be the minimum lot area
per dwelling unit or any other alternative as described in §
155.142.
      (2)   Lot width. Eighty feet shall be the minimum width of each lot. The
measurement shall be made from one side property line to the other at the
building setback line.
      (3)   Front yard setback. Thirty-five feet shall be the minimum setback
of the principal structure, measured from the nearest point of the building and
the right-of-way line.
      (4)   Side yard setback. Ten feet shall be the minimum side yard for each
principal building, measured from the nearest point of the building to the side
lot line.
      (5)   Rear yard setback. Twenty feet shall be the minimum rear yard for
each principal building, measured from the point of the structure nearest the
rear line and the rear lot line.
      (6)   Accessory buildings. Accessory buildings shall be limited to the
rear yard of a lot containing a principal building (excluded from the front and
side yards). These buildings shall not be located within ten feet of any street
right-of-way or within five feet of any lot line not a street right-of-way.
      (7)   Off-street parking. Requirements specified in §§
155.050 through
155.054 of this chapter.
   (C)   Dimensional requirements, duplexes and multi-family units.
      (1)   Lot size. Twelve thousand square feet shall be the minimum lot area
for the first dwelling, 6,000 additional square feet for the second unit, and
4,000 square feet for each unit in excess of two units. However, when these
units are served by an individually owned septic tank system, the lot size
shall be determined by the County Health Department. In no case shall a unit
served by an individually owned septic tank system have a lot area less than
20,000 square feet.
      (2)   Lot width. Eighty feet shall be the minimum width of the first
dwelling with an additional 20 feet for the second unit and five additional
feet for each dwelling in excess of two dwellings.
      (3)   Front yard setback. Thirty-five feet shall be the minimum setback
of the principal structure, measured from the nearest point of the building and
the right-of-way line.
      (4)   Side yard setback. Ten feet shall be the minimum side yard for each
principal building, measured from the nearest point of the building to the side
lot line for duplex units (two-unit dwellings) and 15 feet for multi-family
dwellings.
      (5)   Rear yard setback. Twenty feet shall be the minimum rear yard for
each principal building, measured from the point of the structure nearest the
rear line and the rear lot line.
      (6)   Accessory buildings. Accessory buildings shall be limited to the
rear yard of a lot containing a principal building (excluded from the front and
side yards). These buildings shall not be located within ten feet of any street
right-of-way or within five feet of any lot line not a street right-of-way.
      (7)   Off-street parking. Requirements specified in §§
155.050 through
155.054 of this chapter.
   (D)   Dimensional requirements, nonresidential uses.
      (1)   Lot size. Thirty thousand square feet shall be the minimum lot area
for each use (for example, churches, schools, and the like).
      (2)   Lot width. One hundred fifty feet; the measurement shall be made
from one side property line to the other at the building setback line.
      (3)   Front yard setback. Thirty-five feet shall be the minimum setback
of the principal structure, measured from the nearest point of the building and
the right-of-way line.
      (4)   Side yard setback. Twenty feet shall be the minimum side yard for
each principal building, measured from the point of the structure nearest the
side lot line and the side lot line.
      (5)   Rear yard setback. Twenty feet shall be the minimum rear yard for
each principal building, measured from the point of the structure nearest the
rear lot line and the rear lot line.
      (6)   Accessory building. Accessory buildings shall be limited to the
rear yard of a lot containing a principal building (excluded from the front and
side yards). These buildings shall not be located within ten feet of any street
right-of-way or within five feet of any lot line not a street right-of-way.
      (7)   Off-street parking. Requirements specified in §§
155.050 through
155.054 of this chapter.
(1996 Code, § 155.142) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984; Ord. passed 10-3-2011)
§ 155.143 RESIDENTIAL-MULTIPLE DWELLING DISTRICT (R-8).
   (A)   Intent. The R-8 Residential-Multiple Dwelling District is established
for high-density (units per acre) residential development where the principal
use will be multi-family development with some single-family dwellings on
individual lots. Because of the high density of development, it is expected
that it will be located in growth areas where public water and sewer are
available.
   (B)   Dimensional requirements, single-family dwellings.
      (1)   Lot size. Eight thousand square feet shall be the minimum lot area
for a single dwelling unit. Any portion of the property located in the road
right-of-way shall not be included in this minimum lot area.
      (2)   Lot width. Seventy feet shall be the minimum width of a lot where a
single-family dwelling is located. The measurement shall be made from one side
property line to the other at the building setback line.
      (3)   Front yard setback. Thirty feet shall be the minimum setback of the
principal building, measured for the nearest point of the building and the
right-of-way line.
      (4)   Side yard setback. Ten feet shall be the minimum side yard for each
principal building, measured from the nearest point of the building to the side
lot line. When the lot abuts a street, the minimum side yard shall be increased
to 15 feet.
      (5)   Rear yard setback. Thirty feet shall be the minimum rear yard for
each principal building, measured from the point of the structure nearest the
rear lot line and the rear lot line.
      (6)   Accessory buildings. Accessory buildings shall be limited to the
rear yard of a lot containing a principal building (excluded from front and
side yards). These buildings shall not be located within 20 feet of any street
right-of-way or within five feet of any lot line not a street right-of-way
line.
   (C)   Dimensional requirements, multi-family dwellings.
      (1)   Lot size. Eight thousand for the first dwelling unit, 4,000 for the
second dwelling unit, and 3,000 for each additional dwelling unit in excess of
two.
      (2)   Lot width. Seventy feet for the first dwelling unit and 20
additional feet for each unit in excess of one. The measurement shall be made
from one side property line to the other at the building setback line.
      (3)   Front yard setback. Thirty feet shall be the minimum setback for
each principal building, measured from the nearest point of the building and
the right-of-way line.
      (4)   Side yard setback. Ten feet shall be the minimum side yard for each
principal building, measured from the nearest point of the building to the side
lot line. When the lot abuts a street, the minimum side yard shall be increased
to 15 feet.
      (5)   Rear yard setback. Thirty feet shall be the minimum rear yard for
each building, measured from the point of the structure nearest the rear lot
line and the rear lot line.
      (6)   Accessory buildings. Accessory buildings shall be limited to the
rear yard of a lot containing two or more principal buildings (excluded from
the front and side yards). These buildings shall not be located within 20 feet
of any street right-of-way or within five feet of any lot line not a street
right-of-way line.
      (7)   Off-street parking. Requirements specified in §§
155.050 through
155.054 of this chapter.
(1996 Code, § 155.143) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984)
§ 155.144 RESIDENTIAL MANUFACTURED HOME DISTRICT (R-M).
   (A)   The R-M Residential-Manufactured Home District is established
primarily for manufactured home parks; however, other forms of single-family
housing are permitted, including manufactured homes on individual lots.
Although this section specifies minimal lot sizes for manufactured home parks
and individual housing units, the County Health Department shall have the final
authority to determine lot sizes when a septic system is involved, or the State
Department of Natural Resources and Community Development, Division of
Environmental Management, when a package treatment is involved. All
manufactured homes brought into the county shall meet the definitions of a
manufactured home Class A, Class B, or Class C. Class D manufactured homes
shall not be permitted.
   (B)   Review process. Any developer proposing to develop a new manufactured
home park or expand an existing one that increases the number of spaces shall
have a development plan reviewed by the County Planning Board and acted upon by
the County Board of Adjustment. The Board of Adjustment shall have the
authority to impose reasonable conditions and safeguards on the proposed
development as it deems necessary for the protection of adjoining properties
and the public interest.
   (C)   Development plan. Four copies of the development plan shall be
submitted to the Zoning Enforcement Officer. The development plan shall address
the following points:
      (1)   The name of the park, the names and addresses of the owner or
owners, and the designer or surveyor;
      (2)   Date, scale, and approximate north arrow;
      (3)   Boundaries of the tract shown with bearings and distances;
      (4)   Site plans showing streets, driveways, recreation areas, parking
spaces, service buildings, water courses, easements, manufactured home spaces,
and all structures to be located on the park site;
      (5)   Vicinity map showing the location of the park and the surrounding
land usage; and
      (6)   Names of adjoining property owners.
   (D)   Design standards.
      (1)   Manufactured homes shall meet the definition of a manufactured home
Class A, Class B, or Class C.
      (2)   The lot area for a manufactured home park shall be at least five
acres. All areas to be included in the park shall be clearly shown on the plans
required by division (C) above.
      (3)   Each manufactured home in a manufactured home park shall occupy a
designated space having at least 10,000 square feet and a width of at least 40
feet, exclusive of common driveways.
      (4)   Each manufactured home space shall abut a driveway within the park.
The driveways shall be graded and surfaced with a tar and gravel composite
paving, asphalt pavement, or concrete pavement on a well-compacted subbase to a
continuous width of 20 feet exclusive of required parking space.
      (5)   Two off-driveway parking spaces (minimum dimensions for a parking
space are ten by 20 feet) with not less than four inches of crushed stone or
other suitable material on a well-compacted subbase shall be provided for each
manufactured home space. Required parking spaces may be included within the
6,000 square feet required for each manufactured home space.
      (6)   At least 500 square feet of recreation space for each manufactured
home space shall be reserved within each manufactured home park as common
recreation space for the residents of the park. Such areas shall, along with
driveways and walkways, be adequately lighted for safety. The required
recreational space shall not be counted as a part of the minimum lot size. The
majority of all recreational space shall be in one contiguous area.
      (7)   No manufactured homes or other structures within a manufactured
home park shall be closer to each other than 20 feet, except that storage or
other auxiliary structures for the exclusive use of the manufactured home may
be closer to that manufactured home than 20 feet.
      (8)   No manufactured home shall be located closer than 50 feet to the
exterior boundary of the park or a bounding street right-of-way. Buildings used
for laundry or recreation purposes shall be located no closer than 50 feet to
the exterior boundary of the park or the right of a bounding street.
      (9)   Proposed water supply and waste disposal facilities for the
manufactured home park shall be approved in writing by the State or County
Health Officer or his or her representative.
      (9)   A buffer strip shall be provided by the developer between a
manufactured home park and any property developed for residential, commercial,
or industrial uses. The buffer strip is excluded in calculating lot sizes and
setback lines. All measurements are made from the interior boundary of the
buffer strip.
      (10)   Each manufactured home unit within a manufactured home park shall
be secured by adequate tiedowns and anchors so as to conform to the state
regulations for mobile homes. Modifications to the above are permitted upon
approval by the Building Inspector.
      (11)   All streets in the manufactured home park shall be adequately
illuminated from sunset to sunrise.
      (12)   All units shall be completely skirted by a solid, nonflammable
material.
      (13)   All units shall have permanent, safe steps that are uniform in
size.
   (E)   Dimensional requirements, single-family. Although the primary use of
this district will be for manufactured home parks, single-family units will be
permitted if they comply with the dimensional requirements specified for R-12
Residential District. Class A and Class B manufactured homes are permitted as
single-family units.
      (1)   Lot size. Twelve thousand square feet shall be the minimum lot area
per dwelling unit. Any part of the property in the road right-of-way shall not
be included in this minimum lot area. Any residential use, however, shall have
a minimum lot area of not less than 20,000 square feet when served by a private
septic tank system.
      (2)   Lot width. Eighty feet shall be the minimum width of each lot. The
measurement shall be made from one side property line to the other at the
building setback line.
      (3)   Front yard setback. Thirty-five feet shall be the minimum setback
of the principal structure, measured from the nearest point of the building to
the right-of-way line or front property line, whichever comes first.
      (4)   Side yard setback. Ten feet shall be the minimum side yard for each
principal building, measured from the nearest point of the building to the side
lot line.
      (5)   Rear yard setback. Twenty feet shall be the minimum rear yard
requirement for the principal building, measured from the nearest point of the
structure to the rear lot line.
      (6)   Accessory buildings. Accessory buildings shall be limited to the
rear yard of a lot containing a principal building (excluded from the front and
side yards). These buildings shall not be located within ten feet of any street
right-of-way or within five feet of any lot line not a street right-of-way.
      (7)   Off-street parking. Requirements specified in §§
155.050 through
155.054 of this chapter.
(1996 Code, § 155.144) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984; Ord. passed 7-1-1996; Ord.
passed 11-16-1998)
§ 155.145 HIGHWAY BUSINESS DISTRICT (H-B).
   (A)   Intent. The H-B Highway Business District is established principally
for retail operations that are located on the roadways throughout the county.
   (B)   Dimensional requirements.
      (A)   Lot size. Twenty thousand square feet shall be the minimum lot area
per business unit. Any part of the property located in the road right-of-way
shall not be included in this minimum lot area.
      (B)   Lot width. One hundred feet shall be the minimum width of each lot.
The measurement shall be made from one side property line to the other at the
building setback line.
      (3)   Front yard. Thirty feet shall be the minimum setback of the
principal structure, measured from the nearest point of the building and the
right-of-way line.
      (4)   Side yard setback. Ten feet shall be the minimum side yard for each
principal building, measured from the nearest point of the building to the side
lot line.
      (5)   Rear yard setback. Twenty feet shall be the minimum rear yard for
each principal building, measured from the point of the building nearest the
rear line and the rear lot line.
      (6)   Off-street loading and unloading. Buildings constructed or
converted to uses permitted in this district shall provide off-street loading
and unloading space as required in §§
155.070 through
155.072 of this chapter.
      (7)   Off-street parking. Requirements as specified in §§
155.050 through
155.054 of this chapter.
      (8)   Buffer strip. A buffer strip shall be provided in a side or rear
yard where adjacent to any residential area.
(1996 Code, § 155.145) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984)
§ 155.146 COMMUNITY SHOPPING DISTRICT (C-S).
   (A)   Intent. The C-S Community Shopping District is established for retail
trade and consumer services that are clustered together, often sharing common
structures, parking lots, and the like, on relatively large tracts of land.
   (B)   Dimensional requirements.
      (1)   Lot size. No specified minimum size.
      (2)   Lot width. No specified minimum size.
      (3)   Front yard setback. Forty feet shall be the minimum setback of the
principal structure, measured from the nearest point of the building and the
right-of-way line.
      (4)   Side yard setback. Twenty feet shall be the minimum side yard for
each principal building, measured from the nearest point of the building to the
side lot line.
      (5)   Rear yard setback. Forty feet shall be the minimum rear yard for
each principal building, measured from the nearest point of the building to the
rear lot line.
      (6)   Off-street parking. Requirements as specified in §§
155.050 through
155.054 of this chapter.
      (7)   Off-street loading and unloading. Provided as specified in §§
155.070 through
155.072 of this chapter.
      (8)   Buffer strip. Upon any side or rear lot which abuts a residential
district, there shall be a densely planted and maintained buffer strip. No such
buffer shall, however, extend nearer to a street right-of-way line than the
established building line of the adjoining residential lots, and no buffer
shall be required upon any yard which abuts a public street.
(1996 Code, § 155.146) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984)
§ 155.147 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   General Industrial (G-I).
      (1)   The General Industrial District is established for manufacturing,
distribution, warehousing, processing and related uses whose operating
characteristics limit their effects on adjacent uses.
      (2)   Dimensional requirements.
         (1)   Lot size. One acre shall be the minimum lot area. Any part of
the property located in the road right-of-way shall not be included in this
minimum lot area.
         (2)   Lot width. Two hundred feet shall be the minimum width of each
lot. The measurement shall be made from one side property line to the other at
the building setback line.
         (3)   Front yard setback. Fifty feet shall be the minimum setback of
the principal building, measured from the nearest point of the building to the
right-of-way line.
         (4)   Side yard setback. Fifteen feet shall be the minimum side yard
for each principal building.
         (5)   Rear yard setback. Thirty feet shall be the minimum rear yard
for each principal building, measured from the nearest point of the building
and the rear lot line.
         (6)   Off-street loading and unloading. Buildings constructed or
converted to uses permitted in this district shall provide off-street loading
and unloading space as required in §§
155.070 through
155.072 of this chapter.
         (7)   Off-street parking. Requirements specified in §§
155.050 through
155.053 of this chapter.
         (8)   Buffer strip. Upon any side or rear lot which abuts a
residential district, there shall be a densely planted and maintained buffer
strip. No such buffer shall, however, extend nearer to a street right- of-way
line than the established building line of the adjoining residential lots, and
no buffer shall be required upon any yard which abuts a public street.
   (B)   Heavy Industrial (H-I).
      (1)   The Heavy Industrial District is established for industrial,
processing and related operations.
      (2)   Dimensional requirements.
         (1)   Lot size. Five acres shall be the minimum lot area. Any part of
the property located in the road right-of-way shall not be included in this
minimum lot area.
         (2)   Lot width. No specified minimum.
         (3)   Front yard setback. Fifty feet shall be the minimum setback of
the principal building, measured from the nearest point of the building and the
right-of-way line.
         (4)   Side yard setback. Twenty-five feet shall the minimum side yard
for each principal building, measured from the nearest point of the building to
the side lot line.
         (5)   Rear yard setback. Forty feet shall be the minimum rear yard for
each principal building, measured from the point of the building nearest the
rear line and the rear lot line.
         (6)   Off-street loading and unloading. Provided as specified in §§
155.070 through
155.072 of this chapter.
         (7)   Off-street parking. Provided as specified in §§
155.050 through
155.053 of this chapter.
         (8)   Buffer strip. Upon any side or rear lot which abuts a
residential district, there shall be a densely planted and maintained buffer
strip. No such buffer shall, however, extend nearer to a street right-of-way
line than the established building line of the adjoining residential lot, and
no buffer shall be required upon any yard which abuts a public street.
(1996 Code, § 155.147) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984; Ord. passed 5-3-2021)
§ 155.148 QUALITY DESIGN OVERLAY DISTRICT (OD).
   (A)   Intent. The Quality Design Overlay District is established as an
overlay district whose geographic coverage shall encompass primarily the
rapidly growing northeastern section of the county. It is intended to
supplement, rather than replace the underlying zoning in this area. It does not
address elements such as use or intensity (which are controlled by the
underlying zone), rather, it addresses design elements such as landscaping,
signage, and access. Single-family residences are specifically exempted from
the requirements of the QD District.
   (B)   Review process. All development proposals within the Quality Design
Overlay District other than single-family residential developments shall be
submitted to and reviewed by the Project Review Committee consistent with the
provisions of §§
155.170 -
155.172 and in order to ensure compliance with this section.
   (C)   Development plan. The applicant shall, at a minimum, submit plans
containing data and information consistent with all other applicable provisions
of this chapter. In addition, the applicant shall submit information as
requested by the Project Review Committee to determine that the design
standards listed in §
155.148(D) have been sufficiently addressed.
   (D)   Design standards. Developments shall comply with all applicable
requirements of this chapter. In addition, the following design standards shall
be followed. In the event of inconsistencies, the standards contained in this
section shall govern.
      (1)   Signs.
         (a)   No off-premise signs shall be permitted except for unlighted
signs advertising not- for-profit-organizations. Any such off-premise sign
shall comply with the design standards set forth under division (D)(1)(b).
         (b)   Freestanding signs.
            1.   Number. One freestanding sign shall be permitted per each 200
linear feet of street frontage of the lot. Lots containing less than 200 linear
feet of street frontage shall be permitted one such freestanding sign.
            2.   Area.
               a.   The area encompassed by freestanding signs shall not exceed
.2 square foot per each linear foot of street frontage of the lot.
               b.   The maximum total area of all allowable freestanding signs
shall be equal to no more than 40 square feet. This figure is also subject to
the overall limitation of §
155.148(D)(1)(d) and may therefore be less than 40 feet in some cases.
            3.   Height. No freestanding sign shall exceed six feet in height.
         (c)   Building signs.
            1.   The maximum total area of all allowable building signs shall
be equal to no more than 10% of the area of the wall of which such sign is a
part or to which each sign is attached.
            2.   Each separate business establishment within a mall or shopping
center may have one building sign not to exceed 100 square feet and subject to
limitations of division (D)(1)(c)1. above.
         (d)   Total sign area and number of signs. The maximum aggregate area
of all allowable signs on each lot, not in a mall or shopping center, including
freestanding, building, or any other signs shall be equal to the lesser of
either:
            1.   One hundred square feet.
            2.   Four percent of the ground floor area of the principal
building; or
            3.   Two square feet per linear foot of street frontage.
         (e)   Signs shall be located such that there is at every street
intersection a clear view between the heights of three feet and ten feet within
the sight triangle described in §
155.172(H), and shall be located outside of the right-of-way of any public
street.
         (f)   No animated sign, nor moving or flashing signs shall be
permitted.
         (g)   No portable signs shall be permitted.
         (h)   No projecting or suspended signs shall be permitted.
         (i)   No inflatable signs or tethered balloons shall be permitted.
         (j)   No beacons shall be permitted.
         (k)   No roof signs other than integral roof signs shall be permitted.
The area occupied by integral roof signs shall be limited to no more than 10%
of the total area of the roof, and shall be subject to the total sign area
limitations of division (D)(1)(d).
         (l)   Flags used as promotional devices of any type, including but not
limited to the promotion of goods, services, business establishments, events,
and the like shall be prohibited.
         (m)   Computations.
            1.   Computation of area of individual signs. The area of a sign
face (which is also the sign area of a wall sign or other sign with only one
face) shall be computed by means of the smallest square, circle, rectangle, or
combination thereof that will encompass the extreme limits of the writing,
representation, emblem, or other display, together with any material or color
forming an integral part of the background of the display or used to
differentiate the sign from the backdrop or structure against which it is
placed, but not including any supporting framework, bracing, or decorative
fence or wall when such fence or wall otherwise meets zoning chapter
regulations and is clearly incidental to the display itself.
            2.   Computation of area of multi-faced signs. The sign area for a
sign with more than one face shall be computed by adding together the area of
all sign faces visible form any one point at the same time, and when such sign
faces are part of the same sign structure and are not more than 42 inches
apart, the sign area shall be computed by the measurement of one of the faces.
            3.   Computation of height. The height of a sign shall be computed
as the distance from the base of the sign at normal grade to the top of the
highest attached component of the sign. Normal grade shall be construed to be
the lower of (i) existing grade prior to construction, or (ii) the newly
established grade after construction, exclusive of any filling, berming,
mounding, or excavating. In cases in which the normal grade cannot reasonably
be determined, sign height shall be computed on the assumption that the
elevation of the normal grade at the base of the sign is equal to the elevation
of the nearest point of the crown of a public street or the grade of the land
at the principal entrance to the principal structure on the lot, whichever is
lower.
            4.   Computation of maximum total permitted sign area for a lot.
The permitted sum of the area of all individual signs on a lot shall be
computed by applying the formula contained in division (D)(1)(d) to the lot
frontage, building frontage, or wall area, as appropriate. Lots fronting on two
or more streets area allowed the permitted sign area for each street frontage.
However, the total sign area that is oriented toward a particular street may
not exceed the portion of the lot's total sign area allocation that is derived
from the lot, building, or wall area frontage on that street.
      (2)   Landscaping. The landscaping and buffering requirements of §
155.172 shall apply to the Quality Design Overlay District except where the
provisions of this section are more restrictive.
      (3)   Access.
         (a)   Access points to the development (such as curb cuts or
driveways) shall be minimized. There shall be no more than one point of
entrance and one point of exit for each road or street frontage on each lot,
except that, where a road or street frontage exceeds 500 feet, there may be two
points of entrance and two points of exit. If the frontage exceeds 1,000 feet,
three such points may be allowed. Three points shall be the maximum allowable.
A single access point which serves as both a point of entrance and a point of
exit (two-way traffic) shall be considered as both a point of entrance and a
point of exit.
         (b)   If a subdivision of land within the Quality Design District
occurs subsequent to the effective date of these regulations which results in
the creation of lots which possess less than 150 feet of street frontage, the
preliminary and final subdivision plats for such subdivision shall be approved
only if access points for each lot are clearly designated on the plat, and the
total number of access points designated on the plat for the entire subdivision
does not exceed one point of entrance and one point of exit per each 150 feet
of street frontage.
            1.   Joint driveways and interior access roads shall be permitted.
            2.   It is the intent of these regulations to exempt from this
requirement any subdivision lots clearly intended for single-family residential
development.
         (c)   No driveway except residential access shall be allowed within
300 feet of the centerline of an intersecting thoroughfare or collector street.
No driveway except residential access shall be allowed within 200 feet of the
centerline of any other intersecting street.
         (d)   No driveway except residential access shall be allowed within 30
feet of the side property line of any property or development except where a
mutual joint access agreement exists between adjoining owners.
         (e)   Any parcel of record on the effective date of this section which
has prohibited all vehicular access based on the provisions herein shall be
allowed one access point to its street frontage.
      (4)   Parking areas.
         (a)   Parking areas shall, where possible, be located at either the
rear or sides of the principal building(s).
         (b)   Parking areas shall be set back a minimum of 20 feet from the
front property line or edge of right-of-way, whichever is greater. The setback
area shall be occupied by a 20-foot landscaping strip developed to the
standards contained in §
155.172(D). If the setback area exceeds 20 feet, the landscaping strip shall be
placed nearest the front of the lot.
         (c)   In addition to the landscaping requirements contained in §
155.172, parking areas shall be landscaped such that there is located, within
the interior of the parking area, a landscaped area equivalent to the area of
one parking space for each 20 parking spaces in the parking area. A parking
area consisting of less than 20 spaces shall have at least one such landscaped
area.
         (d)   Landscaped areas shall be surrounded by a concrete curb or other
material, such as landscape timbers, in order to protect the landscaped area
and to define its borders.
         (e)   Landscaped areas shall be composed of materials determined by
the Project Review Committee to be appropriate in order to maintain the
appearance of the area.
      (5)   Utility wiring. Wiring for utilities such as telephone, electrical,
cable television, and the like or related functions shall be placed underground
where practicable.
      (6)   Building orientation.
         (a)   Buildings shall, after complying with all other applicable
regulations, be located as near the front property line as possible with
parking areas located either to the rear or sides of the principal building.
         (b)   In the event that it is not practicable to adhere to the
standards of §
155.148(D)(6)(a), the Project Review Committee shall require that the parking
area landscaping standards outlined in §
155.148(D)(4) be increased by a factor of 2.0, that is, if §
155.148(D)(4) requires one planting area for each 20 parking spaces, the new
requirement shall be two such areas for each 20 spaces.
      (7)   Screening.
         (a)   Facilities such as solid waste containers, electrical equipment,
HVAC equipment and the like which are located on the lot but which are not
contained within the principal building shall be screened from public view by
an acceptable means such as vegetation, fencing, berming, and the like. No
chain link fencing shall be permitted to fulfill this requirement.
         (b)   A developer may choose to substantially screen from public view
a parking area by utilizing an earthen berm, masonry wall, or other suitable
means of screening as determined by the Project Review Committee. In such
cases, the regulations embodied in §
155.148(D)(6)(a) shall not apply, that is a building not located as near the
front property line as possible shall be held to more restrictive landscaping
standards.
      (8)   Exterior lighting.
         (a)   Exterior lighting on any lot shall be designed and directed so
that the light is confined primarily to that lot.
         (b)   No search lights or other high-intensity lighting devices used
primarily to illuminate the night sky shall be permitted.
         (c)   No external lighting device shall exceed a height of 30 feet.
The computation of height shall be determined in the same manner as that for
signs pursuant to division (D)(1)(m)3.
      (9)   Outdoor sports fields.
         (a)   Outdoor lighting fixtures shall be installed in a manner to
protect the street and neighboring properties from direct glare or hazardous
interference of any kind.
         (b)   The mounting height of outdoor sports field area lighting
fixtures shall not exceed 100 feet from the lowest adjacent grade (this
includes bases and other mounting structures).
         (c)   All outdoor sports field area lighting fixtures shall be
equipped with a glare control package (louvers, shields, or similar devices).
         (d)   The fixtures must be aimed so that their beams are directed and
fall within the primary playing or area.
         (e)   The hours of operation for the lighting system shall coincide
with active use of the field or performance area and any necessary maintenance
thereof.
   (E)   Definitions. The following definitions shall apply within the Quality
Design Overlay District and shall supersede any conflicting definitions found
elsewhere in this chapter.
      BUFFER. A horizontal distance from the property line which may be
occupied by screening, utilities, and landscape materials.
      LIGHTING, EXTERIOR. Lighting such as that used in and around buildings,
recreation areas, parking lots and signs.
      MARQUEE. Any permanent roof-like structures projecting beyond a building
or extending beyond the wall of the building, generally designed and
constructed to provide protection from the weather.
      SCREEN. A wall; fence; berm; or planted strip composed of deciduous or
evergreen trees, or a mixture of trees and dense shrubs.
      SIGN. Any device, fixture, placard, or structure that uses any color,
form, graphic, illumination, symbol, or writing to advertise, announce the
purpose of, or identify the purpose of a person or entity, or to communicate
information of any kind to the public.
      SIGN, ANIMATED. Any sign that uses movement or change of lighting to
depict action or create a special effect or scene.
      SIGN, BUILDING. Any sign attached to any part of a building, as
contrasted to a freestanding sign. Examples include but are not limited to:
wall, projecting, suspended, and roof (including integral roof) signs;
marquees; canopies; banners; and building markers.
      SIGN, CANOPY. Any sign that is a part of, or attached to, an awning,
canopy, fabric or plastic, or structural protective cover over a door,
entrance, window, or service area. A marquee is not a canopy.
      SIGN, FREESTANDING. Any sign supported by structures or supports that are
placed on, or anchored in, the ground and that are independent from any
building or other structure. Examples include but are not limited to ground and
pole signs.
      SIGNS, GROUND. A freestanding sign, the entire bottom of which is
generally in contact with, or in close proximity to, the ground.
      SIGN, INTEGRAL ROOF. Any sign erected or constructed as an integral or
essentially integral part of a normal roof structure of any design, such that
no part of the sign extends vertically above the highest portion of the roof
and such that no part of the sign is separated from the rest of the roof by a
space of more than six inches.
      SIGNS OFF-PREMISES. A sign which advertises or publicizes a product,
service, or event not available or not occurring on the premises or lot upon
which the sign is located.
      SIGN, POLE. A freestanding sign that is supported by a pole(s) and
otherwise separated from the ground by air.
      SIGN, PORTABLE. Any sign not permanently attached to the ground or other
permanent structures, or a sign designed to be transported including but not
limited to, signs designed to be transported, including but not limited to
signs designed to be transported by means of wheels; signs converted to A- or
T-frames; menu and sandwich board signs; balloons used as signs; umbrellas used
for advertising; and signs attached to or painted on vehicles parked and
visible from the public right-of-way, unless the vehicle is used in the normal
day-to-day operations of the business.
      SIGN, PROJECTING. A sign affixed to a building or wall in such a manner
that its leading edge extends more than six inches beyond the surface of such
building or wall.
      SIGN, ROOF. Any sign erected and constructed wholly on and over the roof
of a building, supported by the roof structure, and extending vertically above
the highest portion of the roof.
      SIGN, SUSPENDED. A sign that is suspended from the underside of a
horizontal plane surface and is supported by such surface.
      SIGN, WALL. Any sign attached parallel to, but within a six inches of, a
wall, painted on the wall surface of, or erected and confined within the limits
of an outside wall of any building or structure, which is supported by such
wall or building, and which displays only one sign surface.
      STREET FRONTAGE. The distance for which a lot line adjoins a public
street, from one lot line intersecting the street to the furthest distant lot
line intersecting the same street.
(1996 Code, § 155.148) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984; Ord. passed 4-3-1995; Ord.
passed 6-23-1997; Am. Ord. passed 2-2-2015)
§ 155.149 COOLEEMEE ZONING OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. The Cooleemee Zoning Overlay District is established as an
overlay district whose geographic coverage shall encompass an area as described
on the map established as of the effective date of this amendment and being
bounded by the South Yadkin River and a line beginning two miles upstream from
the town limits of Cooleemee; running parallel with the town limits two miles
outside of the town limits, and terminating at a point two miles downstream of
the Cooleemee town limits. The overlay district is intended to supplement,
rather than replace, the underlying zoning in the area prescribed. The overlay
district specifies design elements for commercial, industrial, and multi-family
developments such as the location of parking areas, underground utilities,
location of buildings, screening, outdoor lighting, sidewalks, and street
access to developments. The overlay district requires additional review of land
developments by the Cooleemee Town Board for any development proposals within
the Cooleemee town limits. The overlay district requires review of land
developments by the Project Review Committee prior to any review by the County
Planning Board, the County Board of Adjustment, or the County Board of
Commissioners for any development proposal on property lying outside the
Cooleemee town limits.
   (B)   Review process. All development proposals within the Cooleemee town
limits, except for the construction or placement of a single-family dwelling on
an individually deeded lot, shall be submitted to and reviewed by the Project
Review Committee and the Cooleemee Town Board in order to ensure compliance
with the Cooleemee Zoning Overlay District. All development proposals outside
the Cooleemee town limits but within the Overlay District, except for the
construction or placement of a single-family dwelling on an individually deeded
lot, shall be submitted to and reviewed by the Project Review Committee in
order to ensure compliance with the Cooleemee Zoning Overlay District.
Development proposals include single-family residential subdivision
development, multi-family or residential group development, commercial
development of any kind, industrial development, civic or government buildings,
and recreational uses. If a development proposal requires rezoning the
property, and the property lies within the Cooleemee town limits, the Cooleemee
Town Board shall review and make a recommendation to the County Planning Board
prior to the development being scheduled on the agenda of the County Planning
Board.
   (C)   Permitted uses. All uses permitted within the underlying zoning
district are permitted within the Cooleemee Zoning Overlay District with the
following exceptions.
      (1)   All proposed new single-family residential subdivisions, or
proposed expansions of single-family residential subdivisions, shall be
required to rezone to either a Residential Special Use (R-20-S) District, a
Residential-Suburban Special Use (R-12-S) District, or a Residential-Multiple
Dwelling Special Use (R-8-S) District, which district shall specify the type,
number, location, and standards of all dwellings planned or existing within the
Special Use District.
      (2)   In granting the special use rezoning the Planning Board in making
its recommendation and the Board of Commissioners in making its decision should
consider the following:
         (a)   The adequacy of public utilities and infrastructure including
water and sewer systems;
         (b)   Housing characteristics of the surrounding area including
density, lot sizes, house types (manufactured or non-manufactured), and the
like;
         (c)   The capacity of the local schools serving the development and
the school’s ability to meet expected student population generated by
development; and
         (d)   The characteristics of the road system serving the development
(e.g., traffic conditions, number of driveway accesses from adjoining public
streets, and the like).
   (D)   Design standards. Developments shall comply with all applicable
provisions of this chapter. In addition, the following design standards shall
be followed. In the event of inconsistencies, the standards contained in this
section shall govern.
      (1)   Access.
         (a)   The following are defined as collector streets, as of the
effective date of this section, and access to developments (whether
residential, commercial, industrial, civic, governmental, recreational, or
otherwise) shall be limited according to standards within this section: US Hwy
601, NC Hwy 801, Gladstone Road, Junction Road, Daniels Road, Michaels Road,
and Pine Ridge Road. Collector streets are shown on the approved Overlay
District Map.
         (b)   Access points to the development (such as curb cuts or
driveways) shall be restricted. There shall be no more than one street or
driveway access for each public street frontage of the entire development,
except that, where a public street frontage exceeds 500 feet, there may be two
streets or driveway accesses which must be separated by at least 300 feet as
measured along the public street. If the public street frontage exceeds 1,000
feet, three such streets or driveway accesses may be allowed, which must be
separated by at least 300 feet as measured along the public street. Three
points shall be the maximum allowable. Negative access easements shall be
required between allowable street or driveway accesses.
         (c)   Connecting streets or driveways shall be required between
adjacent parking lots within a planned development, except for single-family
parking spaces. Lots in single-family residential developments shall be served
by streets or access driveways from within the development. No individual
driveways shall be permitted for single-family residential access to collector
streets as established by this section.
         (d)   No driveway shall be allowed within 300 feet of the centerline
of an intersecting thoroughfare or collector street. No driveway shall be
allowed within 200 feet of the centerline of any other intersecting street.
         (e)   No driveway, except single-family residential driveways, shall
be allowed within 30 feet of the side property line of any property or
development except where a mutual joint access agreement exists between
adjoining owners. Prior to final approval to begin construction, any planned
mutual joint access agreement shall be submitted to and reviewed by the County
Planning Director.
         (f)   Any parcel of record on the effective date of this section which
has all vehicular access prohibited based on the provisions of this section
shall be allowed one access point to the public street frontage. If a property
has access to an adjoining private street, then such private street shall
satisfy the provision of a single access point.
      (2)   Parking areas.
         (a)   All parking areas, except for single-family residential parking
spaces, shall be located at either the rear or sides of the principal building
(s).
         (b)   Parking areas, except for single-family residential parking
spaces, shall be set back a minimum of 20 feet from the front property line or
edge of right-of-way, whichever is greater.
          (c)   In the event that it is not practicable to adhere to the
standards of this section, the Project Review Committee shall require that the
interior parking area landscaping standards be increased by a factor of 2.0.
      (3)   Utility wiring. Wiring for utilities such as telephone, electrical,
cable television, and the like or related functions shall be placed
underground. This requirement shall apply only to the property being developed.
      (4)   Building orientation. Buildings shall, after complying with all
other applicable regulations, be located as near the front property line as
possible with parking areas located either to the rear or sides of the
principal building. Building orientation shall not apply to single-family homes
on individual lots.
      (5)   Screening.
         (a)   Facilities such as solid waste containers, electrical equipment,
HVAC equipment, utility equipment of any kind, outside storage areas for
commercial or industrial establishments, and the like, which are located on the
lot, but which are not contained within the principal building, shall be
screened from public view by an acceptable means such as vegetation, fencing,
berming, and the like. No chain link fencing shall be permitted to fulfill this
requirement. Screening shall not apply to single-family homes on individual
lots.
         (b)   A developer may choose to substantially screen from public view
a parking area by utilizing an earthen berm, masonry wall, or other suitable
means of screening as determined by the Project Review Committee.
      (6)   Exterior lighting.
         (a)   Exterior lighting on any lot shall be designed and directed so
that the light is confined primarily to that lot.
         (b)   No search lights or other high-intensity lighting devices used
primarily to illuminate the night sky shall be permitted.
         (c)   No external lighting device shall exceed a height of 30 feet.
The computation of height shall be determined in the same manner as that for
signs.
      (7)   Sidewalks. Sidewalks are required only within the Cooleemee town
limits. Four-foot sidewalks shall be required to connect proposed developments
to existing town sidewalks, where town sidewalks exist, on at least one side of
each public or private street within the development. Sidewalks shall be
located within a public or private right-of-way, adequate for the purpose of
maintenance and use of the sidewalk. The developer is responsible for
maintenance of the sidewalk until such time as the Town of Cooleemee or other
public agency accepts the sidewalk for maintenance. Developments may also be
required to extend sidewalks where, in the opinion of the Cooleemee Town Board,
a sidewalk extension will facilitate pedestrian access to a planned town
sidewalk, public or private facility, or other planned development. All
sidewalks shall meet applicable Americans with Disabilities Act standards, or
North Carolina State Building Code standards, whichever applies.
      (8)   Definitions. The following definitions shall apply within the
Cooleemee Zoning Overlay District and shall supersede any conflicting
definitions found elsewhere in this section.
         BUFFER. A horizontal distance from the property line which may be
occupied by screening, perpendicular utility crossings, and landscape
materials.
         SCREEN. A wall, fence, berm, or planted strip composed of deciduous or
evergreen trees, or a mixture of trees and dense shrubs planted to effectively
obscure visibility from outside the screen to anywhere inside the screen.
         STREET FRONTAGE. The distance for which a lot line is coincident with
a street right-of- way, from one lot line intersecting the street right-of-way
to the furthest distant lot line intersecting the same street right-of-way.
(1996 Code, § 155.149) (Ord. passed 8-6-2001; Ord. passed 1-18-2005)
§ 155.150 NEIGHBORHOOD BUSINESS DISTRICT (N-B).
   (A)   Intent.  The N-B Neighborhood Business District is established to
provide for limited, small-scale neighborhood commercial activity. This zoning
district provides for a range of commercial uses and services to meet the
everyday needs of rural residents, to provide employment opportunities for
residents of the rural area, and to provide goods and services for travelers
and tourists to the area. The zoning district is characterized by small
buildings, low traffic generation, and operations with little late-night
activity.
   (B)   Dimensional requirements.
      (1)   Lot size.  Twenty thousand square feet shall be the minimum lot
area per business unit. Any part of the property located in the road right-of-
way shall not be included in this minimum lot area.
      (2)   Lot width.  One hundred feet shall be the minimum width of each
lot. The measurement shall be made from one side property line to the other at
the building setback line.
      (3)   Front yard.  Thirty feet shall be the minimum width of each lot.
The measurement shall be made from one side property line to the other at the
building setback line.
      (4)   Side yard setback. Ten feet shall be the minimum side yard for each
principal building, measured from the nearest point of the building to the side
lot line.
      (5)   Rear yard set back.  Twenty feet shall be the minimum rear yard for
each principal building, measured from the point of the building nearest the
rear line and the rear lot line.
      (6)   Off-street loading and unloading. Buildings constructed or
converted to uses permitted in this district shall provide off-street loading
and unloading space as required in §§
155.070 through
155.072 of this chapter.
      (7)   Off-street parking.  Requirements specified in §§
155.050 through
155.054 of this chapter.
      (8)   Buffer strip.  A buffer strip shall be provided in a side or rear
yard where adjacent to any residential area.
(1996 Code, § 155.150) (Ord. passed 11-1-2010)
§ 155.151 SPECIAL PURPOSE DISTRICT (S-P).
   (A)   Intent. 
      (1)   The Special Purpose District is established to accommodate uses
that may constitute health or safety hazards, have greater than average impacts
on the environment, aesthetics, community identity, view shed or diminish the
use and enjoyment of nearby property by generation of noise, smoke, fumes,
odors, glare, vibration, commercial vehicle traffic, or similar nuisances.
      (2)   If there are discrepancies with this section and §
155.130(BB), the stricter requirements shall prevail.
   (B)   Dimensional requirements.
      (1)   Lot size. Twenty-five acres shall be the minimum lot area. Any part
of the property located in the road right-of-way shall not be included in this
minimum lot area.
      (2)   Lot width.  No specified minimum.
      (3)   Front yard.  One hundred feet shall be the minimum setback of the
structure or any installed equipment, measured from the nearest point of the
building and the right-of-way line.
      (4)   Side yard setback.  Twenty-five feet shall be the minimum side yard
for each structure or any installed equipment, measured from the nearest point
of the building to the side lot line.
      (5)   Rear yard setback.  Forty feet shall be the minimum rear yard for
each structure or any installed equipment, measured from the point of the
building nearest the rear line and the rear lot line.
      (6)   Off-street loading and unloading. Buildings constructed or
converted to uses permitted n this district shall provide off-street loading
and
unloading space as required in §§
155.070 through
155.072 of this chapter.
      (7)   Off-street parking. Requirements specified in §§
155.050 through
155.053 of this chapter.
      (8)   Buffer strip. Upon any lot line that abuts a residential district
or public street, there shall be a densely planted and maintained Type B buffer
strip as specified in §
155.172 of this chapter.
   (C)   Access. Except for Solar Energy Generating Facilities, which shall
require access to a state-maintained road, the Special Purpose site shall be
accessed by a major or minor arterial road way as identified on the Davie
County Comprehensive Transportation Plan.
   (D)   Community meeting. The applicant shall organize and conduct a
community meeting with the surrounding property owners at a minimum of 30 days
prior to the scheduled Planning Board meeting date. The petitioner must file in
the office of the County Clerk a written report of any community meeting held
by the petitioner. The report shall include, among other things, a listing of
those persons and organizations contacted about the meeting and the manner and
date of contact, the date, time and location of the meeting, a roster of the
persons in attendance at the meeting, a summary of issues discussed at the
meeting, and a description of any changes to the rezoning petition made by the
petitioner as a result of the meeting.
   (E)   A second community meeting shall be arranged by the application
following the Planning Board meeting and notes submitted to the Planning
Department at least 15 days prior to the next regular Board of Commissioners
meeting.
(Ord. passed 2- -2017; Ord. passed 6-4-2018; Ord. passed 10-7-2019; Ord. passed
12-21-2021; Ord. passed 7-11-2022)
SPECIAL USE DISTRICT
§ 155.160 USE DISTRICTS.
   The following zoning districts are divided into either general use or
conditional zoning districts:
   (A)   Regular zoning districts.
      (1)   R-A or R-A-CD;
      (2)   R-20 or R-20-CD;
      (3)   R-12 or R-12-CD;
      (4)   R-8 or R-8-CD;
      (5)   R-M or R-M-CD;
      (6)   H-B or H-B-CD;
      (7)   N-B or N-B-CD;
      (8)   C-S or C-S-CD;
      (9)   S-P or S-P-CD;
      (10)   G-I or G-I-CD;
      (11)   H-I or H-I-CD.
   (B)   Overlay districts.
      (1)   WS-III-CA;
      (2)   WS-III-BW or WS-III-BW-CD;
      (3)   WS-IV-CA;
      (4)   WS-IV-PA or WS-IV-PA-CD;
      (5)   QD.
(1996 Code, § 155.160) (Ord. passed 1-18-1994; Ord. passed 10-21-1997; Ord.
passed 11-1-2010; Ord. passed 2- -2017; Ord. passed 5-3-2021)
Cross-reference:
   Watershed districts, see
Chapter 151
§ 155.161 PROCEDURES FOR REGULAR DISTRICTS.
   (A)   A person petitioning for rezoning of a tract of land may elect or
request general use district zoning or special use district zoning. If the
petitioner elects to apply for general use district zoning, he or she may
refer, either in his or her petition or at any hearings, to the use intended
for the property. The Board of County Commissioners may consider the intended
use in determining whether to approve or disapprove the petition, but shall
consider the full range of uses permitted within the requested general use
district. A statement analyzing the reasonableness of the proposed rezoning
shall be prepared for each petition for a rezoning, or other small-scale
rezoning. If the petition is approved, the rezoned property may be used for any
of the permitted uses in the applicable general use district.
   (B)   If the applicant elects to petition for special use district zoning,
the petition must specify the actual use intended for the property and it must
be one permitted in the corresponding general district. If the petition is for
special use district zoning, the Board of Commissioners shall approve or
disapprove the petition on the basis of the specific use requested. If the
petition is approved, the Board of Commissioners may issue a special use zoning
permit authorizing the use with specific conditions. The Zoning Enforcement
Officer shall maintain a separate file of all special use district zoning
permits in the County Zoning Office.
   (C)   When issuing special use district zoning permits, the Board of
Commissioners may place conditions on each specific use. Specific conditions
applicable to the districts may be proposed by the petitioner or the county or
its agencies, but only those conditions mutually approved by the county and the
petitioner may be incorporated into the zoning regulations or permit
requirements. Conditions and site-specific standards imposed on a special use
district shall be limited to those that address the conformance of the
development and use of the site to county ordinances and an officially adopted
land development plan or other plans, and those that address the impacts
reasonably expected to be generated by the development or use of the site. The
intent of this process is to ensure compatibility between uses. These
conditions may include but are not limited to the following:
      (1)   Location of the use on the property;
      (2)   The location and extent of supporting facilities such as parking
lots, driveways, and access streets;
      (3)   The timing of development;
      (4)   Location and extent of buffer areas;
      (5)   Positioning other special purpose areas on the tract;
      (6)   That petitioners shall incorporate in any future conveyance of this
property a detailed description of this special use and all the conditions
imposed; and
      (7)   Such other matters as may be imposed by the Board of Commissioners.
(1996 Code, § 155.161) (Ord. passed 1-18-1994; Ord. passed 3-20-2006)
§ 155.162 PROCEDURES FOR WATERSHED OVERLAY DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Within the WS-III-BW or WS-IV-PA overlay districts the intent of
special use district zoning is not to specify a single use among those
permitted uses but to permit an increase in the built- upon or impervious
limits for nonresidential uses on a case-by-case basis. Under current watershed
requirements built-upon or impervious limits for nonresidential development
cannot exceed 24% in the WS-III-BW or 36% in the WS-IV-PA, in order to promote
economic development, while not undermining the intent of the watershed overlay
district, the Board of Commissioners may permit new development and expansions
to existing development to increase built-upon or impervious limits to 70% on a
case-by-case basis. However, the Board cannot allow this increase on more than
10% of the total land area within the WS-III-BW or the WS-IV-PA watershed.
   (B)   If the Board of Commissioners intent is to control both the specific
use and allow an increase in impervious limits, special use district zoning
permits are needed for each. The Board can approve each permit during the same
review process.
(1996 Code, § 155.162) (Ord. passed 1-18-1994; Ord. passed 1-20-1998)
GROUP DEVELOPMENTS
§ 155.170 TECHNICAL REVIEW COMMITTEE.
   (A)   Purpose. The Technical Review Committee - or better known as the TRC -
is a committee that provides comprehensive review of elements related to the
development process. The TRC reviews and makes recommendations on subdivision
preliminary plats, site plans for major and multi-family developments, planned
developments (PDs), street naming, and any other review requested by the
approving authority. The TRC is comprised of County Departments and agencies
that have an interest in the development process. The TRC meets as needed.
   (B)   Procedures of the Technical Review Committee.
      (1)   All members of the TRC will be given at least ten calendar days to
review any submittals and prepare comments and/or recommendations. The
Committee will then present their findings at the next scheduled TRC meeting to
the Development Services Department and the applicant in the form of a short
presentation and/or written memo. TRC members are not required to attend each
meeting, however, they are required to submit comments (if any) if an
application is sent to them for review. Failure to submit comments at least
five days after a scheduled TRC meeting will be considered the same as a "no
comments" response.
      (2)   At the TRC meeting, planning staff will present the plan/case, and
allow each TRC member the opportunity to highlight any concerns, comments, and/
or recommendations they may have concerning the application. Major issues and
waiver requests will be highlighted for the Committee. Meetings are by
invitation only, however, applicants, design professionals or developers may
attend.
      (3)   If the Technical Review Committee shall find that a proposed
project does not meet all of the standards and requirements of §
155.170(D), a copy of the application, with deficiencies noted, shall be
returned to the developer for modification and resubmittal.
      (4)   In the event of failure to comply with the plans approved by the
Technical Review Committee, the permit shall immediately become void. No
building permits or certificates of occupancy shall be issued until such time
as the owner or developer meets with the Committee and presents plans and
specifications to indicate that recommended changes have been made.
      (5)   An application fee shall be paid to the county for each application
submitted to the Technical Review Committee to cover the cost of necessary
administrative costs. See adopted fee schedule.
   (C)   Development requirements.
      (1)   The area, yard, and height requirements shall be the same as those
established for each zoning district.
      (2)   Plans are required before any consideration is granted by the
Technical Review Committee. Three copies of the proposed plan shall be
submitted to the Zoning Enforcement Officer. These plans shall provide the
following information:
         (a)   Suitability of the land for development, including topographical
features, streams, vegetation, soil types, flood prone areas, historic sites,
and other relevant data.
         (b)   Scheduling of development including phases or stages of likely
development.
         (c)   Location of public water and sewer lines presently in existence,
connections to these lines, manholes, pumping stations, fire hydrants, and
other necessary features (if applicable). All multiple-family projects shall
have public water and sewer systems or systems approved by the appropriate
state or local authorities.
         (d)   Proposed stormwater drainage systems.
         (e)   Proposed grading plan and sedimentation-control measures.
         (f)   Location and design of streets, curbs, gutters, and street
lights (if applicable).
         (g)   Location of street accesses, easements, monuments, and property
lines.
         (h)   Location and design of sidewalks (if applicable).
         (i)   Location and floor plans of all proposed structures.
         (j)   Location and extent of parking and loading areas, including
parking spaces and circulation routes.
         (k)   Proposed landscaping, screening, and fencing.
         (l)   Recreational areas.
   (D)   Appeals. The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide appeals
where it alleged that the Technical Review Committee or Zoning Enforcement
Officer is in error in any order, requirement, decision, or determination
affecting a particular project.
      (1)   Appeals of private road name requests shall be heard by the
Planning Board.
(1996 Code, § 155.170) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984; Ord. passed 2-5-2018)
§ 155.171 RECREATIONAL LAND REQUIREMENT FOR MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLINGS.
   The standards established by this section shall apply to multiple-family
units (including apartments, condominiums, and “Townhouses For Sale,” and the
like).
   (A)   Types of recreational facilities. Outdoor recreational space provided
by the owner/builder should meet the needs of the project residents.
Definitions of the particular types of facilities appear below:
      (1)   Tot lot (500 to 1,000 square feet) designed for preschool children
and shall include such equipment as swings, sandboxes, slides, climbing
apparatus, wading pools, grassy areas, paved play areas, benches, and the like,
and they shall be adequately fenced;
      (2)   Project playground designed for child, adult, and family use, and
may include play apparatus, grassy areas, paved game courts, playfields,
shelter, pool, tables, picnic shelter, trees, shrubbery, walks, or benches;
      (3)   Courtyard and garden space designed for adult family and elderly
use. Facilities may include trees, walks, patios, shrubbery, lawns garden
plots, table, benches, fountains, or lighting. They are usually enclosed on two
or more sides by buildings, fences, or hedges; and
      (4)   Greenway or natural areas bordering streams, lakes, rivers, or
woodlands primarily used for walking or sightseeing. Facilities may include
walks, benches, or lakes.
   (B)   Area required. At least 350 square feet of useable land per bedroom
shall be provided by the owner/builder for recreational use. Front, side, or
rear yards required by this chapter may be used for recreational space provided
that these areas are suitable for recreational use as measured by the criteria
listed in division (C) below.
   (C)   Suitability of land. Criteria for evaluating suitability of
recreation, park, and open space areas shall include but not be limited to the
following:
      (1)   Unity. The land shall be a single parcel except where it is
determined that two or more parcels would be in the public interest. The
governing board may require that such parcels be connected;
      (2)   Shape, topography, soil. The shape, topography, and soil of the
land shall be useable for active recreation (play areas, ballfields, tennis
courts, or similar recreation uses);
      (3)   Location. The land shall be located to serve the recreational needs
of the residents in the development;
      (4)   Accessibility. Access to the land shall be provided either by an
abutting street, walkway, or easement. Such easement shall not be less than ten
feet wide if for pedestrian use, or 30 feet if vehicular access is intended;
and
      (5)   Vegetative cover. If possible, the existing vegetative cover shall
be retained to lend attractiveness to the land parcel and to give protection
from the sun’s rays so as to facilitate recreational use of the site.
   (D)   Maintenance. Recreational areas required by this chapter must be
maintained by the owner or builder so that such areas are safe and useable for
the residents. This maintenance shall include but not be limited to cleanup,
mowing, painting, and replacement of broken or damaged equipment on a regular
basis.
   (E)   Time period. Recreational areas required in this chapter must be in
place prior to or at the time of issuance of final inspection permit or
certificate of occupancy. Where a project is to be built in phases over a
period of time, the necessary recreational areas may be provided using the same
phasing program.
(1996 Code, § 155.171) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984)
§ 155.172 LANDSCAPING AND BUFFER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Purpose. Landscaping and buffer strip requirements are established to
improve the appearance of vehicular use areas and property abutting public
rights-of-way; to require buffering between noncompatible land uses; to
protect, preserve, and promote the visual appeal, character, and value of the
surrounding neighborhoods; and to promote public health and safety through the
reduction of noise pollution, heat, glare, air pollution, visual pollution, air
temperature, and artificial light glare. Landscaping and buffering requirements
of this section shall apply to all property located within the zoning
jurisdiction of the county. However, individual residential home sites are
exempt from this requirement.
   (B)   General requirements.
      (1)   No new site development, building, structure, or vehicular use area
shall hereafter be erected, constructed, or used unless landscaping is provided
as required by the provisions of this section.
      (2)   No property lines shall be altered, nor shall any building,
structure, or vehicular use area be expanded unless the minimum landscaping
required by this section is provided for the property to the extent of its
alteration or expansion and not for the entire property. Exemptions may be
granted for the first cumulative 3,000 square feet of expansion to buildings,
vehicular use areas, and/or open uses of land existing on the effective date of
this section.
   (C)   Plan review and approval.
      (1)   Whenever any property is affected by these landscape and buffer
requirements, the property owner or developer shall prepare a plan for
submittal to, and approval by, the Zoning Enforcement Officer. The Zoning
Enforcement Officer shall follow the requirements of this section in approving
or disapproving any plan required. The contents of the plan shall include the
following:
         (a)   The dimensions and acreage of each lot or plot or portion to be
built upon or otherwise used;
         (b)   The layout of the entire project including the proposed uses of
all buildings, and its relation to surrounding properties;
         (c)   The layout of all off-street parking and loading uses including
the location of entry and exit points, the internal vehicular circulation
pattern, and the location and dimension of required parking and loading spaces;
         (d)   The location and dimensions of present and proposed streets and
highways;
         (e)   The location of all existing and proposed plantings and
screenings including botanical and common name, installation size, and
quantities to be installed;
         (f)   The location of walls, fences, and railings and an indication of
their height and construction materials; and
         (g)   Title; north arrow; scale; names of owner, developer, and person
responsible for plan preparation; and the date that the plan was drawn.
      (2)   No building permit shall be issued until the required landscaping
plan has been submitted and approved, and no certificate of occupancy shall be
issued until the landscaping is completed as certified by an on-site inspection
by the Zoning Enforcement Officer unless a performance bond or other acceptable
guarantee of improvements has been posted.
      (3)   Where site plan approval by the Project Review Committee is
required, no building permit or certificate of occupancy shall be issued until
such approval has been granted. In the event that the requirements of this
section conflict with those of other sections of this chapter, the more
restrictive shall apply.
   (D)   Street frontage landscaping requirements. On the site of a building or
other vehicular use area where such area will not be entirely screened visually
by an intervening building or structure, landscaping shall be required along
any side that abuts the right-of-way of a street, road, or highway where the
requirements of division (H) below are not violated. Such landscaping shall be
provided as follows:
      (1)   A landscaping strip of ten feet in depth shall be located between
abutting right-of-way and any off-street parking, loading, or other vehicular
use area except where driveway openings are to provided; and
      (2)   The landscaping strip shall be planted in accordance with the
following standards:
         (a)   One tree should be planted for each 40 linear feet of the
landscaping strip when it is not planted with shrubs, trees, or covered by a
wall or other barrier; and
         (b)   All portions of the landscaping strip not planted with shrubs
and trees, or covered by a wall or other barrier shall be planted in grass or
ground cover.
   (E)   Required screening type. Screening shall be required along the side
and rear property boundaries of the zoning lot.
      (1)   Type A.
         (a)   Buffer: Thirty feet.
         (b)   Screening shall consist of:
            1.   A row of trees, 40% of which are large maturing trees and
which are not less than ten feet high at the time of planting and are spaced
not more than six feet apart and a row of evergreen conifers or broadleaf
evergreens placed not more than five feet apart which would grow to form a
continuous hedge of at least six feet in height within two years of planting
and lawn, low-growing evergreen shrubs or broadleaf evergreens, evergreen
ground cover, or rock mulch covering the balance of the buffer; or
            2.   a.   An opaque fence located within the required buffer; such
fence shall be a minimum height of six feet; and
               b.   Lawn, low-growing evergreen shrubs or broadleaf evergreens,
evergreen ground cover, or rock mulch covering the balance of the buffer.
      (2)   Type B.
         (a)   Buffer: Twenty feet.
         (b)   Screening shall consist of:
            1.   A row of evergreen conifers or broadleaf evergreens placed not
more than five feet apart which would grow to form a continuous hedge of at
least six feet in height within two years of planting;
            2.   A wall located within the required buffer; such wall shall be
a minimum height of six feet (above finished grade) and, if a block wall, it
shall be painted on all sides; or an opaque fence six feet in height;
            3.   A berm and planting combination, with the berm an average
height of three feet and dense plantings which will, when combined with the
berm, achieve a minimum height of six feet and 75% opacity within two years; or
            4.   Lawn, low-growing evergreen shrubs, evergreen ground cover, or
rock mulch covering the balance of the buffer.
      (3)   Type C.
         (a)   Buffer: Ten feet.
          (b)   Screening shall consist of:
            1.   A row of evergreen conifers or broadleaf evergreens placed not
more than five feet apart which would grow to form a continuous hedge of at
least six feet in height within two years of planting; and
            2.   Lawn, low-growing evergreen shrubs, evergreen ground cover, or
rock mulch covering the balance of the buffer.
   (F)   Land use relationships. The following land use relationships shall be
used to determine required screening and buffering.
Screening and Buffering
Adjacent Land Use [https://export.amlegal.com/
media/fe365c3d262a643edc888ba7db71480feb568fb6/ Group 1 Group 2 Group 3 Group 4
IMAGES/0-0-0-22.jpg]
Screening and Buffering
Adjacent Land Use [https://export.amlegal.com/
media/fe365c3d262a643edc888ba7db71480feb568fb6/ Group 1 Group 2 Group 3 Group 4
IMAGES/0-0-0-22.jpg]
                  Group 1                       None    Type C  Type B  Type A
Proposed Land Use Group 2                       Type C  Type C  Type B  Type A
                  Group 3                       Type A  Type A  Type C  Type C
                  Group 4                       Type A  Type A  Type C  Type C
a.    Group 1 (least intensive): This includes all permitted uses in the R-
A and R-20 Districts.
b.    Group 2: This includes all permitted uses in the R-12, R-8, R-M, H-B, N-
B and C-S Districts.
c.    Group 3: This includes all permitted uses in the G-I Districts.
d.    Group 4 (most intensive): This includes all permitted uses in H-I and S-
P Districts.
 
   (G)   Parking lot landscaping.
      (1)   The following standards shall apply to all new parking areas with
12 or more spaces and all expansions to existing parking areas which add 12 or
more spaces, unless otherwise noted. In an expansion, only the area of
expansion is required to be included in the calculation; however, the
landscaping may be provided anywhere within the parking area.
      (2)   Trees and shrubs shall be planted along all internal driveways as
follows:
 
Type        Minimum Number Per 100 Linear Feet
Large trees 1
Small trees 2
Fractions generated by applying the minimum number of plants required per 100
linear feet to the actual linear footage of an area shall be rounded up to the
nearest whole number. (For example, a 50-foot area would be required to have 1
large tree and 1 small tree.)
 
       (3)   The area between required trees and shrubs shall be completely
filled in with perennials, annual flowers, ornamental grasses, turf grasses, a
minimum of three inches of landscaping mulch, or a combination thereof.
      (4)   No more than two parking aisles (defined as a travel lane and the
parking located on each side) shall abut. Otherwise, parking aisles shall be
separated from each other by planted medians which may include pedestrian
walkways. No more than 30 parking spaces shall be contained within one parking
aisle (there must be at least one landscape island on each side of a parking
aisle every 15 parking spaces).
      (5)   At least 5% of the interior of all parking areas where landscaping
is required, excluding access drives, shall be landscaped. There shall be at
least one large tree, two small trees and five large or ten small shrubs for
each 20 parking spaces. Parking lots with fewer than 20 spaces shall be
required to plant at least one large tree, two small trees, and five large or
ten small shrubs. Trees shall be spaced such that no parking space is more than
65 feet from the trunk of a canopy tree. Shrubs may be located in end planters
and around the perimeter of the parking area but not in a required streetyard.
All landscape islands and end planters in parking lots shall be completely
filled-in with low-growing evergreen shrubs or drought resistant turf grasses.
Interior parking landscaping requirements for large trees may be omitted if
streetyard and landscape buffer widths are increased by 50% and the remaining
provisions of this section are met. It is the intent that this provision shall
not apply to large-scale parking lots.
      (6)   Whenever parking areas abut streets, an opaque wall or fence a
minimum of three feet in height shall be installed adjacent to a street right-
of-way where no streetyard is required, except that:
         (a)   A continuous hedge may be substituted for the wall or fence in
any district as long as the hedge is a minimum of 18 inches in height at the
time of planting, has the ability to achieve a height of two feet during its
first full growing season; and
         (b)   A vegetated berm may be substituted for a portion of the wall,
fence or hedge.
      (7)   Optional interior landscaping and design for large parking lots.
The following divisions are intended as an option for large parking lots
containing 300 or more parking spaces where design flexibility is needed to
accommodate the unusually high number of parking spaces required for large
retail and shopping center development due to high vehicle to square foot floor
area ratios. Additional design features are included.
         (a)   In parking lots designed for any single large retail store or
any shopping center containing 300 or more parking spaces, up to four parking
aisles (defined as a travel lane and the parking located on each side) may
abut, provided the optional interior landscaping requirements of this section
are met within the parking lot excluding any perimeter, streetyard, internal
driveway, required buffer, or other landscape area required by this section.
The maximum distance between required landscape medians shall be no greater
than 250 feet.
         (b)   No parking space shall be further than 65 feet from the trunk of
a large tree. However, large trees are not required within 75 feet of the
primary building façade or immediately adjacent to a handicap parking space.
         (c)   Tree wells are encouraged along any portion of the building
façade not planned for outdoor display, ingress/egress, or loading and
unloading. Tree wells shall have a minimum dimension of eight feet and contain
at least one understory or small decorative tree.
         (d)   Adequate corrals for shopping carts and other similar customer
merchandise carts shall be provided throughout all large parking lots.
         (e)   At least one distinctive pedestrian crosswalk shall be provided
between the large parking lot and each main entrance to a large retail store or
shopping center. A distinctive pedestrian crosswalk may consist of a raised
speed table, speed bumps, textured paving surface or other low maintenance
surface materials such as pavers, bricks, or scored concrete installed in the
drive lane located between the main entrances to the store and the parking lot.
A distinctive crosswalk will be designed to enhance pedestrian safety and
comfort as well as the attractiveness of the crosswalk. Traffic calming devices
shall be required between the store front and the parking lot.
         (f)   Parked vehicles may overhang a landscaped area no more than two
and one-half feet, provided curbing or other wheel stops are installed to
ensure no greater overhang or penetration of the landscaped area. Landscaping,
walls, fences, and any other material shall be so located to prevent its damage
and/or destruction by overhanging vehicles.
      (8)   Industrial parking areas.
         (a)   Any parking areas shall meet the required setbacks for
structures in the underlying zoning district.
         (b)   The parking areas shall be exempt from the interior landscaping
and aisle requirements.
         (c)   A Type C landscape buffer shall be required along the perimeter
of such a parking area.
   (H)   Residential screening and buffer requirements. Screening and buffering
shall be provided in the locations and in accordance with the following
provisions.
      (1)   In all residential developments, a buffer strip at least 20 feet in
depth or width shall be provided adjacent to all limited-access highways, all
railroad rights-of-way, and commercial and industrial uses or districts. The
buffer strip shall be in addition to the normal lot depth, setback, or width
required and shall be a part of the platted lots, having the following
restrictions designated on the plat: “This strip reserved for the planting of
trees and shrubs by the owner; the building of structures hereon is
prohibited.”
      (2)   In all R-8 Residential-Multiple Dwelling Districts or R-
M Residential-Manufactured Home Districts, 15-foot buffer strips shall be
provided adjacent to all railroad rights-of-way, limited-access highways, and
commercial and industrial uses or zoning districts. The buffer strip shall be
planted with evergreen or deciduous trees spaced not more than 40 feet apart
and supplemented with grass and shrubs to effectively screen the view of
adjacent properties from the uses within the subject property.
      (3)   In all R-12 and R-20 Residential Zoning Districts, a 20-foot buffer
strip shall be provided adjacent to all railroad rights-of-way, limited-access
highways, and commercial or industrial area. A 15-foot buffer strip shall be
planted along the side and rear property lines where a multiple-family project
of three or more units abuts another residential use. The buffer strip shall be
planted with evergreen or deciduous trees spaced not more than 40 feet apart
with grass and shrubs to effectively screen the view of adjacent properties
from the uses within the subject property.
   (I)   Sight distance requirements, driveways, and street intersection.
      (1)   To ensure that landscape materials do not constitute a driving
hazard, a “sight triangle” will be observed at all street intersections of
driveways with streets. Within the sight triangle, no landscape material, wall,
or other obstructions shall be permitted between the height of two feet and six
feet above the street or driveway elevation.
      (2)   The sight triangle referred to above consists of the following:
         (a)   The area of property on both sides of a driveway formed by the
intersection of each side of the driveway and the public right-of-way line,
with two sides of each triangle being 25 feet in length from the point of
intersection and the third side being a line connecting the ends of the two
other sides; and
         (b)   The area of property located at a corner formed by the
intersection of two or more public rights-of-way, with two sides of the
triangular area being 25 feet in length along the abutting public right-of-way
lines, measured from their point of intersection, and the third side being a
line connecting the ends of the other two lines.
   (J)   Installation and maintenance.
      (1)   Existing landscape material in satisfactory condition may be used
to satisfy these requirements in whole or in part when such material achieves
the objectives of this division (J). Otherwise, all landscaping shall be of
good quality and installed in a sound, workmanship-like manner, and according
to accepted good construction and planting procedures.
      (2)   The type of landscape material used in meeting the requirements of
this division is at the option of the owner or developer. However, a
recommended plant list shall be maintained by the Zoning Enforcement Officer to
provide detailed information on acceptable plant material.
      (3)   All trees to be used shall be a minimum of eight feet in overall
height upon planting. Shrubs shall be a minimum of two feet in height when
measured immediately after planting. In any event, plant material required for
the purpose of screening shall be of such initial size to reach the required
height within two growing seasons after installation.
      (4)   The owner or tenant of the property shall be responsible for the
continued proper maintenance of all landscaping materials, and shall keep them
in a proper, neat, and orderly appearance, free from refuse and debris, at all
times. All landscaped areas shall be provided with a readily available water
supply with at least one outlet within 150 feet of all plant material to be
maintained. All unhealthy or dead plant material shall be replaced within one
year, or by the next planting season, whichever comes first.
(1996 Code, § 155.172) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984; Ord. passed 4-16-2001; Ord.
passed 8-4-2008; Ord. passed 9-3-2013; Ord. passed 2--2017; Ord. passed 5-3-
2021)
SECURITY TRAINING OPERATIONS AND SERVICES FACILITY
§ 155.176 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   (A)   A security training operations and services facility is permitted in
the Residential-Agricultural (R-A) and Industrial I-2, I-3, or I-4 Districts
only.
   (B)   The minimum lot size for this use shall be 25 contiguous acres.
    (C)   All areas within the proposed security training operations and
services facility, including but not limited to, firing area(s), backstops,
downrange safety zones, parking and accessory areas, driver training area, and
the like, shall be under uniform control or ownership.
   (D)   A security training operations and services facility shall also be
subject to the following requirements set forth in §§
155.177 through
155.180.
(1996 Code, § 155.176) (Ord. passed 5-1-2006)
§ 155.177 FIREARMS AND EXPLOSIVES TRAINING.
   (A)   The design criteria for all firearms ranges cited in the Military
Handbook – Range Facilities and Miscellaneous Training Facilities Other Than
Buildings (MIL-HDBK-1027/3B), as amended or superseded, or the National Rifle
Association Range Manual, as amended or superseded, shall be met.
   (B)   The proposed firearms ranges shall be reviewed by and comments
received from the County Sheriff’s Department.
   (C)   No firing or explosive training activities shall occur daily between
the hours of 11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m., Eastern Standard Time.
   (D)   The areas immediately adjacent to the proposed training areas and
ranges shall be predominately undeveloped, and shall be at least 500 feet from
any property line, regardless of the direction of fire, unless the applicant
can provide noise or safety test evidence to show that a lesser distance may be
acceptable.
   (E)   (1)   The maximum downrange safety area for each range and shooting
area shall be essentially fan-shaped, with its vertex being 100 yards each side
of the end firing point that meets the MIL-HDBK-1027/3B or the National Riffle
Association Range Manual.
       (2)   The safety area shall not encompass any public right-of-way or
other property not owned by range operator or owner.
   (F)   Weapon types will be restricted to pistol, rifle, and shotgun, or
similar firearms.
      (1)   No automatic assault-type weapon shall be used by the general
public, but will be allowed by any law enforcement, military, or federal agency
group duly authorized to use these style weapons.
      (2)   Limits on caliber size shall be in accordance with the National
Rifle Association Range Manual, subject to the physical constraints of the
property.
   (G)   Concussion-type explosives will be permitted for use by law
enforcement, military, or federal agency group duly authorized to use these
types of explosives.
   (H)   Military, paramilitary or militia-type activities or maneuvers,
including but not limited to hand-to-hand combat training, maritime training,
swamp or guerilla warfare techniques, incendiary-type firings, infiltration
course-type training, and the like, are permitted for use by law enforcement,
military, or federal agency groups only.
   (I)   All actual firing activities will be directed toward either moving or
stationary targets only.
   (J)   Any overnight or temporary storage of weapons, ammunition, and
explosives shall meet the Department of Defense storage and stand-off safety
standards.
   (K)   In no case shall any explosive material be stored, either inside or
outside a magazine, closer than 1,250 feet to a property line or dwelling unit,
and 300 feet to any roadway.
   (L)   The maximum amount of explosives on-site at any one time shall not
exceed 100 pounds stored, and ten pounds utilized, during any one evolution.
   (M)   A listing of the type, amount, and physical location of all explosive
material shall be provided by the applicant to the County Development Services
Department Office annually at the permit renewal hearing.
   (N)   The County Development Services Department shall be authorized by the
applicant to inspect the site, and shall not be required to give advance notice
of its inspection date, for the purpose of determining compliance with all
required permits and regulations, including but not limited to: Alcohol,
Tobacco and Firearms (AT&F) permits, National Fire Protection Association
standards, North Carolina State Building Code (Fire Prevention Code), and local
ordinances. The facility shall be inspected annually for the first three years,
and thereafter a minimum of once every five years.
   (O)   The facility and all individuals working with explosives within the
facility shall be certified and permitted by Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms
(AT&F) to conduct such operations in compliance with its permits.
(1996 Code, § 155.177) (Ord. passed 5-1-2006)
§ 155.178 DRIVER TRAINING AND VEHICLE MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The areas immediately adjacent to the driver training area shall be
predominately undeveloped, and shall be at least 150 feet from any property
line, unless the applicant can provide noise or safety test evidence to show
that a lesser distance may be acceptable.
   (B)   Burning of non-vegetative matter and disposal of toxic/hazardous
matter is prohibited.
   (C)   Stockpiling of tires and vehicles is prohibited.
   (D)   No driver training is permitted on any public road, and all driver
training may only be conducted in clearly marked designated driving areas.
(1996 Code, § 155.178) (Ord. passed 5-1-2006)
§ 155.179 SITE PLAN.
   (A)   A site plan, drawn at a scale not smaller than one inch equals 50
feet, on paper of dimensions 24 inches by 36 inches, shall be prepared and
sealed by a state-licensed surveyor, engineer, architect, or landscape
architect.
    (B)   The site plan and review shall meet the requirements of §
155.170.
(1996 Code, § 155.179) (Ord. passed 5-1-2006)
§ 155.180 MISCELLANEOUS.
   (A)   (1)   The site or area used as a security training operations and
services facility shall be enclosed by a six-foot fence, or otherwise
restricted by natural physical features (i.e., swamps, bodies of water,
ditches, and the like), so that access to the site is controlled to ensure the
safety of patrons, spectators, and the public at large.
      (2)   Warning signs shall be posted at access points and at 100-foot
intervals along the entire perimeter of the facility.
   (B)   The permit is non-transferable, and will be reviewed annually for the
first three years after approval, and then every five years thereafter.
   (C)   The permit does not waive any requirement for compliance with any
applicable federal, state, and local rules, regulations, permits, and other
required licenses, and permits to conduct any of the aforementioned operations,
or to construct any building or improvement.
   (D)   (1)   The operators of a security training operations and services
facility must provide proof of coverage by adequate accident and liability
insurance companies.
      (2)   A minimum coverage of $2,000,000 shall be established.
   (E)   Any activity not specifically mentioned within the foregoing shall be
prohibited.
(1996 Code, § 155.180) (Ord. passed 5-1-2006) Penalty, see §
155.999
AGRIBUSINESS
§ 155.185 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The county recognizes that the preservation and support of the limited
amount of agricultural lands and business is important to the county and the
state, and is also necessary for the provision of adequate, healthful, and
nutritious foods for present and future citizens.
   (B)   It is also recognized that the survival and process of development of
agricultural operations usually requires that several farms be operated or
managed as one, and thus the farming activities on one property may be directed
from a central office located on another to enhance the business opportunity of
the farm owner.
   (C)   Therefore, it is the purpose of this regulation to permit the Project
Review Committee to review and issue permits for the construction of, addition
to, and/or renovation of non-farm buildings on properties where a farm
operation is a permitted use under these regulations.
(1996 Code, § 155.185) (Ord. passed 6-5-2006)
§ 155.186 DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Lot size. Minimum tract size shall be those tracts that qualify for
horticulture, agriculture, and forestry deferment standards.
   (B)   Setbacks. Nonresidential buildings shall be located a minimum of 100
feet from any rights-of-way or 100 feet from any side or rear property line.
      (1)   Setbacks may be reduced by 25% if a landscaped berm, that is at a
minimum of four feet in height and a minimum of 15 feet in width, is installed
at the perimeter property line where the setback reduction is requested.
      (2)   Setbacks may be reduced an additional 25% if a 25-foot, well-
landscaped buffer is planted at the perimeter property line where the setback
reduction is requested. The required buffer shall consist of at least three
rows of evergreen shrubs or trees, planted seven feet on center, with each row
staggered such that no unobstructed openings of one foot or more shall exist
within two years of planting. Planting shall occur prior to a certificate of
occupancy or by the next planting season upon submittal of a landscaping bond
or letter of credit to guarantee the installation of required landscaping.
Plants shall be at least four feet in height and at least three feet in width
measured two feet above grade at planting.
      (3)   Reduced setbacks shall not be less than what is required in the
underlying zoning district.
(1996 Code, § 155.186) (Ord. passed 6-5-2006; Ord. passed 4-2-2007)
§ 155.187 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Association with bona fide farm. The facility must be operated in
association with an existing bona fide farm located on the same property, or
multiple adjoining properties under the same ownership.
   (B)   Active agricultural production. A minimum of 40% of the site shall be
in active agricultural production, or 100% of the minimum tract size required
for deferment standards.
   (C)   Located for minimum visual impact. The facility must be located in
such a manner that visual impact is minimal to adjoining properties used or
zoned for residential or agricultural purposes.
   (D)   Access.  A dedicated easement or strip of land, a minimum of 20 feet
wide, shall be provided to the business site from a public or private road,
which has a travel portion with a minimum width of 16 feet, and consists of
four inches of ABC stone or other all- purpose weather material.
   (E)   Activities and uses permitted. Warehousing of goods for sale, either
retail or wholesale, shall be limited to the rear yard.
   (F)   Building exterior.  
      (1)   All structures used in conjunction with the business shall be
designed and constructed to mimic the outward appearance of single-family
residences, garages typically found on single-family residential lots in the
county, and/or barns common to the county.
      (2)   Exterior materials not commonly found in use on residential
buildings in the county and highly reflective materials shall not be permitted.
   (G)   Building size. 
      (1)   No single building used in conjunction with the business shall
exceed 50,000 square feet in gross size.
      (2)   No combination of multiple buildings on a single site used in
conjunction with the business shall exceed 200,000 square feet.
      (3)   Buildings used in conjunction with the site may not consist of more
than 5% of the entire site.
   (H)   Hours of operation. Business activities involving the employment of
off-site workers; outside activities; the generation of any noise, light, dust,
odor, glare, or vibration detectable outside the business structure; and
traffic, including deliveries, shall only be conducted on-site between the
hours of 7:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m.
   (I)   Screening/landscaping. 
      (1)   All parking and storage for retail areas shall be screened from
adjoining properties used or zoned for residential or agricultural purposes.
      (2)   If existing topography and natural vegetation does not provide an
adequate visual barrier, selective screening may be required.
         (a)   A well-landscaped screening shall be planted along all sides of
the retail building and parking areas.
             1.   Such screening shall be a minimum of 15 feet in width at any
point.
            2.   Plantings shall consist of at least two rows of evergreen
shrubs or trees, planted a maximum of ten feet on center, with each row
staggered.
            3.   Planting shall occur prior to a certificate of occupancy or by
the next planting season, upon submittal of a landscaping bond or letter of
credit to guarantee the installation of required landscaping.
            4.   At planting, plants shall be at least three feet in height and
at least two feet in width, measured two feet above grade.
            5.   In the event that any plants die or become diseased and have
to be removed, a six- foot, solid wood fence may be required to be installed in
the affected buffer area by the Zoning Enforcement Officer, after a finding
that required landscaping/screening is not being adequately maintained.
         (b)   If retail facility, parking, and storage areas meet or exceed
required setback requirements, screening/landscaping shall not be required.
   (J)   Lighting.  
      (1)   No outdoor lighting shall be installed other than normal
residential dusk-to-dawn lighting.
      (2)   No lighting shall be directed onto adjacent property.
      (3)   Floodlights or other high-intensity lighting shall be prohibited.
   (K)   Mixed use permitted. Business and residential uses may be mixed on a
single development site.
   (L)   Off-site impacts. Business activities shall not generate appreciable
amounts of off-site noise, light, dust, odor, glare, vibration, or traffic
above that which is normally generated by residential uses.
   (M)   Outdoor storage.  
      (1)   No outdoor storage of any kind related to the retail business use
of the property shall be permitted.
      (2)   This shall include materials, equipment, parts, supplies, waste
(except in approved waste containers), and similar items.
      (3)   Approved waste containers shall be located in the rear of the
building, and be completely screened from public view.
   (N)   Signage.  
      (1)   One sign shall be permitted to be placed on-site to advertise the
business or indicate its location.
      (2)   Such sign shall be limited to 32 square feet in total sign area,
and shall not be more than six feet in height above ground level.
         (a)   The height of a sign shall be computed as the distance from the
base of the sign at normal grade to the top of the highest attached component
of the sign.
         (b)   Normal grade shall be construed to be the lower of:
            1.   Existing grade prior to construction; or
            2.   The newly established grade after construction, exclusive of
any filling, berming, mounding, or excavating.
         (c)   In cases in which the normal grade cannot reasonably be
determined, sign height shall be computed on the assumption that the elevation
of the normal grade at the base of the sign is equal to the elevation of the
nearest point of the crown of a public street, or the grade of the land at the
principal entrance to the principal structure on the lot, whichever is lower.
      (3)   Lighting for the sign is indirectly illuminated (no flood, spot, or
other light source directed at the sign).
   (O)   Vehicles/equipment.  
      (1)   All other vehicles and equipment shall be kept in the rear of the
property.
      (2)   This requirement shall not apply to passenger vehicles used by
residents of the site and employees of the business.
   (P)   Associated uses.
      (1)   Associated small-scale processing or catering facilities (i.e.,
cheese making, restaurant), which may enhance the overall property in relation
to tourism, may be permitted on a case-by-case basis by the Project Review
Committee.
      (2)   Associated uses are subject to the above requirements as well.
   (Q)   Festivals.
      (1)   No more than three festivals/events, which require compliance with
the County Mass Gathering Ordinance (see
Chapter 92), shall be held during any calendar year.
      (2)   Maximum occupancy for any on-site festival shall be disclosed prior
to the issuance of a zoning permit.
(1996 Code, § 155.187) (Ord. passed 6-5-2006)
TEMPORARY USES
§ 155.190 TEMPORARY USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Personal hardship.
      (1)   Limitation to one.  Not more than one manufactured home may be
permitted as an accessory use in a residential district on a temporary basis,
provided the Board of Adjustment determines a personal hardship exists.
      (2)   Justification of a personal hardship.  The reasons justifying
hardship shall be any one of the following:
         (a)   Medical condition. This hardship shall require a written
statement from a physician licensed in this state establishing the medical
condition of either the applicant for which the manufactured home is intended
or the property owner of the property at which the applicant intends to reside
and supply necessary care and supervision. The physician’s statement shall
declare that the person(s) affected must have constant care and supervision.
         (b)   Destruction or partial destruction of existing dwelling, or new
construction. For temporary use conditions and requirements see §
155.030. This temporary permit does not require action by the Board of
Adjustment unless otherwise noted.
         (c)   Other personal hardships. Clear and convincing evidence shall
describe the personal hardship and the necessity for the temporary manufactured
home. Financial distress or convenience shall not be a sufficient basis
justifying hardship absent other cumulative factors.
   (B)   Conditions governing application. The Board of Adjustment shall grant
in particular cases and subject to the appropriate conditions and safeguards
permits for temporary uses as authorized by this chapter. The temporary use
permit shall not be granted unless and until:
      (1)   A written application for a temporary use permit is submitted
indicating the section of this chapter under which the temporary use permit is
sought. All supporting documentation (including any permit required for an on-
site private sewage disposal system) shall be included with the written
application;
      (2)   A public hearing is held. Notice of such hearing shall be posted on
the property for which the temporary use permit is sought and in a local
newspaper. This legal notice shall describe the request and appear at least
once weekly for two consecutive weeks. The notice shall be published for the
first time not less than ten days nor more than 25 days before the date affixed
for the hearing;
      (3)   The Board of Adjustment finds, in the particular case in question,
the use for which the temporary use permit is sought, that:
         (a)   A personal hardship does exist as set forth in this chapter;
         (b)   The use will not adversely affect the health or safety of
persons residing or working in the neighborhood of the proposed use;
         (c)   The use will not be detrimental to the public welfare; and
         (d)   The use will not be injurious to property or public improvements
in the neighborhood.
      (4)   In granting such a temporary use permit, the Board of Adjustment
may designate such conditions in connection with the proposed use that, in its
opinion, will assure that the proposed use will conform to the requirements and
spirit of this chapter; and
      (5)   If the specified conditions addressed in the temporary use permit
are violated, the permit shall be revoked and the use will no longer be
allowed. Only by reapplying to the Board of Adjustment for another temporary
use permit and receiving its approval can the use be again permitted.
   (C)   Expiration. Temporary use permits may be issued in such cases for one
year initially and may be renewed for successive one-year periods so long as
the hardship continues to exist. Evidence shall be submitted each year, not
less than 30 days prior to the anniversary date of the approval of the
temporary use permit, demonstrating the hardship is continuing and requesting
that the temporary use permit be renewed. Once the hardship ceases to exist,
the temporary use permit is automatically voided and the applicant shall remove
the manufactured home from the property within 30 days from the date the
hardship terminated.
   (D)   Renewal.
      (1)   Application for renewal of a temporary use permit shall be made 30
days prior to the expiration date of the permit. All applications shall be made
to the Zoning Enforcement Officer, and in turn shall be reviewed by the Board
of Adjustment to determine relative need.
      (2)   In the case of a medical hardship, the application for renewal may
be approved by the Zoning Enforcement Officer subject to review by the Board of
Adjustment. Evidence demonstrating the ongoing medical hardship, in accordance
with division (A) of this section shall be required to be submitted with the
annual permit renewal application.
(1996 Code, § 155.190) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984; Ord. passed 5-16-2005)
PLANNING BOARD
§ 155.210 ESTABLISHMENT OF PLANNING BOARD.
   The County Planning Board shall be appointed by the Board of County
Commissioners. The Board shall consist of seven regular members and two
alternate members. Initial terms shall be as follows: two regular members shall
be appointed for a term of one year; three regular members shall be appointed
for a term of two years; two regular members shall be appointed for a term of
three years; and two alternate members shall be appointed for a term of three
years. Subsequent terms of regular and alternate members shall be for three-
year periods. No regular or alternate member shall serve more than two
successive terms as a regular and alternate member. Alternate members, when
serving in the absence of a regular member, shall have the ability to vote as a
regular member on all matters which come before the Board. A vacancy of a
regular member leaving the Board shall be filled by the alternate member with
the greatest seniority. All members shall be residents of the county.
(1996 Code, § 155.210) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984; Ord. passed 9-15-2003)
§ 155.211 ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   The Board shall elect its own Chairperson and may adopt from time to
time such rules and regulations as it deems necessary to carry into effect the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   At the first regular meeting after June 30, this Board shall elect
from its membership a Chairperson and a Vice Chairperson.
   (C)   The Chairperson shall normally preside at all meetings of this Board.
In the absence of the Chairperson, the Vice Chairperson shall preside; in the
absence of both, the senior member present shall serve as acting Chairperson.
Seniority shall be determined by time of service as a member of this Board.
   (D)   The Chairperson shall appoint committees, designate committee chairs,
and perform such other duties as may be determined by the County Board of
Commissioners.
(1996 Code, § 155.211) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984)
§ 155.212 MEETINGS.
   (A)   General procedures. All meetings shall be open to the public and
conducted according to parliamentary law. Procedures in all meetings of this
Board shall be governed by Robert’s Rules of Order except when such rules of
order are in conflict with these bylaws and state law.
   (B)   Special meeting. Special meetings may be held at the call of the
Chairperson or of an acting Chairperson, provided that notice of such meetings
shall be given to all members at least 48 hours before the hour for which the
meeting is called.
   (C)   Public access. All regular and special meetings, hearings, records,
files, and accounts of this Board shall be open to the public in accordance
with provisions of the General Statutes; provided, however, that the Board may
go into executive session when done in accordance with the statutes.
   (D)   Quorum.
      (1)   Four members, including the presiding Chairperson, shall constitute
a quorum for transacting business and taking official action.
      (2)   Whenever a quorum is not present at a regular or special meeting,
those present may postpone the meeting to another day or hold the meeting for
the purpose of considering such matters as are on the agenda or introduced by
members.
      (3)   No action taken at such a meeting shall be official unless and
until ratified and confirmed in a subsequent meeting of this Board at which a
quorum is present, by approval of the minutes of that meeting at which a quorum
was not present, or by formal approval of the action itself at a subsequent
meeting.
   (E)   Agenda. The Director shall prepare an agenda for each regular meeting.
Copies of the agenda shall be made available to interested persons at the time
the meeting is convened. Any matter not listed on the agenda may be introduced
by any member of this Board after the matters listed on the agenda have been
considered.
   (F)   Voting. Voting by members of the Board shall be by signal of raised
hand with yeas recorded and nays recorded.
   (G)   Conflict of interest. No member of this Board shall participate in any
committee or Board discussion, vote on, or preside over any issue involving his
or her own financial interest or his or her official conduct.
(1996 Code, § 155.212) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984)
§ 155.213 DUTIES.
   In accordance with G.S. § 153A-344, the Planning Board’s duties shall
include but not be limited to the following:
    (A)   Make studies of the county and surrounding areas;
   (B)   Determine objectives to be sought in the development of the study
area;
   (C)   Prepare and adopt plans for achieving these objectives;
   (D)   Develop and record policies, ordinances, administrative procedures,
and other means for carrying out plans in a coordinated and efficient manner;
   (E)   Advise the Board of Commissioners concerning the use and amendment of
means for carrying out plans;
   (F)   Exercise any functions in the administration and enforcement of
various means for carrying out plans that the Board of Commissioners may
direct;
   (G)   Regulate the subdivision of land within this Board’s territorial
jurisdiction as specified in the subdivision regulations for the county;
   (H)   Prepare and maintain this chapter;
   (I)   Review and make recommendations on any proposal submitted to this
Board.
      (1)   The Planning Board shall advise and comment on whether the proposed
zoning amendment is consistent with all applicable officially adopted plans,
and provide a written recommendation to the Board of Commissioners that
addresses plan consistency and other matters as deemed appropriate by the
Planning Board.
      (2)   A comment by the Planning Board that a proposed amendment is
inconsistent with the officially adopted plans shall not preclude consideration
or approval of the proposed amendment by the Board of Commissioners.
      (3)   Hear any appeals from the private road naming process as outlined
in
Chapter 94 and §
155.170.
   (J)   Perform any other related duties that the Board of Commissioners may
direct.
(1996 Code, § 155.213) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984; Ord. passed 3-20-2006; Ord.
passed 2-5-2018)
§ 155.214 DIRECTOR.
   (A)   Representation. The Director shall represent this Board before the
Board of County Commissioners or before any other public agency or public
officer. Toward this end, on matters that are referred to this Board for
advice, he or she shall make official recommendations, in accordance with
action of this Board.
   (B)   Approval of subdivision plats. The Director, as well as the
Chairperson and Vice Chairperson, shall have authority to sign final approval
of any subdivision plats.
   (C)   Waiver of architectural and site design requirements.  
      (1)   Waiver generally. In order to encourage creative design, to avoid
undue hardship, and to expedite the zoning approval process for developments
within the county, a waiver of any of the architectural or site design
requirements contained within this subchapter may be approved as follows.
      (2)   Minor waiver. The Director or his or her designee is authorized to
grant a minor waiver from the standards of this subchapter subject to the
following.
         (a)   Any request for a waiver of a standard set forth in this
chapter, including but not necessarily limited to height requirements and
limitation, yard requirements, parking requirements, screening or buffer
requirements, planting requirements, ratio requirements, density requirements,
spacing requirements, and signage requirements, landscaping material, building
design, and parking lot layout shall be granted only after the applicant has
demonstrated that:
            1.   The deviation was a result of unique conditions of the
property; or
            2.   The deviation will result in a project that is at least equal
to or better than what would be accomplished under the strict application of
this section.
         (b)   Before granting a minor waiver the Director or his or her
designee shall reasonably determine that granting the waiver:
            1.   Does not and will not violate the spirit and intent of this
chapter; and
            2.   Does not and will not adversely affect the rights of other
property owners in any material manner.
         (c)   A minor waiver may not deviate by more than 10% from any of the
measurable standards of this section.
         (d)   The authority given to the Zoning Administrator to grant such
waivers shall be construed to be permissive and not mandatory and the Zoning
Administrator may decline to make such waiver. In the event this occurs, the
applicant shall have the right to request a variance from the Board of
Adjustment.
         (e)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as limiting the
Director’s or his or her designee’s duties and rights under this section, or an
applicant’s right to appeal the decision of the Zoning Administrator to the
Board of Adjustment.
   (D)   Yard designation.
      (1)   On lots which abut more than one street, the front of the lot shall
be parallel to the more prominent street. Exceptions may be made to this rule
by the Zoning Administrator based upon the arrangement of existing and proposed
streets and drives and the orientation of buildings on adjoining lots. Where
neither street is more prominent than the other, the Zoning Administrator shall
decide which street shall be the front based upon these same criteria.
      (2)   Where multiple buildings are permitted on a single lot of record,
each building shall generally front upon a pedestrian oriented street, either
external or internal to the development; side and rear yard designations shall
be determined on the basis of building orientation.
      (3)   On irregularly shaped lots, the location of required front, side,
and rear yards will be determined by the Zoning Administrator. The
determination will be based on the spirit and intent of this subchapter to
achieve an appropriate spacing of buildings and orientation to the streets.
(1996 Code, § 155.214) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984; Ord. passed 4-2-2007; Ord.
passed 6-5-2017)
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
§ 155.230 PURPOSE OF BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   This subchapter addresses the establishment of the Board of Adjustment
and those rules governing said Board. The purpose of this Board is to assist in
the implementation of this subchapter with regards to appeals, change in kind
of non-conforming uses, variances, and special use permits.
   (B)   General rules. The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall be governed by the
terms of G.S. Chapter 153A, Article 18, Part 3 and G.S. § 160A-388 and by the
Davie County Zoning Ordinance. All members of the Board shall thoroughly
familiarize themselves with these laws.
   (C)   Powers and duties of the Board of Adjustment. The Zoning Board of
Adjustment shall have the powers and duties listed in this section.
   (D)   Subpoena power.
      (1)   The Board of Adjustment may subpoena witnesses and compel the
production of evidence.
      (2)   If a person fails or refuses to obey a subpoena issued pursuant to
this division, the Board of Adjustment may apply to the General Court of
Justice for an order requiring that its order be obeyed, and the Court shall
have jurisdiction to issue these orders after notice to all proper parties.
      (3)   No testimony of any witness before the Board of Adjustment,
pursuant to a subpoena issued in exercise of the power conferred by this
subsection, may be used against the witness in the trial of any civil or
criminal action, other than a prosecution for false swearing committed on the
examination.
      (4)   Any person who, while under oath during a proceeding before the
Board of Adjustment, willfully swears falsely is guilty of a Class 1
misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 6-1-2015)
§ 155.231 ESTABLISHMENT OF BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment shall consist of seven members who shall be
appointed by the Board of Commissioners and who shall be residents of the
county. Members shall serve overlapping terms of three years.
   (B)   In addition to the regular members, the Board of Commissioners may
appoint two alternate members, who shall be residents of the county, each for
three-year terms. The Chairman of the Board of Adjustment, or in his absence
the acting chairman, may appoint the alternates to sit for any regular members
in case of the absence or disqualification of any regular members. In such case
the alternate members shall have the same powers and duties of the regular
members they are replacing during such time. In no case, however, shall more
than five regular members or combination of regular members and the alternate
members be empowered to vote on any matter that comes before the Board.
(Ord. passed 6-1-2015)
§ 155.232 OFFICERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Chairman. A chairman shall be a regular member of the Board of
Adjustment and elected by the majority vote of the full membership of the
Board. His/Her term of office shall be one year in which he/she is eligible for
re-election or his/her successor is elected, beginning July 1. The chairman
shall decide upon all aspects of order and procedure, subject to these rules,
unless otherwise directed by the majority of the Board in session at the time.
The chairman shall appoint committees found necessary to investigate any
matters before the Board.
   (B)   Vice chairman. A vice chairman shall be a regular member and elected
in the same manner as the chairman and serve the same term. He/She shall serve
as acting chairman in the absence of the chairman, and at such times he/she
shall have the same powers as the chairman.
   (C)   Clerk. The clerk, subject to the direction of the chairman of the
Board, shall keep all records, conduct all correspondence of the Board, arrange
for all required public notices, notify members of the agenda and pending
meetings, notify parties of cases prior to the Board making a decision on such
cases, shall generally supervise the clerical work of the Board. The clerk
shall keep in a permanent volume the minutes of every Board meeting. These
shall indicate the names of members that were present or absent, show the
record of all important facts pertaining to each meeting and hearing, every
resolution acted upon by the Board, all votes of the Board members upon any
resolution, deposition, or final determination of any question, indicating the
names of the members voting against or failed to vote.
   (D)   Alternate members. Alternate members of the Board shall be called upon
to attend only those meetings and hearings at which one or more regular members
are absent or unable to participate in that meeting and/or hearing. Regular
members, on receiving notice of a special meeting or are unable to participate
in a scheduled hearing, shall promptly give notice to the secretary. The
secretary shall, by most expeditious means, notify the alternate member to
attend. Any meeting, which they are called upon to attend, alternate members
shall have the same powers and duties as regular members. Except at the
election of officers, at no time shall more than five members participate
officially in any meeting or hearing.
(Ord. passed 6-1-2015)
§ 155.233 RULES OF CONDUCT FOR MEMBERS.
   (A)   Members of the Board may be removed for cause, including violation of
the rules stated below.
   (B)   Faithful attendance at all meetings of the Board and conscientious
performance of the duties required of members. This is a pre-requisite to
continue membership of the Board.
   (C)   No Board member shall take part in the hearing or determination in
which he/she has a financial interest, fixed opinion, undisclosed outside
contact, close family tie, or close business tie.
   (D)   No member shall discuss any case with any parties (ex-parte contact)
thereto prior to the public hearing of that case; however, members of the Board
can receive and/or seek information pertaining to a case from other members,
its secretary, or clerk prior to the hearing. In the case of an appeal,
planning and zoning staff are a party, and the Board shall not discuss such
cases with the secretary or the clerk.
   (E)   Members of the Board will not express individual opinions on the
proper judgment of any case with any party thereto prior to its final
determination.
   (F)    It is possible for a Board member to visit a site prior to the public
hearing, however, since the Board’s decision must be based on evidence
presented at the hearing, it is important for any Board member who visits a
site to state at the hearing what he/she observed.
(Ord. passed 6-1-2015)
§ 155.234 MEETINGS OF THE BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   Regular meetings. Regular meetings of the Board shall be held on the
third Monday of each month at 6:00 p.m. in the Commissioners Meeting Room in
the Davie County Administration Building, 123 S. Main Street, Mocksville, North
Carolina. Provided that the meeting be held at any other convenient time and/or
place in the county, when business needs to be acted upon; if directed by the
chairman in advance of the meeting.
   (B)   Special meetings. Special meetings of the Board may be called at any
time by the chairman. A written notice of the time and place of the special
meeting shall be delivered by the clerk to each Board member at least 48 hours
prior to the scheduled meeting.
   (C)   Cancellation of meetings. Whenever there are no appeals, applications
for special use permits or variances, or other business for the Board or
whenever so many regular and alternate members notify the secretary of
inability to attend, that a quorum will not be available, the chairman may
dispense with a regular meeting by giving written or oral notice to all Board
members not less than 24 hours prior to the time set for the meeting.
   (D)   Quorum. A quorum shall consist of three-fifths members of the Board,
but the Board shall not pass upon any questions relating to an appeal from the
decision, order, requirement, or determination of the zoning enforcement
officer, or an application for a variance or special use permit when there are
less than three members present.
   (E)   Voting. All regular members shall vote on each issue made in the form
of a motion, unless they have disqualified themselves for one or more of the
following reasons listed in §
155.233. All abstaining from voting will be counted as a “YES”. All silent
votes will be counted as a “YES”. All “NO” votes shall be vocal.
   (F)   Order of business.
      (1)   Call to order;
      (2)   Adopt agenda;
      (3)   Approval of minutes from the previous meeting;
      (4)   Hearing of cases;
      (5)   Unfinished business;
      (6)   New business; and
      (7)   Adjournment.
(Ord. passed 6-1-2015)
§ 155.235 HEARINGS AND NOTICE.
   (A)   Hearings. An evidentiary hearing is required for each decision. The
purpose of the hearing is to gather facts, not to gather opinions about the
desirability or popularity of the project.
   (B)   Time. After receipt of a notice of application, the clerk shall
schedule the time for a hearing, which shall be at a regular or special meeting
within 45 days from the filing of such notice of application.
   (C)   Notice. The Board shall give public notice of the hearing by posting
notice on the property which is subject to action. Adjoining property owners
shall be notified by letter ten to 25 days prior to the hearing stating the
facts concerning the public hearing. Such notice shall state the location,
general nature involved in the request, and the time and location of the
hearing.
   (D)   Conduct of hearing. The order of business for the hearing shall be as
follows:
      (1)   The Planning staff member shall give a preliminary statement of the
case.
      (2)   The applicant shall present facts/ evidence that support his
application.
      (3)   Persons opposed shall present facts/evidence against the
application.
      (4)   Both sides will have an opportunity to present a rebuttal to
opposing testimony.
      (5)   The chairman shall summarize the evidence which has been presented,
giving both parties opportunity to make objections or corrections. Witnesses
may be called and evidence submitted, but the Board shall not be limited to
consider such evidence to be admissible as in a court of law. The Board may
view the premises before arriving at a decision. All witnesses shall be sworn
in and are subject to cross-examination.
   (E)   Rehearing. An application for a rehearing may be made in the same
manner as provided for an original meeting. Evidence in support of the
application shall initially be limited to that which is necessary to enable the
Board to determine whether there has been a substantial change in facts or
evidence (change in federal, state, or local law, or a change in the zoning
ordinance). The application for rehearing shall be denied by the Board if from
the record it finds that there has not been a substantial change in fact or
evidence. If the Board finds that there has been a change, then the request
shall be treated in the same matter as any other application. If there is a
change in conditions (different site plan or an increase or decrease in the
size of the request), the case shall be considered a new and distinctive case
from that of before.
(Ord. passed 6-1-2015)
§ 155.236 DECISIONS OF THE BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   Evidence. Quality evidence must be in the hearing to support the
Board’s final decision from an appeal, or application for variance or special
use permit.
      (1)   Substantial, competent, and material facts/evidence is needed to
support the Board’s findings.
      (2)   Hearsay. Hearsay is admissible; however, hearsay evidence cannot be
the sole basis for a crucial findings of fact. Crucial findings of fact include
those that are contested.
      (3)   Opinion testimony by expert. The Board is interested in fact not
opinion, however, opinions offered by experts are an exception to this rule.
   (B)   Time. Decisions by the Board shall be made not more than 45 days from
the time of hearing the case.
   (C)   Order. Written notice of the decision in a case shall be given to the
applicant by the clerk in a reasonable amount of time following the decision.
The final decision of the Board shall be shown on record of the case as entered
into the minutes of the Board and signed by the chair or other duly authorized
member of the Board. Such record shall show the reasons for the determination,
with a summary of the evidence introduced and the findings of fact by the
Board. Where a variance is granted, the record shall state in detail any
exceptional difficulty or unnecessary hardship upon which the appeal was based
and which the Board finds to exist. The decision may reverse or affirm, wholly
or partly or modify the order, requirement, decision, or determination appealed
from. Where a special use permit is granted, the record shall state in detail
any facts supporting the findings required to be made prior to issuance of such
permit. The record shall state in detail what, if any, conditions and
safeguards are imposed by the Board in connection with the granting of the
special use permit or variance.
   (D)   Expiration of permits. Unless otherwise specified, any order or
decision of the Board granting a special use permit or a variance shall be
perpetually binding upon the property unless subsequently changed or amended by
the Board.
   (E)   Voting on hearings. The Board of Adjustment, by a vote of four-fifths
of its members, may grant a variance from the provisions of this subchapter. A
majority vote shall be required for all other matters before the Board.
   (F)   Public record of decision. The decisions of the Board, as filed in the
minutes, shall be a public record, available for inspection at all reasonable
times.
(Ord. passed 6-1-2015)
§ 155.237 STAY OF PROCEEDINGS.
   An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed,
unless the officer from whom the appeal is taken certifies to the Board of
Adjustment that by reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would in
his opinion cause imminent peril to life or property. In such case, proceedings
shall not be stayed except by a restraining order which may be granted by the
Board of Adjustment or by a court of record on application, of notice from whom
the appeal is taken and on due cause shown.
(Ord. passed 6-1-2015)
§ 155.238 CHANGE IN KIND OF NON-CONFORMING USE.
   The Board may permit a non-conforming use of a building to be changed to
another non-conforming use upon a finding by the Board that the new use is more
in character with the uses permitted in the district than the previous use.
(Ord. passed 6-1-2015)
§ 155.239 VARIANCES.
   (A)   The Board may authorize variances from the terms of the subchapter as
will not be contrary to the public interest where, owing to special conditions,
a literal enforcement of the provisions of this subchapter will, in an
individual case, result in unnecessary hardship, so that the spirit of the
subchapter shall be observed, public safety secured, and substantial justice
done.
   (B)   In granting a variance, the Board may attach thereto such conditions
regarding the location, character, and other features of the proposed building,
structure, or use as it may deem advisable in furtherance of the purpose of
this subchapter. If a variance for the construction, alteration or use of
property is granted, such construction, alteration or use shall be in
accordance with the approved site plan. No change in permitted uses may be
authorized by variance.
   (C)   The Board of Adjustment shall refuse to hear an appeal or an
application for a variance previously denied if it finds that there have been
no substantial changes in conditions or circumstances bearing on the appeal or
application.
   (D)   Zoning and subdivision requirements. Any ordinance that regulates land
use or development may provide for variance consistent with the provisions of
this subchapter. These requirements shall apply to all regulations in the
following areas:
      (1)   Zoning;
      (2)   Subdivision;
      (3)   Watershed; and
      (D)   Floodplain.
   (E)   The Board of Adjustment shall make the findings required below, taking
into account the nature of the proposed request, the existing use of land in
the vicinity and the probable effect of the proposed request upon traffic
conditions in the vicinity, if applicable. No variance shall be granted unless
the Board of Adjustment finds all of the following in the affirmative:
      (1)   That there are special circumstances or conditions affecting said
property such that the strict application of the provisions of this subchapter
would cause an unnecessary hardship;
      (2)   That the circumstances giving rise to the need for the variance are
peculiar to the parcel and are not generally characteristic of other parcels in
the jurisdiction of this subchapter;
      (3)   That the hardship suffered is not a result of the applicants or
property owners own actions; and
      (4)   That the granting of the variance will be consistent with the
spirit, purpose, and intent of the subchapter, such that the public safety is
secured and substantial justice is achieved.
(Ord. passed 6-1-2015)
§ 155.240 SPECIAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   The Board shall hear special use permit request to determine whether
appropriate conditions and safeguards are met. In granting a Special Use Permit
the Board shall make the following affirmative findings:
      (1)   That the special use will not materially endanger the public health
or safety, if located where proposed and developed according to the plan as
proposed;
      (2)   That the special use meets all required conditions and
specifications;
      (3)   That the special use will not substantially injure the value of
adjoining or abutting property, or that the use is a public necessity; and
      (4)   The special use will be in harmony with the area in which it is to
be located and will be in general conformity with the plan of development of
the county.
      (5)   The proposed use/project will be consistent with the Davie County
Land Development Plan and/or other adopted plans and policies.
   (B)   In granting a special use permit, the Board may impose such additional
restrictions and requirements upon such permit as it may deem necessary in
order that the purpose and intent of this subchapter are served, public welfare
secured and substantial justice done. If all requirements and conditions are
accepted by the applicant, the Board shall authorize the issuance of the
special use permit, otherwise the permit shall be denied.
   (C)   Any special use permit so authorized shall be perpetually binding upon
the property included in such permit unless subsequently changed or amended by
the Board, as provided for in this subchapter.
   (D)   The Board may change or amend any special use permit, after a public
hearing and subject to the same consideration as provided for in this
subchapter for the original issuance of special use permit.
   (E)   No proposal to amend or change any special use permit shall be
considered within 12 months of the date of the original authorization of such
permit or within 12 months of hearing of any previous proposal to amend or
change any such permit unless there has been a substantial change in the
conditions or circumstances on the special use permit.
(Ord. passed 6-1-2015)
§ 155.241 APPEALS FROM THE BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   The Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide appeals from decisions of
administrative officials charged with enforcement of the zoning or unified
development ordinance and may hear appeals arising out of any other ordinance
that regulates land use or development, pursuant to all of the following:
   (A)   Any person who has standing under G.S. § 160A-393(d) or the city may
appeal a decision to the Board of Adjustment. An appeal is taken by filing a
notice of appeal with the City Clerk. The notice of appeal shall state the
grounds for the appeal.
   (B)   The official who made the decision shall give written notice to the
owner of the property that is the subject of the decision and to the party who
sought the decision, if different from the owner. The written notice shall be
delivered by personal delivery, electronic mail, or by first-class mail.
   (C)   The owner or other party shall have 30 days from receipt of the
written notice within which to file an appeal. Any other person with standing
appeal shall have 30 days from receipt from any source of actual or
constructive notice of the decision within which to file an appeal.
   (D)   It shall be conclusively presumed that all persons with standing to
appeal have constructive notice of the decision from the date a sign containing
the words "Zoning Decision" or "Subdivision Decision" in letters at least six
inches high and identifying the means to contact an official for information
about the decision is prominently posted on the property that is the subject of
the decision, provided the sign remains on the property for at least 10 days.
Posting of signs is not the only form of constructive notice. Any such posting
shall be the responsibility of the landowner or applicant. Verification of the
posting shall be provided to the official who made the decision. Absent an
ordinance provision to the contrary, posting of signs shall not be required.
   (E)   The official who made the decision shall transmit to the Board all
documents and exhibits constituting the record upon which the action appealed
from is taken. The official shall also provide a copy of the record to the
appellant and to the owner of the property that is the subject of the appeal if
the appellant is not the owner.
   (F)   An appeal of a notice of violation or other enforcement order stays
enforcement of the action appealed from unless the official who made the
decision certifies to the Board of Adjustment after notice of appeal has been
filed that because of the facts stated in an affidavit, a stay would cause
imminent peril to life or property or because the violation is transitory in
nature, a stay would seriously interfere with enforcement of the ordinance. In
that case, enforcement proceedings shall not be stayed except by a restraining
order, which may be granted by a court. If enforcement proceedings are not
stayed, the appellant may file with the official a request for an expedited
hearing of the appeal, and the Board of Adjustment shall meet to hear the
appeal within 15 days after such a request is filed. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, appeals of decisions granting a permit or otherwise affirming that a
proposed use of property is consistent with the ordinance shall not stay the
further review of an application for permits or permissions to use such
property; in these situations the appellant may request and the Board may grant
a stay of a final decision of permit applications or building permits affected
by the issue being appealed.
   (G)   Subject to the provisions of division (F), the Board of Adjustment
shall hear and decide the appeal within a reasonable time.
   (H)   The official who made the decision shall be present at the hearing as
a witness. The appellant shall not be limited at the hearing to matters stated
in the notice of appeal. If any party or the city would be unduly prejudiced by
the presentation of matters not presented in the notice of appeal, the Board
shall continue the hearing. The Board of Adjustment may reverse or affirm,
wholly or partly, or may modify the decision appealed from and shall make any
order, requirement, decision, or determination that ought to be made. The Board
shall have all the powers of the official who made the decision.
   (I)   The parties to an appeal that has been made under this subsection may
agree to mediation or other forms of alternative dispute resolution. The
ordinance may set standards and procedures to facilitate and manage such
voluntary alternative dispute resolution.
(Ord. passed 6-1-2015)
§ 155.242 LIABILITY.
   The Board of Adjustment members are generally immune from any liability for
the decisions the Board makes.
(Ord. passed 6-1-2015)
CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS
§ 155.250 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   The Board of County Commissioners may, from time to time, on its own motion
or on petition, after public notice and hearing as provided by this chapter,
amend, supplement, change, modify, or repeal the zoning regulations and
restrictions and zone boundaries. No action shall be taken until the proposal
has been submitted to the County Planning Board for its recommendation. If no
report has been received from the Planning Board within 30 days after
submission of the proposal to the Chairperson of the Planning Board. The Board
of County Commissioners may proceed as though a favorable report has been
received.
(1996 Code, § 155.250) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984)
§ 155.251 PUBLIC NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Published notice. Before adopting or amending this chapter, the Board
of County Commissioners shall conduct a public hearing on the proposal. A
notice of the public hearing shall be given once a week for two successive
calendar weeks in a newspaper having general circulation in the area. The
notice shall be published for the first time not less than ten days nor more
than 25 days before the date fixed for the meeting.
   (B)   Posting. In addition to the published notice required by division (A)
of this section, whenever a change or amendment to the Official Zoning Map is
applied for or made affecting a particular parcel or parcels of land within any
district which otherwise requires a public hearing under this chapter, a sign
notifying the public of the public hearing shall be posted on the property not
less than ten days prior to the date of such hearing; provided, however, this
requirement is not intended to apply to any textural changes in the chapter
itself which do not require changes to the Official Zoning Map.
   (C)   Letter notification. Whenever there is a zoning classification action
involving a parcel of land, the owner of that parcel of land as shown on the
county tax listing, and the owners of all parcels of land abutting that parcel
of land as shown on the county tax listing, shall be mailed a notice of the
proposed classification by first class mail at the last addresses listed for
such owners on the county tax abstracts. The person or persons mailing such
notices shall certify to the Board of Commissioners that fact, and such
certificate shall be deemed conclusive in the absence of fraud.
(1996 Code, § 155.251) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984)
§ 155.252 PROTEST PETITION REQUIREMENTS.
   Counties do not have the statutory authority for protest petitions.
(1996 Code, § 155.252) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984; Ord. passed 3-20-2006)
§ 155.253 APPLICATION FOR AMENDMENT.
   (A)   Application requirements. Applications for amendments to the Zoning
Code shall be filed with the Enforcement Officer at least ten days prior to the
date on which it is to be filed with the Planning Board. The Planning Board
shall be responsible for presenting the application to the Board of County
Commissioners. Each application shall be signed, be in duplicate, and shall
contain at least the following information:
      (1)   The applicant’s name and address in full;
      (2)   Applicant’s interest in the property and type of rezoning
requested;
      (3)   The name and address of the recorded owner or owners of the
property, if different from division (A)(1) above; and
      (4)   If the proposed change would require a change in the zoning map, an
accurate diagram of the property proposed for rezoning showing:
         (a)   All property lines with dimensions including north arrow;
         (b)   Adjoining street with right-of-way and paving widths;
         (c)   The location of all structures; the use of all land;
         (d)   The zoning classification of all abutting zoning districts; and
         (e)   Comprehensive site plan if the application is for commercial,
industrial, or multi- family development.
   (B)   Planning Board’s report. All proposed amendments to the zoning chapter
shall be submitted to the Planning Board for review and recommendation. The
Planning Board shall have 30 days to submit its report. If the Planning Board
fails to submit its report within the above period, it shall be deemed to have
approved the proposed amendment.
   (C)   Six-month moratorium following denial. A public hearing shall be held
by the Board of County Commissioners before the adoption of any proposed
amendments to the zoning chapter. When the Board of County Commissioners shall
have denied any application for the change of any zoning district, it shall not
thereafter accept any other application for the same change of zoning district
affecting the same property, or any portion, until the expiration of six months
from the date of such previous denial.
   (D)   Conflict of interest. A member of the Board of County Commissioners
shall not vote on any zoning map or text amendment, where the outcome of the
matter being considered is reasonably likely to have a direct, substantial, and
readily identifiable financial impact on the member. Members of appointed
boards providing advice to the Board of County Commissioners shall not vote on
recommendations regarding any zoning map or text amendment, where the outcome
of the matter being considered is reasonably likely to have a direct,
substantial, and readily identifiable financial impact on the member.
   (E)   Statement prior to decision. Prior to adopting or rejecting any zoning
amendment, the governing board shall adopt a statement, describing whether its
action is consistent with an adopted comprehensive plan, and explaining why the
Board considers the action taken to be reasonable and in the public interest.
This statement is not subject to judicial review.
(1996 Code, § 155.253) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984; Ord. passed 3-20-2006)
VESTED RIGHTS
§ 155.260 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The County Zoning Board of Adjustments, or other board
or official designated by ordinance or this subchapter as being authorized to
grant the specific zoning or land use permit or approval that constitutes a
site-specific development plan.
   SITE-SPECIFIC DEVELOPMENT PLAN. As follows.
      (1)   A plan of land development submitted to the county for purposes of
obtaining one of the following zoning or land use permits or approvals:
         (a)   General use district zoning and special use district zoning
provided for in §
155.161 as amended; or
         (b)   Special use permits as provided for in §
155.236.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, neither a variance, a sketch plan
nor any other document that fails to describe with reasonable certainty the
type and intensity of use for a specified parcel or parcels of property shall
constitute a site-specific development plan.
   ZONING VESTED RIGHT. A right pursuant to G.S. § 153A-344.1 to undertake and
complete the development and use of property under the terms and conditions of
an approved site-specific development plan.
(1996 Code, § 155.260) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 155.261 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to implement the provisions of G.S. § 153A-
344.1, pursuant to which a statutory zoning vested right is established upon
the approval of a site-specific development plan.
(1996 Code, § 155.261) (Ord. passed - -)
Editor’s note:
   This subchapter is retroactive to October 1, 1991.
§ 155.262 ESTABLISHMENT OF A ZONING VESTED RIGHT.
   (A)   A zoning vested right shall be deemed established upon the valid
approval, or conditional approval, by the County Zoning Board of Adjustments,
as applicable, of a site-specific development plan, following notice and public
hearing, after having first been referred to the County Project Review
Committee for a recommendation and receiving such recommendation.
   (B)   The approving authority may approve a site- specific development plan
upon such terms and conditions as may reasonably be necessary to protect the
public health, safety, and welfare.
   (C)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) and (B) above, approval of a site-
specific development plan with the condition that a variance be obtained shall
not confer a zoning vested right unless and until the necessary variance is
obtained.
   (D)   A site-specific development plan shall be deemed approved upon the
effective date of the approval authority’s action or ordinance relating
thereto.
   (E)   The establishment of a zoning vested right shall not preclude the
application of overlay zoning that imposes additional requirements but does not
affect the allowable type or intensity of use, or ordinances or regulations
that are general in nature and are applicable to all property subject to land-
use regulation by the county, including but not limited to building, fire,
plumbing, electrical, and mechanical codes. Otherwise applicable new or amended
regulations shall become effective with respect to property that is subject to
a site-specific development plan upon the expiration or termination of the
vested right in accordance with this chapter.
   (F)   A zoning vested right is not a personal right, but shall attach to and
run with the applicable property. After approval of a site-specific development
plan, all successors to the original landowner shall be entitled to exercise
such right while applicable.
(1996 Code, § 155.262) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 155.263 APPROVAL PROCEDURES AND APPROVAL AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, an application upon a
form prepared by the County Zoning Office for site-specific development plan
approval shall be processed in accordance with the procedures established by
this chapter and shall be considered by the designated approval authority for
the specific type of zoning or land use permit or approval for which
application is made.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (A) above, if the authority
to issue a particular zoning or land use permit or approval has been delegated
by ordinance to a board, committee, or administrative officials other than the
County Zoning Board of Adjustments or other planning agency designated to
perform any or all of the duties of a Board of Adjustment, in order to obtain a
zoning vested right, the applicant must request in writing at the time of
application that the application be considered and acted on by the County
Zoning Board of Adjustments, following notice and a public hearing as provided
in G.S. § 153A-323.
   (C)   In order for a zoning vested right to be established upon approval of
a site-specific development plan, the applicant must indicate at the time of
application, on the form provided by the county, that a zoning vested right is
being sought.
   (D)   Each map, plat, site plan or other document evidencing a site-specific
development plan shall contain the following notation: “Approval of this plan
establishes a zoning vested right under G.S. § 153A-344.1. Unless terminated at
an earlier date, the zoning vested right shall be valid until (date).”
   (E)   Following approval or conditional approval of a site-specific
development plan, nothing in this subchapter shall exempt such a plan from
subsequent reviews and approvals to ensure compliance with the terms and
conditions of the original approval, provided that such reviews and approvals
are not inconsistent with the original approval.
   (F)   Nothing in this subchapter shall prohibit the revocation of the
original approval or other remedies for failure to comply with applicable terms
and conditions of the approval or the zoning chapter.
(1996 Code, § 155.263) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 155.264 DURATION.
   (A)   A zoning right that has been vested as provided in this chapter shall
remain vested for a period of two years, unless specifically and unambiguously
provided otherwise pursuant to division (B) below. This vesting shall not be
extended by any amendments or modifications to a site-specific development plan
unless expressly provided by the approval authority at the time the amendment
or modification is approved.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (A) above, the approval
authority may provide that rights shall be vested for a period exceeding two
years but not exceeding five years where warranted in light of all relevant
circumstances, including but not limited to the size of the development, the
level of investment, the need for or desirability of the development, economic
cycles, and market conditions. These determinations shall be in the sound
discretion of the approval authority at the time the site-specific development
plan is approved.
   (C)   Upon issuance of a building permit, the expiration provisions of G.S.
§ 153A-358 and the revocation provisions of G.S. § 153A-362 shall apply, except
that a building permit shall not expire or be revoked because of the running of
time while a zoning vested right under this section is outstanding.
(1996 Code, § 155.264) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 155.265 TERMINATION.
   A zoning right that has been vested as provided in this subchapter shall
terminate:
   (A)   At the end of the applicable vested period with respect to buildings
and uses for which no valid building permit applications have been filed;
   (B)   With the written consent of the affected landowners;
   (C)   Upon findings by the County Zoning Board of Adjustments, by ordinance
after notice and a public hearing, that natural or human-made hazards on or in
the immediate vicinity of the property, if uncorrected, would pose a serious
threat to the public health, safety, and welfare if the project were to proceed
as contemplated in the site-specific development plan;
   (D)   Upon payment to the affected landowners of compensation for all costs,
expenses, and other losses incurred by the landowners, including but not
limited to all fees paid in consideration of financing, and all architectural,
planning, marketing, legal, and other consultant’s fees incurred after approval
by the county, together with interest thereon at the legal rate until paid.
Compensation shall not include any diminution in the value of the property
which is caused by such action;
   (E)   Upon findings by the County Zoning Board of Adjustments, by ordinance
after notice and a hearing, the landowner or his or her representative
intentionally supplied inaccurate information or made material
misrepresentations which made a difference in the approval by the approval
authority of the site-specific development plan; or
   (F)   Upon the enactment or promulgation of a state or federal law or
regulation that precluded development as contemplated in the site-specific
development plan, in which case the approval authority may modify the affected
provisions, upon a finding that the change in state or federal law has a
fundamental effect on the plan, by ordinance after notice and a hearing.
(1996 Code, § 155.265) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 155.266 FEES.
   Fees and charges provided in this chapter for the filing of petitions,
applications, and the cost of hearing shall be paid by the applicant under this
chapter at the time of application.
(1996 Code, § 155.266) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 155.267 LIMITATIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter is intended or shall be deemed to create any vested
right other than those established pursuant to G.S. § 153A-344.1.
(1996 Code, § 155.267) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 155.268 REPEALER.
   In the event that G.S. § 153A-344.1 is repealed, this subchapter shall be
deemed repealed and the provisions hereof no longer effective.
(1996 Code, § 155.268) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 155.269 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be retroactive to October 1, 1991 and shall only apply
to site-specific development plans approved on or after the date.
(1996 Code, § 155.269) (Ord. passed - -)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 155.280 ZONING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   The Zoning Enforcement Officer is authorized and it shall be his or
her duty to enforce and administer the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   If a ruling of the Zoning Enforcement Officer is questioned, the
aggrieved party or parties may appeal such ruling to the Board of Adjustment.
(1996 Code, § 155.280) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984)
§ 155.281 ZONING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No building, sign, or other structure shall be erected, moved, extended, or
enlarged, or structurally altered, nor shall any excavation or filling of any
lot for the construction of any building or structure be commenced, nor shall
any use be established or re-established on a lot, nor shall any use be
expanded, enlarged, or intensified until the Zoning Enforcement Officer has
issued a zoning compliance permit for such activity.
(1996 Code, § 155.281) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984; Ord. passed 5-16-2005)
§ 155.282 APPLICATION FOR ZONING COMPLIANCE PERMIT.
   (A)   Each application to the Zoning Enforcement Officer for a zoning
compliance permit shall be accompanied by a site plan showing:
      (1)   The actual dimensions of the lot to be built upon;
      (2)   The size of the building or structure to be erected;
      (3)   The location of the building or structure to be erected or the
proposed use of the lot. A surveyed site plan may be required when the proposed
location of the building, structure, or use would, if located improperly, be in
violation with this chapter;
      (4)   The location of existing buildings or structures on the lot, if
any;
      (5)   The number of dwelling units the building is designed to
accommodate;
      (6)   The approximate setback lines of building on adjoining lots;
      (7)   The intended use of the property;
      (8)   In the case of a private on-site wastewater treatment system
(septic system), a copy of the approved permit from the County Health
Department or applicable state agency;
      (9)   In the case of a manufactured home, information validating the age,
size, model number, and serial number of the manufactured home. A copy of the
current bill of sale, current title, or certified tax listing form from the
county in which the home is presently located may be used to validate the age,
size, model number, and serial number;
      (10)   In the case of commercial, industrial, or other nonresidential
use, any additional information necessary to determine compliance with parking,
loading, landscaping, utility, storm drainage, or other applicable sections of
this chapter; and
      (11)   Such other information as may be essential for determining whether
or not the provisions of this section are being observed.
   (B)   Any zoning permit issued shall expire and be canceled unless the work
authorized by it shall have begun within six months of its date of issue, or if
the work authorized by it is suspended or abandoned for a period of one year.
In the case of site-built construction, the beginning of authorized work shall
be deemed to be the pouring of footers for a foundation. In the case of
manufactured housing, the beginning of work shall be deemed to be the placement
and anchoring of the home and connection of necessary utilities for such
manufactured home. In the event a zoning permit expires, written notice shall
be given to the person affected, including notice that further work as
described in the canceled permit shall not proceed unless and until another
zoning permit has been obtained.
(1996 Code, § 155.282) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984; Ord. passed 5-16-2005)
§ 155.283 CONFLICT WITH OTHER REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever the regulations contained in this chapter require a greater
width or size of yards, courts, or other spaces; require a lower height of
building or fewer number of stories; require a greater percentage of lot to be
left unoccupied; or impose other higher standards than are required in any
other statute, ordinance, or regulation, the provisions of this chapter shall
govern.
   (B)   Whenever the provisions of a statute, this code, ordinance, or
regulation require a lower height of building or a fewer number of stories;
require a greater percentage of lot to be left unoccupied; or impose other
higher standards than are required by this chapter, the provisions of such
state code, ordinance, or regulation shall govern.
(1996 Code, § 155.283) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984)
§ 155.284 INTERPRETATION; CONFLICTS.
   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter, they shall be
held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public safety,
health, convenience, prosperity, and general welfare. It is not intended by
this chapter to interfere with, abrogate, or annul any easements, covenants, or
other agreements between parties.
(1996 Code, § 155.284) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984)
§ 155.285 REENACTMENT AND REPEAL OF EXISTING ZONING REGULATIONS.
   This chapter in part carries forward by reenactment some of the provisions
of the [prior] Zoning Code of the county, and it is not the intention to repeal
but rather to reenact and continue in force such existing provisions so that
all rights and liabilities that have accrued are preserved and may be enforced.
All provisions of the Zoning Code of the county enacted in 1973, as amended,
which are not reenacted are repealed. All suits at law or in equity and/or all
prosecutions resulting from the violation of any zoning ordinance in effect,
which are now pending in any of the courts of this state or of the United
States, shall not be abated or abandoned by reason of the adoption of this
chapter, but shall be prosecuted to their finality the same as if this chapter
had not been adopted; and any and all violations of the existing zoning
ordinance, prosecutions for which have not yet been instituted, may be filed
and prosecuted; and nothing in this chapter shall be so construed as to
abandon, abate, or dismiss any litigation or prosecution not pending and/or
which may have been instituted or prosecuted.
(1996 Code, § 155.285) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.286 SCHEDULE OF FEES.
   Fees shall be paid at the time an application is presented to the Zoning
Enforcement Officer at rates established by the Board of Commissioners.
(1996 Code, § 155.286) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984; Ord. passed 8-16-1999)
§ 155.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   If any structure is constructed, altered, repaired, converted, or
maintained; or any structure or land is used in violation of this chapter; or
if this chapter is otherwise in any respect violated, the Planning Director
shall first send a written warning citation by registered mail, certified mail,
first class mail, or personal delivery to the person responsible for such
violation, indicating the nature of the violation and ordering action necessary
to correct it. Following 30 days with no correction of the violation, the
Planning Director shall notify the County Attorney and with the written
approval of the County Attorney may institute any appropriate action or
proceeding either of a civil or criminal nature to prevent or restrain such
unlawful construction, alteration, repair, conversion, maintenance, use, or
other violation, or impose any penalty permitted by law.
   (B)   (1)   The following civil penalties are established for violations
under this section:
 
Warning Citation                        Correct Violation Within 30 Days
First citation                          $50
Second citation for same offense        $100
Third and sequential citations for same $100
offense
 
      (2)   Each day such violation continues, however, shall be a separate and
distinct offense, punishable as herein before provided.
      (3)   These civil penalties are in addition to any other penalties that
may be imposed by a court of law from violation of the provisions of this
chapter.
   (C)   The provisions of this chapter shall be enforceable as follows:
      (1)   Any violation of this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor as
provided by G.S. § 14-4 and be subject to the punishment therein provided.
      (2)   This chapter may be enforced by any appropriate equitable remedy
provided in G.S. § 153A-123(d) and (e), including the entering of appropriate
function relief and orders of abatement as therein provided.
      (3)   In addition to the foregoing enforcement measures, this chapter may
be enforced by any appropriate remedy authorized under the laws of the state.
   (D)   Further, a violation of the above section of this code shall be a
violation of G.S. § 14-4 and such violation shall be classified as a Class 3
misdemeanor with a maximum fine of up to $450, except that any violations of §§
150.999,
154.99,
155.999, and
156.999 shall not be a violation of G.S. § 14-4 and shall not be considered a
misdemeanor.
(1996 Code, § 155.999) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984; Ord. passed 7-6-2009)
APPENDIX A: APPLICATION FOR ZONING AMENDMENT
    APPLICATION FOR ZONING AMENDMENT
                              Date:                          
To: The Board of County Commissioners, Davie County, North Carolina
   Application is hereby made for an amendment to the Zoning (Ordinance) (Map)
as follows:
Name of applicant:                                         
Address of applicant:                                      
Address and brief description of the property to be rezoned:
                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                          
Applicant’s interest in property: (Owned) (Leased) or Otherwise:
                                                              
                                                                                                                                                          
Recorded owner or owners of property:
                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                          
Type of zoning requested:
                                                                                                                    
Sketch attached: Yes              No            (See instructions.)
Reasons for the requested rezoning:
                                                                                                      
                           Signed:                                          
Action by the Planning Board:
                                                                                                             
Public hearing date:                  Action:
                                                                                              
Zoning Map corrected:
                                                                                                                         
(1996 Code, Ch. 155 Appendix A) (Ord. passed 5-21-1984)
APPENDIX B: CERTIFICATION FORM
   CERTIFICATION FORM
   CERTIFICATION THAT
   A STATUTORY ZONING VESTED RIGHT IS
   BEING SOUGHT PURSUANT TO
   G.S. § 153A-344.1
As applicant for a                               , I hereby certify that I am
seeking to acquire a vested right pursuant to G.S. § 153A-344.1.
If the county provides that the approval authority for the type of land use
approval or permit for which I am applying is a board, committee, or
administrative official other than the Davie County Zoning Board, it will be
considered, and acted on, by the Davie County Zoning Board of Adjustments,
following notice and public hearing.
                                                      
   Date            Applicant
(1996 Code, Ch. 155 Appendix B) (Ord. passed - -)
Editor’s note:
   This appendix is retroactive to October 1, 1991.
APPENDIX C: EXAMPLE DECOMMISSIONING PLAN
This is an example decommissioning plan:
Prepared and Submitted by Solar Developer ABC, the owner of Big Bright Solar
Farm
Decommission Plan for Big Bright Solar Farm, located at
ADDRESS:
DATE:
As required by the County of Davie, Solar Developer ABC presents this
decommissioning plan for Big Bright Solar Farm (the "Facility").
   Decommissioning will occur as a result of any of the following conditions:
      1.   The land lease ends
      2.   The system does not produce power for 12 months
      3.   The system is damaged and will not be repaired or replaced
   The owner of the Facility, as provided for in its lease with the landowner,
will do the following as a minimum to decommission the project.
      1.   Remove all non-utility owned equipment, conduits, structures,
fencing, and foundations to a depth of at least three feet below grade.
      2.   Remove all graveled areas and access roads unless the owner of the
leased real estate requests in writing for it to stay in place.
      3.   Restore the land to a condition reasonably similar to its condition
before SES development, including replacement of top soil removed or eroded.
      4.   Revegetate any cleared areas with warm season grasses that are
native to the region unless requested in writing by the owner of the real
estate to not revegetate due to plans for agricultural planting.
   All said removal and decommissioning shall occur within 12 months of the
facility ceasing to produce power for sale.
   The owner of the Facility, currently Solar Developer ABC, is responsible for
this decommissioning. Nothing in this plan relieves any obligation that the
real estate property owner may have to remove the facility as outlined in the
Special Use Permit in the event the operator of the farm does not fulfill this
obligation.
   The owner of the Facility will provide County planning department and the
Register of Deeds with an updated signed decommissioning plan within 30 days of
change in the Facility Owner.
   This plan may be modified from time to time and a copy of any modified plans
will be provided to the planning staff and filed with the Register of Deeds by
the party responsible for decommissioning.
SES Owner Signature:
                                                               
Date:                       
 
            Landowner (if different from SES Owner) Signature:
                                       
            Date:                      
(Ord. passed 2- -2017)
CHAPTER 156: WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES SITING
Section
General Provisions
   
156.001   Purpose and authority
   
156.002   Title
   
156.003   Severability
   
156.004   Definitions
Special Use Permits
   
156.015   Overall policy and desired goals
   
156.016   Application and other requirements
   
156.017   Location
   
156.018   Shared use
   
156.019   Height of telecommunications tower(s)
   
156.020   Appearance and visibility
   
156.021   Security
   
156.022   Signage
   
156.023   Lot size and setbacks
   
156.024   Retention of expert assistance and reimbursement by applicant
   
156.025   Exceptions
   
156.026   Public hearing and notification requirements
   
156.027   Action on an application
   
156.028   Extent and parameters of a special use permit
   
156.029   Application fee
   
156.030   Performance security
   
156.031   The county’s reservation of its authority to inspect
   
156.032   Liability insurance
   
156.033   Indemnification
Enforcement
   
156.045   Default and/or revocation
   
156.046   Removal of wireless telecommunications facilities
Waiver and Review
   
156.060   Waiver
   
156.061   Periodic regulatory review by the county
Application of Other Laws
   
156.075   Adherence to state and/or federal rules and regulations
   
156.076   Conflict with other laws
 
   
156.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.001 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Telecommunications Act of 1996, and the General Assembly of North
Carolina pursuant to G.S. §§ 153A-121 and 153A-340, affirmed the county’s
authority to regulate the placement, construction, and modification of wireless
telecommunications facilities.
   (B)   The county finds that wireless telecommunications facilities may pose
significant concerns to the health, safety, public welfare, character, and
environment of the county and its inhabitants.
    (C)   The county also recognizes that facilitating the development of
wireless service technology can be an economic development asset to the county,
and of significant benefit to the county and its residents.
   (D)   In order to ensure that the placement, construction, or modification
of wireless telecommunications facilities is consistent with the county’s land
use policies, the county is adopting a single, comprehensive, wireless
telecommunications facilities application and permit process.
   (E)   The intent of this chapter is to minimize the negative impact of
wireless telecommunications facilities, establish a fair and efficient process
for review and approval of applications, assure an integrated, comprehensive
review of environmental impacts of such facilities, and protect the health,
safety, and welfare of the county.
(1996 Code, § 156.01) (Ord. passed 10-7-2002; Ord. passed 12-3-2007)
§ 156.002 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the Wireless and Telecommunications
Facilities Siting Ordinance for the county.
(1996 Code, § 156.02) (Ord. passed 10-7-2002; Ord. passed 12-3-2007)
§ 156.003 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any word, phrase, sentence, part, section, division, or other
portion of this chapter, or any application thereof to any person or
circumstance, is declared void, unconstitutional, or invalid for any reason,
then such word, phrase, sentence, part, section, division, or other portion, or
the proscribed application thereof, shall be severable, and the remaining
provisions of this chapter, and all applications thereof, not having been
declared void, unconstitutional, or invalid, shall remain in full force and
effect.
   (B)   Any special use or zoning compliance permit issued under this chapter
shall be comprehensive and not severable. If part of a permit is deemed or
ruled to be invalid or unenforceable in any material respect, by the county or
a competent authority, or is overturned by a competent authority, the permit
shall be void in total.
(1996 Code, § 156.03) (Ord. passed 10-7-2002; Ord. passed 12-3-2007)
§ 156.004 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. When not
inconsistent with the context, words in the present tense include the future
tense, words used in the plural number include words in the singular number and
words in the singular number include the plural number. The word “shall” is
always mandatory, and not merely directory.
   ACCESSORY FACILITY OR STRUCTURE. An ACCESSORY FACILITY OR STRUCTURE serving
or being used in conjunction with wireless telecommunications facilities, and
located on the same property or lot as the wireless telecommunications
facilities, including but not limited to utility or transmission equipment
storage sheds or cabinets.
   ANTENNA. A system of electrical conductors that transmit or receive
electromagnetic waves, radio frequencies, or other wireless signals. Such shall
include but not be limited to radio, television, cellular, paging, personal
telecommunications services (PCS), microwave telecommunications, and services
not licensed by the FCC, but not expressly exempt from the county’s siting,
building, and permitting authority.
   APPLICANT. Any wireless service provider submitting an application for a
special use or zoning compliance permit for wireless telecommunications
facilities.
   APPLICATION. All necessary and appropriate documentation that an applicant
submits in order to receive a special use or zoning compliance permit for
wireless telecommunications facilities.
   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT. The Board established under §
155.230 of this code.
   CO-LOCATION.  The use of a tower or structure to support antennas for the
provision of wireless services, without increasing the height of the tower or
structure.
   COMMERCIAL IMPRACTICABILITY or COMMERCIALLY IMPRACTICABLE. The inability to
perform an act on terms that are reasonable in commerce, the cause or
occurrence of which could not have been reasonably anticipated or foreseen, and
that jeopardizes the financial efficacy of the project. The inability to
achieve a satisfactory financial return on investment or profit, standing
alone, shall not deem a situation to be COMMERCIALLY IMPRACTICABLE and shall
not render an act or the terms of an agreement COMMERCIALLY IMPRACTICABLE.
   COMPLETED APPLICATION. An application that contains all information and/or
data necessary to enable an informed decision to be made with respect to an
application.
   COUNTY. The County of Davie, North Carolina.
   FAA. The Federal Aviation Administration, or its duly designated and
authorized successor agency.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission or its duly designated and
authorized successor agency.
   HEIGHT. When referring to a tower or structure, the distance measured from
the preexisting grade level to the highest point on the tower or structure,
even if the highest point is an antenna or lightning protection device.
   NIER. Non-ionizing electromagnetic radiation.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, estate, trust, partnership, joint stock
company, association of two or more persons having a joint common interest, or
any other entity.
   PERSONAL WIRELESS FACILITY. See definition for WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS
FACILITIES.
   PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICES or PWS or PERSONAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE or
PCS.  Shall have the same meaning as defined and used in the 1996
Telecommunications Act.
   PROPERTY. The entire deeded and recorded land area on which a leased or
purchased area is designated for the location of a wireless telecommunications
facility.
   SETBACK. The required distance from the property line of the parcel on which
the wireless telecommunications facility is located to the base of the tower or
other such structure to which a wireless telecommunications facility is
attached or affixed.
   SPECIAL USE PERMIT. The official document or permit by which an applicant is
allowed to construct and use wireless telecommunications facilities as granted
or issued by the county.
   STATE.  The State of North Carolina.
   STEALTH or STEALTH TECHNOLOGY. To minimize adverse aesthetic and visual
impacts on the land, property, buildings, and other facilities adjacent to,
surrounding, and generally in the same area as the requested location of such
wireless telecommunications facilities, which shall mean using the least
visually and physically intrusive facility that is not technologically or
commercially impracticable under the facts and circumstances.
   TELECOMMUNICATION SITE. See definition for WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS
FACILITIES.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS. The transmission and/or reception of audio, video, data,
and other information by wire, radio frequency, light, and other electronic or
electromagnetic systems.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS STRUCTURE.  A structure used in the provision of services
described in the definition of wireless telecommunications facilities.
   TEMPORARY.  In relation to all aspects and components of this chapter,
something intended to, or that does, exist for fewer than 90 days.
   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES or TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWER or TOWER
or TELECOMMUNICATIONS SITE or PERSONAL WIRELESS FACILITY. A structure,
facility, or location designed, or intended to be used as, or used to support,
antennas or other transmitting or receiving devices. This includes without
limit towers of all types and kinds, and structures that employ camouflage
technology, including but not limited to structures such as a multi-story
building, church steeple, silo, water tower, sign, or other structures that can
be used to mitigate the visual impact of an antenna or the functional
equivalent of such, including all related facilities such as cabling, equipment
shelters, and other structures associated with the site. It is a structure and
facility intended for transmitting and/or receiving radio, television,
cellular, paging, 9-1-1, personal telecommunications services, commercial
satellite services, microwave services, and services not licensed by the FCC
but not expressly exempt from the county’s siting, building, and permitting
authority, excluding those used exclusively for the state or county’s emergency
management or law enforcement, or exclusively for private, noncommercial radio
and television reception and private citizen’s band, amateur radio, and other
similar noncommercial telecommunications where the height of the facility is
below the height limits set forth in this chapter.
   ZONING COMPLIANCE PERMIT. An administrative document issued under the
authority of §
155.281 of this code.
(1996 Code, § 156.04) (Ord. passed 10-7-2002; Ord. passed 12-4-2006; Ord.
passed 12-3-2007)
SPECIAL USE PERMITS
§ 156.015 OVERALL POLICY AND DESIRED GOALS.
   In order to ensure that the placement, construction, and modification of
wireless telecommunications facilities protects the county’s health, safety,
public welfare, environmental features, the nature and character of the
community and neighborhood and other aspects of the quality of life
specifically listed elsewhere in this chapter, the county hereby adopts an
overall policy with respect to a special use or zoning compliance permit for
wireless telecommunications facilities for the express purpose of achieving the
following goals:
   (A)   Implementing an application process for person(s) seeking a special
use or zoning compliance permit for wireless telecommunications facilities;
   (B)   Establishing a policy for examining an application for and issuing a
special use or zoning compliance permit for wireless telecommunications
facilities that is both fair and consistent;
   (C)   Promoting and encouraging, wherever possible, the sharing and/or co-
location of wireless telecommunications facilities among service providers;
   (D)   Promoting, and encouraging, wherever possible, the placement, height,
and quantity of wireless telecommunications facilities in such a manner,
including but not limited to the use of stealth technology, to minimize adverse
aesthetic and visual impacts on the land, property, buildings, and other
facilities adjacent to, surrounding, and generally in the same area as the
requested location of such wireless telecommunications facilities, which shall
mean using the least visually and physically intrusive facility that is not
technologically or commercially impracticable under the facts and
circumstances;
   (E)   Assuring that any wireless telecommunications facilities are designed
and constructed so as to be structurally sound and otherwise safe; and
    (F)   Assuring that wireless telecommunications facilities are constructed
in compliance with all applicable codes and regulations, and in accordance with
the plans and design materials as approved during the permitting process.
(1996 Code, § 156.10) (Ord. passed 10-7-2002; Ord. passed 12-3-2007)
§ 156.016 APPLICATION AND OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All applicants for a special use or zoning compliance permit for
wireless telecommunications facilities or any modification of such facility
shall comply with the requirements set forth in this section.
      (1)   The Board of Adjustment.
         (a)   The Board of Adjustment is the officially designated county
agency or body to whom applications for a special use permit for wireless
telecommunications facilities must be made.
         (b)   The Board is authorized to review, analyze, evaluate, and make
decisions with respect to granting or not granting, recertifying or not
recertifying, or revoking special use permits for wireless telecommunications
facilities.
      (2)   Other official county agencies. The county may, at its discretion,
delegate or designate other official county agencies to accept, review,
analyze, evaluate, and make recommendations to the county with respect to the
granting or not granting, recertifying or not recertifying, or revoking of
special use or zoning compliance permits for wireless telecommunications
facilities.
   (B)   An application for a special use or zoning compliance permit for
wireless telecommunications facilities shall be signed on behalf of the
applicant by the person preparing the same, with knowledge of the contents and
representations made therein, and attesting to the truth and completeness of
the information.
      (1)   The landowner, if different from the applicant, shall also sign the
application.
      (2)   At the discretion of the county, any false or misleading statement
in the application may subject the applicant to denial of the application
without further consideration or opportunity for correction.
   (C)   Applications not meeting the requirements stated herein, or which are
otherwise incomplete, may be returned by the county with deficiencies noted.
   (D)   The applicant shall include a statement in writing:
      (1)   That the applicant’s proposed wireless telecommunications
facilities shall be maintained in a safe manner, and in compliance with all
conditions of the special use or zoning compliance permit, without exception,
unless specifically granted relief by the county in writing, as well as all
applicable and permissible local codes, ordinances and regulations, including
any and all applicable county, state, and federal laws, rules, and regulations;
and
      (2)   That the construction of the wireless telecommunications facilities
is legally permissible, including but not limited to the fact that the
applicant is authorized to do business in the state.
   (E)   No wireless telecommunications facilities shall be installed or
constructed until the application is reviewed and approved by the county, and
the special use or zoning compliance permit has been issued.
   (F)   All applications for the construction or installation of new wireless
telecommunications facilities shall contain the information hereinafter set
forth. The application shall be signed by an authorized individual on behalf of
the applicant. Where a certification is called for, such certification shall
bear the signature and seal of a professional engineer licensed in the state.
The application shall include the following information:
       (1)   The name, address, and phone number of the person preparing the
report;
      (2)   The name, address, and phone number of the property owner,
operator, and applicant, including the legal form of the applicant;
      (3)   The postal address and tax map parcel number of the property;
      (4)   The zoning district or designation in which the property is
situated;
      (5)   The size of the property stated, both in square feet and lot line
dimensions, and a diagram showing the location of all lot lines (this
requirement is waived if co-locating on an existing tower, originally designed
and constructed to support antennas);
      (6)   The location of the nearest residential structure (this requirement
is waived if co-locating on an existing tower, originally designed and
constructed to support antennas);
      (7)   The location, size, and height of all structures on the property
that is the subject of the application (this requirement is waived if co-
locating on an existing tower, originally designed and constructed to support
antennas);
      (8)   The location, size, and height of all proposed and existing
antennas and all appurtenant structures;
      (9)   The types, locations, and dimensions of all proposed and existing
landscaping, and fencing (if co-locating on an existing tower, and there is
insufficient area to install required screening due to a change in landscaping
required by this chapter, waiver shall be granted upon documentation of such);
      (10)   The number, type, and design of the tower(s) and antenna(s)
proposed, and the basis for the calculations of the tower’s capacity to
accommodate multiple users;
      (11)   The make, model, and manufacturer of the tower and antenna(s);
      (12)   A description of the proposed tower and antenna(s), and all
related fixtures, structures, appurtenances, and apparatus, including height
above pre-existing grade, materials, color, and lighting;
      (13)   Certification that the proposed antenna(s) will not cause
interference with other telecommunications devices;
      (14)   A copy of the FCC license applicable for the intended use of the
wireless telecommunications facilities; and
      (15)   Certification that a topographic and geomorphologic study and
analysis has been conducted, and taking into account the subsurface and
substrata, and the proposed drainage plan, that the site is adequate to assure
the stability of the proposed wireless telecommunications facilities on the
proposed site. (If co-locating on an existing tower originally designed and
constructed to support antennas, such information is on record in the Planning
Department and sufficient to verify the foundation stability of the existing
tower, then this requirement shall be waived.)
   (G)   In the case of a new tower, the applicant shall be required to submit
a written report demonstrating his, her, or its meaningful efforts to secure
shared use of existing tower(s) or the use of alternative buildings or other
structures within the county.
       (1)   Copies of written requests and responses for shared use shall be
provided to the county in the application, along with any letters of rejection
stating the reason for such rejection.
      (2)   If co-locating a wireless facility on an existing tower, originally
designed and constructed to support antennas, this requirement shall be waived.
   (H)   An applicant may be required to submit an environmental assessment
analysis and a visual addendum.
      (1)   Based on the results of the analysis, including the visual
addendum, the Board of Adjustment may require submission of a more detailed
visual analysis.
      (2)   The scope of the required environmental and visual assessment will
be reviewed at the pre-application meeting.
      (3)   If co-locating a wireless facility on an existing tower, originally
designed and constructed to support antennas, and the proposed wireless
facility does not increase the height of the existing tower, this requirement
shall be waived.
   (I)   The applicant shall furnish a visual impact assessment, which shall
include:
      (1)   A “Zone of Visibility Map,” which shall be provided in order to
determine locations from which the tower may be seen;
      (2)   Pictorial representations of “before and after” views from key
viewpoints both inside and outside of the county as may be appropriate,
including but not limited to state highways and other major roads; state and
local parks; other public lands; historic districts; preserves and historic
sites normally open to the public; and from any other location where the site
is visible to a large number of visitors, travelers, or residents. At a pre-
application meeting, guidance will be provided concerning the appropriate key
sites;
      (3)   An assessment of the visual impact of the tower base, wires,
cabling, and accessory buildings, from abutting and adjacent properties and
streets, as relates to the need or appropriateness of screening; and
      (4)   If co-locating a wireless facility on an existing tower, originally
designed and constructed to support antennas, and the proposed wireless
facility does not increase the height of the existing tower, this requirement
shall be waived.
   (J)   The applicant shall demonstrate, and provide in writing and/or by
drawing, how it shall effectively screen from view the base and all related
facilities and structures of the proposed wireless telecommunications
facilities. (If co-locating on an existing tower, and there is insufficient
area to install required screening due to a change in landscaping required by
this chapter, waiver shall be granted upon documentation of such.)
   (K)   Any and all representations made by the applicant to the county on the
record during the application process, whether written or verbal, shall be
deemed a part of the application and may be relied upon in good faith by the
Board of Adjustment.
   (L)   All utilities at a wireless telecommunications facilities site shall
be installed underground.
   (M)   All wireless telecommunications facilities shall contain a
demonstration that the facility is sited so as to be the least visually and
physically intrusive means that is not commercially or technologically
impracticable, and thereby have the least adverse visual effect on the
environment of the neighborhood and the county and its character, on existing
vegetation, and on the residences in the general area of the wireless
telecommunications facility. (If co-locating a wireless facility on an existing
tower, originally designed and constructed to support antennas, and the
proposed wireless facility does not increase the height of the existing tower,
this requirement shall be waived.)
   (N)   Both the wireless telecommunications facility and any and all
accessory or associated facilities shall maximize the use of building
materials, colors, and textures designed to blend with the structure to which
they may be affixed and/or to harmonize with the natural surroundings.
      (1)   This shall include the utilization of stealth or concealment
technology as may required by the county.
      (2)   If co-locating a wireless facility on an existing tower, originally
designed and constructed to support antennas, and the proposed wireless
facility does not increase the height of the existing tower, this requirement
shall be waived.
   (O)   At a telecommunications site, an access road, turnaround space, and
parking shall be provided to assure adequate emergency and service access.
      (1)   Maximum use of existing roads, whether public or private, shall be
made to the extent practicable.
      (2)   Road construction shall at all times minimize ground disturbance
and the cutting of vegetation.
      (3)   Road grades shall closely follow natural contours to assure minimal
visual disturbance and reduce soil erosion.
      (4)   If co-locating on an existing tower, and there is insufficient area
to install required emergency access due to the size or location of the
existing site, waiver shall be granted upon documentation of such.
   (P)   A holder of a special use or zoning compliance permit granted under
this chapter shall obtain, at its own expense, all permits and licenses
required by applicable law, rule, regulation, or code, and must maintain the
same in full force and effect, for as long as required by the county or other
governmental entity or agency having jurisdiction over the applicant.
   (Q)   With respect to this application process, the Board of Adjustment may
conduct an environmental review of the proposed project in conjunction with its
review of the application under this chapter.
   (R)   (1)   An applicant shall submit to the county the number of completed
applications determined to be needed at the pre-application meeting.
      (2)   Written notification of the application shall be provided to the
legislative body of all adjacent municipalities.
   (S)   The applicant shall examine the feasibility of designing a proposed
tower to accommodate future demand for at least five additional commercial
applications, for example, future co-locations.
      (1)   The tower shall be structurally designed to accommodate at least
five additional antenna arrays equal to those of the applicant, and located as
close as possible to the applicant’s antenna without causing interference.
      (2)   This requirement may be waived, provided that the applicant, in
writing, demonstrates that the provisions of future shared usage of the tower
is not technologically feasible, is commercially impracticable, or creates an
unnecessary and unreasonable burden, based upon:
         (a)   The foreseeable number of FCC licenses available for the area;
         (b)   The kind of wireless telecommunications facilities, site, and
structure proposed;
         (c)   The number of existing and potential licenses without wireless
telecommunications facilities spaces/sites in the county; and
         (d)   Available space on existing and approved towers.
      (3)   If co-locating a wireless facility on an existing tower, originally
designed and constructed to support antennas, and the proposed wireless
facility does not increase the height of the existing tower, this requirement
shall be waived.
   (T)   (1)   The owner of the proposed new tower, and his or her successors
in interest, shall negotiate in good faith for the shared use of the proposed
tower by other wireless service providers in the future, and shall:
         (a)   Respond within 60 days to a request for information from a
potential shared-use applicant;
         (b)   Negotiate in good faith concerning future requests for shared
use of the new tower by other telecommunications providers; and
         (c)   Allow shared use of the new tower if another telecommunications
provider agrees in writing to pay reasonable charges. The charges may include
but are not limited to a pro-rata share of the cost of site selection,
planning, project administration, land costs, site design, construction and
maintenance financing, return on equity less depreciation, and all of the costs
of adapting the tower or equipment to accommodate a shared user without causing
electro- magnetic interference.
      (2)   Failure to abide by the conditions outlined above may be grounds
for revocation of the special use or zoning compliance permit for the tower.
   (U)   There shall be a pre-application meeting.
      (1)   A pre-application meeting may be conducted by telephone,
teleconference, video, or other alternate means when a site visit has been
conducted previously at the location.
      (2)   The purpose of the pre-application meeting will be to identify and
address issues that could otherwise result in a more prolonged review process
than necessary and which will help to expedite the review and permitting
process.
      (3)   A pre-application meeting shall also include a site visit if there
has not been a prior site visit for the requested site or if deemed necessary
by the county.
   (V)   The holder of, or the applicant for, a special use or zoning
compliance permit shall notify the county of any intended modification of a
wireless telecommunication facility, and shall apply to the county to modify,
relocate or rebuild a wireless telecommunications facility.
   (W)   In order to better inform the public, in the case of a new tower, the
applicant shall, prior to the public hearing on the application, hold a
“balloon test.”
      (1)   If co-locating a wireless facility on an existing tower, originally
designed and constructed to support antennas, and the proposed wireless
facility does not increase the height of the existing tower, this requirement
shall be waived.
      (2)   The applicant shall arrange to fly, or raise upon a temporary mast,
a minimum of one brightly colored balloon, three feet in diameter, at the
maximum height of the proposed new tower.
      (3)   The dates (including a second date, in case of poor visibility on
the initial date), times, and location of this balloon test shall be advertised
by the applicant, seven and 14 days in advance of the first test date, in a
newspaper with a general circulation in the county.
      (4)   The applicant shall submit an affidavit certifying the publication
dates and the content of the advertisement.
      (5)   The applicant shall inform the Planning Department, in writing, of
the dates and times of the test, at least 14 days in advance.
       (6)   The balloon shall be flown for at least four consecutive hours
sometime between 7:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. on the dates chosen.
      (7)   The primary date shall be on a weekend, but in case of poor weather
on the initial date, the secondary date may be on a weekday.
   (X)   The applicant will provide a written copy of an analysis, completed by
a qualified individual or organization, to determine if the tower or existing
structure intended to support wireless facilities requires lighting under
Federal Aviation Administration regulations, 14 C.F.R. 77.
      (1)   This requirement shall be for any new tower or for an existing
structure or building where the application increases the height of the
structure or building.
      (2)   If this analysis determines that the FAA must be contacted, then
all filings with the FAA, all responses from the FAA, and any related
correspondence shall be provided in a timely manner.
      (3)   If co-locating a wireless facility on an existing tower, originally
designed and constructed to support antennas, and the proposed wireless
facility does not increase the height of the existing tower, this requirement
shall be waived.
   (Y)   Applications shall be submitted in a three- ring binder.
      (1)   The application shall contain a table of contents, which shall list
each section and subsection and the issue required to be addressed.
      (2)   Requests for waiver shall be clearly set forth and indicated in the
table of contents, with an explanation for the request for waiver contained in
the appropriate section of the application.
      (3)   Each issue or matter addressed in the chapter that requires a
response, including requests for waiver, shall be set forth in a separate
section (i.e., tab) in the application.
(1996 Code, § 156.11) (Ord. passed 10-7-2002; Ord. passed 12-3-2007) Penalty,
see §
156.999
§ 156.017 LOCATION.
   (A)   Applicants for a special use or zoning compliance permit for wireless
telecommunications facilities are encouraged to locate, site, and erect such
facilities in accordance with the following priorities, division (A)(1) below
being the highest priority and division (A)(4) being the lowest priority:
      (1)   On existing structures without increasing the height of the tower
or structure;
      (2)   On county-owned properties or facilities;
      (3)   On properties zoned commercial (H-B or C-S) or industrial (I-1, I-
2, I-3, or I-4); and
      (4)   On properties zoned Residential-Agricultural (R-A).
   (B)   (1)   If the proposed site is not the highest priority listed above,
then a detailed explanation must be provided as to why such a site was not
selected.
       (2)   The person seeking such an exception must satisfactorily
demonstrate the reason or reasons why such a permit should be granted for the
proposed site, and the hardship that would be incurred by the applicant if the
permit were not granted for the proposed site.
   (C)   An application shall address co-location as the preference of the
county. If such option is not proposed, the applicant must explain to the
reasonable satisfaction of the county why co-location is commercially or
otherwise impracticable.
   (D)   Notwithstanding the above, the county may approve any site located
within an area in the above list of priorities, provided that the county finds
that the proposed site is in the best interest of the health, safety and
welfare of the county and its inhabitants, and will not have a deleterious
effect on the nature and character of the community and neighborhood, or the
site is a public necessity.
   (E)   (1)   The applicant shall submit a written report demonstrating the
applicant’s review of the above locations in order of priority, demonstrating
the technological reason for the site selection.
      (2)   If appropriate, based on selecting a site of lower priority, a
detailed written explanation as to why sites of a higher priority were not
selected shall be included with the application.
   (F)   Notwithstanding that a potential site may be situated in an area of
highest priority or highest available priority, the county may disapprove an
application for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Conflict with safety and safety-related codes and requirements;
      (2)   Conflict with the historic nature or character of a neighborhood or
historical district;
      (3)   The use or construction of wireless telecommunications facilities
that are contrary to an already stated purpose of a specific zoning or land use
designation;
      (4)   The placement and location of wireless telecommunications
facilities that would create an unacceptable risk, or the reasonable
probability of such, to residents, the public, employees, and agents of the
county, or employees of the service provider or other service providers; and/or
      (5)   Conflicts with the provisions of this chapter.
(1996 Code, § 156.12) (Ord. passed 10-7-2002; Ord. passed 12-3-2007)
§ 156.018 SHARED USE.
   (A)   (1)   Locating on existing towers or other structures without
increasing the height, as opposed to the construction of a new tower, shall
always be preferred by the county.
      (2)   The applicant shall submit a comprehensive report inventorying all
existing towers and all other suitable structures within four miles of the
location of any proposed new tower, unless the applicant can show that some
other distance is more reasonable, and can demonstrate conclusively why an
existing tower or other suitable structure cannot be used.
   (B)   In order to permit its use by an applicant, the applicant intending to
locate on an existing tower or other suitable structure shall be required to
document the intent of its existing owner.
    (C)   Such shared use shall consist only of the minimum antenna array
technologically required to provide service primarily and essentially within
the county, to the extent practicable, unless good cause is shown.
(1996 Code, § 156.13) (Ord. passed 10-7-2002; Ord. passed 12-3-2007)
§ 156.019 HEIGHT OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWER(S).
   (A)   (1)   The applicant shall submit documentation justifying the total
height of any tower, facility, and/or antenna, and the basis therefor.
      (2)   Such documentation will be analyzed in the context of the
justification of the minimum height needed to provide service to an area that
is without service, and is primarily and essentially within the county, to the
extent practicable, unless good cause is shown.
   (B)   If the need for a new tower can be proven, the maximum permitted
height of a new tower shall be the minimum needed to accommodate six carriers,
taking into account the neighboring tree height or the height of any nearby
obstruction that would effectively block the signal in that direction.
      (1)   No tower shall exceed 199 feet in total height, including antennas
and supporting antenna structures.
      (2)   All towers shall be designed to the maximum height of 199 feet, but
shall be constructed only to the minimum height needed to accommodate six
carriers.
      (3)   Noncommercial telecommunications towers that are for the exclusive
use of the state or county’s emergency management or law enforcement may exceed
the maximum commercial height limitation with increased setbacks that meet the
requirements in §
156.023.
   (C)   No wireless facility constructed after the effective date of this
chapter, including allowing for all attachments, shall exceed that height which
shall permit operation without required artificial lighting of any kind in
accordance with municipal, county, state, and/or any federal statute, law,
local law, county ordinance, code, rule, or regulation.
(1996 Code, § 156.14) (Ord. passed 10-7-2002; Ord. passed 12-4-2006; Ord.
passed 12-3-2007) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.020 APPEARANCE AND VISIBILITY.
   (A)   Wireless telecommunications facilities shall not be artificially
lighted or marked, except as required by law.
   (B)   Towers shall be galvanized or painted with a rust-preventive paint of
an appropriate color to harmonize with the surroundings, and shall be
maintained in accordance with the requirements of this chapter and any
conditions of the special use or zoning compliance permit.
   (C)   If lighting is required, the applicant shall provide a detailed plan
for sufficient lighting of as unobtrusive and inoffensive an effect as is
permissible under state and federal regulations.
   (D)   (1)   To reduce the overall visual impact of a new tower, towers shall
be limited to monopole, mast, or lattice structures only.
      (2)   Guyed towers shall only be allowed for state or county emergency
management or law enforcement noncommercial wireless telecommunication
facilities that exceed the maximum commercial height limitation.
    (E)   Landscaping shall be required around the perimeter of the secured
area.
      (1)   Such landscaping shall, at a minimum, comply with this chapter’s
standards for landscape buffers and screening.
      (2)   The Board of Adjustment may require additional landscaping to
effectively screen the secured area.
(1996 Code, § 156.15) (Ord. passed 10-7-2002; Ord. passed 12-4-2006; Ord.
passed 12-3-2007) Penalty, see §
156.999
Cross-reference:
   Landscaping and buffer requirements, see §
155.172
§ 156.021 SECURITY.
   (A)   All wireless telecommunications facilities and antennas shall be
located, fenced, or otherwise secured in a manner that prevents unauthorized
access.
   (B)   Specifically:
      (1)   All antennas, towers, and other supporting structures, wires, and
cabling shall be made inaccessible to unauthorized individuals, and constructed
or shielded in such a manner that they cannot be subject to climbing or
collision;
      (2)   Transmitters and telecommunications control points shall be
installed such a manner that they are readily accessible only to persons
authorized to operate or service them; and
      (3)   All fencing shall be in harmony and concert with the nature and
character of the neighborhood, and maintained in a manner so as to retain its
originally installed appearance.
(1996 Code, § 156.16) (Ord. passed 10-7-2002; Ord. passed 12-3-2007) Penalty,
see §
156.999
§ 156.022 SIGNAGE.
   (A)   Wireless telecommunications facilities shall contain a sign no larger
than four square feet, providing adequate notification to persons in the
immediate area of the presence of an antenna that has transmission
capabilities, and containing the name(s) of the owner(s) and operator(s) of the
antenna(s) as well as emergency phone number(s).
   (B)   The sign shall be on the equipment shelter or cabinet of the applicant
and visible from the access point of the site, and must identify the equipment
owner of the shelter or cabinet.
   (C)   The sign shall not be lighted, unless lighting is required by
applicable law, rule, or regulation.
   (D)   Advertising or other signs unrelated to the safety of the facility
shall not be permitted.
(1996 Code, § 156.17) (Ord. passed 10-7-2002; Ord. passed 12-3-2007) Penalty,
see §
156.999
§ 156.023 LOT SIZE AND SETBACKS.
   (A)   All proposed towers and any other proposed wireless telecommunications
facility structures shall be set back from abutting parcels, recorded rights-
of-way and road and street lines by the greater of the following distances: a
distance equal to the height of the proposed wireless telecommunications
facility structure plus 10% of the height of the facility or structure, or the
existing setback requirement of the underlying zoning district.
       (1)   Notwithstanding the preceding, no tower shall be located nearer
than 1,000 feet from a single-family residence, unless the county is provided
with the written consent of any resident located closer than 1,000 feet from
the proposed facility, showing agreement to a lesser setback.
      (2)   No habitable structures unrelated to the operation of the wireless
telecommunications facility shall be permitted within the required setback.
   (B)   A tower that exceeds the maximum commercial height limitation shall
further increase its setback 10% for each additional 50 feet over the maximum
height.
      (1)   Notwithstanding the preceding, no tower shall be located nearer
than 1,000 feet from a single-family residence, unless the county is provided
with the written consent of any resident located closer than 1,000 feet from
the proposed facility, showing agreement to a lesser setback.
      (2)   Towers shall be located at least 500 feet from either:
         (a)   The nearest paved public street maintained by a municipality or
the NCDOT; or
         (b)   The nearest private street as identified and addressed under the
county’s (or any other municipal) addressing ordinance.
(1996 Code, § 156.18) (Ord. passed 10-7-2002; Ord. passed 12-4-2006; Ord.
passed 12-3-2007) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.024 RETENTION OF EXPERT ASSISTANCE AND REIMBURSEMENT BY APPLICANT.
   The county may hire any consultant and/or expert necessary to assist the
county in reviewing and evaluating the application, including the construction
and modification of the site, once permitted, and any requests for
recertification.
(1996 Code, § 156.19) (Ord. passed 10-7-2002; Ord. passed 12-3-2007) Penalty,
see §
156.999
§ 156.025 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall be permitted to site, place, build, construct, modify,
or prepare any site for the placement or use of wireless telecommunications
facilities as of the effective date of this chapter, without having first
obtained a special use or zoning compliance permit for such facilities.
      (1)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this section, no
special use permit shall be required for those noncommercial exceptions noted
in the definition of wireless telecommunications facilities.
      (2)   Zoning compliance permits may apply to noncommercial exceptions
noted in the definition of wireless telecommunications facilities.
   (B)   All wireless telecommunications facilities existing on or before the
effective date of this chapter shall be allowed to continue as they presently
exist; provided, however, that any visible modification of an existing wireless
telecommunications facility must comply with this chapter.
(1996 Code, § 156.20) (Ord. passed 10-7-2002; Ord. passed 12-3-2007) Penalty,
see §
156.999
§ 156.026 PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Prior to the approval of any application for a special use
permit for wireless telecommunications facilities, a public hearing shall be
held by the Board of Adjustment.
      (2)   In order that the county may notify nearby landowners, the
application shall contain the names and addresses of all landowners whose
property is located within 500 feet of any property line of the lot or parcel
on which the new wireless telecommunications facilities are proposed to be
located.
   (B)   There shall be no public hearing required for an application for a
zoning compliance permit to co- locate on an existing tower or other structure,
as long as there is no proposed increase in the height of the tower or
structure, including attachments thereto.
   (C)   The county shall schedule the public hearing referred to in division
(A) above once it finds the application is complete.
   (D)   At any stage prior to issuing a special use permit, the county may
require such additional information as it deems necessary.
(1996 Code, § 156.21) (Ord. passed 10-7-2002; Ord. passed 12-3-2007)
§ 156.027 ACTION ON AN APPLICATION.
   (A)   The county will undertake a review of an application pursuant to this
chapter in a timely fashion, and shall act within a reasonable period of time
given the relative complexity of the application and the circumstances, with
due regard for the public’s interest and need to be involved, and the
applicant’s desire for a timely resolution.
   (B)   The county may refer any application, or part thereof, to any advisory
or other committee for a non-binding recommendation.
   (C)   After the public hearing and after formally considering the
application, the Board of Adjustment may approve, approve with conditions, or
deny a special use permit.
      (1)   Its decision shall be in writing, and shall be supported by
substantial evidence contained in a written record.
      (2)   The burden of proof for the grant of the permit shall always be
upon the applicant.
   (D)   If the Board of Adjustment approves the special use permit for a
wireless telecommunications facility, then the applicant shall be notified of
such approval in writing within ten calendar days of the Board’s action.
      (1)   The special use permit shall be issued within 30 days after such
approval.
      (2)   Except for necessary building permits and subsequent certificates
of compliance, once a special use permit has been granted hereunder, no
additional permits or approvals from the county, such as site plan or zoning
approvals, shall be required by the county for the wireless telecommunications
facilities covered by the special use permit.
   (E)   If the Board of Adjustment denies the special use permit for wireless
telecommunications facilities, then the applicant shall be notified of such
denial in writing within ten calendar days of the Board’s action.
(1996 Code, § 156.22) (Ord. passed 10-7-2002)
§ 156.028 EXTENT AND PARAMETERS OF A SPECIAL USE PERMIT.
   The extent and parameters of a special use or zoning compliance permit for
wireless telecommunications facilities shall be as follows:
   (A)   Such special use or zoning compliance permit shall be nonexclusive;
   (B)   Such special use permit or zoning compliance shall not be assigned,
transferred, or conveyed without written notification to the county; and
   (C)   After prior written notice to the permit holder and a subsequent
hearing, such special use or zoning compliance permit may be revoked, canceled,
or terminated for a violation of its conditions and provisions, or for a
material violation of this chapter.
(1996 Code, § 156.24) (Ord. passed 10-7-2002; Ord. passed 12-3-2007)
§ 156.029 APPLICATION FEE.
   (A)   At the time that a person submits an application for a special use
permit for a new tower or to co-locate a wireless facility on an existing tower
or structure, such person shall pay a nonrefundable application fee to be
established by the Board of County Commissioners.
   (B)   (1)   No application fee is required in order to recertify a special
use or zoning compliance permit for wireless telecommunications facilities,
unless there has been, since the date of its issuance, a visible modification
of the facility for which the conditions of the special use or zoning
compliance permit has not previously been modified.
      (2)   In the case of any such modification, the fees provided in division
(A) above shall apply.
(1996 Code, § 156.25) (Ord. passed 10-7-2002; Ord. passed 12-3-2007)
§ 156.030 PERFORMANCE SECURITY.
   (A)   The applicant and the owner of record of any proposed wireless
telecommunications facilities property site shall, at his, her, or its cost and
expense, be jointly required to execute and file with the county a bond,
renewable letter of credit, or other form of security acceptable to the county
as to type of security and the form and manner of execution, in an amount of at
least $75,000 for new towers and $25,000 for facilities co-located on existing
structures or towers, and with such sureties as are deemed sufficient by the
county to assure the faithful performance of the terms and conditions of this
chapter, and the conditions of any special use or zoning compliance permit
issued pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   The full amount of the bond or security shall remain in full force and
effect throughout the term of the special use or zoning compliance permit and/
or until any necessary site restoration is completed to restore the site to a
condition comparable to that which existed prior to the issuance of the
original special use or zoning compliance permit.
(1996 Code, § 156.26) (Ord. passed 10-7-2002; Ord. passed 12-3-2007)
§ 156.031 THE COUNTY’S RESERVATION OF ITS AUTHORITY TO INSPECT.
   In order to verify that the holder of a special use or zoning compliance
permit for wireless telecommunications facilities and any and all lessees,
renters, and/or licensees of wireless telecommunications facilities, place and
construct such facilities, including towers and antennas, in accordance with
all applicable technical, safety, fire, building, and zoning codes, laws,
ordinances, regulations, and other applicable requirements, the county may
inspect all facets of the permit holder’s, renter’s, lessee’s, or licensee’s
placement, construction, modification, and maintenance of such facilities,
including but not limited to towers, antennas, buildings, or other structures
constructed or located on the permitted site.
(1996 Code, § 156.27) (Ord. passed 10-7-2002; Ord. passed 12-3-2007)
§ 156.032 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   (A)   A holder of a special use or zoning compliance permit for wireless
telecommunications facilities shall secure and at all times maintain public
liability insurance for personal injuries, death and property damage, and
umbrella insurance coverage, for the duration of the special use or zoning
compliance permit in amounts as set forth below:
      (1)   Commercial general liability covering personal injuries, death, and
property damage: $1,000,000 per occurrence and $2,000,000 aggregate;
      (2)   Automobile coverage: $1,000,000 per occurrence and $2,000,000
aggregate; and
      (3)   Workers’ compensation and disability: statutory amounts.
   (B)   The commercial general liability insurance policy shall specifically
include the county and its officers, boards, employees, committee members,
attorneys, agents, and consultants as additional named insureds.
   (C)   The insurance policies shall be issued by an agent or representative
of an insurance company licensed to do business in the state, with a Best’s
rating of at least A.
   (D)   The insurance policies shall contain an endorsement obligating the
insurance company to furnish the county with at least 30 days’ prior written
notice in advance of the cancellation of the insurance.
   (E)   Renewal or replacement policies or certificates shall be delivered to
the county at least 15 days before the expiration of those policies they are to
renew or replace.
   (F)   Before construction of a permitted wireless telecommunications
facilities is initiated, but in no case later than 15 days after the grant of
the special use or zoning compliance permit, the permit holder shall deliver to
the county a copy of each of the policies or certificates representing the
insurance in the required amounts.
(1996 Code, § 156.29) (Ord. passed 10-7-2002; Ord. passed 12-3-2007) Penalty,
see §
156.999
§ 156.033 INDEMNIFICATION.
   (A)   Any application for wireless telecommunications facilities that is
proposed for county property pursuant to this chapter shall contain a provision
with respect to indemnification.
      (1)   To the extent permitted by law, such provision shall require the
applicant to at all times defend, indemnify, protect, save, hold harmless, and
exempt the county and its officers, boards, employees, committee members,
attorneys, agents, and consultants from any and all penalties, damages, costs,
or charges arising out of any and all claims, suits, demands, causes of action,
or award of damages, whether compensatory or punitive, or expenses arising
therefrom, either at law or in equity, which might arise out of or be caused by
the placement, construction, erection, modification, location, product
performance, use, operation, maintenance, repair, installation, replacement,
removal, or restoration of such facility; excepting, however, any portion of
such claims, suits, demands, causes of action, or award of damages as may be
attributable to the negligent or intentional acts or omissions of the county,
or its servants or agents.
      (2)   With respect to the penalties, damages, or charges referenced
herein, reasonable attorneys’ fees, consultants’ fees, and expert witness fees
are included in those costs that are recoverable by the county.
    (B)   Notwithstanding the requirements noted in division (A) above, an
indemnification provision will not be required in those instances where the
county, itself, applies for and secures a special use or zoning compliance
permit for wireless telecommunications facilities.
(1996 Code, § 156.30) (Ord. passed 10-7-2002; Ord. passed 12-3-2007)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 156.045 DEFAULT AND/OR REVOCATION.
   (A)   If wireless telecommunications facilities are repaired, rebuilt,
placed, moved, relocated, modified, or maintained in a way that is inconsistent
or not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter or of the special use
or zoning compliance permit, then the county shall notify the permit holder in
writing of such violation.
      (1)   Such notice shall specify the nature of the violation or
noncompliance and that the violations must be corrected within seven days of
the date of the postmark of the notice, or of the date of personal service of
the notice, whichever is earlier.
      (2)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this division (A) or in
any other section of this chapter, if the violation causes, creates, or
presents an imminent danger or threat to the health or safety of lives or
property, the county may, at its sole discretion, order the violation remedied
within 24 hours.
   (B)   If, within the period set forth in division (A) above, the wireless
telecommunications facilities are not brought into compliance with the
provisions of this chapter, or of the special use or zoning compliance permit,
or substantial steps are not taken in order to bring the affected wireless
telecommunications facilities into compliance, then the county may revoke such
special use or zoning compliance permit, and shall notify the permit holder
within 48 hours of such action.
(1996 Code, § 156.41) (Ord. passed 10-7-2002; Ord. passed 12-3-2007)
§ 156.046 REMOVAL OF WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES.
   (A)   Under the following circumstances, the county may determine that its
health, safety, and welfare interests warrant and require the removal of
wireless telecommunications facilities:
      (1)   Wireless telecommunications facilities with a permit have been
abandoned (i.e., not used as wireless telecommunications facilities) for a
period exceeding 90 consecutive days, or a total of 180 days in any 365-day
period, except for periods caused by force majeure or acts of God, in which
case repair or removal shall commence within 90 days;
      (2)   Permitted wireless telecommunications facilities fall into such a
state of disrepair that they create a health or safety hazard; and/or
      (3)   Wireless telecommunications facilities have been located,
constructed, or modified without first obtaining, or in a manner not authorized
by, the required special use or zoning compliance permit, or any other
necessary authorization.
   (B)   (1)   If it makes any such determination as noted in division (A)
above, then the county shall notify the permit holder within 48 hours that such
wireless telecommunications facilities are to be removed.
      (2)   In such case, the county may approve a temporary use permit, as
prescribed by this chapter, to enable the sale of the wireless
telecommunications facilities.
   (C)   (1)   The holder of the special use or zoning compliance permit, or
its successors or assigns, shall dismantle and remove such wireless
telecommunications facilities, and all associated structures and facilities,
from the site and restore the site to as close to its original condition as is
possible, such restoration being limited only by physical or commercial
impracticability, within 90 days of the receipt of written notice from the
county.
      (2)   However, if the owner of the property upon which the wireless
telecommunications facilities are located wishes to retain any access roadway
to the wireless telecommunications facilities, the owner may do so with the
approval of the county.
   (D)   If they are not removed or substantial progress has not been made to
remove them within 90 days after the permit holder has received notice, then
the county may order officials or representatives of the county to remove the
wireless telecommunications facilities at the sole expense of the owner or
permit holder.
   (E)   If the county removes, or causes to be removed, wireless
telecommunications facilities, and their owner does not claim and remove them
from the site to a lawful location within ten days, then the county may take
steps to declare the wireless telecommunications facilities abandoned, and to
sell them and their components.
   (F)   (1)   Notwithstanding anything in this section to the contrary, the
county may approve a temporary use permit/agreement for no more than 90 days,
during which time a suitable plan for removal, conversion, or relocation of the
affected wireless telecommunications facilities shall be developed by the
permit holder, subject to the approval of the county, and an agreement to such
plan shall be executed by the permit holder and the county.
      (2)   If such a plan is not developed, approved and executed within the
90-day time period, then the county may take possession of and dispose of the
affected wireless telecommunications facilities in the manner provided in this
section.
(1996 Code, § 156.42) (Ord. passed 10-7-2002; Ord. passed 12-3-2007)
WAIVER AND REVIEW
§ 156.060 WAIVER.
   (A)   Any applicant or permittee desiring waiver from any aspect or
requirement of this chapter may request such at the pre-application meeting,
provided that the waiver is contained in the original application for either a
special use or zoning compliance permit, or in the case of an existing or
previously granted special use or zoning compliance permit a request for
modification of its tower and/or facilities.
      (1)   Such waiver may be temporary or permanent, partial or complete.
      (2)   However, the burden of proving the need for the requested waiver is
solely on the applicant to prove.
   (B)   No such waiver shall be approved unless the applicant demonstrates by
clear and convincing evidence that, if granted, the waiver will have no
significant affect on the health, safety, and welfare of the county, its
residents, and other service providers.
(1996 Code, § 156.50) (Ord. passed 10-7-2002; Ord. passed 12-3-2007)
§ 156.061 PERIODIC REGULATORY REVIEW BY THE COUNTY.
   At any time and in any manner (to the extent permitted by federal, state, or
local law), the county may amend, add, repeal, and/or delete one or more
provisions of this chapter.
(1996 Code, § 156.51) (Ord. passed 10-7-2002; Ord. passed 12-3-2007)
APPLICATION OF OTHER LAWS
§ 156.075 ADHERENCE TO STATE AND/OR FEDERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   To the extent that the holder of a special use or zoning compliance
permit for wireless telecommunications facilities has not received relief, or
is otherwise exempt, from appropriate state and/or federal agency rules or
regulations, then the permit holder shall adhere to, and comply with, all
applicable rules, regulations, standards, and provisions of any state or
federal agency, including but not limited to the FAA and the FCC. Specifically
included in this requirement are any rules and regulations regarding height,
lighting, security, electrical, and RF emission standards.
   (B)   To the extent that applicable rules, regulations, standards, and
provisions of any state or federal agency, including but not limited to the FAA
and the FCC, and specifically including any rules and regulations regarding
height, lighting, and security, are changed and/or are modified during the
duration of a special use or zoning compliance permit, then the permit holder
shall conform the permitted wireless telecommunications facilities to the
applicable changed and/or modified rule, regulation, standard, or provision
within a maximum of 24 months of its effective date, or sooner, as may be
required by the issuing entity.
(1996 Code, § 156.60) (Ord. passed 10-7-2002; Ord. passed 12-3-2007)
§ 156.076 CONFLICT WITH OTHER LAWS.
   Where this chapter differs or conflicts with other laws, rules, and
regulations, unless the right to do so is preempted or prohibited by the
county, state, or federal government, this chapter shall apply.
(1996 Code, § 156.61) (Ord. passed 10-7-2002; Ord. passed 12-3-2007)
§ 156.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   In the event of a violation of this chapter, or of any special use or
zoning compliance permit issued pursuant to this chapter, the county may impose
and collect, and the holder of the special use or zoning compliance permit for
wireless telecommunications facilities shall pay to the county, fines or
penalties as set forth below.
   (B)   A violation of this chapter is hereby declared to be an offense,
punishable in the following manner:
      (1)   For conviction of a first offense, a fine not to exceed $350 per
day per occurrence or imprisonment for a period not to exceed six months, or
both;
      (2)   For conviction of a second offense committed within five years of a
first offense, a fine not less than $350 nor more than $700 or imprisonment for
a period not to exceed six months, or both; and
      (3)   Upon conviction for a third or subsequent offense, all of which
were committed within a period of five years, a fine not less than $700 nor
more than $1,000 or imprisonment for a period not to exceed six months, or
both.
   (C)   However, for the purpose of conferring jurisdiction upon courts and
judicial officers generally, violations of this chapter or of such ordinance or
regulation shall be deemed misdemeanors, and for such purpose only, all
provisions of law relating to misdemeanors shall apply to such violations.
   (D)   Each week’s continued violation shall constitute a separate additional
violation.
   (E)   Notwithstanding anything in this chapter, the holder of the special
use or zoning compliance permit for wireless telecommunications facilities may
not use the payment of fines, liquidated damages, or other penalties to evade
or avoid compliance with this chapter or any section of this chapter.
      (1)   An attempt to do so shall subject the permit holder to termination
and revocation of the special use or zoning compliance permit.
      (2)   The county may also seek injunctive relief to prevent the continued
violation of this chapter, without limiting other remedies available to the
county.
   (F)   Further, a violation of the above section of this code shall be a
violation of G.S. § 14-4 and such violation shall be classified as a Class 3
misdemeanor with a maximum fine of up to $450, except that any violations of §§
150.999,
154.99,
155.999, and
156.999 shall not be a violation of G.S. § 14-4 and shall not be considered a
misdemeanor.
(1996 Code, § 156.40) (Ord. passed 10-7-2002; Ord. passed 12-3-2007)
CHAPTER 157: VOLUNTARY AND ENHANCED VOLUNTARY AGRICULTURAL DISTRICTS
Section
   
157.01   Title
   
157.02   Authority
   
157.03   Purpose
   
157.04   Definitions
   
157.05   Agricultural Advisory Board
   
157.06   Creation of Voluntary Agricultural Districts and Enhanced Voluntary
Agricultural Districts
   
157.07   Certification and qualification of farmland
   
157.08   Application, approval, and appeal procedure
   
157.09   Revocation, enforcement, and renewal of conservation agreements
   
157.10   Waiver of water and sewer or all utility assessments
   
157.11   Additional Enhanced Agricultural District benefits
   
157.12   Public hearings
   
157.13   Notification
   
157.14   Subdivision Ordinance and Zoning Ordinance review
   
157.15   County land use planning
   
157.16   Consultation authority
   
157.17   State agency notification
   
157.18   Legal provisions
§ 157.01 TITLE.
   This chapter contains an ordinance of the Board of County Commissioners of
the county, entitled Voluntary Agricultural District and Enhanced Voluntary
District Chapter.
(1996 Code, § 157.01) (Ord. passed 1-7-2008; Ord. passed - -2018; Ord. passed
3-7-2022)
§ 157.02 AUTHORITY.
   The sections and divisions of this chapter are adopted pursuant to authority
conferred by G.S. §§ 106-735 through 106-744 and G.S. Chapter 153A.
(1996 Code, § 157.02) (Ord. passed 1-7-2008; Ord. passed - -2018; Ord. passed
3-7-2022)
§ 157.03 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to promote agricultural values and the
general welfare of the county and, more specifically, increase identity and
pride in the agricultural community and its way of life; encourage the economic
and financial health of agriculture, horticulture, and forestry; and decrease
the likelihood of legal disputes, such as nuisance actions between farm owners
and their neighbors.
(1996 Code, § 157.03) (Ord. passed 1-7-2008; Ord. passed - -2018; Ord. passed
3-7-2022)
§ 157.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADVISORY BOARD. The Davie County Agricultural Advisory Board.
   BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS. Davie County Board of Commissioners.
   CHAIRPERSON. Chairperson of the Davie County Agricultural Advisory Board.
   DISTRICT. Voluntary Agricultural District as established by this chapter.
   ENHANCED DISTRICT. Enhanced Voluntary Agricultural District as established
by this chapter.
(1996 Code, § 157.04) (Ord. passed 1-7-2008; Ord. passed - -2018; Ord. passed
3-7-2022)
§ 157.05 AGRICULTURAL ADVISORY BOARD.
   (A)   Creation. The Board of Commissioners shall establish an Agricultural
Advisory Board to implement the provisions of this program.
   (B)   Membership. The Advisory Board shall consist of no less than five
regular members and two alternate members appointed by the Board of
Commissioners.
   (C)   Membership requirements.
      (1)   Each Advisory Board member, except those serving in an ex officio
capacity, shall be a Davie County resident or landowner.
      (2)   At least four of the members shall be actively engaged in farming,
horticulture, and/or forestry. Of the members actively engaged in farming,
horticulture, and/or forestry there shall be at least one such member from each
agricultural district or Enhanced Agricultural District in the county. This
determination shall be made without reference to ex officio members.
      (3)   The members actively engaged in farming, horticulture, and/or
forestry as well as other members shall be selected for appointment by the
Board of Commissioners from the names of individuals submitted to the Board of
Commissioners by the Soil and Water Conservation District Board of Supervisors,
the county office of the State Cooperative Extension, the U.S. Farm Service
Agency County Committee, nonprofit agricultural organizations, conservation
organizations, agribusiness, horticultural businesses, forestry businesses, and
the public at large.
      (4)   Additional members may be appointed to the Board in an ex officio
capacity from the Soil and Water Conservation District, State Cooperative
Extension, the U.S. Farm Service Agency, or other agencies, as deemed necessary
by the Board of Commissioners. Members serving in an ex officio capacity shall
neither vote nor count toward quorum requirements.
   (D)   Tenure. The initial Board is to consist of two appointees for terms of
one year; two appointees for terms of two years; and three appointees for terms
of three years. Thereafter, all appointments are to be for terms of three
years, with reappointment permitted.
   (E)   Vacancies. Any vacancy on the Advisory Board is to be filled by the
Board of Commissioners for the remainder of the unexpired term.
   (F)   Removal. Any member of the Advisory Board may be removed by the Board
of Commissioners upon a two-thirds vote of the Commissioners. No cause for
removal shall be required.
   (G)   Funding. The per diem compensation, if any, of the members of the
Advisory Board may be fixed by the Board of Commissioners and funds may be
appropriated to the Advisory Board to perform its duties.
   (H)   Advisory Board procedure.
      (1)   Chairperson. The Advisory Board shall elect a Chairperson and Vice
Chairperson each year at its first meeting of the fiscal year. The Chairperson
shall preside over all regular or special meetings of the Advisory Board. In
the absence or disability of the Chairperson, the Vice Chairperson shall
preside and shall exercise all the powers of the Chairperson. Additional
officers may be elected as needed.
      (2)   Determination of procedure. The Advisory Board may adopt rules of
procedure not inconsistent with this chapter or with other provisions of state
law.
      (3)   Advisory Board year. The Advisory Board shall use the county fiscal
year as its meeting year.
      (4)   Meetings. Meetings of the Advisory Board shall be held at the call
of the Chairperson and at such other times as the Advisory Board may specify in
its rules of procedure or upon the request of at least a majority of the
Advisory Board membership. A meeting shall be held at least annually and notice
of any meetings to the members shall be in writing, unless otherwise agreed to
by all Advisory Board members. Meeting dates and times shall be posted as far
in advance as possible on the door of the meeting site and by advertisement in
local newspapers or by other means of public dissemination of the meeting dates
as may be agreed upon by at least a majority of the Advisory Board membership.
All meetings shall be open to the public.
      (5)   Majority vote and quorum requirements. All issues shall be decided
by a majority vote of the members of the Advisory Board present, except as
otherwise stated herein. A QUORUM is defined as at least two-thirds of the
voting members in attendance. No business may be conducted by the Advisory
Board without a quorum present.
      (6)   Records. The Advisory Board shall keep minutes of the proceedings
showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to
vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and
other official actions, all of which shall be filed in the office of the
Advisory Board, or its designee, and shall be a public record.
      (7)   Administrative. The Advisory Board may contract with the County
Cooperative Extension office to serve the Board for record keeping,
correspondence, application procedures under this, and whatever services the
Board needs to complete its duties.
   (I)   Duties. The Advisory Board shall:
      (1)   Review and approve or disapprove applications of landowners for
enrollment of qualified farmland, horticultural land, or forestland in either
Voluntary Agricultural Districts or Enhanced Voluntary Agricultural Districts;
      (2)   Make recommendations or decisions concerning the establishment and
modification of Agricultural Districts. The Board of County Commissioners may
make decisions regarding the establishment and modification of Voluntary
Agricultural Districts or may delegate that authority to the Agricultural
Advisory Board. If the authority is delegated to the Agricultural Advisory
Board, the Agricultural Advisory Board’s decisions shall be appealable to the
Board of County Commissioners by an owner of land that has been denied
enrollment in a Voluntary Agricultural District or has been removed from a
Voluntary Agricultural District by the Agricultural Advisory Board;
         (a)   Execute agreements with landowners necessary for enrollment of
land in a Voluntary Agricultural District;
      (3)   Conduct public hearings;
      (4)   Advise the Board of Commissioners on projects, programs, or issues
affecting the agricultural economy and agricultural, horticultural, or forestry
activities within the county that will affect agricultural districts;
      (5)   Review and make recommendations concerning proposed amendments to
this chapter;
      (6)   Develop and maintain a draft countywide farmland protection plan as
defined in G.S. § 106-744(e);
      (7)   Study additional methods of protection for farming, horticulture,
forestry, and the attendant land base, and make recommendations to the Board of
Commissioners; and
      (8)   Perform other agricultural, horticultural, and forestry-related
tasks or duties assigned by the Board of Commissioners.
         (a)   The members of the Agricultural Advisory Board shall be chosen
to provide the broadest possible representation of the geographical regions of
the local government and to represent, to the extent possible, all segments of
agricultural production existing within the local government. A majority of the
members of the Agricultural Advisory Board shall be actively engaged in
agriculture.
         (b)   The Agricultural Advisory Board may, at the discretion of the
Board of County Commissioners, utilize an existing local government agency for
the purpose of administration, record keeping, and other related tasks or
duties.
(1996 Code, § 157.05) (Ord. passed 1-7-2008; Ord. passed - -2018; Ord. passed
3-7-2022)
§ 157.06 CREATION OF VOLUNTARY AGRICULTURAL DISTRICTS AND ENHANCED VOLUNTARY
AGRICULTURAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Regions. This county is hereby divided into two regions as defined
below:
      (1)   North of Interstate 40 (I-40); and
      (2)   South of Interstate 40 (I-40).
   (B)   Implementation.  
      (1)   In order to implement the purposes stated in §
157.03, this program provides for the creation of Voluntary Agricultural
Districts which meet the following standards: the District or Enhanced District
shall contain the minimum acres of agricultural land, forest land, or
horticulture land that is part of qualified farmland.
      (2)   All land enrolled in a region, defined in division (A) above, shall
be part of a single district, whether enrolled in the District or the Enhanced
District. If a single farm has acreage in two or more regions, the farm shall
participate in the district where the largest acreage is found. All land in a
region as defined in division (A) above shall be treated as a single district
whether enrolled in the District or the Enhanced District.
   (C)   Education. The county may take such action as it deems appropriate
through the Advisory Board or other entities or individuals to encourage the
formation of the Districts and Enhanced Districts and to further their purposes
and objectives, including the implementation of a public information program to
reasonably inform landowners of the agricultural district program.
   (D)   Addition and withdrawal. Qualifying farmland in a region with an
existing district shall be added to the district as herein provided.
(1996 Code, § 157.06) (Ord. passed 1-7-2008; Ord. passed - -2018)
§ 157.07 CERTIFICATION AND QUALIFICATION OF FARMLAND.
   To secure county certification as qualifying farmland in either a Voluntary
Agricultural District or Enhanced Voluntary Agricultural District, a farm must:
   (A)   Be used for bona fide farm purposes, as that term is defined in G.S. §
106-743(a) and G.S. § 160D-903;
   (B)   Be managed, if highly erodible land exists on the farm, in accordance
with the National Resources Soil Conservation Service defined erosion control
practices.
   (C)   Be the subject of a conservation agreement, as defined in G.S. § 121-
35, between the local government administering the Voluntary Agricultural
District program and the owner of such land that prohibits non-farm use or
development of such land for a period of at least ten years, except for the
creation of not more than three lots that meet applicable county and municipal
zoning and subdivision regulations. The form of the conservation agreement
shall be approved by the Agricultural Advisory Board created under G.S. § 106-
739.
   (D)   Be located in the unincorporated area of Davie County, unless there is
an agreement with a municipality through which the county is authorized to
exercise the authority of the municipality on its behalf.
(1996 Code, § 157.07) (Ord. passed 5-7-2012; Ord. passed - -2018; Ord. passed
3-7-2022)
§ 157.08 APPLICATION, APPROVAL, AND APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Application procedure.
      (1)   A landowner, or landowners, may apply to participate in either the
Agricultural District or the Enhanced Agricultural District program by making
application, for certification of qualifying farmland to be included in a
District or Enhanced District, to the chairperson of the Advisory Board or a
designated staff person, and must designate the application as for either
Voluntary Agricultural District status or Enhanced District status. The
application shall be on forms provided by the Advisory Board.
      (2)   A conservation agreement (required by G.S. §§ 106-737 and 160-
743.3, and defined in G.S. § 121-35) suited to district type (Voluntary
Agricultural District or Enhanced Voluntary Agricultural District) as
designated by the landowner(s) to sustain, encourage, and promote agriculture
must be executed by the landowner(s) and recorded with the Advisory Board,
which shall record a certified copy of such with the County Registrar of Deeds.
Permitted uses include agriculture, horticulture, forestry, and outdoor
recreation. Conservation agreements for the Enhanced Agricultural District
program may, at the election of the parties, include provisions requiring that
any disputes between the county and the landowner be resolved through
arbitration or mediation, and, in the event of litigation, that the prevailing
party be awarded costs, including reasonable attorney fees. The conservation
agreement for the Enhanced Voluntary Agricultural District shall be binding
upon all successors in interest to the landowner, except for successors in
interest resulting from the exercise of rights under a security interest or
lien that preceded the conservation agreement.
   (B)   Approval process.
      (1)   Upon receipt of an application, the Chairperson will forward copies
immediately to the following offices which shall be asked to provide comments,
if any, to the Advisory Board prior to the date set for the Advisory Board vote
on the application:
         (a)   The County Tax Assessor;
         (b)   The Soil and Water Conservation District Office;
         (c)   The County Development Services Office; and
         (d)   The Natural Resources Conservation Service.
      (2)   Upon submission of the application to the Advisory Board, the
Advisory Board shall meet to approve or disapprove the application. The
Chairperson shall notify the applicant by first class mail of approval or
disapproval of participation in the district.
   (C)   Appeal. If an application is denied by the Advisory Board, the
landowner may, within 15 days of notification of disapproval of the
application, request in writing that the Advisory Board reconsider its
decision. The request for reconsideration shall state the reason(s) therefor.
Upon either an initial denial, if no request for reconsideration was made, or
denial after reconsideration, the landowner shall have 30 days from the date of
notification to appeal the decision to the Board of Commissioners. Such appeal
shall be presented in writing. The decision of the Board of Commissioners is
final.
(1996 Code, § 157.08) (Ord. passed 1-7-2008; Ord. passed - -2018; Ord. passed
3-7-2022)
§ 157.09 REVOCATION, ENFORCEMENT, AND RENEWAL OF CONSERVATION AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   Revocation and enforcement.
      (1)   District.  By providing 30 days’ advance written notice to the
Advisory Board, a landowner of qualifying farmland within a Voluntary
Agricultural District may revoke the conservation agreement or the Advisory
Board may revoke the same conservation agreement based on noncompliance by the
landowner, subject to the same provisions as contained in §
157.08(C) for appeal of denials. Such revocation shall result in loss of
qualifying farm status and loss of eligibility to participate in a district.
Absent noncompliance by the landowner, neither the Advisory Board nor the Board
of Commissioners shall revoke any conservation agreement prior to its
expiration. If the Advisory Board shall revoke this conservation agreement for
cause, the landowner shall have the appeal rights set forth in §
157.08(C). Enforcement of the terms of a conservation agreement for land
enrolled in a Voluntary Agricultural District shall be limited to revocation of
the conservation agreement and the benefits derived therefrom.
      (2)   Enhanced District. Conservation agreements for land within Enhanced
Districts are irrevocable for a period of ten years. Enforcement of the terms
of the conservation agreement may be through an action for injunctive relief
and/or damages in any court of competent jurisdiction. The county may also
terminate any benefits to the owner under this program either permanently or
during the period of violation, as appropriate. If the Advisory Board shall
revoke this conservation agreement for cause, the landowner shall have the
appeal rights set forth in §
157.08(C). The right to terminate program benefits is in addition to any legal
rights that the county may have under either this chapter or the terms of the
applicable conservation agreement. The county may seek costs of the action
including reasonable attorney fees if such a provision is incorporated into the
conservation agreement.
   (B)   Transfer.
      (1)   District. Transfers of land in a Voluntary Agricultural District
due to death of the landowner(s), sale, or gift shall not revoke the
conservation agreement unless the land no longer qualifies for enrollment under
§
157.07 of this chapter or, in the event that there are water or sewer
assessments held in abeyance, the new owner(s) fails to agree in writing to
accept liability for those assessments in the event that the land is withdrawn
either voluntarily or involuntarily from the district.
      (2)   Enhanced District. Transfers of land in a district due to death of
landowner(s), sale, or gift shall not revoke the conservation agreement. The
conservation agreement for the Enhanced Voluntary Agricultural District shall
be binding upon all successors in interest to the landowner, except for
successors in interest resulting from the exercise of rights under a security
interest or lien that proceeded the conservation agreement.
   (C)   Renewal.
      (1)   District.  A conservation agreement for land within a Voluntary
Agricultural District, that continues to qualify under all provisions of §
157.07, shall be automatically renewed unless the landowner provides 30-day
written notice to the Advisory Board of intent not to renew. Absent
noncompliance by the landowner, neither the Advisory Board nor the Board of
Commissioners shall fail to renew any conservation agreement unless this
chapter or its authorizing legislation has been repealed.
      (2)   Enhanced District. A conservation agreement for the Enhanced
Voluntary Agricultural District, that continues to qualify under all provisions
of §
157.07, shall be deemed automatically renewed for an additional term of three
years, unless either the Advisory Board or the landowner gives written notice
to the contrary prior to the termination date of the conservation agreement. At
the end of each three- year term, the conservation agreement shall
automatically renew for an additional three-year term unless notice of
termination is given.
(1996 Code, § 157.09) (Ord. passed 1-7-2008; Ord. passed - -2018; Ord. passed
3-7-2022)
§ 157.10 WAIVER OF WATER AND SEWER OR ALL UTILITY ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   No connection required.
      (1)   A landowner belonging to the District shall not be required to
connect to county water and/or sewer systems.
      (2)   A landowner belonging to an Enhanced District shall not be required
to connect to county utility systems.
   (B)   Abeyance.
      (1)   Water and sewer assessments shall be held in abeyance, without
interest, for farms in a District, until improvements on such property are
connected to the water or sewer system for which the assessment was made.
      (2)   Utility assessments shall be held in abeyance, without interest,
for farms in an Enhanced District, until improvements on such property are
connected to the utility system for which the assessment was made.
   (C)   Termination of abeyance. When the period of abeyance ends, the
assessment is payable in accordance with the terms set out in the assessment
resolution.
   (D)   Suspension of statute of limitations. Statutes of limitations are
suspended during the time that any assessment is held in abeyance without
interest. The landowner may be required to sign an acknowledgment (that may be
incorporated into the conservation agreement) of the abeyance of the statute of
limitations upon collecting water and sewer assessments, or other utility
assessments.
   (E)   Other statutory abeyance procedures. Nothing in this section is
intended to diminish the authority of the county to hold assessments in
abeyance under G.S. § 153A-201, or other applicable law.
   (F)   Conflict with water and/or sewer system construction and improvements
grants. To the extent that this section conflicts with the terms of federal,
state, or other grants under which county utility systems are constructed, this
section shall not apply. This section shall not apply to utilities that are not
owned by the county unless the county has entered into an agreement with the
entity(ies) owning the utilities and that agreement provides that this chapter
shall apply.
(1996 Code, § 157.10) (Ord. passed 1-7-2008; Ord. passed - -2018; Ord. passed
3-7-2022)
§ 157.11 ADDITIONAL ENHANCED AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT BENEFITS.
   Land enrolled in the Enhanced Voluntary Agricultural District program is
entitled to all of the benefits available under the Voluntary Agricultural
District program, and to the following additional benefits.
   (A)   Sale of non-farm products. Landowners participating in Enhanced
Districts may receive up to 25% of gross sales from the sale of non-farm
products and still qualify as a bona fide farm that is exempt from county
zoning regulations under G.S. § 153A-340(b). For the purposes of G.S. § 153A-
340(b), the production of any non-farm product that the Department of
Agriculture and Consumer Services recognizes as a “Goodness Grows in North
Carolina” product that is produced on a farm that is subject to a conservation
agreement under G.S. § 106-743.2 is a bona fide farm purpose. A farmer seeking
to benefit from this division (A) shall have the burden of establishing that
the property’s sale of non-farm products did not exceed 25% of its gross sales.
A county may adopt an ordinance pursuant to this section that sets forth the
standards necessary for proof of compliance.
   (B)   Agricultural cost share program. Landowners participating in Enhanced
Districts are eligible under G.S. § 106-850(b) to receive the higher percentage
of cost-share funds for the benefit of that farmland under the Agriculture Cost
Share Program established pursuant to G.S. Chapter 106, Article 72.
   (C)   Priority consideration. State departments, institutions, or agencies
that award grants to farmers are encouraged to give priority consideration to
landowners participating in Enhanced Districts.
   (D)   Utility assessment waiver. As provided in §
157.10, waiver of all county utility assessments in addition to waiver of water
and sewer assessments is available to all participants in Enhanced Districts.
(1996 Code, § 157.11) (Ord. passed 1-7-2008; Ord. passed - -2018; Ord. passed
3-7-2022)
§ 157.12 PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   (A)   Purpose. Pursuant to G.S. § 106- 740, which provides that no state or
local public agency or governmental unit may formally initiate any action to
condemn any interest in qualifying farmland within a District until such agency
or unit has requested the Advisory Board to hold a public hearing on the
proposed condemnation.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   Upon receiving a request, the Advisory Board shall publish notice
describing the proposed action in the appropriate newspapers of general
circulation within the county within five business days of the request, and
will in the same notice notify the public of a public hearing on the proposed
condemnation, to be held within ten days of receipt of the request.
      (2)   The Advisory Board shall meet to review:
         (a)   Whether the need for the project has been satisfactorily
established by the agency or unit of government involved, including a review of
any fiscal impact analysis conducted by the agency involved; and
         (b)   Whether there are alternatives to the proposed action that have
less impact and are less disruptive to the agricultural activities of the
District within which the proposed action is to take place.
      (3)   The Advisory Board shall consult with the County Agricultural
Extension Agent, the Natural Resources Conservation Service District
Conservationist, and any other individuals, agencies, or organizations deemed
by the Advisory Board to be necessary for its review of the proposed action.
      (4)   Within five days after the hearing, the Advisory Board shall make a
report containing its findings and recommendations regarding the proposed
action. The report shall be made available to the public prior to its being
conveyed to the decision-making body of the agency proposing the acquisition.
      (5)   There will be a period of ten days allowed for public comment on
the report of the Advisory Board.
      (6)   After the ten-day period for public comment has expired, the
Advisory Board shall submit a final report containing all of its findings and
recommendations regarding the proposed action to the decision making body of
the agency proposing the acquisition.
      (7)   The total time period, from the day that a request for a hearing
has been received to the day that a final report is issued to the decision
making body of the agency proposing the acquisition, shall not exceed 30 days.
If the agency agrees to an extension, the agency and the Advisory Board shall
mutually agree upon a schedule to be set forth in writing and made available to
the public.
      (8)   Pursuant to G.S. § 106-740, the Board of Commissioners shall not
permit any formal initiation of condemnation by local agencies while the
proposed condemnation is properly before the Advisory Board.
(1996 Code, § 157.12) (Ord. passed 1-7-2008; Ord. passed - -2018; Ord. passed
3-7-2022)
§ 157.13 NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   Record notice of proximity to Voluntary Agricultural District.
      (1)   Procedure. When the county computerizes its County Land Records
System, the following requirements outlined in this section shall be
implemented and enforced. Upon certification of qualifying farmland and
designation of real property as a district, the title to that qualifying
farmland and real property which is contained in the County Land Records System
shall be changed to include a notice reasonably calculated to alert a person
researching the title of a particular tract that such tract is located within
one-half aerial mile of a Voluntary Agricultural District.
      (2)   Limit of liability. In no event shall the county or any of its
officers, employees, members of the Advisory Board, or agents be held liable in
damages for any misfeasance, malfeasance, or nonfeasance occurring in good
faith in connection with the duties or obligations imposed by this.
      (3)   No cause of action. In no event shall any cause of action arise out
of the failure of a person researching the title of a particular tract to
report to any person the proximity of the tract to a qualifying farm or
Voluntary Agricultural District or Enhanced Voluntary Agricultural District as
defined in this chapter.
   (B)   Signage. Signs identifying parcels enrolled in an Agricultural
District may be placed on enrolled parcels at the discretion of the owners.
Signs shall not be placed along the right-of-way of any state or county
maintained road.
   (C)   Maps. Maps identifying approved agricultural districts shall be
provided to the following agencies or offices:
      (1)   Planning Department;
      (2)   Register of Deeds;
      (3)   Natural Resources Conservation Service;
      (4)   State Cooperative Extension;
      (5)   Soil and Water Conservation District; and
      (6)   Any other such agency or office the Advisory Board deems
appropriate, including maps denoting the locations of agricultural districts
within the county planning jurisdiction.
(1996 Code, § 157.13) (Ord. passed 1-7-2008; Ord. passed - -2018; Ord. passed
3-7-2022)
§ 157.14 SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE AND ZONING ORDINANCE REVIEW.
   Developers of major subdivisions or planned unit developments shall
designate on preliminary development plans the existence of the districts
within one-half aerial mile of the proposed development.
(1996 Code, § 157.14) (Ord. passed 1-7-2008; Ord. passed - -2018; Ord. passed
3-7-2022)
§ 157.15 COUNTY LAND USE PLANNING.
   (A)   Duty of the Advisory Board. It shall be the duty of the Advisory Board
to advise the Board of Commissioners or the agency or office to which the Board
of Commissioners delegates authority to oversee county land use planning, on
the status, progress, and activities of the county’s agricultural district
program and to also coordinate the formation and maintenance of agricultural
districts with the county’s land use planning activities and the county’s land
use plan if one currently exists at the time this is enacted or when one is
formed.
   (B)   Posting of notice. The following notice, of a size and form suitable
for posting, shall be posted in the office of the Register of Deeds, and any
other office or agency the Advisory Board deems necessary:
      Davie County has established agricultural districts to protect and
preserve agricultural lands and activities. These districts have been developed
and mapped by the county to inform all purchasers of real property that certain
agricultural and forestry activities, including but not limited to pesticide
spraying, manure spreading, machinery and truck operation, livestock
operations, sawing, and other common farming activities may occur in these
districts any time during the day or night. Maps and information on the
location and establishment of these districts can be obtained from the State
Cooperative Extension Service office, the office of the Register of Deeds, the
County Planning office, or the Soil and Water Conservation District Office.
   (C)   Growth corridors. At such time as the county might establish
designated growth corridors, agricultural districts shall not be permitted in
the designated growth corridors, as delineated on the official county planning
map without the approval of the Board of Commissioners. Districts located in
growth corridors designated after the effective date of this program may
remain, but shall not be expanded within the growth corridor area without the
approval of the Board of Commissioners.
(1996 Code, § 157.15) (Ord. passed 1-7-2008; Ord. passed - -2018; Ord. passed
3-7-2022)
§ 157.16 CONSULTATION AUTHORITY.
   The Advisory Board may consult with the State Cooperative Extension, the
Natural Resources Conservation Service, the State Department of Agriculture and
Consumer Services, and with any other individual, agency, or organization the
Advisory Board deems necessary to properly conduct its business.
(1996 Code, § 157.16) (Ord. passed 1-7-2008; Ord. passed - -2018; Ord. passed
3-7-2022)
§ 157.17 STATE AGENCY NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   Annually report to the State Department of Agriculture and Consumer
Services. A copy of this shall be sent to the office of the State Commissioner
of Agriculture and Consumer Services, the Board of Commissioners, the county
office of the State Cooperative Extension, and the Soil and Water Conservation
District office after adoption. At least annually the county shall submit a
written report to the Commissioner of Agriculture and Consumer Services on the
county’s agricultural district program, including the following information:
      (1)   Number of landowners enrolled;
      (2)   Number of acres enrolled;
      (3)   Number of acres certified during the reporting period;
      (4)   Number of acres denied during the reporting period;
      (5)   Number of acres for which applications are pending;
      (6)   Copies of any amendments to the this chapter; and
      (7)   Any other information the Advisory Board deems useful.
(1996 Code, § 157.17) (Ord. passed 1-7-2008; Ord. passed - -2018; Ord. passed
3-7-2022)
§ 157.18 LEGAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Severability. If any section, division, clause, phrase, or portion of
this chapter is for any reason found invalid or unconstitutional by any court
of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions of this chapter.
   (B)   Conflict with other ordinances and statutes. Whenever the provisions
of this chapter conflict with other ordinances of the county, this chapter
shall govern. Whenever the provisions of any federal or state statute require
more restrictive provisions than are required by this chapter, the provisions
of such statute shall govern.
   (C)   Amendments. This chapter may be amended from time to time by the Board
of Commissioners.
(1996 Code, § 157.18) (Ord. passed 1-7-2008; Ord. passed - -2018; Ord. passed
3-7-2022)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.     6-7-1982    Granting a cable television franchise outside the town
                     limits of Mocksville to Summit Communications, Inc.
Res.     9-19-1983   Granting a cable television franchise in the Cooleemee
                     service area to Summit Communications, Inc.
Ord.     2-18-1985   Granting a cable television franchise in the Bermuda Run
                     and Bermuda Village area to River Cable, Inc.
Ord.     5-20-1985   Granting a cable television franchise to Davie County
                     Cable TV, Inc.
Ord.     5-15-1989   Granting a cable television franchise to Friendship Cable
                     of North Carolina, Inc.
Ord.     6-5-1989    Denying a cable television franchise to W.K.
                     Communications, Inc.
                     Transfer of cable television franchise held by Davie
Res.     7-3-1989    County Cable Television Company to Friendship Cable of
                     North Carolina, Inc.
Res.     7-3-1989    Transfer of cable television franchises held by Mocksville
                     Cable Company to Friendship Cable of North Carolina, Inc.
Res.     8-21-1989   Amending cable television franchises to Friendship Cable
                     of North Carolina, Inc.
                     Transfer of cable television franchise held by River
Res.     12-18-1989  Cable, Inc. to Summit Cable Services of Forsyth County,
                     Inc.
Ord.     1-9-1995    Granting a cable television franchise to Yadkin Valley
                     Telephone Membership Corporation
Ord.     2-6-1995    Renewing Summit Cable Services of Forsyth County, Inc.
                     cable television franchise
                     Granting franchise rights to Davie Sanitation, Inc. for
Ord.     1-6-1997    collection and transportation of solid waste for
                     compensation from residential property owners exclusive of
                     the Town of Mocksville
Res.     7-1-1997    Transfer of cable television franchise held by Friendship
                     Cable to Genesis Communications, LLC
                     Granting franchise rights to Benfield Sanitation Service
Ord.     7-31-1997   for collection and transportation of solid waste for
                     compensation from commercial property owners or occupiers
                     exclusive of the Town of Mocksville
Res.     5-4-1998    Granting a franchise to GDS, Inc.
Res.     5-4-1998    Granting a franchise to Waste Management of the Piedmont
Res.     5-4-1998    Granting a franchise to Waste Industries, Inc.
                     Assignment and transfer of solid waste collection
Res.     6-15-1998   franchises to GDS, Inc. (formerly Davie Sanitation, Inc.
                     and Sanitation Systems, Inc.)
                     Granting franchise rights to Browning-Ferris Industries to
                     collect and transport solid waste for compensation from
Ord.     6-15-1998   commercial property owners or occupiers within the county,
                     exclusive of the Town of Mocksville, for a period of two
                     years
Res.     8-17-1998   Transfer of a cable television franchise held by Yadkin
                     Valley Membership Corporation to Yadkin Valley Telecom
                     Transfer of a cable television franchise held by Summit
Res.     11-16-1998  Cable Services of Forsyth County, Inc. to Time Warner
                     Entertainment-Advance/Newhouse Partnership
                     Granting franchise rights to McKinney Disposal to collect
Ord.     3-22-1999   and transport solid waste for compensation from commercial
                     property owners or occupiers within the county, exclusive
                     of the Town of Mocksville
                     Consenting to the change of control of Genesis Cable
Res.     5-17-1999   Communications, LLC, and to the continuation of the grant
                     under the franchise to Genesis
                     Granting franchise and license for the collection and
Ord.     4-3-2000    transport of solid waste to BFI Waste Systems of North
                     America
Ord.     4-3-2000    Granting franchise and license for the collection and
                     transport of solid waste to GDS, Inc.
Ord.     4-3-2000    Granting franchise and license for the collection and
                     transport of solid waste to McKinney Disposal
Ord.     4-3-2000    Granting franchise and license for the collection and
                     transport of solid waste to Piedmont Disposal, Inc.
Ord.     4-3-2000    Granting franchise and license for the collection and
                     transport of solid waste to Waste Industries, Inc.
                     Granting franchise and license for the collection and
Ord.     4-3-2000    transport of solid waste to Waste Management of the
                     Piedmont, A Division of Waste Management of the Carolinas
                     Approving and consenting to the assignment and transfer of
Ord.     8-21-2000   control of the cable television franchisee, Benchmark
                     Media, Inc.
                     Granting North State Waste, LLC, a non-exclusive right to
Res.     4-2-2001    collect and transport solid waste from commercial property
                     owners and occupiers for a period of two years.
                     Approving and consenting to the Cable Television Franchise
Ord.     12-3-2001   agreement between the county and Benchmark Cable
                     Communications, LLC, d/b/a Adelphia Communications, Inc.
                     Granting Republic Services of North Carolina, d/b/a GDS,
Res.     2-4-2002    an exclusive right to collect and transport solid waste
                     from residential property owners and occupiers for a
                     period of five years
                     Granting Republic Services of North Carolina, d/b/a GDS, a
Res.     4-1-2002    non-exclusive right to collect and transport solid waste
                     from commercial property owners and occupiers for a period
                     of three years
                     Granting Piedmont Disposal a non-exclusive right to
Res.     4-1-2002    collect and transport solid waste from commercial property
                     owners and occupiers for a period of three years
                     Granting Waste Management a non-exclusive right to collect
Res.     4-1-2002    and transport solid waste from commercial property owners
                     and occupiers for a period of three years
                     Granting McKinney Disposal a non-exclusive right to
Res.     4-1-2002    collect and transport solid waste from commercial property
                     owners and occupiers for a period of three years
                     Granting North State, LLC, a non-exclusive right to
Res.     4-7-2003    collect and transport solid waste from commercial property
                     owners and occupiers for a period of two years
                     Granting Best Disposal, Inc., a non-exclusive right to
Res.     4-7-2003    collect and transport solid waste from commercial property
                     owners and occupiers for a period of two years
                     Terminating non-exclusive revocable franchise previously
Res.     4-7-2003    issued to Waste Industries for collection and transport of
                     solid waste
                     Granting Benfield Sanitation Services, Inc. a non-
Res.     4-5-2004    exclusive revocable franchise to collect and transport
                     solid waste from commercial property owners or occupiers
                     for a period of one year
                     Granting Republic Services of North Carolina, d/b/a GDS, a
Res.     6-6-2005    franchise and license for the collection and transport of
                     residential solid waste
(1996 Code, Table of Special Ordinances I)
Res.     8-1-2005    Granting an assignment of the franchise and the cable
                     system to Time Warner NY Cable, LLC
                     Granting Republic Services of North Carolina, d/b/a GDS
Res.     6-7-2010    the exclusive right to collect and transport solid waste
                     from residential property owners or occupiers within the
                     county, exclusive of the Town of Mocksville
                     Granting Republic Services of North Carolina, d/b/a GDS
                     the exclusive right to collect and transport solid waste
Res.     10-1-2012   from residential property owners or occupiers within the
                     county, exclusive of the Towns of Bermuda Run, Mocksville
                     and Cooleemee
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to 1996 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
G.S. Section Code Section
G.S. Section                     Code Section
Ch. 1, Art. 37                   92.06
1-593                            10.05
Ch. 7A                           153.49
Ch. 14                           51.99
                                 10.99,
                                 50.99,
                                 51.99,
                                 52.999,
                                 53.108,
                                 70.99,
                                 90.99,
                                 91.99,
                                 92.99,
                                 93.99,
                                 94.999,
14-4                             95.999,
                                 110.999,
                                 111.99,
                                 112.99,
                                 113.99,
                                 114.99,
                                 115.99,
                                 130.03,
                                 150.999,
                                 152.99,
                                 154.99,
                                 155.999,
                                 156.999
14-4(b)                          70.99
Ch. 14, Art. 27A                 95.004
Ch. 14, Art. 54                  91.28
14-177 through 14-202.1, Art. 26 112.03,
                                 112.04
14-202.10 et seq.                155.001
14-203 through 14-208, Art. 27   112.03,
                                 112.04
14-208.18                        95.087
14-208.18(a)(1)                  95.087
14-208.18(a)(2)                  95.087
14-208.18(a)(3)                  95.087
14-409.40                        95.070
15A-123(b)                       130.03
15A-1340.20 et seq.              95.999
15A-1340.23                      91.30,
                                 90.99
20-162                           91.26
29-2(4)                          154.01
Ch. 40A                          95.037
47-30                            154.23,
                                 154.24
Ch. 55A                          155.001
58-79-1                          91.11,
                                 91.12
58-79-20                         91.11,
                                 91.12
Ch. 62A                          94.003
Ch. 67, Art. 1A                  90.04
67-4.1                           90.04
67-4.1(c)                        90.04
67-4.3                           90.04
67-4.5                           90.04
74-46 through 74-68              50.01
Ch. 75A                          Ch. 95
Ch. 87                           111.02
90-621 et seq.                   155.001
95-174                           155.001
104A-1                           154.01
104E-1 through 104E-23           50.01
Ch. 105                          115.01
105-109                          115.13
105-164.4(a)(3)                  113.01
105-236                          113.99
105-294(b)                       30.006
105-349(a)                       30.006
105-551(b)                       113.02
106-735 through 106-744          157.02
106-737                          157.08
106-739                          157.07
106-740                          157.12
106-743(a)                       157.07
106-744(e)                       157.05
106-850(b)                       157.11
106-904                          91.27
106-943                          91.27
108A-9                           30.006
Ch. 113                          154.23
113-127 et seq.                  Ch. 95
113A-50 through 113A-60          154.45,
                                 154.47
115C-525(b)                      91.12
121-35                           157.07,
                                 157.08
122C-3(11)b                      155.001
                                 50.38,
Ch. 130A                         51.45,
                                 53.023
Ch. 130A, Art. 9                 151.01,
                                 153.01
130A-40                          30.005
130A-184 et seq.                 90.01,
                                 90.02
130A-190                         90.01
130A-197                         90.06
130A-255                         92.09
130A-258                         92.01
130A-290(a)(6)                   153.01
130A-290(a)(35)                  153.01
130A-290(a)(36)                  153.01
132-1                            113.01,
                                 113.02
136-32.2                         155.095
136-102.6                        154.01,
                                 154.41
Ch. 143, Art. 21                 53.108
Ch. 143, Art. 21, Part 6         153.02
Ch. 143, Art. 21, Part 9         157.11
Ch. 143, Art. 21A                50.01
Ch. 143, Art. 33C                95.004
143-143.15                       153.26
143-144 et seq.                  155.030
143-213(18)                      53.002
143-215.1                        50.01,
                                 53.051
143-215.1(b)                     53.051
143-215.1(g)                     53.051
143-215.3(a)(14)                 53.002
143-215.6B                       53.108
143-215.6B(f)                    53.108
143-215.6B(g)                    53.108
143-215.6B(h)                    53.108
143-215.6B(i)                    53.108
143B-293.1                       50.01
143B-311 et seq.                 Ch. 95
                                 115.11,
Ch. 153A                         153.02,
                                 157.02
Ch. 153A, Art. 11                91.01
Ch. 153A, Art. 12                94.003
Ch. 153A, Art. 18                155.003
Ch. 153A, Art. 18, Part 2        154.04
Ch. 153A, Art. 6, § 121         91.01
Ch. 153A, Art. 12                94.003
Ch. 153A, Art. 18                155.003
Ch. 153A, Art. 18, Part 3        153.02,
                                 155.230
Ch. 153A, Art. 18, Part 4        150.001,
                                 153.02
153A-49                          10.19,
                                 10.20
153A-76                          31.001
                                 30.004,
153A-81                          31.001,
                                 31.002
153A-82                          31.003,
                                 50.20
153A-8294                        30.009
153A-98                          30.207,
                                 30.208
153A-103                         30.006
                                 51.45,
                                 51.61,
153A-121                         90.05,
                                 152.03,
                                 153.02,
                                 156.001
153A-122                         111.02,
                                 111.08
                                 10.99,
                                 51.61,
153A-123                         70.99 ,
                                 91.30,  
                                 111.99
153A-123(c)                      130.03
153A-123(d)                      155.999
153A-123(e)                      155.999
153A-132                         155.031
153A-134                         111.01
153A-136                         51.63,
                                 155.031
153A-140                         155.031,
                                 155.034
153A-201                         157.10
153A-234                         91.11
153A-239.1(a)                    94.090
153A-275                         52.001,
                                 53.001
153A-277                         52.001
153A-292(b)                      50.38
153A-323                         155.263
153A-332                         154.63
153A-340                         156.001
153A-340(b)                      157.11
153A-344                         155.213
                                 155.260,
                                 155.261,
153A-344.1                       155.263,
                                 155.267,
                                 155.999,
                                 Ch. 155, Appx B
153A-349.51                      150.042
153A-352                         150.021
153A-357                         154.21
153A-357(a)(1)                   150.042
153A-358                         91.21,
                                 155.264
153A-362                         155.264
153A-374                         91.12
153A-442                         90.06
153A-444 et seq.                 Ch. 95
160-743.2                        157.11
160-743.3                        157.08
Ch. 160A, Art. 19, Part 6        150.080
160A-18 et seq.                  Ch. 95
160A-388                         155.230
160A-393(d)                      155.241
160D-903                         157.07
161-2                            30.005
162-1                            30.005
163-35                           30.005
164-7                            10.19
                                 
 
REFERENCES TO 1996 CODE
1996 Code Section 2013 Code Section
1996 Code Section  2013 Code Section
10.01              10.01
10.02              10.02
10.03              10.03
10.04              10.04
10.05              10.05
10.06              10.06
10.07              10.07
10.08              10.08
10.09              10.09
10.10              10.10
10.11              10.11
10.12              10.12
10.13              10.13
10.14              10.14
10.15              10.15
10.16              10.16
10.17              10.17
10.19              10.19
10.20              10.20
10.99              10.99
30.01              113.01
30.03              113.02
30.99              113.99
50.01              50.01
50.02              50.02
50.03              50.03
50.04              50.04
50.05              50.05
50.20              50.20
50.21              50.21
50.22              50.22
50.23              50.23
50.35              50.35
50.36              50.36
50.37              50.37
50.38              50.38
50.39              50.39
50.40              50.40
50.41              50.41
50.42              50.42
50.43              50.43
50.44              50.44
50.45              50.45
50.99              50.99
51.01              51.01
51.02              51.02
51.03              51.03
51.04              51.04
51.20              51.15
51.21              51.16
51.22              51.17
51.23              51.18
51.24              51.19
51.40              51.30
51.50              51.45
51.60              51.60
51.61              51.61
51.62              51.62
51.63              51.63
51.64              51.64
51.99              51.99
52.01              52.001
52.02              52.002
52.03              52.003
52.04              52.004
52.05              52.005
52.20              52.020
52.21              52.021
52.22              52.022
52.23              52.023
52.24              52.024
52.25              52.025
52.26              52.026
52.27              52.027
52.28              52.028
52.29              52.029
52.40              52.040
52.41              52.041
52.42              52.042
52.43              52.043
52.55              52.055
52.56              52.056
52.57              52.057
52.58              52.058
52.59              52.059
52.60              52.060
52.70              52.075
52.71              52.076
52.72              52.077
52.73              52.078
52.74              52.079
52.75              52.080
52.76              52.081
52.77              52.082
52.78              52.083
52.79              52.084
52.80              52.085
52.81              52.086
52.82              52.087,
                   52.999
52.83              52.088
52.99              52.999
53.001             53.001
53.002             53.002
53.010             53.015
53.011             53.016
53.012             53.017
53.013             53.018
53.014             53.019
53.015             53.020
53.016             53.021,
                   53.107
53.017             53.022
53.018             53.023
53.030             53.035
53.031             53.036
53.032             53.037
53.033             53.038
53.040             53.050
53.041             53.051
53.050             53.065
53.051             53.066
53.052             53.067
53.053             53.068
53.054             53.069
53.055             53.070
53.056             53.071
53.057             53.072
53.058             53.073
53.059             53.074
53.060             53.075
53.061             53.076
53.062             53.077
53.070             53.090
53.071             53.091
53.072             53.092
53.080             53.105
53.081             53.106
53.082             53.108
53.083             53.109
53.084             53.110
53.085             53.112
53.086             53.113
53.087             53.114
53.999             53.107
70.01              70.01
70.99              70.99
90.01              90.01
90.02              90.02
90.03              90.03
90.10              90.15
90.11              90.16
90.12              90.17
90.13              90.18
90.14              90.19
90.15              90.20
90.16              90.21
90.99              90.99
92.01              92.01
92.02              92.02
92.03              92.03
92.04              92.04
92.05              92.05
92.06              92.06
92.07              92.07
92.08              92.08
92.09              92.09
92.99              92.99
93.01              93.01
93.02              93.02
93.03              93.03
93.04              93.04
93.05              93.05
93.06              93.06
93.07              93.07
93.08              93.08
93.09              93.09
93.10              93.10
93.11              93.11
93.12              93.12
93.99              93.99
94.001             94.001
94.002             94.002
94.003             94.003
94.004             94.004
94.005             94.005
94.006             94.006
94.020             94.020
94.021             94.021
94.030             94.035
94.031             94.036
94.032             94.037
94.033             94.038
94.034             94.039
94.035             94.040
94.036             94.041
94.037             94.042
94.038             94.043
94.039             94.044
94.050             94.055
94.051             94.056
94.052             94.057
94.053             94.058
94.054             94.059
94.055             94.060
94.056             94.061
94.057             94.062
94.070             94.075
94.071             94.076
94.072             94.077
94.073             94.078
94.090             94.090
94.091             94.091
94.092             94.092
94.093             94.093
94.094             94.094
94.095             94.095
94.096             94.096
94.097             94.097
94.098             94.098
94.099             94.099
94.110             94.110
94.111             94.111
94.112             94.112
94.130             94.125
94.131             94.126
94.132             94.127
94.133             94.128
94.134             94.129
94.135             94.130
94.136             94.131
94.137             94.132
94.138             94.133
94.139             94.134
94.140             94.135
94.141             94.136
94.142             94.137
94.143             94.138
94.144             94.139
94.999             94.999
95.01              114.01
95.02              114.02
95.03              114.03
95.04              114.04
95.05              114.05
95.07              114.07
95.08              114.08
95.09              114.09
95.10              114.10
95.11              114.11
95.12              114.12
95.13              114.13
95.14              114.14
95.15              114.15
95.99              114.99
110.001            110.001
110.002            110.002
110.003            110.003
110.010            110.015,
                   110.999
110.011            110.016
110.012            110.017
110.013            110.018
110.014            110.019
110.015            110.020
110.016            110.021
110.017            110.022
110.018            110.023
110.019            110.024
110.020            110.025
110.021            110.026
110.022            110.027
110.023            110.028
110.030            110.028
110.031            110.041
110.032            110.042
110.033            110.043
110.034            110.043
110.035            110.045
110.040            110.060
110.050            110.075
110.051            110.076
110.052            110.077
110.053            110.078
110.054            110.079
110.055            110.080
110.056            110.081
110.057            110.082
110.058            110.083
110.059            110.084
110.060            110.085
110.061            110.086
110.070            110.100
110.071            110.101
110.072            110.102
110.073            110.103
110.074            110.104
110.075            110.105
110.076            110.106
110.077            110.107
110.078            110.108
110.079            110.109
110.080            110.110
110.081            110.111
110.090            110.125
110.091            110.126
110.092            110.127
110.093            110.128
110.100            110.140
110.101            110.141
110.110            110.155
110.111            110.156
110.120            110.170
110.121            110.171
110.130            110.185
110.131            110.186
110.140            110.200
110.141            110.201
110.142            110.202
110.143            110.203
110.144            110.204
110.145            110.205
110.146            110.206
Ch. 110 Appendix A Ch. 110 Appx A
111.01             111.01
111.02             111.02
111.03             111.03
111.04             111.04
111.05             111.05
111.06             111.06
111.07             111.07
111.08             111.08
111.99             111.99
112.01             112.01
112.02             112.02
112.03             112.03
112.04             112.04
112.05             112.05
112.06             112.06
112.07             112.07
112.08             112.08
112.09             112.09
112.10             112.10
112.11             112.11
112.99             112.99
130.01             130.01
150.01             150.001
150.02             150.002
150.03             150.003
150.04             150.004
150.05             150.005
150.20             150.020
150.21             150.021
150.22             150.022
150.23             150.023
150.24             150.024
150.25             150.025
150.26             150.026
150.40             150.040
150.41             150.041
150.42             150.042
150.43             150.043
150.44             150.044
150.45             150.045
150.46             150.046
150.47             150.047
150.48             150.048
150.49             150.049
150.50             150.050
150.60             150.065
150.62             150.066
150.80             150.080
150.81             150.081
150.82             150.082
150.83             150.083
150.99             150.999
151.01             151.01
151.02             151.02
151.03             151.03
151.22             151.15
151.22.1           151.16
151.23             151.17
151.24             151.18
151.25             151.19
151.26             151.20
151.40             151.35
151.41             151.36
151.42             151.37
152.01             152.01
152.02             152.02
152.03             152.03
152.04             152.04
152.05             152.05
152.06             152.06
152.20             152.20
152.21             152.21
152.22             152.22
152.99             152.99
153.01             153.01
153.02             153.02
153.03             153.03
153.04             153.04
153.05             153.05
153.06             153.06
153.07             153.07
153.08             153.08
153.09             153.09
153.10             153.10
153.11             153.11
153.12             153.12
153.30             153.25
153.31             153.26
153.32             153.27
153.33             153.28
153.34             153.29
153.35             153.30
153.45             153.45
153.46             153.46
153.47             153.47
153.48             153.48
153.49             153.49
153.60             153.60
153.61             153.61
153.99             153.99
154.01             154.01
154.02             154.02
154.03             154.03
154.04             154.04
154.05             154.05
154.06             154.06
154.07             154.07
154.20             154.20
154.21             154.21
154.22             154.22
154.23             154.23
154.24             154.24
154.40             154.40
154.41             154.41
154.42             154.42
154.43             154.43
154.44             154.44
154.45             154.45
154.46             154.46
154.47             154.47
154.48             154.48
154.60             154.60
154.61             154.61
154.62             154.62
154.63             154.63
154.64             154.64
154.65             154.65
154.99             154.99
Ch. 154 Appendix   Ch. 154 Appx A
155.001            155.001
155.002            155.002
155.003            155.003
155.004            155.004
155.005            155.005
155.006            155.006
155.007            155.007
155.020            155.020
155.021            155.021
155.022            155.022
155.023            155.023
155.024            155.024
155.025            155.025
155.026            155.026
155.027            155.027
155.028            155.028
155.029            155.029
155.030            155.030
155.031            155.031
155.032            155.032
155.033            155.033
155.034            155.034
155.035            155.035
155.036            155.036
155.050            155.050
155.051            155.051
155.052            155.052
155.053            155.053
155.054            155.054
155.070            155.070
155.071            155.071
155.072            155.072
155.090            155.090
155.091            155.091
155.092            155.092
155.093            155.093
155.094            155.094
155.095            155.095
155.096            155.096
155.097            155.097
155.098            155.098
155.099            155.099
155.100            155.100
155.101            155.101
155.102            155.102
155.120            155.120
155.121            155.121
155.122            155.122
155.123            155.123
155.124            155.124
155.125            155.125
155.130            155.130
155.140            155.140
155.141            155.141
155.142            155.142
155.143            155.143
155.144            155.144
155.145            155.145
155.146            155.146
155.147            155.147
155.148            155.148
155.149            155.149
155.150            155.150
155.160            155.160
155.161            155.161
155.162            155.162
155.171            155.171
155.172            155.172
155.176            155.176
155.177            155.177
155.178            155.178
155.179            155.179
155.180            155.180
155.185            155.185
155.186            155.186
155.187            155.187
155.190            155.190
155.210            155.210
155.211            155.211
155.212            155.212
155.213            155.213
155.214            155.214
155.250            155.250
155.251            155.251
155.252            155.252
155.253            155.253
155.260            155.260
155.261            155.261
155.262            155.262
155.263            155.263
155.264            155.264
155.265            155.265
155.266            155.266
155.267            155.267
155.268            155.268
155.269            155.269
155.280            155.280
155.281            155.281
155.282            155.282
155.283            155.283
155.284            155.284
155.285            155.285
155.286            155.286
155.999            155.999
Ch. 155 Appendix A Ch. 155 Appx A
Ch. 155 Appendix B Ch. 155 Appx B
156.01             156.001
156.02             156.002
156.03             156.003
156.04             156.004
156.10             156.015
156.11             156.016
156.12             156.017
156.13             156.018
156.14             156.019
156.15             156.020
156.16             156.021
156.17             156.022
156.18             156.023
156.19             156.024
156.20             156.025
156.21             156.026
156.22             156.027
156.24             156.028
156.25             156.029
156.26             156.030
156.27             156.031
156.29             156.032
156.30             156.033
156.40             156.999
156.41             156.045
156.42             156.046
156.50             156.060
156.51             156.061
156.60             156.075
156.61             156.076
157.01             157.01
157.02             157.02
157.03             157.03
157.04             157.04
157.05             157.05
157.06             157.06
157.07             157.07
157.08             157.08
157.09             157.09
157.10             157.10
157.11             157.11
157.12             157.12
157.13             157.13
157.14             157.14
157.15             157.15
157.16             157.16
157.17             157.17
157.18             157.18
TSO I              TSO I
                   
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Description
Res. No. Date Passed Description
-        - -         52.043
-        - -         111.08
-        - -         150.065
-        9-19-1983   TSO I
-        7-3-1989    TSO I
-        7-3-1989    TSO I
-        8-21-1989   TSO I
-        12-18-1989  TSO I
-        7-1-1997    TSO I
-        5-4-1998    TSO I
-        5-4-1998    TSO I
-        5-4-1998    TSO I
-        6-15-1998   TSO I
-        8-17-1998   TSO I
-        11-16-1998  TSO I
-        5-17-1999   TSO I
-        4-2-2001    TSO I
-        2-4-2002    TSO I
-        4-1-2002    TSO I
-        4-1-2002    TSO I
-        4-1-2002    TSO I
-        4-1-2002    TSO I
-        4-7-2003    TSO I
-        4-7-2003    TSO I
-        4-7-2003    TSO I
-        4-5-2004    TSO I
-        6-6-2005    TSO I
-        8-1-2005    TSO I
-        6-7-2010    TSO I
-        10-1-2012   TSO I
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        - -         50.03
-        - -         52.058
-        - -         130.01
                     150.001 –
                     150.005,
                     150.020-
                     150.026,
-        - -         150.040-
                     150.050,
                     150.066,
                     150.080-
                     150.083,
                     150.999
-        - -         154.01
-        - -         154.01
                     155.260 –
-        - -         155.269,
                     Ch. 155 Appx B
-        2-5-1973    92.01
                     92.02 –
-        2-5-1973    92.09,
                     92.99
                     112.01 –
-        2-21-1977   112.11,
                     112.99
                     111.01 –
-        12-19-1977  111.08,
                     111.99
-        6-7-1982    TSO I
-        4-16-1984   90.01,
                     90.02
                     155.001 –
                     155.007,
                     155.020-
                     155.032,
                     155.050-
                     155.053,
                     155.070-
                     155.072,
                     155.090-
                     155.102,
                     155.120-
                     155.125,
-        5-21-1984   155.140-
                     155.148,
                     155.171-
                     155.172,
                     155.190,
                     155.210-
                     155.214,
                     155.250-
                     155.253,
                     155.280-
                     155.286,
                     155.999,
                     Ch. 155 Appx A
-        2-18-1985   TSO I
                     50.01 –
                     50.05,
-        5-6-1985    50.20-
                     50.23,
                     50.99
-        5-20-1985   TSO I
-        7-29-1985   155.001
-        11-17-1986  70.01
                     51.01 –
                     51.04,
                     51.15-
                     51.19,
-        10-5-1987   51.30,
                     51.45,
                     51.60-
                     51.64,
                     51.99
-        5-15-1989   TSO I
-        6-5-1989    TSO I
-        11-20-1989  155.001,
                     155.125
-        11-20-1989  155.001
-        6-18-1990   50.03
-        10-1-1990   113.01,
                     113.99
                     93.01 –
-        10-15-1990  93.12,
                     93.99
                     94.001 –
                     94.006,
                     94.020,
                     94.021,
                     94.035-
                     94.042,
                     94.055-
                     94.061,
                     94.075-
-        1-19-1993   94.078,
                     94.090-
                     94.099,
                     94.110-
                     94.112,
                     94.125-
                     94.134,
                     94.136-
                     94.139,
                     94.999
-        7-6-1993    94.039,
                     94.043
                     52.001 –
                     52.005,
                     52.020-
                     52.029,
-        9-20-1993   52.040-
                     52.042,
                     52.055-
                     52.058,
                     52.999
-        9-20-1993   94.111
-        10-18-1993  50.03
                     151.01 –
                     151.03,
-        12-20-1993  151.15-
                     151.19,
                     151.35-
                     151.37
-        9-20-1999   94.090
                     50.35 –
-        1-18-1994   50.45,
                     50.99
-        1-18-1994   94.055
-        1-18-1994   155.160 –
                     155.162
                     152.01 –
                     152.06,
-        2-7-1994    152.20-
                     152.22,
                     152.99
                     154.01 –
                     154.06,
                     154.20-
                     154.24,
-        3-21-1994   154.40-
                     154.47,
                     154.60-
                     154.65,
                     154.99,
                     Ch. 154 Appx A
-        6-23-1994   52.059
-        1-9-1995    TSO I
-        2-6-1995    TSO I
-        4-3-1995    154.48
-        4-3-1995    155.001,
                     155.148
-        12-18-1995  113.01
-        12-18-1995  93.04
-        7-1-1996    154.23
-        7-1-1996    155.125,
                     155.144
                     155.001,
-        12-16-1996  155.029,
                     155.033,
                     155.125
-        1-6-1997    TSO I
-        6-23-1997   155.001,
                     155.148
-        7-31-1997   TSO I
                     151.01 –
-        10-21-1997  151.03,
                     151.20,
                     151.37
-        10-21-1997  155.160
                     151.16,
-        1-20-1998   151.18,
                     151.37
-        1-20-1998   155.162
-        2-2-1998    112.03
-        6-15-1998   TSO I
                     114.01 -
                     114.05,
-        9-21-1998   114.07 -
                     114.15,
                     114.99
                     155.001,
-        11-16-1998  155.125,
                     155.144
-        2-15-1999   50.03
-        3-22-1999   TSO I
-        4-5-1999    52.058
-        8-16-1999   155.286
-        9-20-1999   94.135
-        10-18-1999  151.16,
                     151.18
-        4-3-2000    TSO I
-        4-3-2000    TSO I
-        4-3-2000    TSO I
-        4-3-2000    TSO I
-        4-3-2000    TSO I
-        4-3-2000    TSO I
-        6-19-2000   113.02,
                     113.99
-        8-21-2000   TSO I
                     92.01,
                     92.03-
-        10-16-2000  92.05,
                     92.08,
                     92.09
                     110.001 –
                     110.003,
                     110.015-
                     110.028,
                     110.040-
                     110.045,
                     110.060,
                     110.075-
                     110.086,
                     110.100-
                     110.111,
                     110.125-
-        11-20-2000  110.128,
                     110.140,
                     110.141,
                     110.155,
                     110.156,
                     110.170,
                     110.171,
                     110.185,
                     110.186,
                     110.200-
                     110.206,
                     110.999,
                     Ch. 110 Appx A
-        4-16-2001   93.04
-        4-16-2001   155.172
-        8-6-2001    155.149
-        12-3-2001   TSO I
                     156.001 –
                     156.004,
                     156.015-
                     156.033,
                     156.045,
-        10-7-2002   156.046,
                     156.060,
                     156.061,
                     156.075,
                     156.076,
                     156.999
                     155.050,
-        8-18-2003   155.053,
                     155.054
-        9-15-2003   155.210
-        10-20-2003  155.053
-        2-16-2004   52.060
                     155.001,
-        2-16-2004   155.034,
                     155.125
-        9-20-2004   154.23,
                     154.24
-        9-20-2004   155.050
-        12-20-2004  113.01
-        1-18-2005   154.24
-        1-18-2005   155.149
                     155.001,
                     155.022,
                     155.030,
-        5-16-2005   155.032,
                     155.125,
                     155.190,
                     155.281,
                     155.282
                     155.050,
-        11-21-2005  155.091,
                     155.101,
                     155.102
                     90.03,
-        12-19-2005  90.15-
                     90.21,
                     90.99
-        3-20-2006   154.01
                     154.01,
-        3-20-2006   154.07,
                     154.21,
                     154.61
                     155.001,
                     155.125,
-        3-20-2006   155.161,
                     155.213,
                     155.252,
                     155.253
-        5-1-2006    154.20,
                     154.23
-        5-1-2006    155.001
                     155.001,
                     155.125,
-        5-1-2006    155.172,
                     155.177-
                     155.180
                     155.001,
-        6-5-2006    155.125,
                     155.185-
                     155.187
-        9-5-2006    155.036,
                     155.125
                     52.002,
-        10-2-2006   52.004,
                     52.005
-        11-6-2006   154.24,
                     154.41
                     155.001,
-        12-4-2006   155.035,
                     155.125
-        4-2-2007    155.286
-        4-2-2007    155.214
                     53.001,
                     53.002,
                     53.015-
                     53.023,
                     53.035-
                     53.038,
                     53.050,
-        5-7-2007    53.051,
                     53.065-
                     53.077,
                     53.090-
                     53.092,
                     53.105-
                     53.110,
                     53.112 -
                     53.114
-        6-4-2007    93.04
                     156.001 –
                     156.004,
                     156.015-
                     156.026,
                     156.028-
                     156.033,
-        12-3-2007   156.045,
                     156.046,
                     156.060,
                     156.061,
                     156.075,
                     156.076,
                     156.999
                     156.004,
-        12-3-2007   156.019,
                     156.020,
                     156.023
-        1-7-2008    157.01 –
                     157.18
-        2-4-2008    155.125
-        8-4-2008    113.02
                     52.075 –
-        8-4-2008    52.088,
                     52.999
-        8-4-2008    155.172
                     153.01 –
                     153.12,
                     153.25-
                     153.30,
-        9-2-2008    153.45-
                     153.49,
                     153.60,
                     153.61,
                     153.99
                     155.001,
-        1-5-2009    155.125,
                     155.140,
                     155.141
-        3-2-2009    155.001,
                     155.125
-        7-6-2009    155.999
-        3-1-2010    155.140,
                     155.141
-        6-7-2010    52.029,
                     52.081
                     155.001,
                     155.125,
-        11-1-2010   155.130,
                     155.150,
                     155.160
                     94.002,
                     94.021,
                     94.044,
                     94.061,
                     94.062,
                     94.092,
-        11-30-2010  94.110,
                     94.111,
                     94.125,
                     94.126,
                     94.131,
                     94.133,
                     94.135
-        2-7-2011    53.021,
                     53.107
-        8-1-2011    155.001,
                     155.125
-        8-1-2011    155.001,
                     155.125
-        8-1-2011    155.001,
                     155.130
-        10-3-2011   154.42
-        10-3-2011   155.140 –
                     155.142
-        11-7-2011   155.001,
                     155.125
                     155.001,
-        11-7-2011   155.125,
                     155.130
-        5-7-2012    157.07
-        7-16-2012   155.001,
                     155.125
                     53.001,
                     53.002,
                     53.015 -
                     53.023,
                     53.035 -
                     53.038,
-        9-3-2013    53.050,
                     53.065 -
                     53.079,
                     53.090 -
                     53.092,
                     53.105 -
                     53.117
                     155.050,
-        9-3-2013    155.053,
                     155.172
                     155.001,
-        11-4-2013   155.125,
                     155.130
                     90.03 -
                     90.06,
-        6-2-2014    90.15 -
                     90.21,
                     90.99
                     115.01 -
-        6-19-2014   115.13,
                     115.99
-        7-14-2014   155.001
-        7-14-2014   155.034
-        8-4-2014    113.99
-        10-6-2014   115.11
-        2-2-2015    155.148
-        2-2-2015    155.028
-        4-6-2015    114.15
-        6-1-2015    155.031
-        6-1-2015    155.230 -
                     155.242
-        10-5-2015   30.001 -
                     30.009
-        10-3-2016   50.01,
                     50.05
                     95.001 -
                     95.004,
                     95.025 -
                     95.037,
-        10-3-2016   95.050 -
                     95.072,
                     95.085 -
                     95.088,
                     95.998,
                     95.999
                     155.125,
                     155.130,
-        2- -2017    155.151,
                     155.160,
                     155.172,
                     Ch. 155, Appx C
-        6-5-2017    155.001,
                     155.214
-        6-5-2017    90.03 -
                     90.05
-        8-7-2017    130.03
                     53.001,
                     53.002,
                     53.013 -
                     53.023,
                     53.035 -
                     53.038,
-        12-4-2017   53.050,
                     53.051,
                     53.065 -
                     53.079,
                     53.090 -
                     53.092,
                     53.105 -
                     53.121
                     94.001,
                     94.037,
                     94.056,
                     94.090,
-        - -         94.099,
                     94.125 -
                     94.127,
                     94.131,
                     94.135,
                     94.139
-        2-5-2018    155.170,
                     155.213
-        - -2018     157.01 -
                     157.18
-        6-4-2018    155.151
-        - -         31.001 -
                     31.003
-        10-7-2019   155.151
-        12-2-2019   31.001 –
                     31.003
                     95.001 –
                     95.004,
                     95.025 –
                     95.037,
-        1-6-2020    95.050 –
                     95.072,
                     95.085 –
                     95.088,
                     95.998,
                     95.999
-        8-3-2020    130.03
                     91.01 –
                     91.03,
                     91.10 –
                     91.13,
-        5-3-2021    91.20 –
                     91.31,
                     91.40 –
                     91.42,
                     91.99,
                     Ch. 91, Appx A
-        5-3-2021    116.01 –
                     116.08
                     155.001,
                     155.120,
-        5-3-2021    155.125,
                     155.147,
                     155.160,
                     155.172
-        12-6-2021   30.009
                     155.125,
-        12-21-2021  155.130,
                     155.151
                     95.001 –
                     95.004,
                     95.025 –
                     95.037,
                     95.050 –
-        1-10-2022   95.073,
                     95.085 –
                     95.088,
                     95.100,
                     95.998,
                     95.999
-        3-7-2022    157.01 –
                     157.18
                     155.125,
-        7-11-2022   155.130,
                     155.151
-        8-1-2022    155.001
-        2-5-2024    52.040
                     91.01 –
                     91.03,
                     91.10 –
                     91.13,
-        2-5-2024    91.20 –
                     91.31,
                     91.40 –
                     91.42,
                     91.99
                     95.001 –
                     95.004,
                     95.025 –
                     95.037,
-        2-5-2024    95.050 –
                     95.073,
                     95.085 –
                     95.088,
                     95.998,
                     95.999
-        2-5-2024    154.42
                    
 
