DUCK, NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-33 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 25-03, passed 6-4-2025; and
State legislation current through North Carolina Legislative Service,
2024 Regular Session Laws, Pamphlet No. 3
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TOWN OFFICIALS
Town Council
Don Kingston     Mayor
Monica Thibodeau Mayor Pro Tempore
Sandy Whitman    Councilmember
Brenda Chasen    Councilmember
Kevin Lingard    Councilmember
Town Staff
Drew Havens      Town Manager
Lori Ackerman    Town Clerk
Robert Hobbs     Town Attorney
 
Adopting Ordinances
Ordinance #07-16
   AN ORDINANCE OF THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF DUCK, NORTH CAROLINA,
ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE TOWN OF DUCK, NORTH CAROLINA, REVISING,
AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE TOWN DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH CODE OF
ORDINANCES.
   WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the Town of Duck
are unwieldy and insufficient in organization for the general public to easily
research; and
   WHEREAS, Sections 160A-77 and 160A-78 of the North Carolina General Statutes
require municipalities to maintain a code of ordinances; and
   WHEREAS, the Town Council of the Town of Duck, North Carolina, has entered
into a contract with American Legal Publishing to properly organize and index
the town's existing and future ordinances; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary for the Town Council to adopt the newly organized
and indexed Code of Ordinances:
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF DUCK,
NORTH CAROLINA, this 17th Day of October, 2007, that the ordinances of the Town
of Duck as revised, amended, restated, codified and complied in book form are
hereby adopted as and shall constitute the Code of Ordinances for the Town of
Duck, North Carolina; and
   BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, that such Code of Ordinances as adopted shall
consist of the following titles: General Provisions, Administration, Public
Works, Traffic Code, General Regulations, Business Regulations, General
Offenses, and Land Use; and
   BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, that all prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects
treated in the Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the
effective date of this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in
whole or in part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any
offense committed or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the
effective date of this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions
of ordinances levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching
territory, establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain
persons, authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or
borrowing of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal
property, granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public
use, vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor
shall such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature
or pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
   This ordinance shall be effective upon its adoption on October 17, 2007.
                      /s/ Neil Morrison
                     Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ Lori A. Kopec
Town Clerk
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Chapter
   
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time; computing time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinances
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend code; effect of new ordinances
   
10.18   Section histories; section headings; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the Town of Duck shall be
designated as the Code of Duck, North Carolina and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CHARTER. The Charter of the Town of Duck, North Carolina.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time within which an act is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and the last day; and if the last day is
Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday, that day shall be excluded.
      COUNCIL. The Mayor and Council, or governing body, of the Town of Duck,
North Carolina.
      COUNTY. The County of Dare, North Carolina.
      G.S. or GENERAL STATUTES. The latest edition of the GENERAL STATUTES of
North Carolina, as amended.
      GENDER. Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine
and neuter.
      GOVERNOR. The Governor of North Carolina.
      JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving a joint authority to 3 or more persons
or officers shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of persons
or officers.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      NUMBER. Words used in the singular include the plural, and the plural
includes the singular number.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this municipality unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
      OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Whenever certain hours are named in this code,
they shall mean standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use
in this town.
      OWNER. Applied to any property, includes any part owner, joint owner,
tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole or a
part of the property.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Every species of property except real property.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property.
      REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of North Carolina.
      STREET. Any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard,
parkway, dedicated alley, lane, viaduct, bridge and the approaches thereto
within the town and shall mean the entire width of the right-of-way between
abutting property lines.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT. When applied to a building or land, includes any
person who occupies the whole or a part of the building or land, whether alone
or with others.
      TENSE. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well
as the past and present.
      TOWN. The Town of Duck, in the County of Dare, North Carolina.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
      ZONING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. One designated by the Town Manager.
Statutory reference:
   Computation of time, see G.S. § 1-593
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this town shall be by the following
rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance:
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of an act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this town exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, that spelling shall be corrected and the word
or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this town for the transaction of all
municipal business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME; COMPUTING TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   (A)   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other
ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in
full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary
implication.
   (B)   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall be
construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
      (1)   Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture
incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective
date of this code;
      (2)   Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment
of money for the town or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the town or
any evidence of the town's indebtedness;
      (3)   Any contract or obligation assumed by the town;
      (4)   Any ordinance fixing the salary of any town officer or employee;
      (5)   Any right or franchise granted by the town;
      (6)   Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating,
relocating, opening, widening, paving and the like, any street or public way in
the town;
      (7)   Any appropriation ordinance;
      (8)   Any ordinance which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or
limited term;
      (9)   Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes
therefore;
      (10)   Any zoning ordinance or zoning map amendment;
      (11)   Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat;
      (12)   Any ordinance describing or altering the boundaries of the town;
      (13)   The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the town not in
conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this code;
      (14)   Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included herein;
      (15)   Any ordinance establishing or prescribing street grades in the
town; and/or
      (16)   Any personnel ordinance.
   (C)   Nor shall any ordinance be construed to revive any ordinance or part
thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance which is repealed by
this chapter; and all ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full
force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length herein.
Statutory reference:
   Statutes not repealed by General Statutes, see G.S. § 164-7
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND CODE; EFFECT OF NEW ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal or
in any way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering
system hereof and printed for inclusion herein. When subsequent ordinances
repeal any chapter, section or subsection, or any portion thereof, the repealed
portions may be excluded from this code by omission from reprinted pages. The
subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of
repeal, shall be prima facie evidence that the subsequent ordinances numbered
or omitted are readopted as a new code by the town.
   (B)   Amendments to any of the provisions of the code shall be made by
amending provisions by specific reference to the section number of this code in
language substantially similar to the following: “Section                of the
Code of Ordinances, Town of Duck, North Carolina, is hereby amended as
follows....” The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (C)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be added,
language substantially similar to the following shall be used: “The Code of
Ordinances, Town of Duck, North Carolina, is hereby amended by adding a
section, to be numbered               , which section shall read as
follows:....” The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (D)   All sections, articles, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed
must be specifically repealed by section, article or chapter number, as the
case may be.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; SECTION HEADINGS; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and the most recent 3 amending ordinances, if
any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-1960; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Am. Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (G.S. §
160A-11) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1985)
      (2)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see G.S. §§ 132-1 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)    Any ordinance contained herein may be enforced by the imposition of
civil penalties, such as civil fines.
   (B)   An ordinance may provide, when appropriate, that each day's continuing
violation shall be a separate and distinct violation, for which a civil penalty
may be imposed.
   (C)   If no specific penalty has been prescribed for violation of any
provision contained within this code, then a civil penalty of not less than $50
and not more than $1,000 may be imposed per violation.
(Am. Ord. 19-06, passed 11-6-2019)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
Chapter
   
30.   GENERAL ADMINISTRATION, OFFICERS AND ORGANIZATIONS
   
31.   TOWN COUNCIL
   
32.   EMERGENCIES
   
33.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL ADMINISTRATION, OFFICERS AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Administration
   
30.01   Ordinances
   
30.02   Regulatory templates
   
30.03   Authorization for Town Manager to enter into certain contracts
   
30.04   Signing and countersigning of checks and the like
   
30.05   Town Manager’s authorization to dispose of certain personal property
   
30.06   Use of the official town seal
Officers and Employees
   
30.20   Appointment and responsibility of Town Manager
   
30.21   Powers and duties of Town Manager
   
30.22   Duties of Town Clerk
Planning Board
   
30.35   Established; jurisdiction
   
30.36   Purpose
   
30.37   Composition; terms; vacancies; attendance of members
   
30.38   Officers; rules; records; quorum
   
30.39   Meetings
   
30.40   Powers and duties
Duck Trail Advisory Committee
   
30.50   Established
   
30.51   Composition; terms; vacancies; attendance
   
30.52   Chairperson; rules; meetings
   
30.53   Duties
   
30.54   Function as advisory body
GENERAL ADMINISTRATION
§ 30.01 ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Proposal in writing; approval of form by Town Attorney. Every
ordinance amending or repealing any ordinance and every new ordinance shall be
proposed in writing, signed by the Council member presenting the same.
   (B)   Procedure when amending or adding to this code. Every ordinance
introduced, if it proposes to amend or repeal any existing portion of an
existing ordinance, shall show by proper reference the ordinance, article,
division and section proposed to be amended. In addition to the indication
thereof, as may be contained in the text of the proposed ordinance, the same
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
   (C)   Filing after passage. Every ordinance passed by the Council shall be
immediately filed by the Town Clerk in a book provided for that purpose.
(Ord. 03-02, passed 3-5-2003)
§ 30.02 REGULATORY TEMPLATES.
   (A)   Authority to permit. The Council may, from time to time, authorize the
printing of templates containing certain regulatory ordinances applicable
within the town which ordinances should be brought to the attention of
tourists, visitors and temporary residents of the town whether residing in
rental properties or frequenting applicable businesses.
   (B)   Duty of Town Manager.
      (1)   Upon approval of the content of the regulatory ordinances to be
printed on the template, the Town Manager shall cause to be printed in a
permanent unerasable material in sufficient quantity to be posted in all
applicable businesses, rental properties, hotel rooms and units located within
the town.
      (2)   The Town Manager shall distribute the templates, as from time to
time may be authorized and printed, to applicable businesses, individual
owners, agents and realtors of rental properties in the town in sufficient
quantities for the placement of the same in each hotel room or each rental
cottage and unit located in the town.
   (C)   Duties of applicable business owners or owners, agents and the like,
of hotels, cottages and the like. Each applicable business or owner, realtor or
agent of rental cottages and units and each hotel owner or operator, receiving
the templates shall cause 1 template to be placed and maintained in a prominent
position or place so as to be easily noticeable by the occupants thereof in
each business, cottage, rental unit or apartment and in each hotel room or unit
within 15 business days of the delivery of the same to the office of the
realtor, owner, operator or within 15 days of the depositing of the templates
in the United States mail service, postage prepaid addressed to the realtor,
owner or operator.
   (D)   Replacing lost, destroyed and the like, templates. Each applicable
business owner or owner, realtor, agent or operator shall, in the event any of
the templates are lost or destroyed, notify the Town Manager who shall issue a
replacement template which shall be posted within 15 days of the loss or
destruction.
(Ord. 04-01, passed 1-7-2004)
§ 30.03 AUTHORIZATION FOR TOWN MANAGER TO ENTER INTO CERTAIN CONTRACTS.
   The Town Manager shall be authorized to enter into contracts for repair work
requiring an estimated expenditure of public money in an amount not greater
than $20,000, and for the purchase of apparatus, supplies, materials or
equipment requiring an estimated expenditure of public money in any amount;
provided however, that the expenditure shall not be made in an amount greater
than that which has previously been budgeted and approved by the Town Council.
Provided further, that the Town Manager shall comply with all the requirements
of law for the letting of public contracts and for purchases utilizing public
funds. It is further provided that upon compliance with this section, the Town
Manager shall have full authority to bind the town in a contract or purchase.
(Ord. 04-05, passed 4-7-2004)
§ 30.04 SIGNING AND COUNTERSIGNING OF CHECKS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   The finance officer of the town, is authorized to sign all checks,
drafts or other financial instruments as required by G.S. § 159-25(b) and the
Council shall designate another town officer or Council member authorized to
countersign all like checks, drafts and other financial instruments.
   (B)   In the event of the temporary absence or disability of the finance
officer, financial instruments of the nature above-described shall be signed by
the Town Manager acting as finance officer.
(Ord. 03-02, passed 3-5-2003)
§ 30.05 TOWN MANAGER’S AUTHORIZATION TO DISPOSE OF CERTAIN PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   The Town Manager shall be authorized to dispose of personal property
after determining that the item or group of items to be disposed of has a fair
market value not to exceed $5,000; that the property is no longer necessary for
the conduct of public business; and that sound property management principles
and financial considerations indicate that the interests of the town would best
be served by disposing of the property.
   (B)   It is further provided that upon compliance with this section, the
Town Manager shall have full authority to dispose of surplus personal property.
(Ord. 03-02, passed 3-5-2003)
§ 30.06 USE OF THE OFFICIAL TOWN SEAL.
   (A)   Official town seal.
      (1)   The official town seal, as adopted on December 4, 2013, is as
follows:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ce82592df08f70ac7cac4f15e8a402768036b6e6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-939.jpg]
      (2)   The town seal is a registered trademark with the state and is
subject to all protections afforded by this designation.
      (3)   The town seal may be depicted in color or black and white.
   (B)   Authorized uses of the town seal.
      (1)   The Town Clerk shall be the official custodian of the town seal. It
shall be the duty of the Town Clerk to keep in some secure place the seal and
affix the seal to whatever papers the Town Council shall direct and as required
by law.
      (2)   Authorized town officials and employees may use the town seal for
purposes approved by the Town Council. Use of the town seal is restricted to
official town business and may not be used by private companies, organizations,
or individuals. The town seal is authorized for use by the Town Council in
association with the following:
         (a)   Town vehicles and other property;
         (b)   Town signage;
         (c)   the town website,
         (d)   Town communications and announcements, which must be
individually approved by the Town Manager or his or her designee;
         (e)   Promotional items and memorabilia;
         (f)   Clothing for the Town Council, town staff, and boards,
commissions, and volunteers as approved by the Town Manager.
      (3)   The Town Manager may approve the use of the town seal for purposes
not listed above, provided that such use is related to official town business.
   (C)   Manufacture and sale of souvenirs and decorative items. Any person
may, subject to the requirements in this section, manufacture or sell objects,
such as souvenirs or decorative items bearing the town seal as part of the
design. Use of the town seal under this section must be approved by the Town
Council and may occur only under a written agreement with the town, approved by
the Town Council or its designee, containing such requirements and limitations
as the Town Council or its designee shall deem appropriate to assure that such
use of the town seal is in the best interests of the town.
   (D)   Prohibited uses.
      (1)   No person may attach, impress, or display the town seal, or any
representation thereof, except as authorized in division (A) of this section.
      (2)   No person may use the town seal, or any representation thereof, for
purposes of supporting or opposing the nomination or election to any town or
other public office of any person, or for purposes of supporting or opposing
any ballot measure, or on any materials distributed for purposes of influencing
the actions of the voters in any election.
      (3)   No person may use the town seal, or any representation thereof, for
the purpose of conveying, or in a manner reasonably likely to convey, an
impression of sponsorship or approval by the town.
   (E)   Violation.   Violation of this section shall result in a civil penalty
pursuant to §
10.99.
(Ord. 14-01, passed 4-2-2014; Am. Ord. 19-06, passed 11-6-2019)
OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
§ 30.20 APPOINTMENT AND RESPONSIBILITY OF TOWN MANAGER.
   (A)   The Town Manager shall be appointed by and serves at the pleasure of
the Council and need not be a resident of the town.
   (B)   The Town Manager shall be responsible for and supervise the operation
of all departments of the town and shall have the powers and duties as set out
in §
30.21 below.
(Ord. 03-02, passed 3-5-2003)
§ 30.21 POWERS AND DUTIES OF TOWN MANAGER.
   The Town Manager shall be the chief administrative officer of the town and
with exception of the Town Attorney shall be responsible to the Town Council
for administering all municipal affairs and shall have the following powers and
duties:
   (A)   The Town Manager shall nominate all town officers, department heads
and employees with the exception of the Town Attorney and Town Clerk, to the
Town Council;
   (B)   The Town Manager shall direct and supervise the administration of all
departments, offices and agencies of the town with the exception of the Town
Attorney, subject to the general direction and control of the Council;
   (C)   The Town Manager shall attend all meetings of the Council and
recommend any measures deemed expedient;
   (D)   The Town Manager shall cooperate with and provide liaison with the
Chief of Police in seeing that the laws of the State of North Carolina, the
Town Charter and the ordinances, resolutions and regulations of the Council are
faithfully executed within the town;
   (E)   The Town Manager shall prepare and submit the annual budget and
capital program to the Council;
   (F)   The Town Manager shall annually submit to the Town Council and make
available to the public a complete report on the finances and administrative
activities of the town as of the end of each fiscal year;
   (G)   The Town Manager shall make any other reports that the Town Council
may require concerning the operations of town departments, offices and agencies
subject to the direction and control of the Town Manager; and
   (H)   The Town Manager shall perform any other duties that may be required
or authorized by the Town Council.
(Ord. 03-02, passed 3-5-2003)
§ 30.22 DUTIES OF TOWN CLERK.
   The position of Town Clerk is hereby established and the duties thereof
shall be as follows, to:
   (A)   Give notice of meetings of the Council;
   (B)   Keep a journal of the proceedings of the Council;
   (C)   Be the custodian of all town records; and
   (D)   Perform any other duties that may be required by law or the Council.
(Ord. 03-02, passed 3-5-2003)
PLANNING BOARD
§ 30.35 ESTABLISHED; JURISDICTION.
   (A)   In addition to substantive proposals, the following procedural
motions, and no others, shall be in order.
   (B)   Unless otherwise noted, each motion is debatable, may be amended, and
requires a majority vote for adoption. In order or priority, if applicable, the
procedural motions are:
      (1)   To adjourn. The motion may be made only at the conclusion of action
on a pending matter; it may not interrupt deliberation of a pending matter;
      (2)   To recess;
      (3)   To call to follow the agenda. The motion must be made at the first
reasonable opportunity or it is waived;
      (4)   To suspend the rules. The motion requires a vote equal to a quorum;
      (5)   To divide a complex motion and consider it by paragraph;
      (6)   To defer consideration or table. A substantive motion whose
consideration has been deferred or tabled expires 100 days thereafter unless a
motion to revive consideration is adopted;
      (7)   To call the previous question. The motion is not in order until
there has been at least 20 minutes of debate and every member has had 1
opportunity to speak;
      (8)   To postpone to a certain time or day;
      (9)   To refer to committee. Sixty days after a motion has been referred
to a committee, the introducer may compel consideration of the measure by the
entire Town Council, regardless of whether the committee has reported the
matter back to the Town Council;
      (10)   To amend:
         (a)   An amendment to a motion must be germane to the subject matter
of the motion, but it may achieve the opposite effect of the motion;
         (b)   There may be an amendment to the motion and an amendment to an
amendment, but no further amendments; and
         (c)   Any amendment to a proposed ordinance shall be reduced to
writing before the vote on the amendment.
      (11)   To revive consideration. The motion is in order at any time 100
days after a vote to defer consideration of it. A substantive motion on which
consideration has been deferred expires 100 days after the deferral, unless a
motion to revive consideration is adopted;
      (12)   To reconsider. The motion must be made by a member who voted with
the prevailing side. The motion must be made at the same meeting at which the
original vote was taken. The motion cannot interrupt deliberation on a pending
matter, but is in order at any time before adjournment; or
      (13)   To prevent reconsideration for 6 months. The motion shall be in
order immediately following the defeat of a substantive motion and at no other
time. The motion requires a vote equal to a quorum and is valid for 6 months or
until the next regular election of Council members, whichever occurs first.
(Ord. 04-04, passed 4-7-2004)
§ 30.36 PURPOSE.
   The Planning Board shall serve primarily in an advisory capacity to the Town
Council in order to assist in matters of public health, safety, convenience and
welfare of the citizens. To this end, the Planning Board will advise the Town
Council on plans for the future development of the town so that residential
areas may be provided with healthy surroundings, so that the needs and rights
of businesses and individual property owners may be recognized, and so that
transportation systems, recreational facilities and land use in the town may
develop in an efficient manner for the benefit of all.
(Ord. 04-05, passed 4-7-2004; Am. Ord. 23-07, passed 9-6-2023)
§ 30.37 COMPOSITION; TERMS; VACANCIES; ATTENDANCE OF MEMBERS.
   (A)   The Planning Board shall be composed of 5 members, who shall be real
property owners of the town.
   (B)   The members shall be appointed by the Town Council for terms of 3
years staggered per the initial appointment of the Board. Board members shall
be eligible for reappointment for additional terms.
   (C)   Vacancies occurring for reasons other than expiration of terms shall
be filled as they occur for the period of the unexpired term. Faithful
attendance at the meetings of the Planning Board is considered a prerequisite
for the maintenance of membership on the Planning Board.
   (D)   Prior to engaging in the duties prescribed below, all appointed Board
members shall qualify for service by completing an oath of office.
   (E)   The members may be compensated at a rate approved by the Town Council.
(Ord. 03-02, passed 3-5-2003; Am. Ord. 23-07, passed 9-6-2023)
§ 30.38 OFFICERS; RULES; RECORDS; QUORUM.
   (A)   Officers. The Planning Board shall elect a Chair and Vice Chair who
shall fulfill the duties described below. The Director of Community Development
or his/her designee shall serve as the Secretary.
   (B)   Election of officers. On the first regular meeting after May 1 of each
year, nominations of officers (Chair and Vice Chair) shall be made from the
floor by Planning Board members and elections shall follow immediately
thereafter. Members receiving the majority vote of the Board for the above
offices shall serve 1 year or until their successors take office. A vacancy in
either office shall be filled immediately by regular election procedures for
the unexpired term of the office vacated. Officers shall be eligible for
reelection.
   (C)   Duties of the Chair. The Chair shall preside at all meetings of the
Planning Board and shall have the duties normally conferred by parliamentary
procedures of such officers. To fulfill these duties, the Chair shall take
whatever action is necessary to provide a full opportunity for public comments;
focus comments and discussion on issues directly related to the item being
considered; ensure polite and orderly proceedings; and otherwise promote the
efficient and effective disposition of matters before the Board. Such actions
may include limiting the time allotted to speakers, interrupting personal
attacks or digressions into immaterial issues, and ordering an end to
disorderly conduct. The Chair shall decide all points of order and procedure
subject to Robert’s Rules of Order.
   (D)   Duties of the Vice Chair. The Vice Chair shall perform the duties of
the Chair in the absence or incapacity of the Chair. When serving in that
capacity, the Vice Chair shall have the same powers and duties as the Chair.
   (E)   Absence of Chair and Vice Chair. Should both the Chair and the Vice
Chair be absent at any meeting, the Chair shall appoint a temporary chair to
serve at that meeting.
   (F)   Duties of the Secretary. The Secretary shall keep the minutes and
records of the Planning Board for regular and special meetings; conduct all
correspondence of the Board and act as custodian of all Board records; arrange
for all public notices required to be given; notify Board members and
interested parties of pending meetings and their agenda; and supervise the
clerical work of the Board.
   (G)   The Planning Board shall adopt rules for transaction of its
resolutions, discussions, findings, and recommendations.
   (H)   Meetings. The Planning Board shall schedule at least 1 meeting
monthly, and all of its meetings shall be open to the public.
   (I)   Quorum. There shall be a quorum of at least 3 members for the purpose
of taking any official action required by this subchapter.
   (J)   The Planning Board shall keep the Council and the general public
informed and advised as to these matters.
(Ord. 03-02, passed 3-5-2003; Am. Ord. 23-07, passed 9-6-2023)
§ 30.39 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Planning Board shall schedule at least 1 meeting monthly, and all
of its meetings shall be open to the public. Additional meetings may be
scheduled, on an as-needed basis, and such meetings shall be special meetings
of the Board.
   (B)   Meeting cancellation. The Chair may cancel or reschedule a scheduled
regular meeting on determining that there will be no business for the Board to
consider at the meeting, or that so many members have indicated their probable
absence at the meeting that a quorum will not be present. If a meeting is
cancelled, the Secretary shall notify all Board members about the cancellation
as soon as practicable.
   (C)   The Secretary shall ensure that each member of the Board is provided a
written notice prior to each meeting. Such notice shall include the meeting
agenda and all pertinent staff reports. If the Board recesses a regular or
special meeting for which proper notice was given, after the Chair has
announced in open session the time and place at which the meeting will be
continued, no further notice need be given for the continued meeting.
(Ord. 23-07, passed 9-6-2023)
§ 30.40 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   At the direction of the Town Council, the Planning Board is authorized to:
   (A)   Prepare plans and to coordinate the plans of the town with plans of
others so as to bring about the orderly and harmonious development of the area.
   (B)   From time to time, review and recommend revisions to a land use plan
as required by the state Coastal Area Management Act.
   (C)   Review and make recommendations to the Town Council on requests for
rezoning; conformance with the land use plan; and amendments to the zoning,
subdivision regulations, and other land use regulations.
   (D)   Prepare and recommend ordinances promoting orderly development of the
area or amendment of the zoning, subdivision, and other land development
regulations based upon its studies and consistency with the comprehensive plan.
   (E)   Conduct special studies or perform any other duties which may lawfully
be assigned to it by the Town Council.
   (F)   Acquire whatever information and knowledge is necessary to make fully
informed and legally sound decisions and recommendations in the interest of the
town. To that end, members are encouraged to expand their knowledge and
understanding of planning issues through training opportunities.
   (G)   Appoint subcommittees as needed to research or review issues requiring
more detailed analysis.
   (H)   Keep the Town Council and the general public informed and advised as
to matters considered by the Board.
   (I)   Motions and voting. The privilege of making motions, substitute
motions, amendments to motions and voting on all official acts of the Board
shall reside in the members only. A voice vote shall be recorded on all
official acts of the Board.
(Ord. 23-07, passed 9-6-2023; Am. Ord. 23-11, passed 9-6-2023)
DUCK TRAIL ADVISORY COMMITTEE
§ 30.50 ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a committee known as the Duck Trail Committee.
(Ord. 02-16, passed 6-5-2002)
§ 30.51 COMPOSITION; TERMS; VACANCIES; ATTENDANCE.
   (A)   The Committee shall be composed of 5 members, 1 of whom shall be a
member of the Duck Civic Association Board of Directors, appointed by the Town
Council for a term of 1 year.
   (B)   Vacancies occurring for reasons other than expiration of terms will be
filled as they occur for the period of the unexpired term by the Town Council.
(Ord. 02-16, passed 6-5-2002)
§ 30.52 CHAIRPERSON; RULES; MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Committee shall elect a chair from among its members.
   (B)   The Committee shall hold meetings regularly at least once quarterly
and at hours as may be fixed by the Committee.
   (C)   Special meetings may be held on call of the chair upon 48 hours’
notice to the members of the Committee.
   (D)   A copy of the minutes of all meetings shall be sent to the Town
Council.
   (E)   All meetings or other business of the Committee shall be conducted in
accordance with the Open Meetings Law, being G.S. Chapter 143, Article 33c.
(Ord. 02-16, passed 6-5-2002)
§ 30.53 DUTIES.
   The Committee is charged with the duty of investigating, studying and making
recommendations to the Town Council pertaining to the construction,
enlargement, improvement, maintenance, equipment, operation and regulation of
the Duck Trail.
(Ord. 02-16, passed 6-5-2002)
§ 30.54 FUNCTION AS ADVISORY BODY.
   The Committee shall have no legislative powers of its own but shall be an
advisory body to the Town Council concerning the matters with which it is
charged, and the Town Council will receive and consider the Committee's
recommendations in the construction, enlargement, improvement, maintenance,
equipment, operation and regulation of the Duck Trail.
(Ord. 02-16, passed 6-5-2002)
CHAPTER 31: TOWN COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Applicability of chapter
   
31.02   Open meeting policy
   
31.03   Location of meetings
   
31.04   Quorum generally
   
31.05   Organizational meeting
   
31.06   Regular and special meetings
   
31.07   Closed sessions
   
31.08   Public hearings; generally
   
31.09   Quorum at public hearings
   
31.10   Minutes
   
31.11   Election of Mayor
   
31.12   Office of Mayor
   
31.13   Mayor Pro Tempore
   
31.14   Order of business
   
31.15   Agenda generally
Specific Provisions
   
31.30   Appointments
   
31.31   Public address to Board
   
31.32   Action by the Council
   
31.33   Motions generally
   
31.34   Substantive motion
   
31.35   Procedural motion
   
31.36   Debate
   
31.37   Duty to vote
   
31.38   Secret voting prohibited
   
31.39   Action by reference
   
31.40   Introduction of ordinances, resolutions and orders
   
31.41   Adoption of ordinances generally
   
31.42   Budget ordinance
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 APPLICABILITY OF CHAPTER.
   This chapter applies to all meetings of the Town Council at which the
Council is empowered to exercise any of the executive, quasi judicial,
administrative or legislative powers conferred on it by law.
(Ord. 04-04, passed 4-7-2004)
§ 31.02 OPEN MEETING POLICY.
   (A)   The public policy of the state and of the town is that the hearings,
deliberations and actions of the Council and its committees be conducted
openly.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter and in accordance with
applicable law, each official meeting of the Town Council shall be open to the
public, and any person may attend.
   (C)   For the purposes of the provisions of this chapter concerning open
meetings, an OFFICIAL MEETING OF THE COUNCIL is defined as any gathering
together at any time or place or the simultaneous communication by conference
telephone or other electronic means of a majority of Council members for the
purpose of conducting hearings, participating in deliberations or voting upon
or otherwise transacting public business within the jurisdiction, real or
apparent, of the Council.
(Ord. 04-04, passed 4-7-2004)
§ 31.03 LOCATION OF MEETINGS.
   All meetings shall be held within the boundaries of the town except as
otherwise provided in this section.
   (A)   A joint meeting with the governing board of any other political
subdivision of this or any other state may be held within the boundaries of
either subdivision as may be specified in the call of the meeting. At any like
joint meeting, the Council reserves the right to vote separately on all matters
coming before the joint meeting.
   (B)   A special meeting called for considering and acting on an order or
resolution requesting members of the General Assembly representing all or any
portion of the town to support or oppose any bill pending in the General
Assembly or proposed for introduction therein may be held in the City of
Raleigh or other place as stated in the call of the meeting.
   (C)   Retreats, work sessions or other special meetings may be held outside
of the town provided that the meetings are advertised in accordance with North
Carolina General Statutes.
(Ord. 04-04, passed 4-7-2004)
§ 31.04 QUORUM GENERALLY.
   (A)   A majority of the Council membership shall constitute a quorum. The
number required for a quorum shall not be affected by vacancies.
   (B)   If a member has withdrawn from a meeting without being excused by
majority vote of the remaining members, he or she shall be counted as present
for the purposes of determining whether a quorum is present.
(Ord. 04-04, passed 4-7-2004)
§ 31.05 ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING.
   (A)   On the date and at the time of the first regular meeting in December
following a general election in which Town Council members are elected, the
newly elected members of the Council shall take and subscribe the oath of
office as the first order of business.
   (B)   As the second order of business the Council shall elect a Mayor and
Mayor Pro Tempore from among its members.
(Ord. 04-04, passed 4-7-2004)
§ 31.06 REGULAR AND SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings. The Council shall fix the time and place for its
regular meetings in accordance with the requirements of the North Carolina
General Statutes. The regular meeting schedule shall be published in accordance
with the North Carolina General Statutes. The regular meeting schedule may be
amended from time to time by the Council by action taken at any meeting of the
Council.
   (B)   Special meetings.
      (1)   The Mayor, the Mayor Pro Tempore or any 2 members of the Council
may at any time call a special meeting of the Council by signing a notice
stating the time and place of the meeting and the subjects to be considered.
      (2)   At least 48 hours before a special meeting is called in this
manner, written notice of the meeting stating its time and place and the
subjects to be considered shall be:
         (a)   Delivered to the Mayor and each Council member or left at the
usual dwelling place of each Council member;
         (b)   Posted on the Council's principal bulletin board, or if none, at
the door of the Council's usual meeting room; and
         (c)   Mailed or delivered to each newspaper, wire service, radio
station, television station and person who has filed a written request for
notice with the Town Clerk.
      (3)   Only those items of business specified in the notice may be
transacted at a special meeting, unless all Council members are present or
those who are not present have signed waivers.
   (C)   Emergency meetings.
      (1)   The Mayor, the Mayor Pro Tempore or any 2 members of the Council
may at any time call a special meeting of the Council by signing a notice
stating the time and place of the meeting and the subjects to be considered.
      (2)   If a special meeting is called to deal with an unexpected
circumstance requiring immediate consideration, the notice requirements of this
section do not apply. However, the person or persons calling an emergency
meeting shall take reasonable action to inform the other members and the public
of the meeting at least 6 hours before the meeting.
      (3)   Local news organizations having requested notice of special
meetings as provided in division (E) below shall be notified of the emergency
meetings by the same method used to notify Town Council members. Only business
connected with the emergency may be discussed at the meeting.
   (D)   Work sessions and informal meetings.
      (1)   The Council may schedule work sessions, committee meetings or other
informal meetings of the Council or of a majority of its members at times and
concerning subjects as may be established by resolution or order of the Town
Council.
      (2)   A schedule of any like meetings held regularly shall be filed in
the same place and manner as the schedule of regular meetings. Work sessions
and other informal official meetings not held regularly are subject to the same
notice requirements as special Town Council meetings.
   (E)   Sunshine list. Any individual and any newspaper, wire service, radio
station and television station may file a written request with the town clerk
for notice of all regular and special meetings of the Council. Requests by
individuals and news organizations must be renewed annually by December 31.
(Ord. 04-04, passed 4-7-2004; Am. Ord. 23-13, passed 10-4-2023)
§ 31.07 CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (A)   The Council may hold closed sessions as provided by law. The Council
shall only commence a closed session after a motion to go into closed session
has been made and adopted during an open meeting.
   (B)   The motion shall state the purpose of the closed session.
   (C)   If the motion is based on G.S. § 143-318.11(a)(1) (closed session to
prevent the disclosure of privileged or confidential information or information
that is not considered a public record), it must also state the name or
citation of the law that renders the information to be discussed privileged or
confidential.
   (D)   If the motion is based on G.S. § 143-318.11(a)(3) (consultation with
an attorney; handling or settlement of claims, judicial actions or
administrative procedures), it must identify the parties in any existing
lawsuits concerning which the public body expects to receive advice during the
closed session.
   (E)   The motion to go into closed session must be approved by the vote of a
majority of those present and voting. The Council shall terminate the closed
session by a majority vote.
   (F)   Only those actions authorized by statute may be taken in closed
session. A motion to adjourn or recess shall not be in order during a closed
session.
(Ord. 04-04, passed 4-7-2004)
§ 31.08 PUBLIC HEARINGS; GENERALLY.
   (A)   Public hearings required by law or deemed advisable by the Council
shall be organized by a special order, adopted by a majority vote, setting
forth the subject, date, place and time of the hearing as well as any rules
regarding the length of time of each speaker.
   (B)   At the appointed time, the Mayor, or Mayor's designee, shall call the
hearing to order and preside over it. When the allotted time expires or no one
who has not yet spoken wishes to do so, the presiding officer shall declare the
hearing ended.
(Ord. 04-04, passed 4-7-2004)
§ 31.09 QUORUM AT PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   (A)   A quorum of the Town Council shall be required at all public hearings
required by law.
   (B)   If a quorum is not present at a hearing, the hearing shall be
continued until the next regular Council meeting without further advertising.
(Ord. 04-04, passed 4-7-2004)
§ 31.10 MINUTES.
   (A)   Full and accurate minutes of the Council, including closed sessions,
shall be kept. The minutes shall be open to public inspection, except as
otherwise provided in this rule.
   (B)   The exact wording of each motion and the results of each vote shall be
recorded in the minutes, and on the request of any member of the Council, the
"ayes" and "nays" upon any question shall be taken.
   (C)   Minutes of closed sessions may be sealed by action of the Council.
   (D)   Sealed minutes may be withheld from public inspection so long as
public inspection would frustrate the purpose of the closed session.
(Ord. 04-04, passed 4-7-2004)
§ 31.11 ELECTION OF MAYOR.
   The Mayor shall be elected from among the members of the Town Council at the
first meeting of the Town Council following a general election for a term of 2
years and shall not be removed from the Office of Mayor unless he or she
becomes disqualified to serve as a Council member. The election of the Mayor
shall be governed by the procedure set forth in §
31.30 of this code.
(Ord. 04-04, passed 4-7-2004; Am. Ord. 23-13, passed 10-4-2023)
§ 31.12 OFFICE OF MAYOR.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Council and may vote in
all cases and make motions.
   (B)   A member must be recognized by the Mayor in order to address the
Council. The Mayor shall have the power to:
      (1)   Rule motions in or out of order, including the right to rule out of
order any motion patently offered for obstructive or dilatory purpose;
      (2)   Determine whether a speaker has gone beyond reasonable standards of
courtesy in his or her remarks and entertain and rule on objections from other
members on this ground;
      (3)   Entertain and answer questions of parliamentary law or procedure;
      (4)   Call a brief recess at any time; and
      (5)   Adjourn in an emergency.
   (C)   A decision by the presiding officer under divisions (B)(1), (2) or (3)
above may be appealed to the Council upon motion by any member. A like motion
is in order immediately after a decision under (B)(1), (2) or (3) above is
announced and at no other time. The member making the motion need not be
recognized by the presiding officer, and the motion if timely made may not be
ruled out of order.
(Ord. 04-04, passed 4-7-2004)
§ 31.13 MAYOR PRO TEMPORE.
   (A)   At the organizational meeting, the Council shall elect from among its
members a Mayor Pro Tempore to serve at the Council’s pleasure for a term of 2
years. The election of the Mayor Pro Tempore shall be governed by the procedure
set forth in § 31.30 of this code.
   (B)   A Council member who serves as Mayor Pro Tempore shall be entitled to
vote on all matters and shall be considered a Council member for all purposes,
including the determination whether a quorum is present.
   (C)   In the Mayor’s absence, the Council may confer on the Mayor Pro
Tempore any of the Mayor’s powers and duties.
   (D)   If the Mayor should become physically or mentally unable to perform
the duties of his or her office, the Council may by unanimous vote declare that
he or she is incapacitated and confer any of his or her duties on the Mayor Pro
Tempore.
   (E)   When a Mayor declares that he or she is no longer incapacitated and a
majority of the Council concurs, the Mayor shall resume the exercise of his or
her powers and duties.
   (F)   If both the Mayor and Mayor Pro Tempore are absent from a meeting, the
Council shall elect from among its members a temporary chair to preside at the
meeting.
(Ord. 04-04, passed 4-7-2004; Am. Ord. 23-13, passed 10-4-2023)
§ 31.14 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   Items shall be placed on the agenda according to the order of
business.
   (B)   The order of business for each regular meeting shall be as follows:
      (1)   Pledge of Allegiance;
      (2)   Public comments;
      (3)   Consent agenda;
      (4)   Public hearings;
      (5)   Approval of minutes;
      (6)   Old business/items tabled from previous meetings;
      (7)   New business;
      (8)   Items referred to and presentations from the Town Attorney;
      (9)   Items referred to and presentations from the Town Manager;
      (10)   Mayor’s agenda;
      (11)   Council members’ agenda;
      (12)   Other business; and
      (13)   Adjournment.
   (C)   With general consent or majority vote of the Council, items may be
considered out of order.
(Ord. 04-04, passed 4-7-2004)
§ 31.15 AGENDA GENERALLY.
   (A)   The Town Clerk shall prepare a proposed agenda for each meeting. The
Mayor shall approve the agenda before it is advertised.
   (B)   A request to have an item of business placed on the agenda must be
received at least 2 weeks before the meeting. Any Council member, the Town
Manager and the Town Attorney may, by a timely request, have an item placed on
the proposed agenda.
   (C)   The agenda package shall include, for each item of business placed on
it, as much background information on the subject as is available and feasible
to reproduce. A copy of all proposed ordinances shall be attached to the
agenda.
   (D)   A copy of the agenda and attached materials shall be available for
public inspection as soon as they are completed. Each Town Council member shall
receive a copy of the agenda. Copies may also be available for members of the
public.
   (E)   The Council may, by majority vote, add an item that is not on the
agenda.
(Ord. 04-04, passed 4-7-2004)
SPECIFIC PROVISIONS
§ 31.30 APPOINTMENTS.
   The Council shall use the following procedure to make appointments to fill
vacancies (including the expiration of the term) in the Council itself or in
other boards and public offices over which the Council has power of appointment
and to elect the Mayor and Mayor Pro Tempore.
   (A)   Advertising the vacancy. Prior to the Council meeting when the Council
is scheduled to make appointment(s) to fill 1 or more vacancies, the town staff
shall advertise the vacancy or vacancies and provide applications to all
persons interested in being appointed to fill a vacancy. All completed
applications received will be provided to the Council prior to the meeting when
the Council is scheduled to fill the vacancy or vacancies.
   (B)   Voting; appointments.
      (1)   The presiding officer shall open the floor to nominations,
whereupon the members shall put forward and debate names of possible
appointees.
      (2)   When the debate ends, the presiding officer shall call the roll of
the members, and each member shall vote.
      (3)   The votes shall not be tallied until each member has voted. The
nominee who receives the highest number of votes shall be appointed. It is not
necessary for the nominee with the highest number of votes to receive a
majority of the votes cast.
   (C)   More than 1 appointee. If more than 1 vacancy is to be filled in the
Council itself or in other boards and public offices over which the Council has
power of appointment, there shall be a separate nomination and voting process
for each position to be appointed. Each Council member may nominate a maximum
of 1 person for each position to be appointed.
(Ord. 04-04, passed 4-7-2004; Am. Ord. 23-13, passed 10-4-2023)
§ 31.31 PUBLIC ADDRESS TO BOARD.
   (A)   The Council shall provide time at each meeting for anyone to address
the Council on any matter not on the agenda for public hearing at that meeting.
   (B)   The Mayor may set and enforce appropriate time limits for the
comments.
(Ord. 04-04, passed 4-7-2004)
§ 31.32 ACTION BY THE COUNCIL.
   (A)   The Council shall proceed primarily by motion. Any member may make a
motion.
   (B)   The Council may proceed by consensus for matters including: direction
to staff, information received with no action taken, ratify action already
taken.
   (C)   The Mayor shall state the consensus reached and the minutes shall
reflect the consensus.
(Ord. 04-04, passed 4-7-2004)
§ 31.33 MOTIONS GENERALLY.
   (A)   Action by the Town Council. The Town Council shall proceed by motion.
Any member, including the chair, may make a motion.
   (B)   One motion at a time. A member may make only 1 motion at a time.
   (C)   Adoption by majority vote. A motion shall be adopted by a majority of
the votes cast, unless otherwise required by this division or state law.
   (D)   Renewal. A motion that is defeated may be renewed at any subsequent
meeting unless a motion to prevent reconsideration has been adopted.
   (E)   Withdrawal. A motion may be withdrawn by the introducer at any time
before a vote.
(Ord. 04-04, passed 4-7-2004)
§ 31.34 SUBSTANTIVE MOTION.
   A substantive motion is out of order while another substantive motion is
pending.
(Ord. 04-04, passed 4-7-2004)
§ 31.35 PROCEDURAL MOTION.
   (A)   In addition to substantive proposals, the following procedural
motions, and no others, shall be in order.
   (B)   Unless otherwise noted, each motion is debatable, may be amended, and
requires a majority vote for adoption. In order or priority, if applicable, the
procedural motions are:
      (1)   To adjourn. The motion may be made only at the conclusion of action
on a pending matter; it may not interrupt deliberation of a pending matter;
      (2)   To recess;
      (3)   To call to follow the agenda. The motion must be made at the first
reasonable opportunity or it is waived;
      (4)   To suspend the rules. The motion requires a vote equal to a quorum;
      (5)   To divide a complex motion and consider it by paragraph;
      (6)   To defer consideration or table. A substantive motion whose
consideration has been deferred or tabled expires 100 days thereafter unless a
motion to revive consideration is adopted;
      (7)   To call the previous question. The motion is not in order until
there has been at least 20 minutes of debate and every member has had 1
opportunity to speak;
      (8)   To postpone to a certain time or day;
      (9)   To refer to committee. Sixty days after a motion has been referred
to a committee, the introducer may compel consideration of the measure by the
entire Town Council, regardless of whether the committee has reported the
matter back to the Town Council;
      (10)   To amend:
         (a)   An amendment to a motion must be germane to the subject matter
of the motion, but it may achieve the opposite effect of the motion;
         (b)   There may be an amendment to the motion and an amendment to an
amendment, but no further amendments; and
         (c)   Any amendment to a proposed ordinance shall be reduced to
writing before the vote on the amendment.
      (11)   To revive consideration. The motion is in order at any time 100
days after a vote to defer consideration of it. A substantive motion on which
consideration has been deferred expires 100 days after the deferral, unless a
motion to revive consideration is adopted;
      (12)   To reconsider. The motion must be made by a member who voted with
the prevailing side. The motion must be made at the same meeting at which the
original vote was taken. The motion cannot interrupt deliberation on a pending
matter, but is in order at any time before adjournment; or
      (13)   To prevent reconsideration for 6 months. The motion shall be in
order immediately following the defeat of a substantive motion and at no other
time. The motion requires a vote equal to a quorum and is valid for 6 months or
until the next regular election of Council members, whichever occurs first.
(Ord. 04-04, passed 4-7-2004)
§ 31.36 DEBATE.
   The Mayor shall state the motion and then open the floor to debate according
to the following general principles:
   (A)   The introducer, i.e., the member who made the motion, is entitled to
speak first;
   (B)   A member who has not spoken on the issue shall be recognized before
someone who has spoken; and
   (C)   To the extent possible, the debate shall alternate between opponents
and proponents of the measure.
(Ord. 04-04, passed 4-7-2004)
§ 31.37 DUTY TO VOTE.
   (A)   It is the duty of each member to vote unless excused by a majority
vote according to law. The Council may excuse members from voting on matters
involving their own financial interest or personal conduct.
   (B)   A member who wishes to be excused from voting shall so inform the
Mayor, who shall take a vote of the remaining members. A member who fails to
vote, not having been excused, shall be recorded as voting in the affirmative.
(Ord. 04-04, passed 4-7-2004)
§ 31.38 SECRET VOTING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No vote may be taken by secret ballot. If the Council decides to vote
by written ballot, each member shall sign his or her ballot and the minutes
shall record the vote of each member.
   (B)   These ballots shall be retained and made available for public
inspection until the minutes of that meeting have been approved, when they may
be destroyed.
(Ord. 04-04, passed 4-7-2004)
§ 31.39 ACTION BY REFERENCE.
   The Council shall not deliberate, vote or otherwise act on any matter by
reference to an agenda or document number unless copies of the agenda or
documents being referenced are available for public inspection at the meeting
and are so worded that people at the meeting can understand what is being
discussed or acted on.
(Ord. 04-04, passed 4-7-2004)
§ 31.40 INTRODUCTION OF ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS AND ORDERS.
   A proposed ordinance shall be deemed introduced at the first meeting where
it is on the agenda, regardless of whether it is actually considered by the
Council, and its introduction shall be recorded in the minutes.
(Ord. 04-04, passed 4-7-2004)
§ 31.41 ADOPTION OF ORDINANCES GENERALLY.
   To be adopted at the meeting at which it is first introduced, an ordinance
or any action with the effect of an ordinance, except the budget ordinance, any
bond order, or any other ordinance for which a public hearing must be held
before the ordinance is adopted, must receive an affirmative vote equal to or
greater than 2/3 of the membership of the Council, including the Mayor,
excluding vacant seats.
(Ord. 04-04, passed 4-7-2004)
§ 31.42 BUDGET ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Notwithstanding the provision of any general law or local act:
      (1)   Any action with respect to the adoption or amendment of the budget
ordinance may be taken at any regular or special meeting of the Council by a
simple majority of those present and voting, a quorum being present;
      (2)   No action taken with respect to the adoption or amendment of the
budget ordinance need be published or is subject to any other procedural
requirement governing the adoption of ordinances or resolutions by the Council;
and
      (3)   The adoption and amendment of the budget ordinance and the levy of
taxes in the budget ordinance are not subject to the provisions of any local
act concerning initiative or referendum.
   (B)   During the period beginning with the submission of the budget to the
Council and ending with the adoption of the budget ordinance, the Council may
hold any special meetings that may be necessary to complete its work on the
budget ordinance.
   (C)   Except for the notice requirements of G.S. § 143-318.12, which
continue to apply, provisions of law concerning the call of a special meeting
do not apply during the period so long as:
      (1)   Each member of the Town Council has actual notice of each special
meeting called for the purpose of considering the budget; and
      (2)   No business other than consideration of the budget is taken up.
This section does not allow the holding of closed meetings or closed sessions
by the Council otherwise prohibited by law from holding a like meeting or
session, and may not be construed to do so.
(Ord. 04-04, passed 4-7-2004)
CHAPTER 32: EMERGENCIES
Section
   
32.01   State of emergency; restrictions authorized
   
32.02   Proclamation imposing prohibitions and restrictions
   
32.03   Curfew
   
32.04   Restrictions on possession, consumption, or transfer of alcoholic
beverages
   
32.05   Restrictions on possession, transportation, and transfer of dangerous
weapons and substances
   
32.06   Restrictions on access to areas
   
32.07   Evacuation of areas
   
32.08   Prohibitions and restrictions generally
   
32.09   When prohibitions and restrictions take effect
   
32.10   Amendments of the proclamation
   
32.11   Expiration of prohibitions and restrictions
   
32.12   Separate and superseding proclamations
   
32.13   Absence or disability of Mayor
   
32.14   Violations
§ 32.01 STATE OF EMERGENCY; RESTRICTIONS AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      EMERGENCY. An occurrence or imminent threat of widespread or severe
damage, injury, or loss of life or property resulting from any natural or man-
made accidental, military, paramilitary, weather-related, or riot-related
cause.
      STATE OF EMERGENCY. The finding and declaration by the Mayor that an
emergency exists.
   (B)   If an emergency exists, the Mayor is hereby authorized and empowered
under G.S. § 166A-19.22 and G.S. § 166A-19.31 to issue a public proclamation
declaring to all persons the existence of a state of emergency, and, in order
to more effectively protect the lives and property of people within the town,
to place in effect any or all of the restrictions hereinafter authorized.
   (C)   The Mayor is hereby authorized and empowered to limit by the
proclamation the application of all or any part of the restrictions authorized
by this chapter to any area specifically designated or described within the
town and to specify hours of the day or night, and to exempt from all or any
part of such restrictions, while acting in the line of and within the scope of
their respective duties, law enforcement officers, firefighters, and other
public employees, rescue squad members, doctors, nurses, employees of
hospitals, and other medical facilities, on-duty military personnel whether
state or federal, on-duty employees of public utilities, public transportation
companies, and newspaper, magazine, radio broadcasting, and television
broadcasting corporations operated for profit, and such other classes of
persons as may be deemed essential to the preservation of public order and
immediately necessary to serve the safety, health, and welfare needs of the
people within the town.
(Ord. 02-04, passed 5-1-2002; Am. Ord. 14-03, passed 6-4-2014; Am. Ord. 21-04,
passed 9-1-2021)
§ 32.02 PROCLAMATION IMPOSING PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The Mayor by proclamation may impose the prohibitions and restrictions
specified in §
32.03 through
32.08 of this chapter in the manner described in this chapter. The Mayor may
impose as many of those specified prohibitions and restrictions as the Mayor
finds necessary, because of an emergency, to maintain an acceptable level of
public order and services, and to protect lives, safety, and property. The
Mayor shall recite findings in the proclamation.
   (B)   The proclamation shall be in writing. The Mayor shall take reasonable
steps to give notice of the terms of the proclamation to those affected by it
and shall post a copy of it in the Town Hall. The Mayor shall retain a text of
the proclamation and furnish upon request certified copies of it for use as
evidence.
(Ord. 02-04, passed 5-1-2002; Am. Ord. 14-03, passed 6-4-2014; Am. Ord. 21-04,
passed 9-1-2021)
§ 32.03 CURFEW.
   (A)   The proclamation may impose a curfew prohibiting in certain areas and
during certain periods the appearance in public of anyone who is not a member
of an exempted class. The proclamation shall specify the geographical area or
areas and the period during each 24 hours to which the curfew applies. The
Mayor may exempt from some or all of the curfew restrictions classes of people
whose exemption the Mayor finds necessary for the preservation of the public
health, safety, and welfare. The proclamation shall state the exempt classes
and the restrictions from which each is exempted.
   (B)   Unless otherwise specified in the proclamation, the curfew shall apply
during the specified period each day until the Mayor by proclamation removes
the curfew, or the state of emergency is terminated.
(Ord. 02-04, passed 5-1-2002; Am. Ord. 14-03, passed 6-4-2014; Am. Ord. 21-04,
passed 9-1-2021)
§ 32.04 RESTRICTIONS ON POSSESSION, CONSUMPTION, OR TRANSFER OF ALCOHOLIC
BEVERAGES.
   The proclamation pursuant to this chapter may prohibit the possession and/or
consumption of alcoholic beverages, other than on one's own premises, and may
prohibit the transportation, sale, and/or purchase of alcoholic beverages
within the area of the town described in the proclamation.
(Ord. 02-04, passed 5-1-2002; Am. Ord. 14-03, passed 6-4-2014; Am. Ord. 21-04,
passed 9-1-2021)
§ 32.05 RESTRICTIONS ON POSSESSION, TRANSPORTATION, AND TRANSFER OF DANGEROUS
WEAPONS AND SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   The proclamation pursuant to this chapter may prohibit the possession,
transportation, sale, purchase, storage, and use of gasoline and dangerous
weapons and/or substances, except lawfully possessed firearms or ammunition.
The Mayor may exempt from some or all of the restrictions classes of people
whose possession, transfer, or transportation of certain dangerous weapons or
substances is necessary in the preservation of the public health, safety, or
welfare. The proclamation shall state the exempted classes and the restrictions
from which each is exempted.
   For the purposes of this §
32.05, the term DANGEROUS WEAPONS AND SUBSTANCES shall have the same meaning as
it does under G.S. § 14-288.1(2).
   Notwithstanding the provisions of this § 32.05 to the contrary, for purposes
of this section, the term DANGEROUS WEAPONS AND SUBSTANCES does not include a
firearm, as that term is separately defined in this section.
   For the purposes of this section, the term FIREARM shall have the same
meaning as it does under G.S. 14-409.39(2).
   (B)   If imposed, the restrictions of this section shall apply throughout
the jurisdiction of the town or such part thereof designated in the
proclamation.
(Ord. 02-04, passed 5-1-2002; Am. Ord. 14-03, passed 6-4-2014; Am. Ord. 21-04,
passed 9-1-2021)
§ 32.06 RESTRICTION ON ACCESS TO AREAS.
   (A)   The proclamation pursuant to this chapter may prohibit obtaining
access or attempting to obtain access to any area, designated in the manner
described in this section, in violation of any order, clearly posted notice, or
barricade indicating that access is denied or restricted.
   (B)   Areas to which access is denied or restricted shall be designated by
the chief of police and his or her designee(s) when directed in the
proclamation to do so by the Mayor. When acting under this authority, the chief
of police and his or her designee(s) may restrict or deny access to any area,
street, highway, or location within the emergency area if that restriction or
denial of access or use is reasonably necessary to promote efforts being made
to overcome the emergency or to prevent further aggravation of the emergency.
(Ord. 02-04, passed 5-1-2002; Am. Ord. 14-03, passed 6-4-2014; Am. Ord. 21-04,
passed 9-1-2021)
§ 32.07 EVACUATION OF AREAS.
   The proclamation pursuant to this chapter or any amendment thereto may
require the emergency evacuation of any stricken or threatened area within the
governing body’s jurisdiction. The proclamation shall state the geographic
boundaries of the area to be evacuated and, upon issuance of the proclamation,
the chief of police and his or her designee(s) shall take all necessary action
to remove all persons from the area and to deny access to the area as set out
in §
32.06.
(Ord. 02-04, passed 5-1-2002; Am. Ord. 14-03, passed 6-4-2014; Am. Ord. 21-04,
passed 9-1-2021)
§ 32.08 PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS GENERALLY.
   Any proclamation pursuant to this chapter may prohibit or restrict:
   (A)   Movements of people in public places, including any of the following:;
      (1)   Imposing a curfew;
      (2)   Directing and compelling the voluntary or mandatory evacuation of
all or part of the population from any stricken or threatened area within the
governing body’s jurisdiction;
      (3)   Prescribing routes, modes of transportation, and destinations in
connection with evacuation;
      (4)   Controlling ingress and egress of an emergency area, and the
movement of persons within that area; or
      (5)   Providing for the closure, within the emergency area, of streets,
roads, highways, bridges, public vehicular areas, or other areas ordinarily
used for vehicular travel, except to the movement of emergency responders and
other persons necessary for recovery from the emergency;
   (B)   The operation of offices, business establishments, and other places to
or from which people may travel or at which they may congregate;
   (C)   The possession, transportation, sale, purchase, and consumption of
alcoholic beverages;
   (D)   The possession, transportation, sale, purchase, storage, and use of
gasoline, and dangerous weapons and substances, except that this division does
not authorize prohibitions or restrictions on lawfully possessed firearms or
ammunition; and
   (E)   Other activities or conditions the control of which may be reasonably
necessary to maintain order and protect lives or property during the state of
emergency, within the area designated in the proclamation.
   Any proclamation authorized by this chapter need not require or provide for
the imposition of all of the types of prohibitions or restrictions, or any
particular prohibition or restriction, authorized by this section during an
emergency but instead authorize the Mayor to determine and impose the
prohibitions or restrictions deemed necessary or suitable to a particular state
of emergency.
(Ord. 02-04, passed 5-1-2002; Am. Ord. 14-03, passed 6-4-2014; Am. Ord. 21-04,
passed 9-1-2021)
§ 32.09 WHEN PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS TAKE EFFECT.
   All prohibitions and restrictions imposed by proclamations adopted under
this section shall take effect in the emergency area immediately upon
publication of the proclamation unless the proclamation sets a later time.
Publication shall include at least: (i) posting of a signed copy of the
proclamation conspicuously posted on the town’s website; and (ii) submittal of
notice and a signed copy of the proclamation to the Department of Public Safety
WebEOC critical incident management system. Publication may also consist of
reports of the substance of the prohibitions and restrictions in the mass
communications media serving the emergency area or other effective methods of
disseminating the necessary information quickly. As soon as practicable,
however, appropriation distribution of the full text of any proclamation shall
be made.
(Ord. 21-04, passed 9-1-2021)
§ 32.10 AMENDMENTS OF THE PROCLAMATION.
   (A)   The Mayor may amend or extend the proclamation under this chapter from
time to time, making such modifications as he or she would have been authorized
to include in the original proclamation.
   (B)   Any proclamation issued pursuant to this chapter shall expire 5 days
after its last imposition unless sooner terminated.
(Ord. 02-04, passed 5-1-2002; Am. Ord. 14-03, passed 6-4-2014; Am. Ord. 21-04,
passed 9-1-2021)
§ 32.11 EXPIRATION OF PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   Prohibitions and restrictions imposed pursuant to this section shall expire
upon the earliest occurrence of either of the following:
   (A)   The prohibition or restriction is terminated by the Mayor.
   (B)   The state of emergency terminates.
(Ord. 02-04, passed 5-1-2002; Am. Ord. 14-03, passed 6-4-2014; Am. Ord. 21-04,
passed 9-1-2021)
§ 32.12 SEPARATE AND SUPERSEDING PROCLAMATIONS.
   The Mayor in his or her discretion may invoke the restrictions authorized by
this chapter in separate proclamations and may amend any proclamation by means
of a superseding proclamation.
(Ord. 02-04, passed 5-1-2002; Am. Ord. 14-03, passed 6-4-2014; Am. Ord. 21-04,
passed 9-1-2021)
§ 32.13 ABSENCE OR DISABILITY OF MAYOR.
   In case of the absence or disability of the Mayor, the Mayor Pro Tempore or
the Town Council itself shall have and exercise all of the powers given the
Mayor in this chapter.
(Ord. 02-04, passed 5-1-2002; Am. Ord. 14-03, passed 6-4-2014; Am. Ord. 21-04,
passed 9-1-2021)
§ 32.14 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person who violates any provision of an ordinance or proclamation
enacted or declared pursuant to this section shall be guilty of a Class 2
misdemeanor in accordance with G.S. § 14-288.20A.
(Ord. 21-04, passed 9-1-2021)
CHAPTER 33: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
33.01   Auxiliary or reserve police officer division
§ 33.01 AUXILIARY OR RESERVE POLICE OFFICER DIVISION.
   (A)   There is established within the Police Department an auxiliary or
reserve police officer division.
   (B)   The auxiliary or reserve police officer division shall be a volunteer
organization whose members shall be entitled to benefits under the North
Carolina Worker’s Compensation Act and to any additional benefits for which the
auxiliary or reserve police officers are entitled, including, but not limited
to, any compensation as may be proved by the town through each fiscal year’s
adopted budget.
(Ord. 07-02, passed 2-7-2007)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
Chapter
   
50.   SOLID WASTE
CHAPTER 50: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Disposition of litter, garbage and the like
   
50.03   Type and number of refuse containers
   
50.04   Refuse receptacles to be safe
   
50.05   Preparation and placement of refuse for collection
   
50.06   Commercial establishment container requirements
   
50.07   Storage of refuse and trash
   
50.08   Reserved
   
50.09   Construction and demolition sites
   
50.10   Reserved
   
50.11   Collection practices
   
50.12   Reserved
   
50.13   Special refuse or disposal problems
   
50.14   Reserved
   
50.15   Reserved
   
50.16   Notice of violation or nonconformity
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING MATERIALS. Any material such as lumber, brick, block, stone,
plaster, concrete, asphalt, roofing shingles, gutters and other substances
accumulated as the result of repairs or additions to existing buildings or
structures, construction of new buildings or structures or the demolition of
existing buildings or structures.
   BULK CONTAINER (DUMPSTER).
      (1)   A metal container constructed so as to be watertight but may have a
drain plug at the lowest point of the container to facilitate the drainage of
any liquids that might accumulate in the container or from cleaning the
container.
      (2)   BULK CONTAINERS shall have doors that open on the top and shall be
designed so that they can be emptied mechanically by trucks operated by town
designated collectors of solid waste.
   BULK CONTAINER LOADING PAD.
      (1)   An 8-foot by 10-foot by 4-inch concrete pad which must be provided
for each bulk container.
      (2)   The PAD must have a vertical clearance of 16 feet and be enclosed
with a screen on 3 sides constructed of suitable materials to conceal the bulk
container within.
      (3)   The dimensions of the screen must be adequate to screen the bulk
container(s).
   BULKY WASTES. Large, bulky items such as stoves, water heaters, sofas, box
springs and the like, which cannot normally be loaded into the back of a
standard garbage truck.
   BUSINESS TRASH. Any waste accumulation of dust, paper, sawdust, cardboard,
excelsior, rags or other accumulations other than garbage or household trash
which are usually attendant to the operation of stores, offices and similar
businesses.
   COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any retail, wholesale, motel, hotel,
institutional, religious, governmental or nonresidential establishment which
may generate garbage, business trash or other refuse.
   DEAD SMALL ANIMALS. Dead cats, dogs, small household pets and other animals
of similar size.
   DETACHABLE CONTAINER.
      (1)   A container unit that may vary in capacity between 5 cubic yards
and 42 cubic yards and which is used for collecting, storing and transporting
waste building materials, business trash, industrial waste, hazardous refuse or
yard trash.
      (2)   The unit may or may not use an auxiliary packing mechanism for the
compaction of the materials into the container and may be of the open or closed
type.
      (3)   The distinguishing feature of the DETACHABLE CONTAINER is that it
is lifted by a specially designed and equipped truck and becomes an integral
part of that truck for transporting waste materials to a disposal site.
   DUPLEX. Any dwelling place designed for, or occupied by, 2 families.
   GARBAGE.
      (1)   The waste produced by the handling, processing, preparation,
cooking and consumption of animal or vegetable products used for human
consumption.
      (2)   This definition shall include any other matter that is also subject
to decomposition, decay, putrefaction or the generation of noxious or offensive
gases or odors or which before, during and after decay may serve as feeding or
breeding material for animals or flies or other insects.
   HAZARDOUS REFUSE. Materials such as poisons, acids, caustics, harmful or
dangerous chemicals, infected materials, offal, fecal matter, explosives,
highly flammable material and parts of the human anatomy, including
pathological specimens.
   HOUSEHOLD TRASH. Waste accumulation of paper, sweepings, dust, rags,
bottles, cans or other waste material of any kind, other than garbage, which is
attendant to residential housekeeping.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. All waste, including solids, semi-solids, sludges and
liquids created or generated by factories, plants or other manufacturing
enterprises.
   LITTER. Garbage, refuse, waste materials or any other discarded, used or
unconsumed substance which is not handled as specified herein.
   LOADING AND UNLOADING AREA. Any space or area used by any moving vehicle for
the purpose of receiving, shipping and transporting goods, wares, commodities
and persons.
   MULTIPLE DWELLING UNIT. A building or portion thereof used or designed as a
residence for 3 or more families living independently of each other and doing
their own cooking therein, including apartment houses.
   REFUSE. Solid waste accumulations consisting of garbage, household trash,
yard trash and business trash as defined herein.
   ROLLOUT CART.
      (1)   A plastic container of substantial construction with a tight-
fitting lid, having a capacity of 96 gallons, equipped with wheels and designed
to be picked up at curbside by an automated style garbage truck.
      (2)   All ROLLOUT CARTS used will be issued by the town or by a person
contracted by the town to collect solid waste and may not be disfigured in any
manner.
   SEASONAL RENTAL UNIT. Any single-family or duplex residential unit rented or
available for rent on a short-term basis of less than 1 month at a time.
   SINGLE RESIDENTIAL UNIT. Any dwelling place occupied by 1 family.
   TREE AND SHRUBBERY TRIMMINGS. Waste accumulation of tree branches, tree
limbs, bushes, shrubbery, cuttings or clippings usually created as refuse in
the trimming or cutting of trees, shrubs or bushes.
   YARD TRASH. Grass clippings, leaves, twigs or the combination of these that
are usually associated with yard or lawn maintenance activity. This type of
refuse shall be containerized as provided in this chapter. Exceptions shall be
only as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 04-08, passed 5-5-2004; Am. Ord. 23-03, passed 4-5-2023)
§ 50.02 DISPOSITION OF LITTER, GARBAGE AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause or allow unsightly
litter, foul or offensive odors or potentially dangerous materials to remain on
or emanate from any property under his or her control, or to discard, abandon
or cause the same on any public or private property within the corporate limits
of the town.
   (B)   The property owner shall be responsible for maintaining the premises
in a clean and sightly condition by periodically removing all litter, trash,
garbage, building materials or other refuse and placing the same in receptacles
for collection by the town acting through its employees, agents or other
authorized representatives.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person or the employees or agents of any
person to throw or otherwise deposit any trash, refuse, bottles, cans or other
containers of any kind, garbage or any type of waste material, or to place or
leave or cause to be placed or left, temporarily or permanently, any trash,
refuse, garbage, bottles, cans or other containers of any kind, any scrapped or
abandoned automobile, truck or other motor vehicle or part thereof, upon any
property, whether private or public (including the right-of-way of any street,
state highway or public road, or on the portion of the beach of the Atlantic
Ocean lying between the high and low water marks, or upon the shoreline of
Currituck Sound between the high and low water marks).
   (D)   The provisions of this section shall not be construed to forbid the
depositing and placing of household trash and garbage and other waste material
and trash cans or other proper receptacles provided for the pickup and removal
thereof by the town refuse collector in accordance with provisions of this
chapter, and the provisions of this division shall not apply to the depositing
of fill material upon any building site for the purpose of constructing a
foundation thereon; provided, that fill material for the construction shall not
consist of organic trash or garbage, wood or wood products, bottles, cans,
containers, scrapped or abandoned automobiles, trucks or motor vehicles or
parts thereof.
(Ord. 04-08, passed 5-5-2004) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.03 TYPE AND NUMBER OF REFUSE CONTAINERS.
   (A)   All refuse to be collected by the town shall be stored in proper
receptacles between times of collection. All single-family residences and each
unit of a duplex located anywhere within the town limits unless otherwise
excluded by the town, will utilize a rollout cart for the placement of refuse
for pickup by the town.
   (B)   A minimum of 1 rollout cart is required at each single-family
residence and at each unit of a duplex. The following table shall be used to
determine the minimum number and type of waste containers required for single-
family residential purposes:
 
Permitted occupancy Minimum number of rollout carts required
1 - 6               1 rollout cart required
7 - 12              2 rollout carts required
13 - 18             3 rollout carts required
Over 18             4 rollout carts required
 
   (C)   All seasonal rental units must provide a minimum of 2 rollout carts,
or additional rollout carts as deemed necessary by the town to adequately
manage seasonal occupancy.
   (D)   The property owner will be responsible for replacing rollout carts
that have been lost or stolen. The number of rollout carts necessary to comply
with this chapter must be obtained by the property owner.
   (E)   Each new residence built after the date of adoption of the ordinance
from which this section is derived must have in place the appropriate number of
rollout carts prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
   (F)   Each improved commercial or multi-family residential property shall
have a bulk container or containers of sufficient capacity necessary to contain
the refuse generated on-site by the commercial use as determined by the town.
   (G)   Any commercial or multi-family residential establishment may use
rollout carts upon approval by the town.
   (H)   Businesses are authorized to have detachable containers and refuse
collection services provided by private contractors.
(Ord. 04-08, passed 5-5-2004; Am. Ord. 23-03, passed 4-5-2023) Penalty, see §  
50.99
§ 50.04 REFUSE RECEPTACLES TO BE SAFE.
   (A)   All refuse receptacles as required herein shall be of safe
construction and design and shall be maintained in a good, serviceable and
sanitary condition at all times.
   (B)   Any refuse receptacle which does not conform to the provisions of this
chapter or which has defects likely to hamper or injure the person collecting
the contents thereof, or the public generally, shall be promptly replaced or
repaired upon notice.
   (C)   If the refuse receptacle, after due and proper notice, has not been
replaced or repaired within 30 days, the town shall have the authority to
remove the refuse receptacle as refuse.
   (D)   No person shall place any of the following items in a solid waste
container:
      (1)   Motor vehicle tires;
      (2)   Bulky wastes;
      (3)   Building materials;
      (4)   Hazardous, radioactive or medical wastes;
      (5)   Burning or smoldering materials or any other materials which would
create a fire hazard;
      (6)   Rocks, dirt, sod, paint or motor oil; or
      (7)   Anti-freeze.
(Ord. 04-08, passed 5-5-2004; Am. Ord. 23-03, passed 4-5-2023) Penalty, see §  
50.99
§ 50.05 PREPARATION AND PLACEMENT OF REFUSE FOR COLLECTION.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   The garbage collection schedule will be established by the town and
changed as conditions warrant from season to season.
      (2)   Bulk containers or rollout carts which are obstructed or not
properly positioned when the truck passes will not be collected until the next
regularly scheduled pickup date.
      (3)   Lids must be fully closed when in use.
   (B)   Containers required. All refuse shall be placed in approved
containers.
   (C)   Access to containers.
      (1)   Routes for access and collection of residential solid wastes and
recycling shall be improved and maintained for the safety of solid waste
collectors.
      (2)   Access routes shall not be obstructed.
      (3)   Service will not be provided when dogs or other animals interfere
with collectors.
   (D)   Large items/bulk pickup.
      (1)   On days determined by the town, bulky wastes shall be placed near
but not upon the improved portion of the street in a manner that allows
convenient pickup of the bulky waste with equipment designed for large, bulky
items.
      (2)   This service does not include the pickup of building materials,
roofing, soil, rock, concrete, tree stumps, refrigerators and other items or
material containing substances classified as hazardous waste.
   (E)   Placement of rollout carts.
      (1)   On the day of collection, unless otherwise provided by this
chapter, it shall be the responsibility of the property owner to position
rollout carts for collection. Rollout carts shall not be placed for collection
before 5:00 p.m. in the evening prior to the day of collection.
      (2)   Rollout carts must be placed for pickup within the street right-of-
way and within 4 feet of the improved portion of the street, but not within the
vehicular travel way or drainage ditch stormwater management feature of any
street.
      (3)   Public sidewalks. Refuse and trash contained in approved refuse
receptacles may be placed on the curbside on the day of collection so long as
it does not unreasonably interfere with pedestrian traffic. However, no refuse
receptacle may be placed upon the Duck Trail or other public multiuse path.
      (4)   Following collection, rollout carts shall be removed from the
street right-of-way no later than 10:00 p.m. on the day of collection.
      (5)   The property owner shall also be responsible for the removal and
proper storage of rollout carts. When not scheduled and placed for pickup,
rollout carts must be securely stored at least 25 feet from the improved
portion of the street.
(Ord. 04-08, passed 5-5-2004; Am. Ord. 23-03, passed 4-5-2023)
§ 50.06 COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT CONTAINER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   In the event that a commercial establishment generates more refuse
than can be handled by 2 rollout carts, that establishment may be required
after notification to provide a suitable bulk container loading pad, and a bulk
container.
   (B)   The town is authorized to determine when a bulk container is
unserviceable and may discontinue service for the same after proper
notification.
(Ord. 04-08, passed 5-5-2004; Am. Ord. 23-03, passed 4-5-2023)
§ 50.07 STORAGE OF REFUSE AND TRASH.
   All accumulations of refuse and trash shall be stored or placed for
collection in accordance with this section.
   (A)   Public streets. No refuse, trash, yard trash, leaves, or tree and
shrubbery trimmings shall be placed on any sidewalk, multiuse path, vehicular
travel way or, stormwater management feature of any street.
   (B)   Blockage of storm drains/drainage ditches.
      (1)   No person shall place any refuse, trash, refuse receptacle or
container on, upon or over any storm drain/drainage ditch opening or so close
thereto as to be drawn by the elements into the same.
      (2)   No person shall place any refuse, trash, refuse receptacle or
container in a gutter, thereby causing blockage of storm water flows or
possible blockage of storm drainage systems if carried by the elements into the
same.
   (C)   Unauthorized accumulations.
      (1)   Any unauthorized accumulation of refuse or trash on any lot,
property, premises, public street, sidewalk, alley or other public or private
place is prohibited.
      (2)   Failure of the owner or occupant, after notice of violation, to
remove and correct any unauthorized accumulation of refuse or trash shall be
deemed a violation of this chapter or other provisions of this code.
   (D)   Junk. It shall be unlawful and in violation of this chapter for any
person to store outside any building or dwelling, except as provided herein,
any dilapidated furniture, appliances, vehicles, machinery, equipment, building
materials or any other item which is either in a wholly or partially rusted,
wrecked, junked, dismantled or inoperative condition and which is not
completely enclosed within a building or dwelling.
   (E)   Appliances. It shall be unlawful and in violation of this chapter for
any person to leave outside any building or dwelling, in a place accessible to
children, any appliance, refrigerator or other container of any kind which has
an airtight door or cover with a snaplock or latch without first removing the
lock or latch, door or cover from the appliance, refrigerator or container.
   (F)   Neighborhood owned properties. All owner associations with accessways
adjacent to the beach or sound shall maintain litter control by providing
receptacles and cleaning up litter each day on both sides of the accessway.
   (G)   Concessions; contractors. All concessions and/or contractors operating
on or adjacent to the beaches shall be required to maintain proper litter
control by providing receptacles and cleaning up litter each day which may be
deposited within the area of 300 feet on either side of the establishment.
   (J)   Review process.
      (1)   The method and location of refuse storage for collection shall be
reviewed during the planning review process and prior to the issuance of a
building permit for new commercial buildings or extensive renovations to
existing commercial buildings.
      (2)   If any problems are foreseen during this review, they shall be
called to the attention of the owner or designer for correction and submitted
as recommended conditions of approval for applications proceeding to the
Planning Board and Town Council.
(Ord. 04-08, passed 5-5-2004; Am. Ord. 23-03, passed 4-5-2023) Penalty, see §  
50.99
§ 50.08 RESERVED.
§ 50.09 CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION SITES.
   (A)   All construction and demolition contractors shall provide on-site
refuse receptacles, bulk containers, detachable containers or containment areas
for debris, paper, waste building materials, scrap building materials and other
trash produced by those working on the site.
   (B)   All like materials shall be contained, and the site maintained in a
clean and litter-free condition.
   (C)   Dirt, mud, sand, construction materials or other debris deposited upon
any public or private property as a result of construction or demolition
activities shall be immediately removed by the contractor and in all cases by
the end of the workday.
(Ord. 04-08, passed 5-5-2004; Am. Ord. 23-03, passed 4-5-2023)
§ 50.10 RESERVED.
§ 50.11 COLLECTION PRACTICES.
   (A)   Residential.
      (1)   Garbage and household trash accumulated at residences shall be
collected on a schedule determined by the town.
      (2)   These collections shall be limited to rollout carts, yard trash,
tree trimmings, cardboard boxes and oversize household trash.
   (B)   Commercial establishments. Service to commercial establishments shall
be on a schedule determined by the town.
   (C)   Bulk containers.
      (1)   All bulk containers approved for service by the town shall have
doors opening on the top. The doors shall be kept closed at all times that the
bulk container is not being filled or emptied to prevent trash from blowing
out.
      (2)   Bulk containers shall at all times be maintained in a safe,
serviceable and sanitary condition. Notice shall be given by the town of any
bulk container not meeting the requirements of this chapter.
      (3)   Bulk containers shall at all times be kept in a place easily and
safely accessible to collection equipment even during periods of inclement
weather such as snow and ice.
   (D)   Owner responsibility.
      (1)   Service shall not be provided to establishments that have
obstructions or vehicles impeding access to service the container.
      (2)   The immediate cleaning up of spilled refuse in the area of the
container shall be the responsibility of the property owners or occupants
utilizing the container.
      (3)   Service shall be discontinued to persons or establishments failing
to locate or maintain containers in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter.
      (4)   The town shall not provide both rollout cart service and bulk
container service to the same persons or establishments.
      (5)   Any cause for discontinuation of service shall also constitute a
violation of this chapter.
   (E)   Industrial waste. The collection and disposal of industrial waste
shall be the responsibility of the operator of the enterprise creating or
causing the same.
   (F)   Hazardous refuse. No hazardous refuse, as defined herein, shall be
placed in any receptacle, container or unit used for refuse collection by the
town.
(Ord. 04-08, passed 5-5-2004; Am. Ord. 23-03, passed 4-5-2023) Penalty, see §  
50.99
§ 50.12 RESERVED.
§ 50.13 SPECIAL REFUSE OR DISPOSAL PROBLEMS.
   (A)   Contagious disease refuse.
      (1)   The removal of clothing and bedding from places where highly
infectious diseases have prevailed shall be performed under the supervision and
direction of the County Health Department.
      (2)   The refuse shall not be placed in containers for town collection
and disposal.
   (B)   Hypodermic instruments. No person shall dispose of or discard any
hypodermic needle or any instrument or device for making hypodermic injections
before first breaking, disassembling, destroying or otherwise rendering
inoperable and incapable of reuse the hypodermic syringe, needle, instrument or
device, and without safeguarding the disposal thereof by wrapping or securing
the same in a suitable manner so as to avoid the possibility of causing injury
to collection personnel.
   (C)   Ashes.
      (1)   Ashes that are to be collected by the town shall have been wetted
and shall be cool to the touch prior to collection.
      (2)   Ashes shall be placed in approved containers as defined herein.
      (3)   Refuse receptacles containing ashes shall not weigh more than 50
pounds.
   (D)   Cardboard boxes and cartons. Prior to being deposited as refuse for
collection in approved receptacles or containers, as defined herein, all
cardboard boxes, cartons or crates shall be completely collapsed.
   (E)   Rubber tires. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person
to place any rubber tire in any refuse receptacle or container from which
refuse is collected by the town.
   (F)   Food processing. All fish (seafood) processing waste, surplus
entrails, heads, tails, scales, shells, bones and the like, must be packaged in
a watertight container, such as a plastic bag, can and the like, and be placed
in authorized containers.
(Ord. 04-08, passed 5-5-2004) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.14 RESERVED.
§ 50.15 RESERVED.
§ 50.16 NOTICE OF VIOLATION OR NONCONFORMITY.
   (A)   Any notice of violation of this chapter or nonconformity with this
chapter shall be in writing.
   (B)   Written notice of the violation shall be delivered to the violator or,
in lieu of hand delivery, shall be sent to the violator via certified mail.
   (C)   Copies of all notices of violation shall be kept and maintained by the
town.
(Ord. 04-08, passed 5-5-2004)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person continuing to violate any provision or requirement of any
section of this chapter after notice of violation has been issued to him or
her, or any person willfully failing, refusing or neglecting to comply with any
provision or requirement shall, in addition to any other remedy, be issued a
citation in the amount of $50 with each and every day of violation being a
distinct and separate offense.
   (B)   Upon failure to pay the penalty, a civil action may be instituted to
enforce collection of the same.
(Ord. 04-08, passed 5-5-2004; Am. Ord. 23-03, passed 4-5-2023)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
Chapter
   
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
   
71.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
   
72.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Vehicle Operation
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Motorized vehicles on the multi-use pedestrian path and the Central
Village Commercial Area pedestrian sidewalk
   
70.03   Operation of electric assisted bicycles
   
70.04   Electric personal assistive mobility devices
   
70.05   Golf carts
Operating on Sand Dunes
   
70.15   Definitions
   
70.16   Prohibited
   
70.17   Exemptions from subchapter
Operation of Personal Watercraft
   
70.45   Definitions
   
70.46   Launching and landing
   
70.47   Speed
   
70.48   Certain use prohibited
   
70.49   Wildlife
   
70.50   Knowledge
   
70.51   Exceptions
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Schedule of specific speed limits, see
Ch. 71, Sch. I
GENERAL VEHICLE OPERATION
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CENTRAL VILLAGE COMMERCIAL AREA. The area of the town, generally between the
marked crosswalks on NC 12 at 1174 Duck Road and 1264 Duck Road.
   CENTRAL VILLAGE COMMERCIAL AREA BICYCLE LANE. The area of NC 12 on the east
and west side, generally between the marked crosswalks on NC 12 at 1174 Duck
Road and 1264 Duck Road, where the paved roadway section includes a shoulder,
which is directly contiguous to the vehicular travel lanes of NC 12, that is
designed for use by bicyclists.
   CENTRAL VILLAGE COMMERCIAL AREA PEDESTRIAN SIDEWALK. The concrete sidewalks
adjacent to the east and west of NC 12, but not contiguous with the roadway,
generally between the marked crosswalks at 1174 Duck Road and 1264 Duck Road,
that is designed for use by pedestrians.
   ELECTRIC ASSISTED BICYCLE. A bicycle with 2 or 3 wheels that is equipped
with a seat or saddle for use by the rider, fully operable pedals for human
propulsion, and an electric motor of no more than 750 watts, whose maximum
speed on a level surface when powered solely by such a motor is no greater than
20 mph. The definition is republished here for convenience only and the
definition set out in G.S. § 20-4.01(7a), as amended from time to time, is
controlling for all purposes.
   ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE. A self-balancing non-tandem
two-wheeled device, designed to transport 1 person, with a propulsion system
that limits maximum speed of the device to 15 mph or less and which are exempt
from registration pursuant to G.S. § 20-51(14).
   GOLF CART. A vehicle designed and manufactured for operation on a golf
course for sporting or recreational purposes and that is not capable of
exceeding speeds of 20 miles per hour. The definition is republished here for
convenience only and the definition set out in G.S. § 20-4.01, as amended from
time to time, is controlling for all purposes.
   LOW-SPEED VEHICLE. A 4-wheeled electric vehicle equipped with headlamps,
stop lamps, turn signal lamps, tail lamps, reflex reflectors, parking brakes,
rearview mirrors, windshields, windshield wipers, speedometer, seat belts, and
a vehicle identification number, which may be operated only on streets and
highways where the posted speed limit is 35 mph or less, and whose top speed is
greater than 20 mph but less than 25 mph, and which is registered and insured
in accordance with G.S. §§ 20-50 and 20-309.
   MOTORIZED VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled, powered by
gasoline, diesel or other fuel source, batteries, or similar devices, which
term shall include golf carts and low-speed vehicles but shall not include
motorized wheelchairs or similar vehicles not exceeding 1,000 pounds gross
weight and required due to a disability, electric personal assistive mobility
devices, or electric assisted bicycles when operated on the multi-use
pedestrian path.
   MULTI-USE PEDESTRIAN PATH. The concrete or asphalt path situated adjacent to
NC 12, but not contiguous with the roadway, between the south town line and the
marked crosswalk on NC 12 at 1174 Duck Road, and between the north town line
and the marked crosswalk on NC 12 at 1164 Duck Road, that is constructed for
the use of pedestrians, bicyclists, electric personal assistive mobility
devices, electric assisted bicycles, and other non-motorized vehicles.
   PRIVATE STREET. Privately owned by a Homeowners Association, by a person, by
several people, or by a corporation/LLC. The designated owner is responsible
for all maintenance and upkeep of a PRIVATE STREET.
   PUBLIC STREET. Owned, maintained, built, and dedicated to the North Carolina
Department of Transportation (NCDOT). NCDOT is responsible for all maintenance
and upkeep of PUBLIC STREETS.
(Ord. 10-12, passed 12-1-2010; Am. Ord. 11-05, passed 6-1-2011; Am. Ord. 18-03,
passed 3-7-2018; Am. Ord. 18-04, passed 4-4-2018; Am. Ord. 24-02, passed 4-3-
2024)
§ 70.02 MOTORIZED VEHICLES ON THE MULTI-USE PEDESTRIAN PATH AND THE CENTRAL
VILLAGE COMMERCIAL AREA PEDESTRIAN SIDEWALK.
   (A)   Motorized vehicles on the multi-use pedestrian path. No motorized
vehicle shall be allowed to operate, park or be left standing on any portion of
a multi-use pedestrian path.
   (B)   Motorized vehicles on the Central Village Commercial Area pedestrian
sidewalk. No motorized vehicle or electric assisted bicycle shall be allowed to
operate, park or be left standing on any portion of the Central Village
Commercial Area pedestrian sidewalk.
   (C)   Exemptions. Motorized vehicles operated by the Duck Police Department
or the Duck Fire Department, while on official public safety business or by
town staff, contractors, or volunteers while on official town business.
(Ord. 06-04, passed 5-3-2006; Am. Ord. 07-06, passed 5-2-2007; Am. Ord. 10-12,
passed 12-1-2010; Am. Ord. 11-05, passed 6-1-2011; Am. Ord. 24-02, passed 4-3-
2024) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 OPERATION OF ELECTRIC ASSISTED BICYCLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or ride an electric assisted
bicycle on the multi-use pedestrian path, public street, or other public area
recklessly or at a speed faster than is reasonably proper, or in a manner so as
to endanger the life, limb, or property of the rider or of any other person.
(Ord. 24-02, passed 4-3-2024)
§ 70.04 ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICES.
   (A)   Electric personal assistive mobility devices may only be operated on a
public roadway or other public right-of-way with a posted speed limit of 25 mph
or less. A person operating an electric personal assistive mobility device may
cross over public roadways and public rights-of-way with posted speeds of
greater than 25 mph in the same manner as a pedestrian. In no instance shall an
electric personal assistive mobility device be operated within the roadway or
right-of-way of NC 12 in the Central Village Commercial Area, as defined
herein.
   (B)   Any person operating an electric personal assistive mobility device
shall wear a helmet of good fit, with the chin strap fastened securely under
their chin.
   (C)   No person or business shall rent or lease any electric personal
assistive mobility device to or for the use of any person unless the rental or
lease includes a protective helmet of good fit, the operator intends to wear
the helmet with the chin strap fastened securely under the chin at all times
while operating an electric personal assistive mobility device and the operator
has been provided with posted or written notice explaining the provisions of
this section.
   (D)   No electric personal assistive mobility device may be operated at a
speed greater than that which is reasonable and prudent for the existing
conditions, and in no instance at a speed greater than 6 mph.
   (E)   No electric personal assistive mobility device may be operated in a
careless or reckless manner.
   (F)   Operators of electric personal assistive mobility devices must yield
the right-of-way to pedestrians and other human-powered devices.
   (G)   Electric personal assistive mobility devices may be operated on public
roadways and other public rights-of-way only during daylight hours.
   (H)   Electric personal assistive mobility devices must be operated in
accordance with all applicable state and local laws and ordinances.
   (I)   Town personnel operating EPAMDs for official town business are exempt
from the requirements of this section.
   (J)   Any violation of the provisions of this section shall be a misdemeanor
and punishable as provided by G.S. § 14-4 or by a civil penalty of $25.
(Ord. 10-12, passed 12-1-2010; Am. Ord. 11-05, passed 6-1-2011; Am. Ord. 19-06,
passed 11-6-2019; Am. Ord. 24-02, passed 4-2-2024) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 GOLF CARTS.
   (A)   Operation of golf carts permitted.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide a means of
travel that is convenient, conserves resources, and protects the environment.
Golf carts, as defined in § 70.01, if properly used, may be an effective way to
travel for short distances within the town. However, to help ensure the public
safety and welfare, the operation of golf carts must not only comply with
normal regulations regarding motor vehicles but shall also comply with the
provisions of this section. This section establishes required safety equipment,
a registration and permit process, and the basic, minimum standards of care to
be used by the users of golf carts on public roads, streets, and highways, and
their respective shoulders. This section also prohibits the use of golf carts
on sidewalks, multi-use pedestrian paths, and similar areas of the town.
      (2)   Disclaimer. Golf carts might not be designed or manufactured to be
used on public streets, and the town neither advocates nor endorses the golf
cart as a safe means of travel on public streets, roads, and highways. The town
shall in no way be liable for accidents, injuries, or deaths involving or
resulting from the operation of a golf cart.
      (3)   Assumption of risk. Any person who owns, operates, or rides on a
golf cart on a public street, road, or highway within the town does so at his
or her own risk and peril and assumes all liability resulting from the
operation of the golf cart.
      (4)   Operation on NC Highway 12 prohibited. The operation of golf carts
on NC Highway 12 shall be prohibited; provided, however, a golf cart may cross
NC Highway 12 at a right angle when driving from a street on one side of NC
Highway 12 to a street that is directly opposite and on the other side of NC
Highway 12.
      (5)   The operation of golf carts on public streets, roads and highways,
except as to NC Highway 12 as provided in division (A)(4) of this section with
a posted speed limit of 25 mph or less within the town in compliance with the
provisions of this section shall be permitted. However, it shall be unlawful to
operate any golf cart that is not properly registered with and permitted by the
town or to operate any golf cart at any place or in any manner not authorized
herein.
   (B)   Exceptions. The operation of golf carts in the following circumstances
is not subject to the provisions of this section:
      (1)   The operation of golf carts on private streets, roads, or private
property.
      (2)   The use of a golf cart in connection with a town sponsored special
event provided the golf cart is only used during such event.
      (3)   The use of golf carts by the Duck Police Department or the Duck
Fire Department, while on official public safety business or by town staff,
contractors, or volunteers while on official town business.
   (C)   Registration and permit requirements.
      (1)   Registration and permit required. No golf cart may be operated on
any public street, road, or public vehicular area within the town or on any
property owned or leased by the town unless the golf cart has first been
registered with the town and permitted as required herein. The registration and
permit shall be renewed annually beginning on April 1, 2025, and thereafter in
accordance with the provisions of this section.
      (2)   Application and permit. The owner shall complete an application
provided by the town and must self-certify that the golf cart is in compliance
with the provisions of this section prior to the issuance of an annual permit
for the golf cart beginning on April 1, 2025. To evidence the registration, the
owner shall be issued a unique registration decal which shall be displayed on
the lower left corner of the windshield of the golf cart. The Town Council may
establish, and amend from time to time, an annual registration fee for golf
carts. For the first registration period of April 1, 2025 through March 31,
2026, the registration fee will be waived.
      (3)   Required safety features. In order to register a golf cart and
secure an annual permit, a golf cart must have the following safety features
installed:
         (a)   Two operating front headlights, or a single headlight bar,
visible from a distance of at least 250 feet, if the golf cart is operated
between sunset and sunrise;
         (b)   Two operating taillights, with brake lights visible from a
distance of at least 250 feet, if the golf cart is operated between sunset and
sunrise;
         (c)   A rear vision mirror;
         (d)   At least 1 reflector per side, if the golf cart is operated
between sunset and sunrise;
         (e)   An operable parking brake;
         (f)   Seat belts for all seating positions on the golf cart;
         (g)   A windshield; and
         (h)   The golf cart is limited to a maximum of 3 rows of seats.
      (4)   Acknowledgment. Prior to the issuance of an initial permit or
annual renewal, the owner shall sign an acknowledgment that he or she has read
and understands the provisions of this section, that the golf cart is in proper
working order, that the golf cart does not contain any modifications to the
engine or motor, and that the golf cart is equipped with the required safety
features listed in division (C)(3) above, and that the duty to properly
maintain the golf cart is a duty of the owner and no reliance may be made as to
the fitness of the golf cart as a result of obtaining a permit from the town.
The town shall set the fee for the initial registration and permit, and annual
renewal in the town’s fee schedule.
      (5)   Disqualified vehicles. All-terrain vehicles, 4-wheel utility
vehicles, go-karts, and other similar utility vehicles which are not
manufactured for operation on a golf course, and/or a golf cart which has been
modified so that it no longer meets the definition of golf cart may not be
registered as a golf cart under this section nor shall such vehicles be
operated on the public roads, streets, and highways within the town, unless
such vehicles are registered and permitted under the motor vehicle laws of the
state.
   (D)   Basic requirements. In order to lawfully operate a golf cart on public
streets, the owner and/or operator, and the golf cart must meet the following
basic requirements:
      (1)   The driver and passengers must be properly seated and shall have a
seatbelt properly fastened about their body at all times while the golf cart is
in motion, to be effective on April 1, 2025. The seating capacity, as
determined by the number of seats, shall not be exceeded.
      (2)   No golf cart may be operated at a speed greater than 20 mph.
      (3)   No golf cart may be operated in a negligent, careless or reckless
manner, or at a speed faster than is reasonably proper, or in a manner so as to
endanger the life, limb, or property of the passengers or of any other person.
      (4)   Golf carts must be operated in accordance with all applicable state
and local traffic laws and ordinances, including all laws, regulations, and
ordinances pertaining to the possession and consumption of alcoholic beverages.
      (5)   Golf carts are subject to the same parking regulations as
traditional motor vehicles and may only be parked in the same manner and in the
same places designated for the parking of traditional motor vehicles; provided
however, 2 golf carts may be parked in a parking space that is designed for the
parking of 1 traditional motor vehicle.
      (6)   Golf carts may only park in handicapped spaces if the driver has a
valid handicapped placard or sticker and the same is clearly posted or
displayed on the golf cart.
      (7)   Golf carts may not be used for the purpose of towing any person or
object.
      (8)   The possession of open containers of alcohol and/or consumption of
alcohol by the driver and/or passengers of a golf cart is prohibited.
      (9)   The operator of a golf cart shall yield all right-of-way to
traditional motor vehicles.
      (10)   No golf cart may be operated on a public street without being
equipped with a rear view mirror, an operable parking brake, seat belts for all
seating positions on the golf cart, and a windshield, to be effective April 1,
2025.
      (11)   No golf cart may be operated on a public street between sunset and
sunrise without being equipped with at least 1 reflector per side, 2 operating
front headlights, 2 operating taillights, and operating brake lights, visible
from a distance of at least 250 feet, to be effective April 1, 2025.
   (E)   Prohibitions. No golf cart may be:
      (1)   Operated on the shoulder of any public street, road, or highway, or
upon any sidewalk, multi-use pedestrian path, Central Village Commercial
pedestrian sidewalk, Central Village Commercial bicycle lane, or other similar
area of the town; or
      (2)   Operated within the town by any person who is less than 16 years of
age.
   (F)   Violation.
      (1)   Any person who knowingly allows an underage driver to operate a
golf cart may be charged and subject to the penalties prescribed in state law
for contributing to the delinquency of a minor.
      (2)   Any person violating the provisions of division (C)(1) of this
chapter shall be required to pay a civil violation in the amount of $50.
      (3)   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter, other than
division (C)(1), or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall be
required to pay a civil violation in the amount of $25.
      (4)   Any person violating the town’s parking ordinances shall be subject
to the penalties applicable to parking violations.
      (5)   Operating a golf cart while under the influence of an impairing
substance (such as alcohol or drugs) on a public street or road is a violation
of state law and is punishable as provided therein.
(Ord. 18-03, passed 3-7-2018; Am. Ord. 18-04, passed 4-4-2018; Am. Ord. 24-02,
passed 4-3-2024; Am. Ord. 24-05, passed 9-4-2024)
OPERATING ON SAND DUNES
§ 70.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SAND DUNE. Any mound, hill, ridge or pile of sand which has an overall
height, at its highest point from the mean or average level or elevation of the
area from which the slope of the dune begins, of at least 10 feet.
   VEHICLE. Automobiles, trucks, jeeps, beach buggies, motorcycles, bicycles,
go carts, helicopters and aircraft, extra terrain vehicles or any other
automotive or motor-driven machine, by whatsoever name called.
(Ord. 04-07, passed 5-5-2004)
§ 70.16 PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate, drive or cause to be driven any
vehicle or other means or type of transportation over any sand dune in the
town, except over, upon and along a highway or street put in place and
maintained by the State Highway Commission or the town.
   (B)   It shall also be unlawful to carry to, place upon or deposit any
vehicle or other automotive equipment on any sand dune in the town and to
operate the same by use of devices such as tracks, cables, winches or any other
means.
(Ord. 04-07, passed 5-5-2004) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.17 EXEMPTIONS FROM SUBCHAPTER.
   (A)   This subchapter shall not apply to vehicles or other devices used by
employees or officials of the authorized utility companies or vehicles or
devices used by employees, officials or guests of the United States Corps of
Engineers, necessary and essential to and when used in connection with
necessary and essential repairs, maintenance and construction of utility
facilities along rights-of-way and easements acquired by those companies for
like purpose or research.
   (B)   This division shall likewise not apply to sand dunes or hills which
are wooded and covered with vegetation, or where vehicles are operated thereon
by the owners of the property or their agents, servants, employees or invitees
according to the lawful use as they may make of the same.
(Ord. 04-07, passed 5-5-2004)
OPERATION OF PERSONAL WATERCRAFT
§ 70.45 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSONAL WATERCRAFT. A personal watercraft as defined in G.S. § 75A-13.3.
   VESSEL. A vessel as defined in G.S. § 76A-2.
(Ord. 04-10, passed 5-5-2004)
§ 70.46 LAUNCHING AND LANDING.
   The launching and landing of personal watercraft is prohibited on the town's
ocean beaches.
(Ord. 04-10, passed 5-5-2004) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.47 SPEED.
   (A)   Operators of personal watercraft must go straight in and straight out
within 900 feet from the sound shoreline.
   (B)   Operators of personal watercraft, shall travel at a speed no faster
than necessary to maintain control of the vessel, but in no case shall the
speed generate or cause a wake or exceed 5 mph, whichever is less, within 600
feet from the sound shoreline.
   (C)   Operators of personal watercraft, while within 100 feet of a person or
persons in the water, or within 100 feet of a non-motorized vessel, shall
operate at a speed no faster than necessary to maintain control of the vessel,
but in no case shall the speed generate or cause a wake or exceed 5 mph,
whichever is less.
(Ord. 04-10, passed 5-5-2004) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.48 CERTAIN USE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No personal watercraft may be operated within 900 feet of the sound or
ocean shoreline.
   (B)   No person under the age of 16 years shall operate a personal
watercraft on the waters under the jurisdiction of the town as specified in
G.S. § 160A-176.2.
   (C)   Each boat rental establishment shall be limited to renting a maximum
number of 10 authorized personal watercraft rental units at 1 time and 2
personal watercraft that may be available for control, supervision or rescue
purposes per site.
   (D)   Personal watercraft may be operated only during the hours 9:00 a.m. to
6:00 p.m.
(Ord. 04-10, passed 5-5-2004) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.49 WILDLIFE.
   In accordance with G.S. § 113-291.1, it shall be unlawful for an operator of
a personal watercraft on the waters in the town to chase, harass, molest, worry
or disturb any wildlife except for lawfully angling for, hunting or trapping
fish and/or wildlife.
(Ord. 04-10, passed 5-5-2004) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.50 KNOWLEDGE.
   It is unlawful for a person who owns a personal watercraft, or who has
charge over or control of a personal watercraft to authorize or knowingly to
permit the personal watercraft to be operated in violation of this subchapter
or state law.
(Ord. 04-10, passed 5-5-2004) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.51 EXCEPTIONS.
   This subchapter does not apply to the operation of personal watercraft by
the following persons while in performance of their official duties:
   (A)   Federal, state and local public safety officers;
   (B)   The military;
   (C)   State and federal wildlife personnel; and
   (D)   Personnel involved in bona fide scientific research programs.
(Ord. 04-10, passed 5-5-2004)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)    Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to the civil penalty set forth
in §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
70.15 shall be subject to a civil penalty in the amount of $50 per violation.
The person cited for the violation must pay the civil penalty within five days
of being cited for the violation. In the event that the person cited for the
violation does not pay the civil penalty within the prescribed time, the Town
may bring a civil action to recover the penalty and the associated court costs.
   (C)   Any person who violates the provisions set forth in §§
70.45 through
70.51 shall be subject to a civil penalty in the amount of $250.
   (D)   Any violation of the provisions of §
70.03 shall be subject to a civil penalty of $50.
(Ord. 04-07, passed 5-5-2004; Ord. 04-10, passed 5-5-2004; Am. Ord. 10-12,
passed 12-1-2010; Am. Ord. 19-06, passed 11-6-2019)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Speed limits
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   The speed limit on North Carolina Highway 12 within the town's jurisdiction
is amended as follows.
State Road # Road Name Description Speed Limit
State Road # Road Name                  Description                 Speed Limit
1192         Uppowoc Court              From SR 1297 southward to   25
                                        0.02 miles south of SR 1297
1293         Seabreeze Drive            From NC 12 eastward 0.30    25
                                        miles east to SR 1557
1287         Algonkian Court            From SR 1297 southward to   25
                                        0.02 miles south of SR 1297
1297         Poteskeet Drive and        From NC 12 eastward to 0.53 25
             Mantoac Ct.                miles east of NC 12
1408         Dianne Street              From NC 12 eastward to 0.27 25
                                        miles east of NC 12
                                        From NC 12 eastward to 0.67
1409         Christopher Drive/Ocean    miles east of NC 12         25
             Way/Ocean Front Drive      including Ocean Way and
                                        Ocean Front Court
1410         Teresa Court               From SR 1409 southward 0.10 25
                                        miles
1417         Plover Drive               From NC 12 eastward to 0.49 25
                                        miles east of NC 12
1425         Wampum Drive               From NC 12 eastward to 0.52 25
                                        miles east of NC 12
1469         Sea Hawk Drive West        From NC 12 westward 0.27    25
                                        miles west of NC 12
                                        From SR 1479 southward 0.08
1473         Buffell Head Road          miles and northward 0.38    25
                                        miles
1474         Old Squaw Drive            From NC 12 eastward to 0.26 25
                                        miles east of NC 12
1475         Sprigtail Drive            From NC 12 eastward to 0.26 25
                                        miles east of NC 12
1476         Canvasback Drive           From NC 12 eastward to 0.27 25
                                        miles east of NC 12
1477         Wood Duck Drive            From NC 12 eastward to 0.28 25
                                        miles east of NC 12
1478         Pintail Drive              From NC 12 eastward to 0.29 25
                                        miles east of NC 12
1479         Widgeon Drive              From NC 12 eastward to 0.29 25
                                        miles east of NC 12
1484         Sea Hawk Drive East        From NC 12 eastward 0.28    25
                                        miles east of NC 12
1518         Dune Road                  From NC 12 eastward to 0.50 25
                                        miles east of NC 12
1519         Speckled Trout Drive       From SR 1518 north 0.03     25
                                        miles and south 0.04 miles
1555         Osprey Ridge               From NC 12 westward 0.20    25
                                        miles west of NC 12
1557         Seabreeze Drive cul-de-sac From SR 1293 north 0.025    25
             (north and south)          miles and south 0.04 miles
                                        NC 12, from the northern
                                        corporate limit of Southern
NC 12        Duck Road                  Shores northward to a point 35
                                        0.65 miles south of SR 1297
                                        (Poteskeet)
                                        NC 12 from 0.65 miles south
NC 12        Duck Road                  of SR 1297 (Poteskeet)      25
                                        northward to 0.7 miles
                                        north of SR 1425 (Wampum)
                                        NC 12 from 0.7 miles north
NC 12        Duck Road                  of SR 1425 (Wampum)         35
                                        northward to the Currituck
                                        County line
 
(Ord. 03-03, passed 5-7-2003; Am. Ord. 22-01, passed 1-19-2022; Am. Ord. 23-04,
passed - -2023)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   General parking regulations
SCHEDULE I. GENERAL PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Regulations. No person shall stop, stand or park a motor vehicle
except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance
with the directions of a police officer or traffic control device in any of the
following places:
      (1)   On a multi-use pedestrian path situated within the right-of-way of
a street or highway and adjacent to the paved portion thereof, that is
constructed for the use of pedestrians, bicyclists and other non-motorized
vehicles;
      (2)   Except for emergency vehicles, public safety vehicles, motorized
vehicles of town contractors engaged in town-related activities, or motorized
vehicles of the state or state contractors engaged in state-related activities,
no motorized vehicle shall be allowed to operate, park, or be left standing on
the shoulder of North Carolina Highway 12 or any public road maintained by the
North Carolina Department of Transportation;
      (3)   On private streets or parts of private streets in the following
subdivisions.
Subdivision
Subdivision
Sound Sea Village
Saltaire
Georgetown Sands
Osprey
South Snow Geese
Bayberry Bluffs
Sea Ridge
Sea Pines
Sandy Ridge
Olde Duck Beach
Four Seasons
Ships Watch
Snow Geese Dunes
Poteskeet (non-state maintained roads)
Wild Duck Dunes
Gull's Flight
Sanderling Homes Association, Inc. (Oyster Catcher Lane, Skimmer Way, Bunting
Lane, Bunting Way, Shearwater Way, Sandpiper Cove and Pelican Way)
Sandhills
Port Trinitie
Duck Ridge Village (Duck Ridge Village Court)
Sanderling Property Owners Association (Station Bay Drive, Martin Lane, Vireo
Lane, Waxwing Lane, Waxwing Court and Blue Heron Lane)
Tuckahoe
 
      (4)   On the following roads.
Road
Road
North Carolina Highway 12
SR 1293 Seabreeze Drive
SR 1297 Poteskeet Drive
SR 1408 Dianne Street
SR 1409 Christopher Drive/Oceanway Court
SR 1410 Teresa Court
SR 1417 Plover Drive
SR 1425 Wampum Drive
SR 1469 Sea Hawk Drive West
SR 1473 Buffell Head Road
SR 1474 Old Squaw Drive
SR 1475 Sprigtail Drive
SR 1476 Canvas Back Drive
SR 1477 Wood Duck Drive
SR 1478 Pintail Drive
SR 1479 Widgeon Drive
SR 1484 Sea Hawk Drive East
SR 1518 Dune Road
SR 1519 Speckled Trout Drive
 
   (B)   Definitions of PRIVATE STREET. For purposes of division (A)(3), and
notwithstanding any other definition of private street or public road contained
in this code or in the general statutes, the term PRIVATE STREET shall mean
only that portion of the right-of-way of a private street which is improved
with asphalt, gravel or similar material, and which is intended to be regularly
traversed by motor vehicles.
   (C)   Civil penalties.
      (1)   Violations of this chapter shall subject the offender to a civil
penalty in the amount of $25. Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-175, criminal penalties
for violation of this chapter as set out in G.S. § 14-4 are hereby removed.
Civil penalties may be recovered by the town in a civil action in the nature of
debt or may be collected in other amounts as prescribed herein within the
prescribed time following the issuance of notice or citation for the violation.
      (2)   Whenever a member of the Police Department of the town or other
person charged by ordinance or charter with the enforcement of the provisions
of this chapter regulating the parking of vehicles shall find that any of those
provisions are being, or have been, violated by the owner or operator of any
vehicle, the officer or person shall notify the owner or operator of the
vehicle of the violation by conspicuously attaching to the vehicle a parking
violation notice or citation in a form as the Finance Director of the town may
direct.
      (3)   The parking violation notice or citation shall, among other things:
         (a)   State upon its face the amount of the penalty for the specific
violation if the penalty is paid within 48 hours from and after the violation;
         (b)   Notify the offender that a failure to pay the penalty within 30
days from the violation shall subject the offender to an additional late
penalty in the amount of $20;
         (c)   Notify the offender that a failure to pay the penalty within the
prescribed time shall subject the offender to a civil action in the nature of
debt for the stated penalty plus an additional penalty in the amount of $50,
together with the cost of the action to be taxed by the court;
         (d)   Further provide that the offender may answer the town parking
citation by mailing the citation and the stated penalty to P.O. Box 8369, Duck,
North Carolina, 27949, or may pay the amount at the Town Administrative Offices
and that upon payment, the case or claim and right of action by the Town will
be deemed compromised and settled; and
         (e)   That the penalty must be paid within 48 hours of the issuance of
the citation. The notice shall further state that if the parking violation
citation is not cleared within 48 hours, court action by the filing of a civil
complaint for collection of the penalty may be taken. As used upon the parking
violation citation, the word "cleared" shall mean either:
            1.   Payment;
            2.   Arrangement for payment to be made; or
            3.   A prima facie showing that the parking citation was received
as a result of mistake, inadvertence or excusable neglect.
      (4)   The Town Manager or the Town Manager's designee is authorized to
accept payments in full and final settlement of the claim or claims, right or
rights of action which the town may have to enforce the penalty by civil action
in the nature of debt. Acceptance of a penalty shall be deemed a full and final
release of any and all claims, or right of action arising out of contended
violations.
      (5)   (a)   A delinquent penalty of $20, in addition to the one imposed
for payment within 48 hours, shall apply in those cases in which the civil
penalty prescribed in division (C)(1) above has not been paid within 30 days
from the date of the violation.
         (b)   A penalty of $35, in addition to the one imposed for payment
within 48 hours and the delinquent penalty, shall apply in those cases in which
the penalties set forth above in division (C)(1) above have not been paid
within the prescribed period of time, and in which a civil action shall have
been instituted.
      (6)   All penalties paid to the town or as may be recovered in a civil
action in the nature of debt as herein provided shall be paid into the general
fund of the town at a time and under regulations as may be prescribed by the
Finance Director.
(Ord. 06-04, passed 5-3-2006; Am. Ord. 07-06, passed 5-2-2007; Am. Ord. 09-08,
passed 11-4-2009; Am. Ord. 10-07, passed 6-2-2010; Am. Ord. 10-08, passed 7-7-
2010; Am. Ord. 13-01, passed 1-2-2013; Am. Ord. 14-05, passed 10-1-2014; Am.
Ord. 18-01, passed 1-3-2018; Am. Ord. 18-02, passed 1-3-2018)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
90.   ANIMALS
   
91.   GENERAL NUISANCES
   
92.   ABANDONED, NUISANCE AND JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES
   
93.   PARKS
   
94.   BEACH AND DUNE MANAGEMENT
   
95.   SPECIAL EVENTS
   
96.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Owner responsibility
   
90.03   Dog must wear tags; identification and rabies
   
90.04   Impoundment of animals
   
90.05   Running at large
   
90.06   Mandatory removal of feces
   
90.07   Rabies vaccination and control
   
90.08   Exemptions
   
90.09   Destruction of wounded, diseased or unweaned animals
   
90.10   Bird sanctuary
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTS DEEMED PUBLIC NUISANCE. Those acts described in §
90.02 below.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. The person appointed to exercise the powers and
responsibilities herein prescribed and otherwise allowed by statute to a county
dog warden; the person shall have the powers of a county dog warden in addition
to other powers set out in this chapter.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any premises designated by Dare County for the purpose of
impounding and caring for cats and dogs found running at large or otherwise
subject to impoundment in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   AT LARGE. Any animal off the property of his or her owner and not under the
control of a competent person by means of a leash or chain and collar, or other
like device.
   EXPOSED TO RABIES. An animal which has been bitten by or been exposed to any
animal known or suspected to have been infected with rabies.
   IDENTIFICATION TAG. The metallic or other tag or identification device
issued by the Dare County Animal Control Department for attachment to the
collar or harness of a dog.
   KENNEL; DEALER; BREEDER; PET SHOP. Any person engaged in buying, selling,
breeding or boarding pet animals.
   NEUTERED MALE. Any male animal which has been operated upon to prevent
reproduction.
   OWNER. Any person owning, keeping, having charge of, sheltering, feeding,
harboring or taking care of any animal.
   RESTRAINT. Controlled by means of a chain, leash or other like device, on or
within a vehicle being driven or parked, or within a secure enclosure, or
within the property limits of its owner or keeper.
   SPAYED FEMALE. Any female animal which has been operated upon to prevent
conception.
   STRAY DOG. Any dog within the town wandering at large or lost or any dog
within the town whose owner fails to pay for and procure a dog tag and fails to
have the dog vaccinated against rabies by a veterinarian.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any animal that has made an unprovoked attack on a human by
biting or in any manner causing abrasions or cuts of the skin; or, one which
habitually or repeatedly attacks other pets.
(Ord. 04-18, passed 7-7-2004)
§ 90.02 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Generally. The owner is responsible for the care, actions and behavior
of his or her animals.
   (B)   Public nuisance. It shall be unlawful for any dog owner to allow his
or her dog to habitually or repeatedly be at large or chase, snap at, attack or
bark at pedestrians, bicyclists or vehicles, turn over garbage pails, damage
gardens, flowers or vegetables or conduct itself so as to be a public nuisance,
or to permit a female dog to run at large while in heat.
   (C)   Keeping stray dogs; requirements, failure to surrender.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person in the town knowingly and
intentionally to harbor, feed, keep in possession by confinement or otherwise,
any dog which does not belong to him or her, unless he or she has, within 24
hours from the time the dog came into his or her possession, notified the
animal control shelter.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to surrender any
stray dog to an authorized representative of the animal shelter upon demand of
the representative.
   (D)   Wearing of collar, tags and identification required.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any dog owner to fail to provide his or
her dog with a collar or harness to which current vaccination and
identification tags are securely attached.
      (2)   A collar or harness with attached tags must be worn at all times
except when the dog is confined to an enclosure on the owner's premises, or
during the time animals are performing at shows, obedience trials, tracking
tests, field trials, training schools or other events sanctioned and supervised
by a recognized organization.
   (E)   Vicious animals. It shall be unlawful for any owner to keep any
vicious, fierce or dangerous animal within the town unless it is confined
within a secure building or enclosure, or unless it is securely muzzled and
under restraint by a competent person who, by means of a leash, chain or other
like device, has the animal firmly under control at all times.
   (F)   Barking dogs. It shall be unlawful for any dog owner to keep or have
within a densely populated area a dog that habitually or repeatedly barks in a
manner or to the extent so that it is a public nuisance.
   (G)   Injuring dogs; notice required. It shall be unlawful for any person
injuring a dog by running over or into same, or coming into contact with same,
with automobile, motorcycle, bicycle or other vehicle to fail to notify
immediately the owner of the dog, the animal shelter or the Police Department.
   (H)   Cruel treatment.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to molest, torment, torture,
deprive of necessary sustenance, cruelly beat, needlessly mutilate or kill,
wound, injure, poison, abandon or subject to conditions detrimental to its
health or general welfare any animal or to cause or procure the action.
      (2)   The words "torture" or "torment" shall be held to include every
act, omission or neglect whereby unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or
death is caused or permitted; but the terms shall not be construed to prohibit
lawful shooting of birds, deer or other game for human food, nor to prohibit
the Dare County Animal Control Department or its agents or veterinarians from
destroying dangerous, unwanted or injured animals in a humane manner.
   (I)   Interference with Animal Control Department. It shall be unlawful for
any person to interfere with, hinder or molest the Dare County Animal Control
Department or its agents, or Animal Control Officers or veterinarians in the
performance of any duty authorized by this chapter.
(Ord. 04-18, passed 7-7-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.03 DOG MUST WEAR TAGS; IDENTIFICATION AND RABIES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any dog owner to fail to provide his or her
dog with an identification tag or to fail to take the action as is necessary to
ensure that the identification tag is worn by the dog at all times except as
otherwise provided in this chapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any dog owner to fail to comply with the
state laws relating to the control of rabies and it shall be unlawful for any
dog owner to fail to provide any dog he or she owns with a suitable collar or
harness for the wearing of the rabies tag to be issued upon compliance with the
state law, or to fail to take the action as is necessary to see that the tag is
worn by the dog at all times except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow any dog to wear a
vaccination tag or identification tag issued for another dog.
(Ord. 04-18, passed 7-7-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.04 IMPOUNDMENT OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   Any dog or cat which appears to be unwanted or is found running at
large or any dog found not to be wearing a currently valid rabies vaccination
tag, as required by state law or this chapter, or is determined by an Animal
Control Officer based on reasonable cause to be a vicious animal, stray dog or
public nuisance may be apprehended and confined in the county animal control
shelter or in a private animal control shelter with which the town has entered
into an agreement.
   (B)   Any dog or cat apprehended and impounded under this provision by the
town shall either be turned over and delivered to the county Animal Control
Officer or the county animal control shelter to be processed in accordance with
the provisions of the county animal control ordinance as the same may be
amended from time to time or any dog or cat apprehended by the town, as
determined by the Animal Control Officer, may be turned over and/or delivered
to a private animal control shelter with which the town has entered into an
agreement.
(Ord. 04-18, passed 7-7-2004)
§ 90.05 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or custodian of any dog or other
animal, other than an ordinary domesticated house cat, to fail to keep the same
from running at large within the town.
   (B)   For the purposes of this chapter, an animal, other than an ordinary
domesticated house cat, shall be deemed “running at large” when it is not
restrained as specified below:
      (1)   When the animal is being restrained upon the premises of the owner
or custodian, it must not be able to enter upon public property or the premises
of another. Any animal off the premises of the owner or custodian shall be
restrained by a leash, cord or chain not exceeding 10 feet in length, held by a
person who is physically able to control the animal;
      (2)   For the purposes of this chapter, PREMISES OF THE OWNER OR
CUSTODIAN shall be defined as the residence of the owner or custodian,
including the attached property surrounding the residence that is owned or
leased by the owner or custodian but not including any common area, park or
recreational property jointly owned or leased by the members of a property
owners or tenants association;
      (3)   No animal shall be deemed to be “running at large” when the animal
is upon the premises of the owner or custodian and when the animal is contained
on or restricted to the premises by fencing or other physical means or when the
animal is on the public beaches of the town provided when the animal is on the
public beaches of the town, the animal is under the immediate control of the
owner. For the purposes of this section, “immediate control” means that the
animal is within sight and sound of the owner and responds to audible commands
of the owner.
(Ord. 04-18, passed 7-7-2004; Am. Ord. 07-10, passed 7-5-2007) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.06 MANDATORY REMOVAL OF FECES.
   (A)   Each and every person, keeper or custodian of any dog in any public
place, street, sidewalk, parking lot, on the private property of a person other
than the owner, keeper or custodian and on the beach shall immediately remove
all feces deposited by their dog.
   (B)   Removal shall be accomplished by depositing the feces in a sanitary
container. Burying feces in the sand or depositing in the ocean is prohibited
and constitutes a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 04-18, passed 7-7-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.07 RABIES VACCINATION AND CONTROL.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for an owner to fail to provide current
inoculation against rabies (hydrophobia) for his or her dog.
      (2)   Should it be deemed necessary by the Dare County Health Director,
Dare County Board of Commissioners or the state public health veterinarian that
other pet animals be vaccinated in order to prevent a threatened epidemic or to
control an existing epidemic, it shall be unlawful for an owner to fail to
provide current inoculation against rabies for that pet animal.
   (B)   Bite cases; duty of owner. Every dog or cat which has bitten anyone or
which shows symptoms of rabies shall be confined immediately by its owner and
shall be promptly reported to the Dare County Health Department by its owners
or persons having the animal in charge, and thereupon shall be securely
quarantined at the direction of the Health Department for a period of 10 days
and shall not be released from the quarantine except by written permission from
the Health Department.
   (C)   Inspection. The biting animal and its records of vaccination and
registration shall be inspected by the Dare County Health Director, who will
then observe the following policy:
      (1)   A properly vaccinated and registered dog or cat may be confined on
the owner's premises; provided, however, that the Health Director determines
that the owner has an adequate means of confinement upon his or her own
premises and the animal is subject to observation by the officer at any time
during the 10-day period;
      (2)   A dog or cat not properly vaccinated or registered, belonging to an
owner, shall immediately be confined in a veterinary hospital or the county
animal shelter, in which case the expense shall be borne by the owner for the
10-day confinement; and
      (3)   A stray dog or cat shall immediately be confined in the county
animal shelter for a 10-day period.
   (D)   Surrender for quarantine required on demand.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for the owner to refuse an examination or
investigation by the Dare County Health Director, upon demand, of any dog or
cat which has bitten a human.
      (2)   If the dog or cat is confined in the county animal shelter and if
rabies does not develop within 10 days, the animal may be reclaimed, upon
payment not to exceed $3 per day for feeding and upon compliance with other
provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   Rabies diagnosed. If an animal dies while under observation for
rabies, then the head of the animal may be submitted to the Dare County Health
Department for shipment to the state laboratory of hygiene for diagnosis.
   (F)   Emergency quarantine and procedures.
      (1)   When reports indicate a positive diagnosis of rabies, the Dare
County Health Director shall order an area-wide quarantine for a period as the
Health Director deems necessary; and upon the invocation of the emergency
quarantine by the Health Director, no pet animal shall be taken into the
streets or permitted to be in the streets during the period.
      (2)   During the quarantine, no animal may be taken or shipped from the
county without written permission of the Health Director and each member of the
Animal Control Department, the Police and Sheriff's Department is hereby fully
authorized during the emergency to impound any dog found running at large in
the town.
      (3)   During the quarantine period, the local health authorities shall be
empowered to provide for a program of mass immunization by the establishment of
temporary emergency rabies vaccination clinics strategically located throughout
the town.
      (4)   No dog which has been impounded by reason of its being a stray,
unclaimed by its owner, is allowed to be adopted from the animal shelter during
the period of emergency rabies quarantine, except by special authorization of
the Health Director.
   (G)   Destruction or confinement of animals bitten by known rabid animal.
Animals bitten by a known rabid animal shall be immediately destroyed unless
the owner agrees to strict isolation of the animal in the animal shelter in the
case of dogs or cats, or at a veterinary hospital in the case of other animals,
for a period of 6 months, or if the animal has a current rabies inoculation,
revaccination and confinement for a period of 6 months.
   (H)   Extension of quarantine. In the event there are additional positive
cases of rabies occurring during the period of quarantine, the period of
quarantine may be extended at the discretion of the Dare County Health
Director.
   (I)   Release or removal of animals under observation and the like. It shall
be unlawful for any person to kill or release any animal under observation for
rabies, any animal suspected of having been exposed to rabies or any animal
biting a human, or to remove the animal from the county without written
permission from the Health Director.
   (J)   Disposition of carcass of animal exposed to rabies. The carcass of any
dead animal exposed to rabies shall be surrendered to the Health Department.
The head of the animal may be submitted to the state laboratory of hygiene for
diagnosis.
   (K)   Failure to surrender animal to Health Director. It shall be unlawful
for any person to fail or refuse to surrender any animal for quarantine or
destruction as required herein when demand is made therefore by the Dare County
Health Director.
(Ord. 04-18, passed 7-7-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.08 EXEMPTIONS.
   Hospitals, clinics and other premises operated by licensed veterinarians for
the care and treatment of animals are exempt from the provisions of this
chapter except for the sections on cruel treatment and manner of keeping
animals generally.
(Ord. 04-18, passed 7-7-2004)
§ 90.09 DESTRUCTION OF WOUNDED, DISEASED OR UNWEANED ANIMALS.
   (A)   Any animal seized or impounded which is badly wounded, diseased (not a
rabies suspect) or unweaned and has no identification shall be destroyed
immediately and in a humane manner.
   (B)   If the animal has identification, the Animal Control Officer shall
attempt to notify the owner before disposing of the animal.
   (C)   If the owner cannot be reached readily, and the animal is suffering,
the Animal Control Officer may destroy the animal at his or her discretion in a
humane manner.
(Ord. 04-18, passed 7-7-2004)
§ 90.10 BIRD SANCTUARY.
   (A)   Established. A bird sanctuary is hereby created and established within
the town to conform with the corporate boundaries thereof.
   (B)   Hunting and the like, of certain birds.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to hunt, kill, trap or
otherwise take any protected birds within the town limits.
      (2)   It shall not be unlawful to hunt, kill, trap or otherwise take any
birds classified as unprotected by the wildlife resources commission or by any
law of the state.
   (C)   Protected birds defined. For the purpose of this section, the
following definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
      PROTECTED BIRDS. Includes all types and classes of birds not designed as
unprotected by the wildlife resources commission or by any law of the state.
(Ord. 02-10, passed 5-1-2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 91: GENERAL NUISANCES
Section
Public Nuisances in General
   
91.01   Certain conditions declared nuisances
   
91.02   Investigation of complaints
   
91.03   Notice and order to abate on finding of existence
   
91.04   General abatement by town
   
91.05   Cost incurred by town related to abatement
Open Burning; Fires on Beaches
   
91.20   Definitions
   
91.21   Beach fires
   
91.22   Other open burning
Loud and Disturbing Noise
   
91.35   Unnecessary noise
   
91.36   Noises expressly prohibited
   
91.37   Sound-amplifying devices; permits for speeches, entertainment and other
events
   
91.38   Permit program for sound-amplifying system or devices used or operated
for hire
   
91.39   Radios, phonographs or musical instruments
   
91.40   Presumption
   
91.41   Compliant procedure
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned, nuisance and junked motor vehicles, see
Ch. 92
   Offenses against public peace and safety, see
Ch. 130
PUBLIC NUISANCES IN GENERAL
§ 91.01 CERTAIN CONDITIONS DECLARED NUISANCES.
   The existence of any of the following conditions on any lot, whether
improved or not, or other parcel of land within the corporate limits is hereby
declared to be dangerous and prejudicial to the public health or safety and to
constitute a public nuisance:
   (A)   Growth of weeds and grass. The uncontrolled growth of noxious weeds or
grass causing or threatening to cause a hazard detrimental to the public health
or safety;
   (B)   Accumulations of animal or vegetable matter. Any accumulation of
animal or vegetable matter that is offensive by virtue of odors or vapors or by
the inhabitation therein of rats, mice, snakes or vermin of any kind which is
or may be dangerous or prejudicial to the public health;
   (C)   Accumulations of rubbish and the like. Any accumulation of rubbish,
trash or junk causing or threatening to cause a fire hazard, causing or
threatening to cause the accumulation of stagnant water or causing or
threatening to cause the inhabitation therein of rats, mice, snakes or vermin
of any kind which is or may be dangerous or prejudicial to the public health;
   (D)   Conditions violating Health Department rules. Any condition
detrimental to the public health which violates the rules and regulations of
the Dare County Health Department;
   (E)   Burned or partially burned buildings or structures. Any building or
other structure which has been burned, partially burned or otherwise partially
destroyed and which is unsightly or hazardous to the safety of any person, is a
continuing fire hazard or which is structurally unsound to the extent that the
Town Building Official can reasonably determine that there is a likelihood of
personal or property injury to any person or property entering the premises;
   (F)   Storm or erosion damaged structures and resulting debris. The
existence of any of the following conditions associated with storm or erosion-
damaged structures or their resultant debris shall constitute a public
nuisance:
      (1)   Damaged structure in danger of collapsing;
      (2)   Damaged structure or debris from damaged structures where it can
reasonably be determined that there is a likelihood of personal or property
injury; and
      (3)   Any structure, regardless of condition, or any debris from damaged
structure which is located in whole or in part in a public trust area or public
land.
   (G)   Structurally deteriorated, or storm damaged automobile service station
canopies. Any automobile service station canopy with loose, unanchored or
missing cladding, or fascia panels prone to progressive collapse, or
structurally unsound members damaged by storms, vehicles or deterioration; and
   (H)   Miscellaneous. Any other condition that is specified as a nuisance in
the town's ordinances.
(Ord. 02-12, passed 5-1-2002) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 INVESTIGATION OF COMPLAINTS.
   The Town Manager, upon notice from any person of the existence of any of the
conditions described in §
91.01 above, shall cause to be made, by the appropriate Dare County Health
Department official or town official, the investigation as may be necessary to
determine whether the conditions exist as to constitute a public nuisance as
declared in §
91.01 above.
(Ord. 02-12, passed 5-1-2002)
§ 91.03 NOTICE AND ORDER TO ABATE ON FINDING OF EXISTENCE.
   (A)   Upon a determination that conditions constituting a public nuisance
exist, the Town Manager shall notify, in writing, the owner, occupant or person
in possession of the premises in question of the conditions constituting the
public nuisance and shall order the prompt abatement thereof within 15 days
from the receipt of the written notice.
   (B)   Receipt shall be deemed to occur on the third day after the date of
the postmark if the notice is deposited in a United States Post Office.
Abatement of a public nuisance shall consist of taking whatever appropriate
steps are reasonably necessary to remove the condition or conditions which
result in the declaration of a public nuisance.
   (C)   Without limitation the Town Manager, in ordering the abatement of a
public nuisance, may require the removal of debris, rubbish, accumulations of
animal or vegetable matter, growth of weeds and grass, burned or partially
burned buildings, the isolation of the condition to be abated so that access
cannot be gained by persons or property which may be injured by the nuisance or
the other steps which are reasonably necessary to abate the nuisance.
(Ord. 02-12, passed 5-1-2002)
§ 91.04 GENERAL ABATEMENT BY TOWN.
   (A)   If any person, having been ordered to abate a public nuisance, fails,
neglects or refuses to abate or remove the condition constituting the nuisance
within 15 days from receipt of the order given pursuant to §
91.03 above, the Town Manager shall cause the condition to be removed or
otherwise remedied by having employees of the town or independent contractors
go upon the premises and remove or otherwise abate the nuisance under the
supervision of an officer or employee designated by the Town Manager.
   (B)   Any person who has been ordered to abate a public nuisance may, within
the time allowed by this subchapter, request the town in writing to remove the
condition, the cost of which shall be paid by the person making the request.
   (C)   In the event a local contractor cannot be obtained after a reasonable
effort, the Town Manager shall be authorized to obtain the services of a
contractor outside the immediate local area, and the costs thereof shall be
deemed to be reasonable.
(Ord. 02-12, passed 5-1-2002)
§ 91.05 COST INCURRED BY TOWN RELATED TO ABATEMENT.
   (A)   The actual cost incurred by the town in removing or otherwise
remedying a public nuisance shall be charged to the owner of the lot or parcel
of land; and it shall be the duty of the Town Clerk to mail a statement of the
charges to the owner or other person in possession of the premises with
instructions that the charges are due and payable within 30 days from the
mailing thereof.
   (B)   If the costs charged in accordance with this section are not paid as
herein stated, the costs shall be a lien upon the land or premises where the
nuisance arose and shall be collected as unpaid taxes.
(Ord. 02-12, passed 5-1-2002)
OPEN BURNING; FIRES ON BEACHES
§ 91.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OCEAN BEACH. The land between the mean low water mark and the primary dunes
(the dunes closest to the ocean).
   SOUND BEACH. The land between the mean low water mark and the private
property line.
(Ord. 02-19, passed 7-3-2002)
§ 91.21 BEACH FIRES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to start or set a fire on the ocean or
sound beaches as defined in §
91.20 above.
(Ord. 02-19, passed 7-3-2002) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.22 OTHER OPEN BURNING.
   Other open burning shall require a permit and will be regulated as provided
by North Carolina law.
(Ord. 02-19, passed 7-3-2002)
LOUD AND DISTURBING NOISE
§ 91.35 UNNECESSARY NOISE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to create or assist in creating, permit,
continue or permit the continuance of, any unreasonably loud, disturbing and
unnecessary noise or noise of the character, intensity or duration as to be
detrimental to the life or health of any individual in the town.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 5-5-2004) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.36 NOISES EXPRESSLY PROHIBITED.
   The following acts, among others, are declared to be loud, disturbing and
unnecessary noises in violation of this subchapter, but this enumeration shall
not be deemed to be exclusive, namely:
   (A)   The sounding of any horn or signal device or any device on any
automobile, motorcycle, bus or other vehicle while not in motion, except as a
danger signal if another vehicle is approaching apparently out of control, or,
if in motion, only as a danger signal after, or as, brakes are being applied
and deceleration of the vehicle is intended; the creation by means of any like
signal device of any unreasonably loud or harsh sound; and the sounding of the
device for any unnecessary and unreasonable period of time;
   (B)   The use of any gong or siren upon any vehicle, other than police, fire
or other emergency vehicle;
   (C)   The use or operation of any musical instrument, phonograph, radio,
television, loudspeaker, or any other instrument, or sound-amplifying device so
loudly as to disturb persons in the vicinity thereof, or in a manner so as
renders the same a public nuisance; provided, however, that upon application to
the Town Manager, permits may be granted to responsible organizations to
produce programs in music, speeches or general entertainment;
   (D)   The keeping of any animal or bird which by causing frequent or long
continued noise shall disturb the comfort and repose of any person in the
vicinity;
   (E)   The use of any automobile, motorcycle or other vehicle so out of
repair, so loaded or in a manner so as to create loud or unnecessary grating,
grinding, rattling or other noise, or in a manner so as to cause squealing, or
screeching of tires, or in a manner so as to cause the tires to propel rock,
sand or gravel;
   (F)   The blowing of any steam whistle attached to any stationary boiler
except to give notice of the time to begin or stop work or as a warning of
danger;
   (G)   The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any steam engine,
stationary internal combustion engine, motor vehicle except through a muffler
or other device which will effectively prevent loud or explosive noise
therefrom;
   (H)   The use of any mechanical device operated by compressed air unless the
noise created is effectively muffled and reduced;
   (I)   The erection (including excavation), demolition, alteration or repair
of any building in a residential or business district other than between the
hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., Monday through Saturday, except in the case
of urgent necessity in the interest of public safety and then only with a
permit from the Building Inspector, which permit may be renewed for a period of
3 days or less while the emergency continues;
   (J)   The creation of loud and excessive noise in connection with loading or
unloading any vehicle or the opening and destruction of bales, boxes, crates
and containers;
   (K)   The sounding of any bell or gong attached to any building or premises
which disturbs the quiet or repose of persons in the vicinity thereof;
   (L)   The shouting and crying of peddlers, barkers, hawkers and vendors
which disturbs the quiet and peace of the neighborhood;
   (M)   The use of any drum, loudspeaker or other instrument or device for the
purpose of attracting attention by creation of noise to any performance, show
or sale or display of merchandise;
   (N)   The use of any mechanical loudspeakers or amplifiers on trucks or
other moving vehicles for advertising purposes or other purposes, except as
permitted by the Town Manager; provided, however, that the use by any
governmental unit for a public purpose shall be exempted from the prohibitions
of this subchapter;
   (O)   The conducting, operating or maintaining of any garage or service
station so as to cause loud or offensive noises to be emitted therefrom between
the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m; and
   (P)   The firing or discharging of a gun, squibs, crackers, gunpowder or
other combustible substance in the streets or elsewhere for the purpose of
making noise or disturbance.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 5-5-2004; Am. Ord. 17-04, passed 6-7-2017) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.37 SOUND-AMPLIFYING DEVICES; PERMITS FOR SPEECHES, ENTERTAINMENT AND OTHER
EVENTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or cause or permit to
be operated, any automatic or electrical piano, phonograph, graphophone,
victrola, radio, loudspeaker or any instrument or sound-producing or sound-
amplifying device of like character so loudly as to unreasonably disturb
persons in the vicinity thereof or in a manner as renders the same a public
nuisance.
   (B)   Provided, that upon application to and approval by the Town Manager,
written permits may be granted to responsible organizations to broadcast
programs of music, speeches, general entertainment or announcements as a part
of and incident to community celebrations of national, state or town occasions,
public festivals or other outstanding events, provided traffic on the streets
is not obstructed by reason thereof.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 5-5-2004) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.38 PERMIT PROGRAM FOR SOUND-AMPLIFYING SYSTEM OR DEVICES USED OR OPERATED
FOR HIRE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use, operate, cause to be used
or operated, or, allow to be used or operated, any sound-amplifying system or
device for hire without first having obtained a valid permit for the use or
operation from the Chief of Police, or his or her delegate.
   (B)   The permit shall be issued upon application, shall specify the
permissible hours and location of the use or operation and shall be valid for
the hours and location specified therein.
   (C)   If, at any time, the Chief of Police or his or her delegate determines
that the manner of use or operation of the sound-amplifying system or device
will unreasonably disturb the comfort and repose of any person, at any location
outside the location for which the permit has been issued, he or she shall
first warn against continued use or operation in that manner.
   (D)   If use or operation continues in the manner warned against, the Chief
of Police or his or her delegate shall revoke the permit for the use or
operation and the use or operation thereafter shall be unlawful.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 5-5-2004) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.39 RADIOS, PHONOGRAPHS OR MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to play any radio, phonograph or musical
instrument in the town in a manner or with the volume so as to annoy or disturb
the quiet, comfort or repose of persons in any dwelling, hotel or other type of
residence.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 5-5-2004) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.40 PRESUMPTION.
   The complaints of 2 or more persons, at least 1 of whom resides in a
different home from the other complaining person, or the complaint of 1 or more
persons, when combined with the complaint of the investigating police officer
made to the Police Department concerning the emission of sound, shall be prima
facie evidence that the sound is a loud, disturbing and unnecessary noise.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 5-5-2004)
§ 91.41 COMPLAINT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   If any person shall have reasonable grounds for believing that the
provisions of this subchapter are being violated, he or she may make a report
thereof to the Police Department, who shall investigate.
   (B)   If the investigation reveals, in fact, a violation of this subchapter,
the investigating officer shall cause a written complaint to be made upon which
a warrant may be issued for violation thereof.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 5-5-2004)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)    Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to the civil penalty set forth
in §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
91.35 through
91.41 shall be subject to a civil penalty in the amount of $50 per violation.
The person cited for the violation must pay the civil penalty within five days
of being cited for the violation. In the event the person cited for the
violation does not pay the penalty within the prescribed time, the town may
bring a civil action to recover the penalty and the associated cost of court.
   (C)   In the event the offender does not pay the penalty within the
prescribed time, the town may bring a civil action to recover the penalty,
together with the cost of court.
   (D)   Additionally, any violation of this chapter shall constitute a
misdemeanor which shall be punishable as provided by G.S. § 14-4. Each
violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 5-5-2004; Am. Ord. 19-06, passed 11-6-2019)
CHAPTER 92: ABANDONED, NUISANCE AND JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES
Section
   
92.01   Intent
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   Administration
   
92.04   Abandoned vehicle unlawful; removal
   
92.05   Nuisance vehicle unlawful; removal
   
92.06   Junked motor vehicle regulated; removal
   
92.07   Removal; pre-towing notice; appeals
   
92.08   Exceptions to prior notice requirement
   
92.09   Removal of vehicles; post-towing notice requirements
   
92.10   Right to probable cause hearing before sale or final disposition of
vehicle
   
92.11   Redemption of vehicle during proceedings
   
92.12   Sale and disposition of unclaimed vehicle
   
92.13   Conditions on removal of vehicles from private property
   
92.14   Protection against criminal or civil liability
   
92.15   Exceptions
   
92.16   Unlawful removal of impounded vehicle
§ 92.01 INTENT.
   (A)   It shall be the intent of this chapter to promote and enhance the
aesthetic appearance of the town; to protect the property values throughout the
town; and to promote tourism and the opportunities for economic development of
the town.
   (B)   It is further the intent of this chapter to promote and enhance the
attractiveness of the town thoroughfares and residential streets, which present
public visibility to visitors and to passers by of the town by controlling and
regulating abandoned, junked and nuisance vehicles.
(Ord. 04-06, passed 4-7-2004)
§ 92.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. As authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-303, a motor
vehicle which:
      (1)   Is left upon a public street or highway in violation of a law or
ordinance prohibiting parking;
      (2)   Is left on a public street or highway for longer than 7 days;
      (3)   Is left on property owned or operated by the town for longer than
24 hours; or
      (4)   Is left on private property without the consent of the owner,
occupant or lessee thereof, for longer than 2 hours.
   AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL. Any police officer on duty that day or the Town
Manager, respectively, are designated to authorize the removal of vehicles
under the provisions of this chapter.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE. As authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-303.2, a
vehicle that does not display a current license plate upon that vehicle and
that:
      (1)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked;
      (2)   Cannot be self-propelled or moved in the manner in which it
originally was intended to move; or
      (3)   Is more than 5 years old and appears to be worth less than $100.
   MOTOR VEHICLE OR VEHICLE. All machines designed or intended to travel over
land by self-propulsion or while attached to any self-propelled vehicle.
   NUISANCE VEHICLE. A vehicle on public or private property that is determined
and declared to be a health or safety hazard, a public nuisance, and unlawful,
and including a vehicle found to be:
      (1)   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes, other insects, rats or
other pests;
      (2)   A point of heavy growth of weeds or other noxious vegetation over 8
inches in height;
      (3)   A point of collection of pools or ponds of water;
      (4)   A point of concentration of quantities of gasoline, oil or other
flammable or explosive materials as evidenced by odor;
      (5)   One which has areas of confinement, such as trunks, hoods and the
like, which cannot be operated from inside the area of confinement;
      (6)   One so situated or located that there is a danger of it falling or
turning over;
      (7)   One which is a point of collection of garbage, food waste, animal
waste or any other rotten or putrescible matter of any kind;
      (8)   One which has sharp parts thereof which are jagged or contain sharp
edges of metal or glass; or
      (9)   Any other vehicle specifically declared a health and safety hazard
and a public nuisance by the Police Department or Town Manager.
(Ord. 04-06, passed 4-7-2004)
§ 92.03 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Police Department and the Town Manager shall be responsible for
the administration and enforcement of this chapter.
   (B)   The Police Department shall be responsible for administering the
removal and disposition of vehicles determined to be "abandoned" on the public
streets and highways within the town and on property owned by the town.
   (C)   The Town Manager shall be responsible for administering the removal
and disposition of "abandoned," "nuisance" or "junked motor vehicles" located
on private property.
   (D)   The town may, on an annual basis, contract with private tow truck
operators or towing businesses to remove, store and dispose of abandoned
vehicles, nuisance vehicles and junked motor vehicles in compliance with this
chapter and applicable state laws.
   (E)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to limit the legal
authority or powers of officers of the town Police Department and Fire
Department in enforcing other laws or in otherwise carrying out their duties.
(Ord. 04-06, passed 4-7-2004)
§ 92.04 ABANDONED VEHICLE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL.
   (A)   Upon investigation, the proper authorizing official of the town may
determine and declare that a vehicle is a health or safety hazard and a
nuisance vehicle as defined above, and order the vehicle removed.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee or occupant of the real
property upon which the vehicle is located to leave or allow the vehicle to
remain on the property after it has been declared a nuisance vehicle.
(Ord. 04-06, passed 4-7-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.05 NUISANCE VEHICLE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   Upon investigation, the proper authorizing official of the town may
determine and declare that a vehicle is a health or safety hazard and a
nuisance vehicle as defined above, and order the vehicle removed.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee or occupant of the real
property upon which the vehicle is located to leave or allow the vehicle to
remain on the property after it has been declared a nuisance vehicle.
(Ord. 04-06, passed 4-7-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.06 JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE REGULATED; REMOVAL.
   (A)   Upon investigation, the Town Manager may order the removal of a junked
motor vehicle as defined in this chapter after finding in writing that the
aesthetic benefits of removing the vehicle outweigh the burdens imposed on the
private property owner.
   (B)   The finding shall be based on a balancing of the monetary loss of the
apparent owner against the corresponding gain to the public by promoting or
enhancing community, neighborhood or area appearance.
   (C)   The following, among other relevant factors, may be considered:
      (1)   Protection of property values;
      (2)   Promotion of tourism and other economic development opportunities;
      (3)   Indirect protection of public health and safety;
      (4)   Preservation of the character and integrity of the community; and
      (5)   Promotion of the comfort, happiness and emotional stability of area
residents.
   (D)   Provided, however, no vehicle that is used on a regular basis for
business or personal use shall be removed or disposed of pursuant to divisions
(A) through (C) above.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
the possession of a junked motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee or occupant
of the real property upon which a junked motor vehicle is located to leave or
allow the vehicle to remain on the property after the vehicle has been ordered
removed.
(Ord. 04-06, passed 4-7-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.07 REMOVAL; PRE-TOWING NOTICE; APPEALS.
   (A)   Removal and pre-towing notice.
      (1)   Except as set forth in §
92.08 below, an abandoned, nuisance or junked vehicle which is to be removed
shall be towed only after notice to the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of the vehicle.
      (2)   In the case of a nuisance vehicle or a junked motor vehicle, if the
names and mailing addresses of the registered owner or person entitled to the
possession of the vehicle, or the owner, lessee, or occupant of the real
property upon which the vehicle is located can be ascertained in the exercise
of reasonable diligence, the notice shall be given by first class mail.
      (3)   Reasonable diligence shall include notification to the registered
owner of the vehicle at his or her last known address according to the latest
registration certificate or certificate of title on file with the North
Carolina Division of Motor Vehicles; notice to the owner of real property as
recorded in the Dare County Registry; notice to the owner, lessee or occupant
as contained in the records of the town.
      (4)   The person who mails the notice(s) shall retain a written record to
show the name(s) and address(es) to which mailed, and the date mailed.
      (5)   If the names and addresses cannot be ascertained or if the vehicle
to be removed is an abandoned motor vehicle, notice shall be given by affixing
on the windshield or some other conspicuous place on the vehicle a notice
indicating that the vehicle will be removed by the town on a specific date (no
sooner than 7 days after the notice is affixed).
      (6)   The notice shall state that the vehicle will be removed by the town
on the specified date, no sooner than 7 days after the notice is affixed or
mailed, unless the vehicle is moved by the owner or legal possessor prior to
that time.
   (B)   Appeals.
      (1)   The registered owner or person entitled to possessing a vehicle
which has been determined to be an abandoned vehicle on private property,
nuisance vehicle or junked motor vehicle who has received a notice pursuant to
division (A) above that the vehicle will be removed may appeal the
determination.
      (2)   In the case of notice for removal of a junked motor vehicle where
the determination has been made that the aesthetic benefits of removing the
vehicle outweigh the burdens on the private property owner, in accordance with
§
92.06(A) through (C) above, the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of the junked motor vehicle may appeal that determination.
      (3)   Any appeal shall be made within 10 days upon receipt of the notice
for removal of the vehicle as provided in division (A) above.
      (4)   All appeals shall be made to the Town Council in writing.
      (5)   Appeals held pursuant to this section shall be conducted by the
Town Council within 45 days after the receipt of a request for a hearing, and
further proceedings to remove the vehicle shall be stayed until the appeal is
heard and decided.
(Ord. 04-06, passed 4-7-2004)
§ 92.08 EXCEPTIONS TO PRIOR NOTICE REQUIREMENT.
   Circumstances justifying the removal of vehicles without prior notice
include the following.
   (A)   Vehicles abandoned on the public streets. For vehicles left on the
public streets and highways, the Police Department or Town Manager hereby
determines that immediate removal of the vehicles may be warranted when they
are:
      (1)   Obstructing traffic;
      (2)   Parking in violation of an ordinance prohibiting or restricting
parking;
      (3)   Parked in a no-stopping or standing zone;
      (4)   Parked in loading zones;
      (5)   Parked in bus zones; or
      (6)   Parked in violation of temporary parking restrictions imposed under
any town ordinance.
   (B)   Nuisance vehicles and abandoned vehicles on private property.
      (1)   These vehicles may be removed without giving prior notice in those
circumstances where the authorizing official finds a special need for prompt
action to protect and maintain the public health, safety and welfare.
      (2)   By way of illustration and not of limitation, the circumstances
include vehicles blocking or obstructing ingress or egress to businesses and
residences, vehicles parked in a location or manner so as to pose a traffic
hazard, or vehicles causing damage to public or private property.
   (C)   Vehicles left on private property.
      (1)   A vehicle may be removed that has been left on private property
without the consent of the owner, occupant or lessee thereof for longer than 2
hours and the owner, occupant or lessee has complied with §
92.13 below, or in those circumstances where there is a finding of a special
need for prompt action to eliminate traffic obstructions or to otherwise
maintain and protect the public safety and welfare.
      (2)   The findings shall, in all cases, be entered by the authorized
official in the appropriate daily records.
(Ord. 04-06, passed 4-7-2004)
§ 92.09 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES; POST-TOWING NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any abandoned, nuisance or junked vehicle which has been ordered
removed may, as directed by the proper authorizing official of the town, be
removed to a storage garage or area by the tow truck operator or towing
business contracting to perform those services for the town.
   (B)   Whenever a vehicle is removed, the authorizing town official shall
immediately notify the last known registered owner of the vehicle, the notice
to include the following:
      (1)   The description of the removed vehicle;
      (2)   The location where the vehicle is stored;
      (3)   The violation with which the owner is charged, if any;
      (4)   The procedure the owner must follow to redeem the vehicle; and
      (5)   The procedure the owner must follow to request a probable cause
hearing on the removal.
   (C)   The town shall attempt to give notice to the vehicle owner by
telephone; however, whether or not the owner is reached by telephone, written
notice, including the information set forth in divisions (B)(1) through (5)
above, shall also be mailed to the registered owner's last known address,
unless the notice is waived in writing by the vehicle owner or his or her
agent.
   (D)   If the vehicle is registered in North Carolina, notice shall be given
within 24 hours. If the vehicle is not registered in the state, notice shall be
given to the registered owner within 72 hours of the removal of the vehicle.
   (E)   Whenever an abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle is removed and
the vehicle has no valid registration or registration plates, the authorizing
town official shall make reasonable efforts, including checking the vehicle
identification number to determine the last known registered owner of the
vehicle and to notify him or her of the information set forth in divisions (B)
(1) through (5) above.
(Ord. 04-06, passed 4-7-2004)
§ 92.10 RIGHT TO PROBABLE CAUSE HEARING BEFORE SALE OR FINAL DISPOSITION OF
VEHICLE.
   After the removal of an abandoned vehicle, nuisance vehicle or junked motor
vehicle, the owner or any other person entitled to possession is entitled to a
hearing for the purpose of determining if probable cause existed for removing
the vehicle. A request for hearing must be filed in accordance with the
provisions of G.S. Ch. 20 Article 7A, as amended.
(Ord. 04-06, passed 4-7-2004)
§ 92.11 REDEMPTION OF VEHICLE DURING PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   At any stage in the proceedings, including before the probable cause
hearing, the owner may obtain possession of the removed vehicle by paying the
towing fee, including any storage charges, or by posting a bond for double the
amount of the fees and charges to the tow truck operator or towing business
having custody of the removed vehicle.
   (B)   Upon regaining possession of a vehicle, the owner or person entitled
to the possession of the vehicle shall not allow or engage in further
violations of this chapter.
(Ord. 04-06, passed 4-7-2004)
§ 92.12 SALE AND DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLE.
   (A)   Any abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle which is not claimed
by the owner or other party entitled to possession will be disposed of by the
tow truck operator or towing business having custody of the vehicle.
   (B)   Disposition of the vehicle shall be carried out in accordance with
G.S. Ch. 44A Article 1.
(Ord. 04-06, passed 4-7-2004)
§ 92.13 CONDITIONS ON REMOVAL OF VEHICLES FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
92.06(A) through (C) above, as a general policy, the town will not remove a
vehicle from private property if the owner, occupant or lessee of the property
could have the vehicle removed under applicable state laws.
   (B)   In no case will a vehicle be removed by the town from private property
without a written request of the owner, occupant or lessee, except in those
cases where a vehicle is a nuisance vehicle or is a junked motor vehicle which
has been ordered removed by the Town Manager pursuant to §
92.06(A) through (C) above.
   (C)   The town shall require any person requesting the removal of an
abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle from private property to indemnify
the town against any loss, expense or liability incurred because of the
removal, storage or sale thereof.
(Ord. 04-06, passed 4-7-2004)
§ 92.14 PROTECTION AGAINST CRIMINAL OR CIVIL LIABILITY.
   Any person who removes a vehicle pursuant to this chapter shall not be held
liable for damages for the removal of the vehicle to the owner, lienholder or
other person legally entitled to the possession of the vehicle removed;
however, any person who intentionally or negligently damages a vehicle in the
removal of the vehicle, or intentionally or negligently inflicts injury upon
any person in the removal of the vehicle, may be held liable for damages.
(Ord. 04-06, passed 4-7-2004)
§ 92.15 EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall apply to any vehicle:
   (A)   Which is located in a bone fide "automobile graveyard" or "junkyard"
as defined in G.S. §§ 136-143 et seq. and G.S. §§ 160A-303.1 and 160A-303.2;
   (B)   Which is in an enclosed building;
   (C)   Which is on the premises of a business enterprise being operated in a
lawful place and manner if the vehicle is necessary to the operation of the
enterprise; or
   (D)   Which is in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a
lawful place and manner by the town.
(Ord. 04-06, passed 4-7-2004)
§ 92.16 UNLAWFUL REMOVAL OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLE.
    Any person who removes or attempts to remove from any storage facility
designated by the town any vehicle which has been impounded pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter without first paying all towing and impoundment fees
which are due, or bond in lieu of the fees, shall be subject to the civil
penalty in the amount set forth in §
10.99 per violation.
(Ord. 04-06, passed 4-7-2004; Am. Ord. 19-06, passed 11-6-2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 93: PARKS
Section
   
93.01   Purpose
   
93.02   Definitions
   
93.03   Waiving of certain policies
   
93.04   Hours of operation
   
93.05   Usage policies
   
93.06   Laws of general applicability
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 PURPOSE.
   The Duck Town Park, Soundside Boardwalk and Boat Piers have been developed
to serve as recreational areas for residents, property owners, business owners
and visitors to enjoy. The following usage policies are designed to maximize
the public’s enjoyment of these amenities of the town.
(Ord. 07-07, passed 5-2-2007; Am. Ord. 10-09, passed 7-7-2010; Am. Ord. 11-03,
passed 4-6-2011; Am. Ord. 14-04, passed 9-3-2014)
§ 93.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARDWALK. The structure adjacent to the Currituck Sound, located between
1174 Duck Road and 1240 Duck Road, which is approximately 10 feet wide in most
areas and constructed of wood, and serves as a public walkway, connecting the
park with commercial areas, and providing passive access to the Currituck
Sound. The BOARDWALK ties into and includes commercial areas, and also includes
the canoe/kayak/stand up paddle board launch and the willow swamp trail located
at the park.
   BOAT PIERS. The structures located at 1178 and 1240 Duck Road that extend
approximately 250 and 130 feet, respectively, into the Currituck Sound, and
include 6 and 4 slips, respectively, for motorized and non-motorized
watercraft, and space for canoes/kayaks/stand up paddle boards and similar
watercraft to be temporarily moored.
   PARK. The area of the town located at 1200 Duck Road, comprising
approximately 11 acres, and including the Duck Town Hall-Community/Meeting
Hall, gazebo, picnic shelter, amphitheater, playground, trails, and parking
areas.
(Ord. 11-03, passed 4-6-2011; Am. Ord. 14-04, passed 9-3-2014)
§ 93.03 WAIVING OF CERTAIN POLICIES.
   The Town Manager has the authority to waive applicable usage policies for
town-sponsored events.
(Ord. 07-07, passed 5-2-2007; Am. Ord. 10-09, passed 7-7-2010; Am. Ord. 11-03,
passed 4-6-2011)
§ 93.04 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   The park grounds shall be open every day from dawn until dusk. The boardwalk
and boat piers shall be open daily except between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:
00 a.m. Overnight mooring of watercraft is prohibited.
(Ord. 07-07, passed 5-2-2007; Am. Ord. 10-09, passed 7-7-2010; Am. Ord. 11-03,
passed 4-6-2011; Am. Ord. 14-04, passed 9-3-2014)
§ 93.05 USAGE POLICIES.
   (A)   Commercial activity. Commercial activity within the park, and on the
boardwalk and boat piers, including, but not limited to, the vending and the
solicitation of products or services, is prohibited. In addition, except as may
otherwise be permitted, the boardwalk and boat piers shall not be used for
private, commercial or business use including, but not limited to, the use of
tables, chairs, bandstands, signs, or use for social or business functions,
which in any way interferes with the public use of the boardwalk or boat piers.
   (B)   Parking. Parking for the park and to access the boardwalk from the
park grounds is allowed only in designated areas. Parking areas at the park are
reserved for park and boardwalk use only. Parking may not be reserved for
events or activities unrelated to the town. The town reserves the right to tow
vehicles in violation of this policy. Although the park is closed at dusk, the
parking areas within the park shall be open, except between the hours of 1:00
a.m. and 5:00 a.m., and individuals shall be allowed to traverse the park at
times when the park is closed but the parking area is open, provided they are
doing so for the sole purpose of leaving from or returning to a vehicle within
the parking area.
   (C)   Canoes/kayaks/stand up paddle boards and similar watercraft. Canoes,
kayaks, stand up paddle boards and similar watercraft may only be launched,
tied up or left for a period not to exceed 4 hours per day in designated areas
within the park, along the boardwalk or on the boat piers. Canoes, kayaks,
stand up paddle boards and similar watercraft left unattended are the sole
responsibility of the owner. Canoes, kayaks, stand up paddle boards and similar
watercraft may not be left within the park, along the boardwalk or on the boat
piers overnight.
   (D)   Other watercraft. Watercraft of any type, including, but not limited,
to personal watercraft, other than canoes, kayaks, stand up paddle boards and
similar watercraft, may not be launched from within the park. In addition,
watercraft of any type may not be tied off or tethered to the boardwalk or to
any feature along the shoreline of the park. The anchoring of watercraft within
100 feet of the boardwalk of the park is prohibited.
   (E)   Boat pier usage. The boat piers, located at the southern and northern
termini of the boardwalk, are intended for the mooring of motorized and non-
motorized watercraft. Watercraft utilizing the piers may only moor in
designated areas. Slips associated with the piers are reserved for watercraft
that can seat 4 or more individuals and may only be utilized for a period not
to exceed 4 hours per watercraft per day. Canoes and kayaks may be launched or
tied up to the boat piers in designated areas.
   (F)   Pets. Pets are allowed within the park on the boardwalk and on the
boat piers, and shall be on a leash in accordance with town ordinances. Pets
are prohibited from entering the water from the park along the boardwalk or on
the boat piers. Pet owners shall dispose in waste containers any waste left by
the animal.
   (G)   Wildlife. Hunting, chasing, feeding or otherwise harassing wildlife
within the park and on the boardwalk and boat piers is prohibited.
   (H)   Fishing and crabbing. Fishing and crabbing are allowed on the
boardwalk and boat piers in designated areas only. Fishing and crabbing from
the shoreline of the park are prohibited.
   (I)   Swimming. Swimming, wading, diving, or otherwise entering the water
from the shoreline of the park, the boardwalk or the boat piers, that is not
related to the launching, docking, or rescue of authorized watercraft, is
prohibited.
   (J)   Alcoholic beverages and controlled substances. The use, possession,
sale or distribution of alcoholic beverages or controlled substances is
prohibited within the park, on the boardwalk and on the boat piers.
   (K)   Smoking. The use of cigarettes, cigars, or similar products is
prohibited within the park, on the boardwalk and on the boat piers.
   (L)   Littering. Littering or dumping of waste within the park, on the
boardwalk and on the boat piers is prohibited. All waste shall be disposed of
in waste containers.
   (M)   Weddings. The park, park amenities, including, but not limited to, the
gazebo, picnic shelter and amphitheater, the boardwalk and the boat piers,
shall not be reserved for weddings. Weddings are not prohibited; however, no
portion of the park, boardwalk or boat piers shall be closed to accommodate the
event. The use of additional equipment, including, but not limited to, chairs,
tables, tents, cooking devices, sound-amplifying devices, and the like is
strictly prohibited.
   (N)   Special events. Special events not associated with town activities are
generally prohibited. However, permission to hold a special event may be
requested in writing from the Town Manager, on forms provided by the town.
Events to be held during the period between November 1 and May 31 of each year
are preferred. The event shall be open to the general public, be free of
charge, be deemed to be for the good of the community, be sponsored by or to
benefit a not-for-profit organization, and/or be in partnership with the town.
   (O)   Children. Children under the age of 12 shall be under the supervision
of an adult who is physically present within the park, on the boardwalk and on
the boat piers.
   (P)   Fireworks. Fireworks(includes sparklers) are prohibited within the
park, on the boardwalk and on boat piers.
   (Q)   Gazebo/picnic shelter/amphitheater. The gazebo, picnic shelter and
amphitheater are available within the park on a first come-first serve basis.
Features of these amenities, such as electricity, lighting, storage areas and
dressing rooms, shall not be available for general or casual use. The use of
the gazebo, picnic shelter or amphitheater for town-sponsored events shall take
precedence over all other uses.
   (R)   Open fires/grills. Open fires, including the use of grills or cooking
devices of any kind, are prohibited within the park, on the boardwalk and on
the boat piers.
   (S)   Damage to town property. It shall be unlawful for any person to damage
town property, including, but not limited to, defacement of property with
graffiti, damaging furniture or fixtures, or damaging trees or vegetation
within the park, on the boardwalk and on the boat piers.
   (T)   Bicycles/rollerblades/skateboards. The use of bicycles, rollerblades,
skateboards and similar apparatus is prohibited on the trails and grounds,
within the park, on the boardwalk and on the boat piers.
   (U)   Motorized vehicles. Motorized vehicles of any kind, whether powered by
gasoline, diesel or other fuel source, batteries, or similar devices, are
allowed only in designated parking areas within the park, and are prohibited
within other areas of the park, on the boardwalk and on the boat piers. This
prohibition shall not apply to town employees or contractors working on behalf
of the town, or to persons who are required to use a motorized vehicle due to a
disability.
   (V)   Electric personal assistive devices (“EPAMDs”). Electric personal
assistive mobility devices (“EPAMDs”) (including, but not limited, to Segways
and similar devices as defined in G.S. § 20-4.01(7b)), are not permitted within
the Central Village Commercial Area of the town in accordance with Chapter 70
of the Town Code of Ordinances. This area includes the park, boardwalk, and
boat piers. This prohibition shall not apply to town employees or contractors
working on behalf of the town, or to persons who are required to use a
motorized vehicle due to a disability.
   (W)   Radios/musical instruments. The playing of radios and musical
instruments is allowed within the park, on the boardwalk and on the boat piers,
provided that the volume of such devices does not affect the peaceful repose of
others.
   (X)   Tents, umbrellas. The erection of tents, umbrellas, or similar
products is prohibited within the park.
   (Y)   Footwear required. For the safety of the individuals using the park,
boardwalk and boat piers, the use of footwear is required.
   (Z)   Accessing private property from boardwalk prohibited. Unless otherwise
permitted, it shall be unlawful to access private property from the boardwalk.
(Ord. 07-07, passed 5-2-2007; Am. Ord. 09-01, passed 2-4-2009; Am. Ord. 10-09,
passed 7-7-2010; Am. Ord. 11-03, passed 4-6-2011; Am. Ord. 14-04, passed 9-3-
2014; Am. Ord. 19-08, passed 11-6-2019) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 LAWS OF GENERAL APPLICABILITY.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the enforcement of other laws, rules
or regulations applicable to a specific offense.
(Ord. 07-07, passed 5-2-2007; Am. Ord. 10-09, passed 7-7-2010; Am. Ord. 11-03,
passed 4-6-2011)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates the provisions contained within this chapter shall
be subject to a civil penalty of $250.
(Ord. 07-07, passed 5-2-2007; Am. Ord. 10-09, passed 7-7-2010; Am. Ord. 11-03,
passed 4-6-2011; Am. Ord. 19-06, passed 11-6-2019)
CHAPTER 94: BEACH AND DUNE MANAGEMENT
Section
   
94.01   Purpose
   
94.02   Conflicts with state rules
   
94.03   Territorial applicability
   
94.04   Definitions
   
94.05   Beach and dune protection
   
94.06   Beach driving regulations
   
94.07   Protection of wildlife and marine life
   
94.08   Protection of cultural resources
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to preserve and enhance the natural function,
aesthetic value, and protective qualities of the town’s barrier beach and dune
system. This chapter hereby establishes regulations to permit reasonable uses
and intrusions into the dune system and the ocean beach, consistent with sound
beach and dune conservation practices. This chapter also restricts or prohibits
activities which are known to be detrimental to the structural integrity of the
primary and frontal dunes, the profile of the ocean beach, and the biological
and cultural resources that are present in these areas. Furthermore, this
chapter establishes regulations to improve the safety of the general public on
the town’s ocean beaches and facilitates ocean rescue and emergency response
operations.
(Ord. 09-04, passed 4-8-2009)
§ 94.02 CONFLICTS WITH STATE RULES.
   If any provision of this chapter is in conflict with a rule adopted by the
State Coastal Resources Commission dealing with oceanfront erosion control or
regulation of development as contained in 15A NCAC 07H.300, then the rule or
regulation shall control and apply in lieu of the provision of this chapter in
conflict therewith.
(Ord. 09-04, passed 4-8-2009)
§ 94.03 TERRITORIAL APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall apply to the primary and frontal dune systems as defined
in §
94.04 and to the ocean beaches located within the corporate limits of the town.
(Ord. 09-04, passed 4-8-2009)
§ 94.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADVERSE IMPACT. Anything that would destroy, harm, impair, diminish, or
degrade the value or integrity of a sand dune for storm protection or wildlife
habitat.
   BARRIER DUNE. The easternmost sand dune or system of sand dunes which lies
just west of the mean high water mark of the Atlantic Ocean and forms a
protective barrier from the actions of the Atlantic Ocean.
   BEACH. The lands consisting of unconsolidated soil materials that extend for
a distance of 100 yards east of the mean low water mark into the Atlantic Ocean
landward to a point where either the growth of stable natural vegetation occurs
or a distinct change in slope or elevation alters the configuration, whichever
is farther landward.
   BEACH EQUIPMENT. This may include but is not limited to, beach tents, beach
umbrellas, beach chairs, coolers, or recreation equipment.
   BEACH EQUIPMENT VENDOR SERVICE. The activity of providing setup and/or
removal of beach equipment for a fee. This may also include the rental of such
equipment however the rental of equipment is not required to be considered a
beach equipment vendor service. Equipment provided may include but is not
limited to beach tents, beach umbrellas, beach chairs, coolers, or recreation
equipment.
   BEACH TENT. A temporary, portable shelter supported by a framework of
multiple poles commonly used by individuals or groups for protection from sun
or other outdoor conditions. For the purposes of this chapter, BEACH TENT shall
include such items as cabanas, pavilions, sportsbrellas, tarps or similar
devices or any material mounted on a support. (This is not to include beach
umbrellas, which have a single supporting pole in the center of the shelter).
   BEACH UMBRELLA. A temporary, portable shelter commonly used on the beach,
consisting of a single, center pole with a shade fabric affixed to a frame that
can be lowered or raised along the pole. Commercial beach umbrellas are rented,
either directly through a beach vendor service, or indirectly as a part of a
vacation rental accommodation.
   COMMERCIAL BEACH EQUIPMENT. Equipment that is rented, either directly
through a beach equipment vendor service or indirectly as part of a vacation
rental accommodation.
   COMMERCIAL BEACH TENT. A beach tent that is rented, either directly through
a beach equipment vendor service or indirectly as part of a vacation rental
accommodation.
   COMMERCIAL BEACH UMBRELLA. A beach umbrella that is rented, either directly
through a beach equipment vendor service or indirectly as a part of a vacation
rental accommodation.
   DUNE SYSTEM, FRONTAL DUNE. The first mound of sand located landward of the
beach having sufficient vegetation, height, continuity, and configuration to
offer protective value.
   DUNE SYSTEM, PRIMARY DUNE. The first mounds of sand located landward of the
beach having an elevation equal to the mean flood level for the area plus 6
feet. The primary dune extends landward to the lowest elevation in the
depression behind the same mound of sand.
   DUNE WALKOVER ACCESS, IMPROVED. A raised walkway constructed for the purpose
of providing access to the beach from points landward of the dune system.
Improved walkover structures shall be no more than 4 feet in width for single-
family dwellings and 6 feet in width for commercial or publicly owned
structures. DUNE WALKOVER STRUCTURES shall be constructed without a roof or
walls, and shall be elevated at least 18 inches above the dune when the dune is
determined to be a frontal dune. If the walkover structure extends over a
primary dune, no elevation above the dune is required. Dune elevations may be
determined through use of current contour data or surveyed elevations.
   DUNE WALKOVER ACCESS, UNIMPROVED. A sand walkway or path used for the
purposes of providing pedestrian access to the beach which is no more than 6
feet in width and located in an area where there is no escarpment present
between the dune structure and the beach.
   ESCARPMENT. The vertical drop or steep slope in the beach profile separating
2 comparatively level or more gentle sloping surfaces caused from high tide or
storm tide erosion. ESCARPMENTS for the purposes of this chapter shall only be
determined to exist in areas where the height and slope of the escarpment would
preclude reasonable pedestrian access to the beach without causing an adverse
impact to the dune structure.
   GUY LINE. A grounding wire, rope, cord, tether, string, or strap that is
used to secure a beach tent, beach umbrella, or tarp to the ground.
   INVASIVE EXOTIC SPECIES. A non-native or invasive vegetation, which, if left
undisturbed by manmade forces, will create a landscape comprised of a singular
plant species.
   SHIPWRECK. The remains of a ship, in whole or in part, which was wrecked or
destroyed upon the water and subsequently abandoned, to which title voluntarily
has been given up by the owner with the intent of never claiming a right or
interest in the future and without vesting ownership in any other person, that
is discovered or identified by some archaeological endeavor, natural exposure,
or documented archeological site number.
   TOE OF SLOPE. That point between the beach and the dune system where the
uniform line of slope from the ocean toward the barrier dune begins an abrupt
change upward and becomes the slope of the barrier dune.
   VACATION RENTAL ACCOMMODATION or VACATION RENTAL. A vacation rental as
defined in the North Carolina Vacation Rental Act.
   VEHICLE. Motor-driven or wind-powered vehicles, including fishing boats and
amphibious vehicles, but excluding sailboats used for sport, surfboards and
amphibious vehicles which are afloat and no portion of which is beached,
aground, or operating on wheels or tracks.
   VEHICULAR BEACH ACCESS POINT.
      (1)   An access for use by vehicles at a designated location on a town
street. Vehicle access is permitted at these points and at no other location.
      (2)   If the vehicular beach access point is not maintained by the town,
users must have and possess written permission from the entity that owns or
maintains the vehicular beach access point before using the vehicular beach
access point.
(Ord. 09-04, passed 4-8-2009; Am. Ord. 13-04, passed 7-17-2013; Am. Ord. 22-10,
passed 1-3-2023; Am. Ord. 23-15, passed 12-6-2023)
§ 94.05 BEACH AND DUNE PROTECTION.
   (A)   The following activities shall be considered unlawful within the dune
system:
      (1)   Walking or traversing on the dunes outside of an improved or
unimproved dune walkover access as defined in §
94.04;
      (2)   Utilizing an improved dune walkover structure that has been damaged
and officially posted by the town’s Building Inspector as an unsafe structure;
      (3)   Removing, damaging, or destroying healthy, non-invasive dune plant
species including, but not limited to, Sea Oats (Uniola paniculata), Bitter
Panicum (Panicum amarum), Seashore Elder (Iva imbricata), and American
Beachgrass (Ammophila breviligulata);
      (4)   Installation of vegetation inconsistent with sand dune systems,
such as lawn grasses or sod, or herbaceous varieties that are not commonly
known as “salt-tolerant” dune varieties or that may be determined to be
“invasive exotic species”;
      (5)   Degrading, disturbing, or compromising the integrity of the dune
structure. These prohibited activities include, but shall not be limited to:
         (a)   Digging, shelling, mining, or mechanical alteration of the dune
topography;
         (b)   Playing, sliding, climbing, or rappelling on the frontal or
primary dune or the dune escarpment; and
         (c)   Discharging water into the dune where it will cause significant
scouring or erosion or otherwise affect the integrity of the dune.
      (6)   Development activities without a valid building permit, Health
Department approval, or CAMA authorization;
      (7)   Storing objects, equipment or construction materials; and
      (8)   Littering.
   (B)   The following activities shall be considered unlawful on the beach, as
defined in §
94.04:
      (1)   Erection of a beach tent, beach umbrella or similar device that
meets any of the following conditions as determined by ocean rescue personnel:
         (a)   When, due to beach width, tide levels, crowd conditions, or
other factors, placement of beach tents, beach umbrellas or similar devices
will obstruct the passage of emergency or ocean rescue vehicles or the line of
sight from lifeguard stands or other surveillance areas.
            1.   In such instances, areas may be designated by ocean rescue
personnel where the use of beach tents, beach umbrellas or similar devices
shall be temporarily prohibited.
            2.   At any time when beach tents, beach umbrellas or similar
devices are prohibited in designated areas, an identifier shall be placed at
each end of the subject area so as to be readily visible to all person within
the area.
            3.   To allow for emergency vehicle access:
               a.   Beach tents, beach umbrellas or similar devices shall not
be placed within 15 feet of the base of the seaward toe of the primary dune.
Emergency services personnel have the right to move beach equipment as
necessary to ensure a clear path for travel and access, and a clear line of
sight for safety purposes.
               b.   Beach tents, beach umbrellas or similar devices may not be
located any closer than 10 feet from dune vegetation or a sea turtle nest.
               c.   All community beach accessway points and lifeguard stands
shall be free and clear of all obstructions.
               d.   Beach tents or commercial beach equipment may not be
located any closer than 50 feet in any direction from a lifeguard stand, or
emergency or community beach accessway. For community beach accessways, the
minimum distance shall be measured from a straight line extending from the
beach accessway structure or primary foot path extending to the waters of the
ocean.
         (b)   Beach tents or similar devices shall not be greater than 12 feet
by 12 feet in area or higher than 9 feet above the surface of the beach when
installed. No guy lines may extend beyond the 12 feet by 12 feet maximum
perimeter of a beach tent, beach umbrella or similar device.
         (c)   Beach tents or similar devices may not be tied together unless
they are placed perpendicular to the shore. No more than 2 beach tents or
similar devices may be tied together. All other beach tents and similar devices
shall be placed no closer than 10 feet apart parallel to the shore.
         (d)   Beach tents, beach umbrellas or similar devices shall only be
permitted provided they are secured in such a fashion as to restrict
uncontrolled movement of the device. They must be secured with fasteners,
stakes, weights, or the like that will not endanger beach patrons. In no
instance shall guy lines extend beyond the perimeter of the shading device.
      (2)   Leaving unattended personal articles on the beach between the hours
of 6:30 p.m. and 6:30 a.m. These items may include, but shall not be limited
to, volleyball, badminton and tennis nets, poles, beach tents, beach umbrellas
or similar devices, chairs, cabanas, sunshades, horseshoe stakes, croquet
courses, umbrellas or any other personal property items. Unattended items left
on the beach between these hours shall be considered litter and may be subject
to removal and disposal.
      (3)   A business that rents beach equipment may not place or erect said
equipment solely for advertising purposes. Such business shall abide by all
rules and regulations pertaining to their particular license that has been
issued to them and must adhere to the installation and removal policies
outlined in §
94.04.
      (4)   Beach fires as prohibited in §
91.21.
      (5)   Substantially altering the contour or shape of the flat beach area
by excessive digging or mounding of sand whereby, in the opinion of public
safety personnel, such alteration presents a dangerous condition. Persons
responsible for altering the contour or shape of the beach to any extent shall
restore the beach to its original condition prior to leaving the area
unattended for any period of time.
      (6)   Littering.
      (7)   Violations of §
90.06 related to mandatory removal of dog feces on the ocean beach.
   (C)   Beach equipment vendor services shall comply with the following
regulations:
      (1)   Commercial beach equipment must contain vendor identification.
         (a)   Commercial beach equipment shall be limited to incidental
commercial signage. Specifically, individual beach tents, beach umbrellas,
similar devices and equipment signs shall not exceed 144 square inches in area.
There shall not be more than 2 signs on any individual piece of equipment.
         (b)   Sign area means the area of signs composed, in whole or in part,
of freestanding letters, devices or sculptured matter not mounted on a
measurable surface shall be construed to be the area of the least square,
rectangle or circle that will enclose the letters, devices and/or sculptured
matter.
         (c)   Commercial beach equipment sign age shall be submitted by the
beach equipment vendor to the Department of Community Development as part of
the annual licensing approval. In addition to the 144 square inches of sign
area allowed, beach equipment vendors may have a maximum 3-digit property
identification number not to exceed 6 inches in height on equipment. Property
identifiers shall be located on the interior or underside of any beach
equipment.
      (2)   All transactions/solicitations of business related to the operation
of the beach equipment vendor service, including tips, shall occur off the
beach, i.e., west of the dune, and shall not occur at any beach accessway.
Beach equipment shall not be placed on the beach without an advance request for
such service by the customer. Beach equipment vendors shall not place beach
equipment on the beach without an advance request for such service by the
beachgoers to be served or someone that has requested on their behalf.
      (3)   Any violation of these regulations may result in any of the
following actions:
         (a)   Removal and disposal of beach equipment (left on the beach
overnight);
         (b)   Issuance of civil penalty pursuant to §
10.99 of this code; or
         (c)   Revocation of the license. Three separate violations in one
calendar year shall result in immediate revocation of the license for the
remainder of the calendar year or a period of 9 months, whichever is greater.
If any license is revoked by the Department of Community Development, the
license holder may appeal to the Town Council by filing a notice of appeal with
the Town Clerk within 10 days of the adverse action being appealed. Appeals
shall be made on a form prescribed by the town. Appeals shall be scheduled for
a hearing at the next regular meeting of the Town Council held more than 20
days after the appeal is filed with the Town Clerk.
   (D)   Beach Vitex (Vitex rotundifolia). The plant known as Beach Vitex
(Vitex rotundifolia) is hereby found and declared to be a public nuisance due
to the significant negative impacts this plant will have upon the beaches and
dune system, nesting sea turtles, and native vegetation such as Sea Oats,
Bitter Panicum, Seashore Elder, and American Beachgrass. It shall be unlawful
for any person to plant or cause to be planted Beach Vitex (Vitex rotundifolia)
on any property located within the corporate limits of the town.
   (E)   Exemptions. The town hereby encourages responsible dune management
activities including proper construction and maintenance of improved dune
walkover structures, the use of shared and/or community beach accesses, the
proper installation and maintenance of sand fencing, and planting of native,
salt tolerant dune vegetation. Therefore, this section shall not apply to the
following activities:
      (1)   Development activities authorized or permitted by the Town, the
Dare County Department of Environmental Health, or CAMA;
      (2)   Dune or property maintenance activities including planting or
fertilization of vegetation, sand fence installation, minor dune repairs, and
removal of litter or debris;
      (3)   Activities within the developed portion of the dune system;
      (4)   Federal, state, and local officials engaged in official regulatory
activities; and
      (5)   Persons engaged in research, conservation, or extension activities
as authorized by the Town Manager.
(Ord. 09-04, passed 4-8-2009; Am. Ord. 11-02, passed 3-2-2011; Am. Ord. 13-03,
passed 4-3-2013; Am. Ord. 23-15, passed 12-6-2023) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06 BEACH DRIVING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   General regulations.
      (1)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to operate any
vehicle on the beaches of the town.
      (2)   ELIGIBLE VEHICLES mean those vehicles that are properly registered
and licensed having a four wheel drive and which shall have passed inspection
by the Department of Motor Vehicles of the state or by the equivalent
department or agency of the state in which such vehicle is licensed, if
applicable. Modified utility vehicles (“MUTV”) as described in G.S. § 20-4.01
(27) shall not be considered an eligible vehicle regardless of whether the MUTV
is registered or licensed in any state.
      (3)   Eligible vehicles may be operated on the beaches of the town
between 12:01 a.m. on December 1 until 11:59 p.m. on March 15 of each and every
year, subject to the regulations and rules of operation contained in this
chapter.
   (B)   Rules of operation. When permitted by division (A)(3) above, eligible
vehicles shall be operated on the beaches of the town in accordance with the
following rules:
      (1)   No vehicle shall be operated on the beach at a speed in excess of
15 mph;
      (2)   Eligible vehicles shall be operated on the beach only during the
period set out in division (A)(3) above;
      (3)   No vehicle shall be operated west of the toe of slope of the dune
except in going to and from the beach area at authorized vehicular beach access
points. However, nothing contained herein shall be construed to permit driving
on the barrier dunes or driving on private property without the express
permission of the owner, even though the toe of slope may be located west of
the eastern boundary line of the private property;
      (4)   Vehicles going to and from the beach area shall use as an entrance
and exit only the vehicular beach access points designated by the town;
      (5)   Vehicles may be operated on the beach only from one-half hour prior
to sunrise to one-half hour following sunset daily;
      (6)   Pedestrians, swimmers, and bathers shall have the right-of-way over
all vehicles being operated on the beach;
      (7)   Any person who drives any vehicle upon the beach area carelessly
and heedlessly in willful or wanton disregard of the rights or safety of others
or who drives any vehicle upon the beach without due caution and circumspection
and at a speed or in a manner so as to endanger or be likely to endanger any
person or property shall be guilty of reckless driving;
      (8)   Any person who is under the influence of intoxicating liquor or
other drug or who has a blood alcohol level of 0.08% or more by weight, who
drives on the beach area or going to and from the beach, shall be guilty of
driving while under the influence of intoxicating liquor or other drug;
      (9)   Any operator of any vehicle on the beach area or going to and from
the beach must have a current and valid motor vehicle operator’s license issued
by the state of his or her residence.
   (C)   Exceptions.
      (1)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to municipal
employees, municipal vehicles, or emergency vehicles or the drivers thereof,
which may be required to enter upon the beach in the performance of their
duties nor shall this division apply to a governmental agency, its employees,
agents, contractors, and subcontractors and their vehicles when engaged in
beach restoration or protection work or scientific research.
      (2)   The date and time limitation provided in division (A)(3) above
shall not apply to commercial fishermen holding a valid state commercial
fishermen’s license when engaged in commercial fishing activities.
      (3)   The Town Manager shall have the authority to close any portion of
the beach or the entire beach at the times and places where extensive beach
erosion occurs. This authority may be exercised by the Town Manager when, as a
result of inspections by the Town Manager or the town employees subject to the
Town Manager’s authority, it is determined that the width of the beach between
the toe of the slope of the dune and the area affected by ocean wash and waves
is such that driving would either be dangerous or increase the effects of
erosion, or the beach is not sufficiently wide or stable to support vehicular
traffic.
      (4)   At any time that the ocean wave wash is less than 40 feet eastward
of the toe of the slope, that portion of the beach shall be closed. The closure
area shall extend to the next beach access point in each direction. Any person
operating a vehicle on the beach in a closed area shall be subject to the
penalties provided in this chapter.
      (5)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to persons engaged
in research, conservation, or extension activities as authorized by the Town
Manager.
(Ord. 09-04, passed 4-8-2009; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 5-1-2023) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.07 PROTECTION OF WILDLIFE AND MARINE LIFE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully harm, harass, or otherwise
disturb any sea turtles, sea turtle nests or eggs; or beached or stranded
whales, dolphins, seals, sharks, or other wildlife or marine life. Violations
shall be reported immediately to the town.
(Ord. 09-04, passed 4-8-2009) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.08 PROTECTION OF CULTURAL RESOURCES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to disturb, destroy, or remove in whole or in
part any exposed or unburied shipwreck.
   (B)   Any authority to disturb, collect, or remove such artifacts shall be
obtained in writing from the North Carolina Office of State Archeology (G.S.
Ch. 121, Art. 3; Abandoned Shipwreck Act of 1987 [P.L. 100-298]).
(Ord. 09-04, passed 4-8-2009) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
    Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to a
civil penalty in the amount of $50 per violation. The person cited for the
violation must pay the civil penalty within five day of being cited for the
violation. In the event that the person cited for the violation does not pay
the civil penalty within the prescribed time, the town may bring a civil action
to recover the penalty and the associated court costs.
(Ord. 09-04, passed 4-8-2009; Am. Ord. 19-06, passed 11-6-2019)
CHAPTER 95: SPECIAL EVENTS
Section
   
95.01   Purpose
   
95.02   Scope of applicability
   
95.03   Permits required
   
95.04   Permit application
   
95.05   Permitting standards
   
95.06   Permit fee
   
95.07   Duration and frequency of permits
   
95.08   Issuance of permit not grounds for other violations/inspections
   
95.09   Denial/appeals
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 PURPOSE.
   Recognizing that special events enhance the quality of life for residents
and visitors alike, and to provide substantial economic benefits related to
tourism development, it is the purpose of this chapter to establish a
structured process for permitting outdoor special events that occupy, impact or
consume public resources as a result of the congregation of people. This
chapter is intended to ensure that the town will have adequate advance notice
of a proposed special event and that the organizers of the event shall be
required to plan for the event to ensure that use of town services, such as
security, sanitation and traffic control, are properly coordinated. This
chapter is also intended to ensure that the health, safety, and welfare of
event attendees is maintained for the duration of the event by planning for
proper occupancy and life safety at event facilities, safe pedestrian and
vehicular egress to and within the event facility, sufficient restroom
facilities, and disposal of solid waste and recyclable materials. Lastly, given
the close proximity of residential and commercial areas within the town, this
chapter is designed to regulate the frequency, duration, intensity, time, place
and manner in which events are held to promote the compatibility between land
uses within the town.
(Ord. 12-04, passed 7-5-2012)
§ 95.02 SCOPE OF APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   This section shall apply to performances and events, fairs, festivals,
musical concerts, sporting events, contests, promotional events or other types
of performances or events on public or private lands that:
      (1)   Represent a use or uses of land, buildings and structures not
intended to be of a permanent nature or duration;
      (2)   Are intended to or likely to attract substantial crowds,
participants and/or spectators;
      (3)   Are advertised and/or open to the general public; and
      (4)   Are unlike the customary or usual activities generally associated
with the principal use of the property where the performance or event is to be
located.
   (B)   This chapter shall not apply to single-family dwellings, nor to
activities within a permanent facility specifically approved and permitted for
the proposed activity. This chapter shall also not apply to town sponsored
events.
(Ord. 12-04, passed 7-5-2012)
§ 95.03 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person may hold, commence, or advertise a special event which is
expected by the sponsors thereof to draw a crowd of more than 100 participants
and/or spectators until such time as a permit is applied for and issued in
accordance with this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Any applicant who desires to sponsor a special event is
encouraged to submit a complete application for a special event permit,
including a site plan depicting existing facilities and proposed temporary
facilities and activities, as soon as possible prior to the scheduled start of
the event but shall submit such application at least 60 days prior to the
scheduled start of the event.
      (2)   In the event such aforementioned determination is made, application
approval preference shall be granted to applicants based on the date the
application was accepted by the town.
   (C)   The town shall review the application for completeness and notify the
applicant of any incomplete items within five working days of the receipt of
the application. The town shall approve, approve with modifications or
conditions, or deny the application within ten working days of receipt of a
complete application. The Town Manager may deny the issuance of a special event
permit to an applicant when, among other things, the application contains a
misrepresentation, false or misleading statement, evasion or suppression of a
material fact, does not comply with all other applicable town ordinances, or
when the event for which a permit is sought is unlawful or constitutes a public
nuisance. A decision of the Town Manager to deny an application under this
division shall be subject to appeal to the Town Council as provided in §
95.09.
(Ord. 12-04, passed 7-5-2012) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.04 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   A permit application for special events regulated under this chapter shall
contain the following information:
   (A)   The name and address of the applicant, person, group or organization
conducting the event;
   (B)   The name and contact information for the event coordinator or person
who is responsible for planning the event as well as the name and contact
information for the primary responsible party who will be on-site for the
duration of the event;
   (C)   The proposed date(s), time(s), and duration of the event;
   (D)   A detailed map depicting the area where the event will occur, such
area to include that required for parking, the performance or event itself,
concession areas, tents, vendors locations, pedestrian and vehicular egress
areas, major congregation points, restrooms that will be available to event
participants, and any other related activities;
   (E)   An estimate of the anticipated attendance of participants, spectators,
volunteers, and employees;
   (F)   In summary format, the application shall include a narrative
describing the general plans of the applicant and sponsor concerning the
following matters:
      (1)   Crowd control procedures;
      (2)   Traffic and parking control;
      (3)   The impact of the performance or event on existing parking areas,
streets, highways and the burden placed upon public agencies for traffic and
crowd security and control;
      (4)   Plans for any music or outdoor amplified sound including the
location and duration;
      (5)   The effects of such performance or event on fire control and fire
prevention, including safety precautions;
      (6)   Provisions for emergency medical services and first aid;
      (7)   Provisions for collection and disposal of solid wastes, including
trash and garbage and sanitary provisions; and
      (8)   Provisions for returning the site to its pre-event conditions
including, but not limited to, the removal of all debris and trash immediately
after the event;
   (G)   The number and types of concessions as well as approval by the Dare
County Health Department, if required;
   (H)   The size and location of all temporary signage; and
   (I)   The signature of the property owner or authorized agent acting on
behalf of the property owner.
(Ord. 12-04, passed 7-5-2012)
§ 95.05 PERMITTING STANDARDS.
   (A)   Security and safety.
      (1)   In consultation with the Town of Duck Police Department, the
applicant shall develop and submit for approval a plan to address crowd control
during the event. A minimum of two paid security/law enforcement officers to
monitor crowd control shall be provided for events anticipated to generate
between 500 and 1,000 persons and for every anticipated 1,000 persons
thereafter. The Town of Duck Police shall have the authority to determine the
anticipated number of persons in attendance. Additionally, the Town of Duck
Police Department may require that law enforcement be provided to monitor crowd
control during the event.
      (2)   In consultation with the Town of Duck Fire Marshal and Building
Inspector, the applicant shall develop and submit for approval a plan to
address all fire and life safety concerns and the provisions of the Standard
Fire Prevention Code.
   (B)   Traffic circulation and parking.
      (1)   The applicant shall develop and submit for approval an adequate
plan for traffic circulation and control, including provisions for emergency
vehicle access before, during and after the event, for each day of the event.
The adequacy of the plan shall be determined by the Town of Duck Fire and
Police Departments. The Town of Duck Police Department shall have the authority
to determine whether law enforcement personnel are needed to regulate traffic
associated with the event.
      (2)   A plan to adequately address anticipated parking demands shall be
developed and submitted for approval. Parking along the shoulder of NC 12 or on
the Duck Trail is prohibited. Vehicles shall not be parked in any manner that
would create a traffic hazard as determined by the Town of Duck Police
Department.
   (C)   Toilet facilities. Adequate toilet facilities shall be provided. A
minimum of ten toilet facilities shall be provided or available to serve an
anticipated attendance of 500 people. In addition, two toilet facilities shall
be provided or available for each additional 250 people anticipated to attend.
The town may approve variations from these standards based on the length of the
event, the spatial characteristics of the event, or other factors or
considerations.
   (D)   Solid waste disposal. It shall be the responsibility of the applicant
to provide for the collection of solid waste and litter. Separate containers
shall be provided for the collection of recyclable materials. All solid waste,
litter and recyclable materials shall be removed from the site within 24 hours
following the event. For multiple day events, the grounds shall be maintained
during each day of the event with no on-site accumulations which would create a
nuisance or pose a health hazard.
   (E)   Electrical hookups. All electrical wiring must be installed in
compliance with the provisions of the currently adopted National Electric Code.
   (F)   Temporary structures. 
      (1)   All tents and other temporary structures shall be erected in
compliance with the provisions of the Standard Building Code and Standard Fire
Prevention Code and shall obtain a building permit for each structure, as
applicable.
      (2)   No tent, or other temporary structure, shall be situated in such a
manner that it could create a traffic hazard.
   (G)   Site conditions. Sites shall be kept in a clean and orderly manner at
all times during the event. There shall be no permanent alteration of sites as
part of a special event.
   (H)   Noise/amplified sound. For events involving the use of amplified
sound, hours of operation shall not begin before 10:00 a.m. nor extend beyond
10:00 p.m.
(Ord. 12-04, passed 7-5-2012) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.06 PERMIT FEE.
   A fee of $100 shall be required for each special event permit. The Town
Manager may waive such fee for an event which is solely sponsored and operated
by, or in which the entire proceeds accrue to, an entity which is exempt from
federal income taxation under section 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986. No such waiver shall be granted where a for-profit entity is involved in
organizing or operating an event.
(Ord. 12-04, passed 7-5-2012)
§ 95.07 DURATION AND FREQUENCY OF PERMITS.
   A special event permit shall be valid for the duration of the function as
listed on the permit application. In no case shall the duration of each
function exceed three days. Special event permits are limited to seven permits
per property per calendar year. From the period between June 1 and September 1,
there shall be at least 30 days between each special event.
(Ord. 12-04, passed 7-5-2012)
§ 95.08 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT NOT GROUNDS FOR OTHER VIOLATIONS/INSPECTIONS.
   The issuance of a permit under this chapter shall not relieve the applicant
from complying with all other provisions of the town code which are applicable
to the special event. The applicant shall be responsible for taking all steps
necessary to comply with all town ordinances. The town may inspect the site
prior to, during or after the performance or event to verify compliance with
this chapter, the issued permit and all applicable town regulations. Failure to
make provisions for complying with this chapter shall be grounds for revocation
of the permit. Issuance of this permit shall not relieve the applicant from the
requirements of any other applicable state or federal law or regulation.
(Ord. 12-04, passed 7-5-2012)
§ 95.09 DENIAL/APPEALS.
   (A)   If the Town Manager denies such permit, or subsequently revokes the
permit, the applicant shall have seven days in which to appeal such denial or
revocation to the Town Council. Such appeal shall be in writing, stating the
grounds therefor and shall be addressed to the Mayor of the town with a copy to
the Town Manager. The Town Council shall hear the appeal at the next regularly
scheduled meeting or regular adjourned session, whichever occurs first.
   (B)   The decision of the Town Council shall be final.
(Ord. 12-04, passed 7-5-2012)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violations of this chapter, which are determined by the Town Manager
or his or her designee to constitute a public health and safety hazard, shall
be grounds for revocation of the special events permit. Upon such revocation,
all activities associated with the event shall be immediately terminated.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to the civil penalty set forth
in §
10.99.
   (C)   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be subject
to a civil penalty in the amount of $250 per violation. The person cited for
the violation must pay the civil penalty within five days of being cited for
the violation. In the event that the person cited for the violation does not
pay the civil penalty within the prescribed time, the town may bring a civil
action to recover the penalty and the associated court costs.
(Ord. 12-04, passed 7-5-2012; Am. Ord. 19-06, passed 11-6-2019; Am. Ord. 19-06,
passed 11-6-2019)
CHAPTER 96: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
   
96.01   Purpose
   
96.02   Definitions
   
96.03   Fire Prevention Code adopted
   
96.04   Fires
   
96.05   Life safety
   
96.06   Automatic protection systems
   
96.07   Mutual aid
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to safeguard life, health, property, and
public welfare by regulating a variety of activities including safe burning
practices, fire hydrant access, storage of hazardous materials, property access
and maintenance, adequate alarm systems and mutual aid agreements.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 7-1-2020)
§ 96.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM SYSTEM BUSINESS. Any person properly licensed by the North Carolina
Alarm Systems Licensing Board who sells or leases and installs, services or
maintains automatic protection devices, signaling devices or automatic
protection systems which transmit alarms upon receipt of a stimulus from a
detection apparatus.
   AUTOMATIC PROTECTION SYSTEM. Any mechanical or electrically operated
installation in or for commercial or residential premises consisting of an
automatic protection device or devices designed to monitor and/or detect fire,
unauthorized intrusion, or an emergency situation, and/or signaling device
which detects emergency situations and transmits an alarm by any means.
   AUTOMATIC PROTECTION SYSTEM USER. Any person on whose premises an alarm
system is installed.
   BONFIRE. An outdoor fire having a total fuel area of more than 3 feet in
diameter and 2 feet or more in height.
   BUSINESS UNIT. A building or structure or any portion thereof used for the
transaction of business or the rendering or receiving of professional services,
including offices.
   CODE OFFICIAL. Individual(s) authorized by the Town Manager who hold valid
certificates issued by the North Carolina Code Officials Qualification Board.
   CONTAINED FIRE. An outdoor fire where the fuel being burned is contained in
a fireproof container such as an incinerator, burn barrel, outdoor fireplace or
barbeque grill.
   DWELLING UNIT. One or more habitable rooms arranged for the use of one or
more individuals living together as a single housekeeping unit, with cooking,
living, sanitary and sleeping facilities.
   EMERGENCY SITUATION. A fire, unauthorized intrusion, criminal activity,
automobile accident, medical emergency, hurricane evacuation, or similar
emergency situation requiring prompt, official response to protect or assist
individuals or property.
   FALSE ALARM.
      (1)   A visual and/or audible alarm transmitted by a signaling device
which indicates the existence of an emergency situation when in fact no like
emergency situation exists; or a visual and/or audible alarm transmitted by a
signaling device which is not a supervisory function of that device.
      (2)   FALSE ALARMS include negligently or accidentally activated alarms;
alarms which are the result of faulty, malfunctioning or improperly installed
or maintained equipment; alarms which are purposely activated to summon the
police or fire in non-emergency situations; and alarms for which the actual
cause is not determined.
   FIRE CHIEF. The chief officer of the Fire Department authorized by the Town
Manager, or a duly authorized representative.
   FIRE PREVENTION CODE. The North Carolina Fire Prevention Code, current
edition, adopted by the North Carolina Building Code Council, as amended from
time to time.
   FIREWORKS AND PYROTECHNICS DISPLAYS. Any device, used customarily for
entertainment or celebratory displays, containing explosive or flammable
materials or compounds which explode, rise into the air or travel laterally,
fires projectiles, discharges sparks into the air, or transports open flames.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Class I through Class III liquids as defined in the
N.C. Fire Prevention Code.
   KNOX BOX. A small, wall-mounted safe that holds building keys for fire,
police, and emergency services departments to retrieve in emergency situations.
The Fire Department holds master keys to all boxes in their response area so
that they can quickly enter a building without having to force entry.
   OCEAN BEACH. That land between the mean low ocean water mark and the eastern
toe of the primary dune (the dune closest to the ocean).
   OPEN BURNING. The burning of materials wherein products of combustion are
emitted directly into the ambient air without passing through a stack or
chimney from an enclosed chamber. OPEN BURNING does not include road flares,
smudge pots and similar devices associated with safety.
   PIT FIRE. Any fire started or set for the purpose of outside cooking,
picnics or any recreational purpose, including but not limited to, beach fires,
wiener roasts, marshmallow roasts and camping fires; provided, however, that
contained fires are excluded from the provisions of this section.
   RECREATIONAL FIRE. Any outdoor fire burning materials other than rubbish or
yard debris where the fuel being burned is not contained in an incinerator,
burn barrel, outdoor fireplace, barbeque grill or barbeque pit and has a total
fuel area of less than 3 feet or less than 2 feet in height.
   SIGNALING DEVICE. An electrically operated instrument which automatically
transmits an alarm over a regular telephone line, cellular telephone line, or
internet network, or produces a visual or audible signal, upon detection of a
fire, unauthorized intrusion or other emergency situation.
   SKY LANTERN. Miniature, unmanned hot air balloon which is launched into the
atmosphere customarily to celebrate weddings and other special events. SKY
LANTERNS rely on an open flame to heat the air inside a balloon causing it to
lift into the atmosphere.
   SOUND BEACH. The land between the mean low water mark and the private
property line.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 7-1-2020; Am. Ord. 25-02, passed 4-2-2025)
§ 96.03 FIRE PREVENTION CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   Adoption. Except as hereinafter amended, the Fire Prevention Code,
current edition, adopted by the North Carolina Building Code Council, is hereby
adopted and made applicable as the Fire Prevention Code of the Town of Duck. A
copy of the Fire Prevention Code shall be maintained in the office of the Fire
Department and town administrative offices. The specific provisions of the Fire
Prevention Code are hereby incorporated into this section as fully as if set
out herein verbatim.
      (1)   The listed standards and publications which comprise a part of the
Fire Prevention Code, as periodically revised and updated, shall be applicable
and enforced within the town.
      (2)   Amendments to the Fire Prevention Code, which are adopted and
published by the North Carolina Building Code Council, shall be effective on
the date prescribed by the North Carolina Building Code Council.
      (3)   The North Carolina Building Code volume entitled Administration and
Enforcement Requirements is hereby referenced for the administration of the
Fire Prevention Code, current edition, for periodic inspection of any building
altered, repaired or rehabilitated in accordance with the existing building
code.
      (4)   The adoption of the Fire Prevention Code, current edition, includes
adoption of any appendices contained therein.
   (B)   Applicability. The provisions of the Fire Prevention Code shall apply
to all buildings, structures, premises, and conditions that pose danger of
fires, explosions, or related hazards within the town. The provisions of this
code shall apply equally to existing as well as new buildings, structures,
premises, and conditions except that existing buildings, structures, premises,
and conditions which complied with the minimum safety standards of the code in
effect at the time of construction or installation and have been properly
maintained shall be deemed as complying with this code. Only those violations
to the technical provisions of the code which create an imminent safety to life
hazard and/or may create delays in the exiting of the building’s occupants are
required to be corrected. When the present building code requires certain
safety to life requirements for existing buildings, those requirements shall
apply.
   (C)   Enforcement. The code official, as authorized by the town, shall be
the officer charged with the administration and enforcement of the Fire
Prevention Code. All persons empowered with the administration and enforcement
of the Fire Prevention Code shall possess an appropriate valid certificate
issued by the state code officials qualification board.
   (D)   Fire inspections.
      (1)   Inspection of premises. The code official has the right at all
reasonable hours, for the purpose of examination, to enter into and upon all
buildings and premises with occupancies as authorized in the Fire Prevention
Code.
         (a)   When the code official shall find in any building or upon any
premise combustible material or conditions dangerous to the safety of such
buildings and premises, the code official shall order the same to be removed or
remedied, and this order shall be complied with by the owner or occupant of
such buildings or premises.
         (b)   Any application for, or acceptance of, any permit requested or
issued pursuant to this fire code constitutes agreement and consent by the
person making the application and accepting the permit to allow the code
official to enter the premises at any reasonable time to conduct such
inspections.
      (2)   Warrants for inspections. Warrants to carry out inspections shall
be obtained, issued and carried out as specified in G.S. § 15-27.2.
      (3)   Schedule for inspections. The code official will conduct periodic
inspections of all structures which may pose danger of fire, explosion, or
related hazards. Such inspections will be composed of, but not limited to,
prevention, detection, evacuation, fire containment and extinguishing systems.
Inspections will be conducted at a minimum as outlined in Section 106 of the
Fire Prevention Code.
      (4)   Exception. One-and two-family dwellings are not subject to the
inspection requirements under §
96.03(D).
   (E)   Fire investigations. The code official is authorized to investigate
the cause, origin and circumstances of every fire occurring in the town in
which property has been destroyed or damaged and shall specifically make
investigation whether the fire was the result of carelessness or design. The
code official shall comply with the procedures of investigating and reporting
fires as detailed in the General Statutes and may request assistance from other
code officials or investigators as deemed necessary.
   (F)   Abatement. The code official shall have the authority to summarily
abate any condition that is in violation of any provision of this code and that
presents immediate fire hazard to life or property.
   (G)   Appeals. Unless otherwise provided by law, appeals from any order,
decision or determination by a member of the inspection department pertaining
to the North Carolina State Building Code or the Fire Prevention Code or other
state building laws shall be taken to the commissioner of insurance or his or
her designee or other official specified in G.S. § 143-139, by filing a written
notice with the commissioner of insurance and the inspections department within
ten days after the order, decision or determination. Further appeals may be
taken to the N.C. Building Code Council or the courts as provided by law (G.S.
§ 160A-434). A copy of the appeal shall be furnished to each party.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 7-1-2020) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.04 FIRES.
   (A)   Prohibited fires.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to build or set a bonfire, pit
fire, recreational fire or conduct open burning.
      (2)   Beach fires. It shall be unlawful for any person to start or set a
fire of any kind on the ocean or sound beaches.
   (B)   Allowed fires. The following activities involving contained burning
shall be allowed provided all fire safety precautions are observed, the burning
is conducted under responsible supervision, as specified below, and the
activities are not detrimental to the community:
      (1)   Fires built or set by the Fire Department for the training of its
personnel.
      (2)   Fires built or set in emergency situations, as designated in
writing by the Town Manager to dispose of combustible materials that cannot
otherwise be reasonably removed.
      (3)   Burns conducted by the N.C. Forest Service or U.S. Fish and
Wildlife Service for hazard mitigation purposes.
      (4)   A contained fire is allowable under the following conditions
specified below:
         (a)   The occupant of a permanent dwelling may build or set a
contained fire.
         (b)   No fire of any type shall be built or set on unimproved property
(any property where a permanent dwelling or business unit does not exist).
         (c)   An outdoor fireplace or barbeque grill may be used in accordance
with the manufacturer's instructions but not within 10 feet of a structure or
combustible material.
         (d)   The occupant of a permanent dwelling may set a contained fire to
burn small amounts of refuse, tree branches, or brush using a fireproof
container such as a burn barrel, provided the fire is not located within 25
feet of a structure or combustible material.
         (e)   Contained fires used to burn small amounts of refuse, tree
branches, and brush shall only be allowed only between the hours of 8:00 a.m.
and 6:00 p.m.
         (f)   All fires of the type described in this section must be
monitored by a competent person 16 years of age or older who must remain in
attendance at the fire until it is completely extinguished.
         (g)   An extinguishing agent (i.e., fire extinguisher) or water source
sufficient to extinguish the fire shall be readily available within 25 feel of
the contained fire.
         (h)   Upon the issuance of a "Red Flag" warning by the National
Weather Service, or upon the order of the Fire Chief all fires will be
prohibited.
   (C)   Prohibited items.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn any materials that
produce heavy dense smoke such as that generated by the burning of automobile
tires, inner tubes, tar paper, asphalt, shingles, or by the burning of
synthetic materials that produce irritating and/or hazardous fumes.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, it shall be unlawful
for any person to use, ignite or explode any firework, pyrotechnic display, or
sky lantern as defined in this section. These provisions shall not be
applicable to town sponsored events or signal flares for emergency use.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 7-1-2020; Am. Ord. 25-02, passed 4-2-2025) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.05 LIFE SAFETY.
   (A)   Fire hydrants. No person shall erect, construct, provide, put in place
and maintain a driveway for access from any street or public highway in the
town to any lot or parcel of land in the town, to be used for any purpose, the
nearest edge of which is within 15 feet of a fire hydrant, without first
providing and putting in place and maintaining at least three six inch round or
square posts, of either wood, steel or other substantial material. Such
protective posts shall be buried at least three feet in the ground, have a
height from the ground level at least equal to that of the fire hydrant and be
placed equidistant from each other in a circle around such hydrant with a
radius of six feet. The protective posts shall be installed under the
supervision of the code official, and approval of the manner of construction
and the materials used in providing the protection posts shall constitute
compliance with this section.
   (B)   Access.
      (1)   Fire hydrants.
         (a)   Unobstructed access to fire hydrants shall be maintained at all
times.
         (b)   A three-foot area free of vegetation and other obstructions
shall be maintained around the circumference of fire hydrants at all times.
      (2)   Buildings and structures.
         (a)   To allow for safe and timely response of emergency apparatus,
all roads shall have an unobstructed width of not less than 20 feet, exclusive
of shoulders and an unobstructed vertical clearance of not less than 13 feet 6
inches.
         (b)   Consistent with the standards of
Chapter 72, motor vehicles may not stop, stand or park on any roads in a manner
that obstructs safe and timely response of emergency apparatus.
         (c)   All principal structures shall have reflective street numbers
clearly visible from the roadway.
   (C)   Hazards.
      (1)   The storage, whether temporary or permanent, of hazardous
materials, as hereinafter defined, is prohibited beneath and underneath wood
frame multifamily structures having more than one habitable level, whether or
not such hazardous materials are stored in a flameproof container, can or
canister, vehicle or any type of boat.
      (2)   The storage of common hazardous materials including items such as
gasoline, diesel fuel and other flammable petroleum products; explosive gases
including propane; natural gas and liquefied petroleum gas; and all explosives
and blasting agents is also prohibited inside any vehicle or container which
may be located beneath a wood frame multifamily structure having more than one
habitable level.
   (D)   Smoke detectors. Pursuant to statutory requirements, all rental
residential dwelling units, including hotel and motel units, shall have an
operational automatic smoke detector in each dwelling unit. A town code
official shall approve the type and location of all automatic smoke detectors.
   (E)   Fire sprinklers.
      (1)   An automatic fire sprinkler system meeting the requirements of NFPA
Standard #13 or #13R shall be required to be installed in the following
multifamily residential structures:
         (a)   In any new construction of a multifamily residential structure.
         (b)   In any multifamily residential structure undergoing additions or
renovations with costs exceeding 50% of the assessed county tax value of the
existing structure.
         (c)   In any multifamily structure damaged or destroyed where the
repair costs exceed 50% of the assessed county tax value of the existing
structure.
      (2)   Following occupancy of any multifamily residential structure
subject to this section, no person shall shut off or disable any automatic fire
sprinkler system and no owner or resident of such building shall fail to
prevent the shutting off or disabling of such a system. A sprinkler system may
be shut off in order to perform maintenance work on the system during the time
that qualified maintenance personnel are on the premises performing necessary
maintenance work. Such maintenance work shall only be conducted after notice to
and approval by the code official.
      (3)   In the event an automatic sprinkler system remains off or disabled,
the following shall occur:
         (a)   The code official shall be notified.
         (b)   A fire watch shall be initiated and a personnel log maintained
for the duration of the fire watch.
   (F)   Knox boxes. Installation of a Knox box shall be required on all newly
constructed commercial buildings and commercial buildings with renovation costs
exceeding 50% of the assessed county tax value of the existing structure. A
town code official shall approve the type and location of all Knox boxes.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 7-1-2020) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.06 AUTOMATIC PROTECTION SYSTEMS.
   (A)   False alarms.
      (1)   Responsibility. Each automatic protection system user shall be
responsible for any false alarm transmitted by an automatic protection system.
      (2)   Records. The Police Department or Fire Department shall maintain a
record of all false alarms transmitted.
      (3)   Fees.
         (a)   An automatic protection system user shall be charged a fee, as
specified in the regularly adopted fee schedule of the town, for each false
alarm in excess of one in a 30-day period transmitted by any automatic
protection system.
         (b)   The fee shall be remitted to the town by the automatic
protection system user upon receipt of a statement for the fee.
         (c)   All fees assessed against the automatic protection system user
shall be due and owing to the town. In the event legal action is necessary to
collect the service fees, the automatic protection system user shall be
required to pay the fees and any and all legal fees, attorney's fees and court
costs required to collect the monies.
      (4)   Periodic testing of automatic protection system.
         (a)   An automatic protection systems user, or their designee, may
conduct periodic testing of an automatic protection system during normal
business hours after providing the Police or Fire Department, whichever is
appropriate, a minimum of 30 minutes notice or ensure the system does not
transmit an alarm that would generate a police or fire response during the
duration of testing.
         (b)   If an automatic protection system user, or their designee, fails
to provide the Police or Fire Department, whichever is appropriate, a minimum
of 30 minutes notice prior to conducting a periodic test of an automatic
protection system, or fails to take the necessary steps to prevent initiating a
police or fire response, the activation shall be deemed a false alarm and the
automatic protection system user will be subject to a fee as set forth in §
96.06(A)(3).
   (B)   Liability.
      (1)   The town assumes no liability for any defects in the operation of
an automatic protection system or signaling device, nor for any failure or
neglect to respond appropriately upon receipt of an alarm from a like source,
nor for the failure or neglect of any person in connection with the
installation and operation of equipment, the transmission of alarm signals and
prerecorded alarm messages or the relaying of the signals and messages.
      (2)   Neither the town, the Fire Department, Police Department nor any
member thereof acting in an official capacity shall be liable for damage to any
premises caused by entry to the premises in response to an alarm generated by
an automatic protection system.
   (C)   Duties of automatic protection system users.
      (1)   Automatic protection system users shall instruct employees, tenants
or others who may have occasion to activate an alarm that automatic protection
systems are to be activated only in emergency situations to summon an immediate
police or fire response and shall instruct as to the operation of the automatic
protection system, including setting, activation, deactivation and resetting of
the system.
      (2)   The automatic system user shall be responsible for maintaining the
automatic protection system in proper working order.
      (3)   An automatic protection system user who allows the system to
continue to emit an audible signal for 30 minutes after notification of the
alarm commencing to emit, shall be subject to a fee as set forth in § 96.06(A)
(3).
      (4)   For purposes of assessing a fee, each 30-minute period that an
audible signal continues to sound after the initial 30-minute period, shall be
considered a subsequent false alarm within a 30-day period.
   (D)   Subscription charges.
      (1)   Nothing in this chapter shall preclude an alarm system business
from charging an automatic protection system user for all equipment at their
location and connection fees to the monitoring system and maintenance charges
necessitated by the installation and operation of the signaling device receiver
in the monitoring system.
      (2)   The alarm system business supplying, maintaining, and monitoring an
automatic protection system shall have the right to charge subscribers a
reasonable fee for connection to and maintenance of the system.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 7-1-2020; Am. Ord. 25-02, passed 4-2-2025) Penalty, §
96.99
§ 96.07 MUTUAL AID.
   (A)   Established. In accordance with these rules, policies and guidelines,
the Fire Chief is hereby authorized to enter into mutual assistance
arrangements with municipal, county and volunteer departments, provided that
request and authorizations shall comply with the North Carolina General
Statutes.
      (1)   The Fire Chief is hereby authorized to permit officers of the Fire
Department to work temporarily with officers of a requesting department, and
the Fire Chief may lend equipment and supplies to requesting agencies as deemed
advisable.
      (2)   When responding to a call and while working at a fire or other
emergency outside the territorial limits of the town which it normally serves,
members and employees shall have all authority, rights, privileges and
immunities including coverage under the workers’ compensation laws, as they
have when responding to a call and while working at a fire or other emergency
inside the territorial limits normally served as provided by G.S. § 160A-293
and G.S. § 58-83.1.
   (B)   Duration of agreement. The agreement entered into by and between the
town and other fire departments as provided for herein shall continue in full
force and effect until terminated in writing by either party thereto. A copy of
each agreement shall be kept on file in the Fire Chief’s office and on file
with the Town Clerk.
   (C)   Administrative control. Any employee of the Fire Department, while
engaged in any duty or activity outside the corporate limits of the town
pursuant to orders of the Fire Chief or Council, shall have all of the
jurisdiction, authority, rights, privileges and immunities, including coverage
under the worker’s compensation laws, which they have within the corporate
limits of the town.
   (D)   Authority. Each mutual assistance agreement shall be reviewed and
approved by the Town Manager and shall be effective upon its execution by the
Fire Chief and the appropriate chief of the other fire department that is a
party to the agreement.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 7-1-2020)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violations generally. Any person who shall violate or fail to comply
with any provision of this chapter or of the Fire Prevention Code, as adopted,
amended, or augmented by this chapter, or who shall violate or fail to comply
with any order made under this chapter or the North Carolina State Building
Code, or who shall build in violation of any detailed statement of
specifications or plans submitted under this chapter or the Fire Prevention
Code, or any certificate or permit issued thereunder, shall subject the
violator to civil penalties in accordance with §
10.99.
   (B)   Alarm system penalties. Violations of the provisions of §
96.06 shall be subject to the following civil penalties:
      (1)   First false alarm within a 30-day period: no penalty;
      (2)   Second false alarm within a 30-day period: $25;
      (3)   Third false alarm within a 30-day period: $50; and
      (4)   Fourth false alarm within a 30-day period: $100, plus revocation of
alarm permit.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 7-1-2020; Am. Ord. 25-02, passed 4-2-2025)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
110.   PEDDLERS AND VENDORS
   
111.   BUSINESS LICENSE AND REGISTRATION
   
112.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
   
113.   TEMPORARY ACCOMMODATIONS DURING A DECLARED EMERGENCY
CHAPTER 110: PEDDLERS AND VENDORS
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Administration and enforcement
   
110.03   Prohibited activities
   
110.04   Exempt activities and events
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ARTICLES OF MERCHANDISE. Anything of value offered for sale or solicitation
to the public by any person.
   ITINERANT VENDOR. Any person utilizing any cart, table, equipment, tent or
other apparatus designed and intended so as to not be a permanent fixture on a
lot, and which is used for the retail sale, display and/or accessory
advertising of merchandise or food.
   MOBILE VENDOR. Any person who sells ice cream, food, merchandise or other
products from a motorized or non-motorized vehicle operating anywhere within
the town.
   PEDDLER.  Any person selling, offering for sale, or soliciting orders for
goods, food or services, or distributing, disseminating or gathering
information by written or spoken word, upon the streets, sidewalks, multi-use
paths, town-owned property, town-owned parking areas, public beaches or alleys
of the town, or by going from place to place, whether by foot or by other means
of transportation.
   PEDDLING. The sale, offering for sale, or distribution of any articles of
merchandise or advertisement from house to house, person to person, or upon
personal property by any person or persons from a cart, truck, automobile, by
foot or by other device operated over and upon the streets and highways,
sidewalks, multi-use paths, town-owned property, town-owned parking areas, and
public beaches of the town.
(Ord. 12-02, passed 6-6-2012)
§ 110.02 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   The Director of Community Development or his or her designee will administer
and enforce the rules and regulations of this chapter in cooperation with the
Chief of Police or designee.
(Ord. 12-02, passed 6-6-2012)
§ 110.03 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   Except as otherwise provided for in §
110.04 below, itinerant vendors, mobile vendors, and peddlers and/or the act of
peddling shall be prohibited with the town.
(Ord. 12-02, passed 6-6-2012)
§ 110.04 EXEMPT ACTIVITIES AND EVENTS.
   The following individuals and activities are exempted from the provisions of
this chapter:
   (A)   Churches, civic organizations and nonprofit organizations that are tax
exempt under the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code are exempt for
activities involving craft fairs, flea markets and yard sales; provided that
those activities will not be held on more than 4 days in any 12-month period.
   (B)   Children under the age of 18 years who are students in a public or
private school, and who conduct door-to-door solicitations for magazine
subscriptions or donations for school activities; and
   (C)   The sale of Christmas trees and other live holiday decorations during
the holiday season, for which the itinerant vendor shall meet all licensing
standards established and required by the North Carolina General Statutes;
   (D)   Residential yard sales, provided that no residence shall conduct such
sales on more than 4 separate days during any calendar year;
   (E)   Itinerant or mobile vendors offering for sale or selling goods, food,
or merchandise at a special event for which the sponsor shall have obtained a
town permit as otherwise required by this chapter.
   (F)   Persons who distribute or disseminate religious information by written
or spoken word.
(Ord. 12-02, passed 6-6-2012; Am. Ord. 18-05, passed 5-2-2018)
CHAPTER 111: BUSINESS LICENSE AND REGISTRATION
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Construction
   
111.03   Applicability of chapter provisions
   
111.04   Levy of business license fee
   
111.05   Period of license; due date; annual license
   
111.06   Refunds
   
111.07   Application for business license
   
111.08   Reasons for refusal or revocation of license
   
111.09   Unqualified applicants; right to conference
   
111.10   Town Clerk to issue license; payment of fee a prerequisite
   
111.11   Revocation; conference
   
111.12   Record of conferences
   
111.13   Form and contents of license
   
111.14   Assignments
   
111.15   Changes in business conducted by licensee during year
   
111.16   Town Clerk to furnish duplicates
   
111.17   Providing notice to applicant or licensee
   
111.18   Responsibility of business owner to determine whether fee is due
   
111.19   Town Clerk to investigate
   
111.20   Displaying license
   
111.21   Notice of violation
   
111.22   Request for conference
   
111.23   Violation to become final if conference not requested
   
111.24   Procedures when conference held
   
111.25   Remedies
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   APPLICABLE BUSINESS. Each business within the town to which this chapter is
applicable.
   BUSINESS. Each trade, occupation, profession, business and franchise on
which a business license fee is imposed under this chapter. The North Carolina
General Assembly has authorized the town to impose a business license and fee
on businesses. PERSON as used in this chapter means any individual, company,
corporation, firm or other entity.
   BUSINESS WITHIN THE TOWN. A person maintains a business location in the
town, or if, either personally or through agents, the person solicits or
transacts business within the town; or picks up or delivers goods, or delivers
services within the town.
   CONDUCTS BUSINESS. A person, firm, corporation or other entity engages in 1
act of any business within the town as defined in this chapter.
(Ord. 23-16, passed 1-3-2024)
§ 111.02 CONSTRUCTION.
   This chapter is enacted for revenue and regulatory purposes. Therefore, it
should be construed to require payment of the maximum fee permitted under its
terms. In addition, issuances of a business license pursuant to this chapter
does not excuse a licensee from compliance with any other applicable ordinance
or statute. This chapter does not prevent the town from imposing license fees
on additional businesses, from increasing or decreasing the amount of any
license fee, or from regulating any business paying such license fee.
(Ord. 23-16, passed 1-3-2024)
§ 111.03 APPLICABILITY OF CHAPTER PROVISIONS.
   Each person who conducts any of the following businesses within the town is
subject to this chapter, except as expressly exempted herein: beach equipment
vendors.
(Ord. 23-16, passed 1-3-2024)
§ 111.04 LEVY OF BUSINESS LICENSE FEE.
   An annual business license fee as listed in the town fee schedule is hereby
levied on all applicable businesses conducted within the town. Those businesses
subject to an annual privilege fee imposed by the State of North Carolina or
otherwise exempted from local privilege license fees by state law are exempt
from the town’s business license fee.
(Ord. 23-16, passed 1-3-2024)
§ 111.05 PERIOD OF LICENSE; DUE DATE; ANNUAL LICENSE.
   Unless the section of this chapter levying the business license fee
applicable to a particular business provides otherwise, a business license
issued pursuant to this chapter is good for the 12-month period beginning April
1 and ending March 31. The business license fee is due on March 15 of each
year. However, if a person begins a business after April 1 of a year, the
business license fee for that year is due before the business operation has
begun.
(Ord. 23-16, passed 1-3-2024)
§ 111.06 REFUNDS.
   If for any reason a person discontinues their business during the year for
which a business license fee is imposed, the person is not entitled to a refund
of any fees paid.
(Ord. 23-16, passed 1-3-2024)
§ 111.07 APPLICATION FOR BUSINESS LICENSE.
   A person who conducts an applicable business in the town shall register the
business with the town before beginning the conducting of the business. A
business shall be registered by submitting a form provided by the Town Clerk
which shall provide all of the following information:
   (A)   The name of the applicant and whether the applicant is an individual,
a partnership, a corporation or some other entity.
   (B)   The nature of the business.
   (C)   Where the business is conducted.
   (D)   An address to which may be mailed notices and statements required by
this chapter.
   (E)   For any corporation or other entity registered with the North Carolina
Secretary of State, the name and address of their registered agent.
   (F)   A certificate of insurance from an insurance company, licensed to do
business in the State of North Carolina and acceptable to the town, which
confirms the existence of commercial general liability insurance coverage with
a minimum limit of $1,000,000 general aggregate, products/completed operations
aggregate, personal and advertising injury and each occurrence including
premises and operations, naming the applicant as the insured and the town as an
additional named insured on such policy. The certificate shall provide for 60
days advance notice to the town in the event of termination or cancellation of
coverage. The applicant shall submit a certificate of insurance to the town
within 10 days after the town’s issuance of the business license to the
applicant.
   (G)   A certificate of insurance from an insurance company, licensed to do
business in the State of North Carolina and acceptable to the town, which
confirms the existence of worker’s compensation insurance, valid in the state,
in the minimum amount of the statutory limit for worker’s compensation, naming
the applicant as the insured and the town as an additional insured on such
policy. The certificate shall provide for 60 days advance notice to the town in
the event of termination or cancellation of coverage. The applicant shall
submit a certificate of insurance to the town within 10 days after the town’s
issuance of the business license to the applicant.
(Ord. 23-16, passed 1-3-2024)
§ 111.08 REASONS FOR REFUSAL OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   The Town Clerk shall refuse to issue a business license or shall revoke a
business license for any of the following reasons:
   (A)   The applicant misrepresents a fact relevant to the applicant’s
qualifications for a license; or
   (B)   The applicant refuses to provide information necessary to complete the
application; or
   (C)   The applicant violates provisions of the Town Code.
(Ord. 23-16, passed 1-3-2024)
§ 111.09 UNQUALIFIED APPLICANTS; RIGHT TO CONFERENCE.
   (A)   After receipt of the completed application, if the Town Clerk believes
that a reason exists for refusing a license under §
111.08, the Town Clerk shall refuse to accept payment of the fee and shall not
issue the licenses. At the applicant’s request, the Town Clerk shall, pursuant
to §
111.17, give the applicant a written statement of the reason for refusing the
license. The applicant may, within 10 days after the day the applicant receives
this statement, request a conference to discuss the refusal. In the applicant’s
request, the applicant shall specify why the application for a license should
not be refused. The Town Clerk shall arrange the conference within a reasonable
time.
   (B)   If the Town Clerk refuses to issue a license, the applicant may
reapply for a license at any time thereafter. If the reason for which the
application was refused no longer exists and if no other reason exists for
refusing to issue a license, the Town Clerk shall issue the license pursuant to
§
111.10.
(Ord. 23-16, passed 1-3-2024)
§ 111.10 TOWN CLERK TO ISSUE LICENSE; PAYMENT OF FEE A PREREQUISITE.
   After receipt of the completed application, if the Town Clerk believes that
no reason exists for refusal of a license under §
111.08, the Town Clerk shall notify the applicant of the amount of the license
fee as listed in the town fee schedule.
(Ord. 23-16, passed 1-3-2024)
§ 111.11 REVOCATION; CONFERENCE.
   (A)   The Town Clerk shall revoke a license if a reason exists to revoke it
as set forth in §
111.08. Before the Town Clerk may revoke a license, the Town Clerk shall give
the licensee written notice of the grounds for revocation, pursuant to §
111.17. The licensee may, within 10 days after the day on which notice is
provided, request in writing a conference with the Town Clerk. The request
shall specify the reasons why the license should not be revoked. The Town Clerk
shall arrange the conference within a reasonable time.
   (B)   If the licensee fails to request a conference within 10 days after the
day on which notice is provided, the Town Clerk shall revoke the license. If
the licensee requests a conference, the Town Clerk may not make a decision on
the proposed revocation until after the conference.
   (C)   If the Town Clerk revokes a license, the former licensee may apply for
a new license at any time thereafter. If the reason for which the license was
revoked no longer exists and if no other reason for refusing to issue a
license, the Town Clerk shall issue the license pursuant to §
111.10.
(Ord. 23-16, passed 1-3-2024)
§ 111.12 RECORD OF CONFERENCES.
   The Town Clerk shall maintain for 3 years a record of each conference held
pursuant to this chapter. The record shall contain the applicant’s or
licensee’s name, the date of the conference and a brief statement of the issues
discussed and the result reached. After 3 years, the Town Clerk shall dispose
of the record pursuant to G.S. § 121-5 or any applicable replacement provision.
(Ord. 23-16, passed 1-3-2024)
§ 111.13 FORM AND CONTENTS OF LICENSE.
   A business license issued pursuant to this chapter shall show:
   (A)   The name of the person licensed;
   (B)   The place where the business is conducted (if it is to be conducted at
one place);
   (C)   The nature of the business licensed;
   (D)   The period for which the license is issued; and
   (E)   The amount of the license fee paid.
(Ord. 23-16, passed 1-3-2024)
§ 111.14 ASSIGNMENTS.
   (A)   A license issued pursuant to this chapter may be assigned if:
      (1)   A business licensed under this chapter and carried on at a fixed
place is sold as a unit to any person; and
      (2)   The purchaser is to carry on the same business at the same place.
   (B)   Such a change shall be reported to the Town Clerk within 10 days.
Otherwise, each license issued under this chapter is a personal privilege and
is not assignable.
(Ord. 23-16, passed 1-3-2024)
§ 111.15 CHANGES IN BUSINESS CONDUCTED BY LICENSEE DURING YEAR.
   A person conducting an applicable business within the town shall report a
change in their registration information to the Town Clerk within 10 days after
the change occurs. A licensee or his or her assignee shall report any change in
the information contained in the license application within 10 days after the
change occurs. If information shown on a license issued under this chapter is
affected thereby, the licensee or his or her assignee shall surrender the
license to the Town Clerk when reporting the change.
   (A)   Changes affecting amount of fee due. If there are no reasons for
revoking the license under §
111.08 and the change results in the imposition of a separate or additional
fee, the Town Clerk shall reissue a license reflecting the change upon payment
of the separate or additional fee.
   (B)   Changes not affecting amount of fee due. If there are no reasons for
revoking the license under §
111.08 and the change does not result in an imposition of a separate or
additional fee, the Town Clerk shall reissue a license reflecting the change at
no charge.
   (C)   Change requiring refusal of license. If there is reason for revoking
the license under §
111.08, the Town Clerk shall refuse to reissue a license and shall instead
begin proceedings to revoke the license pursuant to §
111.11.
(Ord. 23-16, passed 1-3-2024)
§ 111.16 TOWN CLERK TO FURNISH DUPLICATES.
   Upon satisfactory proof that a license has been lost or destroyed, the Town
Clerk shall furnish a duplicate for the fee as listed in the town fee schedule.
(Ord. 23-16, passed 1-3-2024)
§ 111.17 PROVIDING NOTICE TO APPLICANT OR LICENSEE.
   Whenever this chapter requires the Town Clerk to give a written statement or
notice to a business registered in the town, or to an applicant or a licensee,
the Town Clerk may do so in any one of 3 ways:
   (A)   By personally delivering the statement or notice to the applicant or
licensee;
   (B)   By mailing the statement or notice to the address specified for that
purpose in the license application by either (1) certified mail, return receipt
requested, or (2) commercial overnight delivery service; or
   (C)   By causing the statement or notice to be served on the applicant or
licensee in accordance with the procedures for service of process under Rule 4,
North Carolina Rules of Civil Procedure.
(Ord. 23-16, passed 1-3-2024)
§ 111.18 RESPONSIBILITY OF BUSINESS OWNER TO DETERMINE WHETHER FEE IS DUE.
   Each person has the duty to determine whether the business being conducted
is required to hold a business license under this chapter, and if so, whether
that fee has been paid for the current year.
(Ord. 23-16, passed 1-3-2024)
§ 111.19 TOWN CLERK TO INVESTIGATE.
   If the Town Clerk has reason to believe that a person is conducting an
applicable business in the town in violation of this chapter, the Town Clerk
shall conduct an investigation to determine whether the person is subject to
the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 23-16, passed 1-3-2024)
§ 111.20 DISPLAYING LICENSE.
   A licensee shall post their business license conspicuously in the place of
business licensed, and in or on the vehicle, visible from the outside of the
vehicle used for delivery. If the license has no regular place of business, the
license must be kept where it may be inspected at all times by town officials.
(Ord. 23-16, passed 1-3-2024)
§ 111.21 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   If the Town Clerk determines that a person operating an applicable business
in the town has not applied for a business license and/or paid the license fee,
either for the current license year or for a prior license year, the Town Clerk
shall give the person written notice of violation, pursuant to §
111.17. The notice of violation shall specify the total mount of fee due, the
section upon which the fee is based, the amount of fee due, and the manner and
time period in which the person may respond to the notice of violation and the
consequences to the person if the person fails to respond as specified.
(Ord. 23-16, passed 1-3-2024)
§ 111.22 REQUEST FOR CONFERENCE.
   The person may, within 10 days after the day on which notice of violation
under this chapter is served, request in writing a conference. The request
shall specify the person’s objections to the notice of violation. By way of
illustration, but not limitation, a person who receives a notice of violation
may object on the grounds that the business license for the current year has
been issued and/or the fee due has already been paid.
(Ord. 23-16, passed 1-3-2024)
§ 111.23 VIOLATION TO BECOME FINAL IF CONFERENCE NOT REQUESTED.
   If the person fails to request a conference under §
111.22, the violation becomes final and the Town Clerk shall pursue any or all
available remedies.
(Ord. 23-16, passed 1-3-2024)
§ 111.24 PROCEDURES WHEN CONFERENCE HELD.
   If the person requests a conference, the Town Clerk shall not take action on
the violation until the Town Clerk hears the person’s objections and determines
whether the violation should become final.
(Ord. 23-16, passed 1-3-2024)
§ 111.25 REMEDIES.
   (A)   The Town Clerk may use any of the following methods to enforce any
provisions of this chapter:
      (1)   License revocation as provided in §
111.11;
      (2)   Impose a civil penalty as set forth in §
10.99 of this code; and/or
      (3)   In addition to the remedies set forth in this section and in
compliance with G.S. § 160A-175(d), seek an injunction and/or other equitable
remedies against any person who conducts an applicable business in violation of
this chapter.
   (B)   Any business/privilege license invoice older than 3 years, regarding
an applicable business that the town no longer regards as active, may be
removed from the list of receivable accounts in the town’s financial statement.
At least annually, the Town Clerk will present the Town Manager with a list of
uncollectible accounts, requesting the Town Manager’s approval for a formal
write-off of such accounts. The town may use all available means to collect
these accounts to include but not be limited to the following: bank attachment
and payroll garnishment where applicable, debt set-off, and the like.
(Ord. 23-16, passed 1-3-2024)
CHAPTER 112: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
112.01   Sunday sale of alcoholic beverages
§ 112.01 SUNDAY SALE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   Pursuant to the authority granted by S.L. 2017-87 any establishment located
in the corporate limits of the town and holding an ABC permit issued pursuant
to G.S. 18B-1001 is permitted to sell beverages allowed by its permit beginning
at 10:00 a.m. on Sundays.
(Ord. 17-09, passed - - )
CHAPTER 113: TEMPORARY ACCOMMODATIONS DURING A DECLARED EMERGENCY
Section
   
113.01   Temporary provisions
§ 113.01 TEMPORARY PROVISIONS.
   In the event of an emergency declared by the Town of Duck or Dare County
pursuant to G.S. 166A-19.22, the Mayor may authorize the Town Manager or his
designee to allow for reasonable temporary accommodations in town regulations
consistent with and furthering the purposes of the emergency declaration and in
the interests of public health, safety and welfare, including the economic
prosperity of the community. Such temporary accommodations shall not extend
beyond the termination of the declaration of emergency or the end of the
circumstances under the declaration causing the need for accommodations. Such
temporary accommodations may include, but shall not be limited to amendments to
the following chapters of the Town Code:
   (A)   
Chapter 93, Parks;
   (B)   
Chapter 95, Special Events;
   (C)   
Chapter 110, Peddlers and Vendors;
   (D)   
Chapter 156, Zoning;
      (1)   Permitted uses;
      (2)   Lot coverage;
      (3)   Structure setbacks;
      (4)   Parking requirements;
      (5)   Signs.
(Ord. 20-03, passed 5-20-2020)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
Chapter
   
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY
Section
   
130.01   Disorderly conduct
   
130.02   Firearms, explosives, arrow devices and the like
   
130.03   Disturbing the peace
   
130.04   Camping
   
130.05   Unlawful to release balloons within the town
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   Any person shall be guilty of disorderly conduct who:
      (1)   Acts in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another, whereby any
person is placed in danger of safety of his or her life, limb or health;
      (2)   Acts in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another, whereby
public property or property of any other person is placed in danger of being
destroyed or damaged;
      (3)   Endangers lawful pursuits of another by acts of violence or threats
of bodily harm;
      (4)   Causes, provokes or engages in any fight, brawl or riotous conduct
so as to endanger the life, limb, health or property of another or public
property;
      (5)   Assembles or congregates with another or others and causes,
provokes or engages in any fight or brawl;
      (6)   Collects in bodies or in crowds and engages in unlawful activities;
      (7)   Assembles or congregates with another or others and engages or
attempts to engage in gaming;
      (8)   Frequents any public place and obtains money from another by an
illegal and fraudulent scheme, trick, artifice or device, or attempts to do so;
      (9)   Assembles with another or others and engages in any fraudulent
scheme, device or trick to obtain any valuable thing in any place or from any
person, or attempts to do so;
      (10)   Utters, in a public place or any place open to the public, any
obscene words or epithets;
      (11)   Frequents any place where gaming or the illegal sale or possession
of alcoholic beverages or narcotics or dangerous drugs is practiced, allowed or
tolerated;
      (12)   Uses "fighting words" directed towards any person who becomes
outraged and thus creates turmoil;
      (13)   Assembles or congregates with another or others and does bodily
harm to another;
      (14)   Interferes by acts of violence with another's pursuit of a lawful
occupation;
      (15)   Congregates with another or others in or on any public way so as
to halt the flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic and refuses to clear the
public way when ordered to do so by a peace officer or other person having
authority; or
      (16)   Damages, befouls or disturbs public property or the property of
another so as to create a hazardous, unhealthy or physically offensive
condition.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be subject
to the civil penalty set forth in § 10.99 per violation.
(Ord. 02-13, passed 5-1-2002; Am. Ord. 19-06, passed 11-6-2019)
§ 130.02 FIREARMS, EXPLOSIVES, ARROW DEVICES AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Discharge in town restricted. It shall be unlawful for any person to
fire or discharge firearms, pellet guns, explosives, incendiary devices,
radioactive devices, compressed air rifles, compressed air pistols, or similar
devices, by whatever name called, within the corporate limits of the town,
except when used in defense of person or property or pursuant to lawful
directions of law enforcement officers. As required by state law, the term
FIREARM as used in this §
130.02 is defined the same as defined in G.S. § 14-409.39(2). The restriction
on the discharge of firearms in this subsection (A) is intended to be
consistent with G.S. §§ 160A-189 and 14-409.40(f). The restriction on the
discharge of pellet guns in this div ision (A) is intended to be consistent
with G.S. § 160A-190.
   (B)   Shooting or discharge of arrows prohibited. It shall be unlawful for
any person to shoot or discharge any arrow or similar projectile within the
town's corporate limits by bow, crossbow, or similar device not defined as a
firearm under G.S. 14-409.32(2). Archery practice on private property shall be
excepted from this prohibition, provided that any arrow or similar projectile
used in the archery practice does not leave the boundaries of the private
property on which the archery practice is taking place.
   (C)   Carrying of concealed handguns in town buildings prohibited. As
authorized by G.S. § 14-415.23(a), the town shall post on buildings owned,
leased, licensed or occupied by the town and their appurtenant premises a
notice prohibiting the carrying of a concealed handgun as defined in G.S. Ch.
14, Art. 54B. The notice shall be posted in a conspicuous location near the
entrance of such town buildings and their appurtenant premises.
   (D)   Prohibition of firearms in town buildings, etc. As authorized by G.S.
§ 14-409.40(f), the possession of firearms (other than concealed handguns in
the possession of a holder of a lawfully-issued permit to carry a concealed
handgun pursuant to G.S. Ch. 14, Art. 54B; refer to division (C) above) is
prohibited in buildings owned, leased or otherwise possessed by the town, on
the grounds or parking areas of those buildings, or in public parks or
recreation areas, except nothing in this subsection shall prohibit a person
from storing a firearm within a motor vehicle while the vehicle is on these
grounds or areas.
   (E)   Exception. This §
130.02 shall not apply to police officers and other duly authorized police and
peace officers of the county, state and the United States of America, or the
armed forces of the United States of America, while in the performance of their
duties.
   (F)   Enforcement. Provisions of this Section may be enforced by the Police
Department as appropriate.
   (G)   Violations. Any person violating the provisions of this section shall
be subject to a civil penalty in the amount set forth in §
10.99 per violation. Violations of any provision of this section shall also be
a misdemeanor and punishable as provided in G.S. § 14-4. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, violation of division (E) above shall be punishable as provided in
G.S. § 14-415.21(b).
(Ord. 02-21, passed 10-2-2002; Am. Ord. 19-01, passed 2-6-2019; Am. Ord. 19-06,
passed 11-6-2019; Am. Ord. 19-08, passed 11-6-2019)
§ 130.03 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to act in a manner so as to block,
impede or disturb the orderly flow of individual or vehicular traffic.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person or group of persons to create loud and
boisterous noise or conduct, including yelling, shouting, fighting, feigning a
fight or act constituting disturbing the peace; using or causing to be used any
instrument, mechanical device or other object, including fireworks, which
creates loud, unusual or excessive noise on any street, sidewalk, public or
private driveway or parking lot or vehicular area or on the immediate premises
of any nightclub, dance hall, bar or tavern.
   (C)   The offense created by this section consists of 2 elements, the first
being the element of loitering and the second being the creation of loud,
boisterous, unusual or unnecessary noise or acts.
   (D)    Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be subject
to a civil penalty in the amount set forth in §
10.99 per violation.
(Ord. 02-13, passed 5-1-2002; Am. Ord. 19-06, passed 11-6-2019)
§ 130.04 CAMPING.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CAMPING IN THE OPEN AIR. Includes, but is not limited to, sleeping out of
doors in a tent, sleeping bag, blanket or hammock, or without any paraphernalia
other than the clothes worn on the body.
      IMMEDIATE FAMILY. Father, mother, brother, sister, son, daughter or
grandparent.
      OPEN AIR CAMPING. Any act of living, residing or sleeping at night, in
the open air or in an automobile or vehicle which does not meet the
requirements of a mobile home.
   (B)   Requirements.
      (1)   No person shall engage in the act of open air camping within the
town; except, that an owner or lessee of improved real property and his or her
immediate family and any person in the company of a member of the immediate
family may camp upon the property; provided, that sanitary facilities including
a bathroom with running potable water is available on the property for the use
of all persons engaged in open air camping as permitted by this exception.
      (2)   The total number of persons authorized shall not exceed 5.
   (C)    Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be subject
to a civil penalty in the amount set forth in §
10.99 per violation.
(Ord. 02-13, passed 5-1-2002; Am. Ord. 19-06, passed 11-6-2019)
§ 130.05 UNLAWFUL TO RELEASE BALLOONS WITHIN THE TOWN.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, nonprofit organization, or
corporation to knowingly and intentionally release, participate in the release
of, intentionally cause to be released, to litter by abandoning and not
properly disposing of all waste material, any type of balloon inflated with a
liquid, air, or gas within the town limits, any waters within the zoning
jurisdiction of the town, or the beach and/or dune areas within the town.
   (B)   The following are not violations of this section:
      (1)   Balloons released by a person on behalf of a governmental agency or
pursuant to a governmental contract for scientific or meteorological purposes.
      (2)   Hot air balloons that are recovered after launching.
      (3)   Balloons released inside a building or structure do not make their
way into the open air.
   (C)   The following definitions apply to this section:
      BALLOON. A flexible, nonporous bag made from materials such as, but not
limited to, rubber, latex, polychloroprene, mylar, or nylon fabric that can be
inflated or filled with gas or fluid, such as helium, hydrogen, nitrous oxide,
oxygen, air, or water, and then sealed at the neck of the bag. The town does
not recognize any balloon as “biodegradable or photodegradable”.
      LITTER. All waste materials resulting from the outdoor release or
abandonment of a balloon.
   (D)   Penalty for violations of this section. Any person violating the
provisions of this section shall be subject to a civil penalty in the amount of
$250 to be recovered by the town in a civil action in the nature of debt if the
offender does not pay the penalty within 10 days after having been cited for
violation of the ordinance.
(Ord. 24-01, passed 4-3-2024)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to the civil penalty set forth in §
10.99 per violation.
(Ord. 02-21, passed 10-2-2002; Am. Ord 19-06, passed 11-6-2019; Am. Ord. 20-04,
passed 7-1-2020)
TITLE XV: LAND USE
Chapter
   
150.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
   
151.   BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES
   
152.   REBUILDING AND RECONSTRUCTION; DAMAGING STORMS
   
153.   REPAIR, CLOSING OR DEMOLITION OF ABANDONED STRUCTURES
   
154.   AREAS OF ENVIRONMENTAL CONCERN
   
155.   SUBDIVISIONS
   
156.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Statutory authorization
   
150.02   Findings of fact
   
150.03   Statement of purpose
   
150.04   Objectives
   
150.05   Definitions
   
150.06   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
150.07   Basis for establishing the special flood hazard areas
   
150.08   Establishment of a local elevation standards for shaded X and X zones
   
150.09   Establishment of floodplain development permit
   
150.10   Compliance
   
150.11   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
150.12   Interpretation
   
150.13   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
150.25   Designation of Floodplain Administrator
   
150.26   Floodplain development application, permit and certification
requirements
   
150.27   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
   
150.28   Corrective procedures
   
150.29   Variance procedures
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
150.40   General standards
   
150.41   Specific standards
   
150.42   Coastal high hazard area
   
150.43   Standards for area of Shallow Flooding (Zone AO)
Legal Status Provisions
   
150.55   Effect on rights and liabilities under the existing flood damage
prevention ordinance
   
150.56   Effect upon outstanding floodplain development permits
 
   
150.99   Penalties for violation
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Legislature of the State of North Carolina has in G.S. Ch. 143, Art. 21,
Part 6; Ch. 153A, Art. 6; Ch. 160A, Art. 8; and Ch. 160D, Art. 7, 9, and 11
(Effective January 1, 2021), delegated to local governmental units the
authority to adopt regulations designed to promote the public health, safety,
and general welfare.
(Ord. 20-01, passed 5-20-2020)
§ 150.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood prone areas within the jurisdiction of the Town of Duck are
subject to periodic inundation which results in loss of life, property, health
and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services,
extraordinary public expenditures of flood protection and relief, and
impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public health,
safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of sea level
rise, increased frequency and intensity of rainfall, obstructions in
floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities, and occupancy in
flood prone areas of uses vulnerable to floods or other hazards.
(Ord. 20-01, passed 5-20-2020)
§ 150.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this ordinance to promote public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions within flood prone areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water or erosion hazards or that result in damaging increases
in erosion, flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities that
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and all other development that may
increase erosion or flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Ord. 20-01, passed 5-20-2020)
§ 150.04 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are to:
   (A)   Protect human life, safety, and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business losses and interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities (i.e. water and gas
mains, electric, telephone, cable and sewer lines, streets, and bridges) that
are located in flood prone areas;
   (F)   Minimize damage to private and public property due to flooding;
   (G)   Make flood insurance available to the community through the National
Flood Insurance Program;
   (H)   Maintain the natural and beneficial functions of floodplains;
   (I)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas;
   (J)   Ensure that potential buyers are aware that property is in a special
flood hazard area or area subject to potential flooding; and
   (K)   Mitigate flood risks in all areas of the Town of Duck by implementing
local elevation standards for all Special Flood Hazard Areas and Shaded X and X
zones.
(Ord. 20-01, passed 5-20-2020)
§ 150.05 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter
shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage
and to give this chapter it's most reasonable application.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure located on the same
parcel of property as the principal structure and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure. Garages, carports and storage
sheds are common urban accessory structures. Pole barns, hay sheds and the like
qualify as accessory structures on farms and may or may not be located on the
same parcel as the farm dwelling or shop building. For the purposes of this
chapter only, accessory structures are considered structures used for parking
and storage only.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING BUILDING). An extension or increase in the floor
area or height of a building or structure.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator's
interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated Zone AO or AH on a community's Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with base flood depths determined to be from one to
three feet. These areas are located where a clearly defined channel does not
exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate, and where
velocity flow may be evident.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. See SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA).
   ATTENDANT UTILITY. Any utility that accompanies a structure, including, but
not limited to ductwork, electrical, mechanical, plumbing, and heating and
cooling.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a one percent chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). A determination of the water surface elevations
of the base flood as published in the Flood Insurance Study. When the BFE has
not been provided in a “Special Flood Hazard Area,” it may be obtained from
engineering studies available from a Federal, state, or other source using FEMA
approved engineering methodologies. This elevation, when combined with the
"Freeboard", establishes the "Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation".
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BREAKAWAY WALL. A wall that is not part of the structural support of the
building and is intended through its design and construction to collapse under
specific lateral loading forces without causing damage to the elevated portion
of the building or the supporting foundation system.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   CHEMICAL STORAGE FACILITY. A building, portion of a building, or exterior
area adjacent to a building used for the storage of any chemical or chemically
reactive products.
   COASTAL AREA MANAGEMENT ACT (CAMA). North Carolina's Coastal Area Management
Act, this act, along with the Dredge and Fill Law and the Federal Coastal Zone
Management Act, is managed through North Carolina Department of Environmental
Quality (NCDEQ) Division of Coastal Management (DCM).
   COASTAL BARRIER RESOURCES SYSTEM (CBRS). Consists of undeveloped portions of
coastal and adjoining areas established by the Coastal Barrier Resources Act
(CoBRA) of 1982, the Coastal Barrier Improvement Act (CBIA) of 1990, and
subsequent revisions, and includes areas owned by Federal or State governments
or private conservation organizations identified as Otherwise Protected Areas
(OPA).
   COASTAL HIGH HAZARD AREA (CHHA). A special flood hazard area extending from
offshore to the inland limit of a primary frontal dune along an open coast and
any other area subject to high velocity wave action from storms or seismic
sources. The area is designated on a FIRM, or other adopted flood map as
determined in §
150.07 of this chapter, as Zone VE, or any property containing a structure or
proposed structure abutting the Atlantic Ocean to a maximum limit of the Ocean
Erodible Area (OEA) as defined by the CAMA.
   DESIGN FLOOD. See REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
   DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY. Any activity defined as development which will
necessitate a floodplain development permit. This includes buildings,
structures, and non-structural items, including (but not limited to) fill,
bulkheads, piers, pools, docks, landings, ramps, and erosion control/
stabilization measures.
   DIGITAL FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (DFIRM). The digital official map of a
community, issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), on which
both the Special Flood Hazard Areas and the risk premium zones applicable to
the community are delineated.
   DISPOSAL. As defined in G.S. 130A-290(a)(6), the discharge, deposit,
injection, dumping, spilling, leaking, or placing of any solid waste into or on
any land or water so that the solid waste or any constituent part of the solid
waste may enter the environment or be emitted into the air or discharged into
any waters, including groundwaters.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building which has its lowest elevated
floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear walls, posts, piers,
pilings, or columns.
   ENCROACHMENT. The advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation,
buildings, structures or development into a special flood hazard area, which
may impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING BUILDING AND EXISTING STRUCTURE. Any building and/or structure for
which the “start of construction” commenced before the community entered the
NFIP, dated October 6, 1978.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A
manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities
for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) was
completed before September 3, 2003, the effective date of the initial
floodplain management regulations adopted by the Town of Duck.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD INSURANCE. The insurance coverage provided under the National Flood
Insurance Program.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, issued by
the FEMA, on which both the special flood hazard areas and the risk premium
zones applicable to the community are delineated, (see also DFIRM).
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). An examination, evaluation, and determination
of flood hazards, corresponding water surface elevations (if appropriate),
flood hazard risk zones, and other flood data in a community issued by the
FEMA. The Flood Insurance Study report includes Flood Insurance Rate Maps
(FIRMs) and Flood Boundary and Floodway Maps (FBFMs), if published.
   FLOOD PRONE AREA. See FLOODPLAIN.
   FLOOD ZONE. A geographical area shown on a Flood Hazard Boundary Map or
Flood Insurance Rate Map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the
area.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The individual appointed to administer and enforce
the floodplain management regulations. The Floodplain Administrator may assign
duties of the position to a designee.
   FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. Any type of permit that is required in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter, prior to the commencement of
any development activity.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited
to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations, and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances, and other applications of police power. This term describes
federal, state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide
standards for preventing and reducing flood loss and damage.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation facilities,
structures, and their contents.
   FLOOD-RESISTANT MATERIAL. Any building product [material, component or
system] capable of withstanding direct and prolonged contact (minimum 72 hours)
with floodwaters without sustaining damage that requires more than low-cost
cosmetic repair. Any material that is water-soluble or is not resistant to
alkali or acid in water, including normal adhesives for above-grade use, is not
flood-resistant. Pressure-treated lumber or naturally decay-resistant lumbers
are acceptable flooring materials. Sheet-type flooring coverings that restrict
evaporation from below and materials that are impervious, but dimensionally
unstable are not acceptable. Materials that absorb or retain water excessively
after submergence are not flood-resistant. Please refer to Technical Bulletin
2, Flood Damage-Resistant Materials Requirements, and available from the FEMA.
Class 4 and 5 materials, referenced therein, are acceptable flood-resistant
materials.
   FREEBOARD. The height added to the BFE to account for the many unknown
factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the height
calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as wave
action, blockage of bridge or culvert openings, storm surge or precipitation
exceeding the base flood, and the hydrological effect of urbanization of the
watershed. The BFE plus the freeboard establishes the REGULATORY FLOOD
PROTECTION ELEVATION.
   FREE AND CLEAR OF OBSTRUCTION. The required space below the lowest floor of
an elevated structure located in a CHHA that is open and is designed to allow
floodwaters to flow freely beneath the structure, experiencing only minimal
resistance from supporting structural elements such that floodwaters transfer
only minimal lateral forces to the foundation system. For the purposes of this
chapter, the space below the structure that is unobstructed as described herein
shall be a minimum vertical distance of two feet, measured from the highest
adjacent grade below the structure to the bottom of the lowest horizontal
structural member of the lowest floor. Non-bearing solid breakaway walls, open
lattice panels and insect screening are not considered obstructions that will
impede the free flow of floodwaters and may be allowed below the lowest floor
of the structure.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY. A facility which cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located in close proximity to water, limited to a
docking or port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or
passengers, shipbuilding, or ship repair. The term does not include long-term
storage, manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITY. As defined in G.S. Ch. 130A, Article 9,
a facility for the collection, storage, processing, treatment, recycling,
recovery, or disposal of hazardous waste.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE (HAG). means the highest natural elevation of the
ground surface, prior to construction, immediately next to the proposed walls
of the structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. 
      (1)   Any structure that is:
         (a)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places
(a listing maintained by the US Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
         (b)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
         (c)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic landmarks
in communities with a “Certified Local Government (CLG) Program”; or
         (d)   Certified as contributing to the historical significance of a
historic district designated by a community with a “Certified Local Government
(CLG) Program.”
      (2)   Certified Local Government (CLG) Programs are approved by the US
Department of the Interior in cooperation with the North Carolina Department of
Cultural Resources through the State Historic Preservation Officer as having
met the requirements of the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966 as
amended in 1980.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). An official determination issued by FEMA that
amends or revises an effective Flood Insurance Rate Map or Flood Insurance
Study. Letters of Map Change include:
      (1)   Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA). An official amendment, by letter,
to an effective National Flood Insurance Program map. A LOMA is based on
technical data showing that a property had been inadvertently mapped as being
in the floodplain but is actually on natural high ground above the base flood
elevation. A LOMA amends the current effective Flood Insurance Rate Map and
establishes that a specific property, portion of a property, or structure is
not located in a special flood hazard area.
      (2)   Letter of Map Revision (LOMR). A revision based on technical data
that may show changes to flood zones, flood elevations, special flood hazard
area boundaries and floodway delineations, and other planimetric features.
      (3)   Letter of Map Revision Based on Fill (LOMR-F). A determination that
a structure or parcel of land has been elevated by fill above the BFE and is,
therefore, no longer located within the special flood hazard area. In order to
qualify for this determination, the fill must have been permitted and placed in
accordance with the community's floodplain management regulations.
      (4)   Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR). A formal review and
comment as to whether a proposed project complies with the minimum NFIP
requirements for such projects with respect to delineation of special flood
hazard areas. A CLOMR does not revise the effective Flood Insurance Rate Map or
Flood Insurance Study; upon submission and approval of certified as-built
documentation, a Letter of Map Revision may be issued by FEMA to revise the
effective FIRM.
   LIGHT DUTY TRUCK. Any motor vehicle rated at 8,500 pounds gross vehicular
weight rating or less which has a vehicular curb weight of 6,000 pounds or less
and which has a basic vehicle frontal area of 45 square feet or less as defined
in 40 CFR 86.082-2 and is:
      (1)   Designed primarily for purposes of transportation of property or is
a derivation of such a vehicle;
      (2)   Designed primarily for transportation of persons and has a capacity
of more than 12 persons; or
      (3)   Available with special features enabling off-street or off-highway
operation and use.
   LOCAL ELEVATION STANDARD. A locally adopted elevation level used as the
Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation (RFPE) or in conjunction with the BFE and
freeboard standard to mitigate flood hazards in the AE, AO, VE, Shaded X and X
zones as depicted on the FIRMs for Dare County.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG). The lowest elevation of the ground, sidewalk or
patio slab immediately next to the building, or deck support, after completion
of the building.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access, or limited storage in an area other than
a basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor, provided that such
an enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable design flood requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a "recreational vehicle.”
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MAP REPOSITORY. The location of the official flood hazard data to be applied
for floodplain management. It is a central location in which flood data is
stored and managed; in North Carolina, FEMA has recognized that the application
of digital flood hazard data products carries the same authority as hard copy
products. Therefore, the NCEM's Floodplain Mapping Program websites house
current and historical flood hazard data. For effective flood hazard data, the
NC FRIS website (http://FRIS.NC.GOV/FRIS) is the map repository, and for
historical flood hazard data the FloodNC website (http://FL00DNC.GOV/NCFLOOD)
is the map repository.
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, not including the land value and that of
any accessory structures or other improvements on the lot. Market value may be
established by independent certified appraisal; replacement cost depreciated
for age of building and quality of construction (Actual Cash Value); or
adjusted tax assessed values.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the "start of construction" commenced
on or after the effective date of the initial floodplain management regulations
and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NON-CONVERSION AGREEMENT. A document stating that the owner will not convert
or alter what has been constructed and approved. Violation of the agreement is
considered a violation of the ordinance and, therefore, subject to the same
enforcement procedures and penalties. The agreement must be filed in the Dare
County Register of Deeds. The agreement must show the Clerk's or Recorder's
stamps and/or notations that the filing has been completed.
   OCEAN ERODIBLE AREA. This is the area where there exists a substantial
possibility of excessive erosion and significant shoreline fluctuation. The
oceanward boundary of this area is the mean low water line. The landward extent
of this area is the distance landward from the first line of stable and natural
vegetation as defined in 15A NCAC 07H .0305(a)(5) to the recession line
established by multiplying the long-term annual erosion rate times 90; provided
that, where there has been no long-term erosion or the rate is less than two
feet per year, this distance shall be set at 120 feet landward from the first
line of stable natural vegetation. For the purposes of this Rule, the erosion
rates are the long-term average based on available historical data. The current
long-term average erosion rate data for each segment of the North Carolina
coast is depicted on maps entitled “2011 Long-Term Average Annual Shoreline
Rate Update” and approved by the Coastal Resources Commission on May 5, 2011
(except as such rates may be varied in individual contested cases or in
declaratory or interpretive rulings). In all cases, the rate of shoreline
change shall be no less than two feet of erosion per year. The maps are
available without cost from any Local Permit Officer or the Division of Coastal
Management on the internet at: http://www.nccoastalmanagement.net.
   OTHERWISE PROTECTED AREA (OPA). See COASTAL BARRIER RESOURCES SYSTEM (CBRS).
   POST-FIRM. Construction or other development for which the "start of
construction" occurred on or after October 6, 1978, the effective date of the
initial Flood Insurance Rate Map.
   PRE-FIRM. Construction or other development for which the “start of
construction” occurred before October 6, 1978, the effective date of the
initial Flood Insurance Rate Map.
   PRIMARY FRONTAL DUNE (PFD). 
      (1)   A continuous or nearly continuous mound or ridge of sand with
relatively steep seaward and landward slopes immediately landward and adjacent
to the beach and subject to erosion and overtopping from high tides and waves
during major coastal storms. The inland limit of the primary frontal dune
occurs at the point where there is a distinct change from a relatively steep
slope to a relatively mild slope.
      (2)   This definition applies only to this chapter for floodplain
management purposes and varies from the definition used by the N.C. Division of
Coastal Management in the CAMA.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. At least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure is above ground.
   PUBLIC SAFETY and/or NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV). 
      (1)   A vehicle, which is:
         (a)   Built on a single chassis;
         (b)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
         (c)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck;
         (d)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use;
and
         (e)   Is fully licensed and ready for highway use.
      (2)   For the purpose of this chapter, “Tiny Homes/Houses” and Park
Models that do not meet the items listed above are not considered recreational
vehicles and should meet the standards of and be permitted as residential
structures.
   REFERENCE LEVEL.
      (1)   For structures within the special flood hazard areas designated as
Zones AE and AO the reference level is the bottom of the lowest floor or the
bottom of the lowest attendant utility including ductwork, whichever is lower,
with only flood resistant materials located below the reference level.
      (2)   For structures within coastal high hazard areas, the reference
level is the bottom of the lowest horizontal structural member of the lowest
floor or the bottom of the lowest attendant utility including ductwork,
whichever is lower.
      (3)   For structures within Zones Shaded X or X, the reference level is
the bottom of the lowest floor or the bottom of the lowest attendant utility
including ductwork whichever is lower with only flood resistant materials
located below the reference level.
   REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION IN SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS. 
      (1)   The "Base Flood Elevation" plus the "Freeboard" OR the "Local
Elevation Standard", whichever is greater, for those areas where base flood
elevations have been determined on the FIRM; the base flood depth above the
highest adjacent grade or "Local Elevation Standard", whichever is greater, for
those areas identified as AO zones of the FIRM, or the "Local Elevation
Standard" for those areas identified as Shaded X or X zones on the FIRM.
      (2)   For the Town of Duck, the RFPE is applied as follows:
         (a)   In CHHA zones, the RFPE is the Base Flood Elevation as
designated on the effective FIRM plus two feet of freeboard.
         (b)   In AE zones, the RFPE is the Base Flood Elevation as designated
on the effective FIRM plus 3 feet of freeboard OR an elevation to or above 10
feet NAVD 1988, whichever is greater.
         (c)   In AO zones, the RFPE is the designated base flood depth on the
effective FIRM above the highest natural adjacent grade OR an elevation to or
above 10 feet NAVD 1988, whichever is greater.
         (d)   In Shaded X and X zones, the RFPE is 10 feet NAVD 1988 OR the
natural grade elevation if the natural grade is greater than ten feet NAVD
1988.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. To bring the structure or other development into
compliance with state and community floodplain management regulations, or, if
this is not possible, to reduce the impacts of its noncompliance. Ways that
impacts may be reduced include protecting the structure or other affected
development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement provisions of the
ordinance or otherwise deterring future similar violations, or reducing federal
financial exposure with regard to the structure or other development.
   SALVAGE YARD. Any non-residential property used for the storage, collection,
and/or recycling of any type of equipment, and including but not limited to
vehicles, appliances and related machinery.
   SAND DUNES. Naturally occurring accumulations of sand in ridges or mounds
landward of the beach.
   SECONDARY STRUCTURE. A structure that features habitable conditioned space
above the RFPE located on the same parcel as a primary use structure. A
secondary structure is not an accessory structure as defined in this section.
When applying the standards of this chapter, a secondary structure is subject
to the same standards as a primary use structure.
   SHADED X ZONE. Areas of moderate flood hazard shown on the FIRM and are the
areas between the limits of the base flood and the 0.2% annual chance for
flood. Also commonly referred to as the 500-year flood.
   SHEAR WALL. Walls used for structural support but not structurally joined or
enclosed at the end (except by breakaway walls). Shear walls are parallel or
nearly parallel to the flow of the water.
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY. Any facility involved in the disposal of
solid waste, as defined in G.S. 130A-290(a)(35).
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SITE. As defined in G.S. 130A-290(a)(36), any place at
which solid wastes are disposed of by incineration, sanitary landfill, or any
other method.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). The land in the floodplain subject to a
one percent or greater chance of being flooded in any given year, as determined
in §
150.07.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Definition applies only to this chapter:
      (1)   Start of Construction includes substantial improvement and means
the date the building permit was issued provided the actual start of
construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement, or
other improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.
      (2)   The actual Start of Construction means either the first placement
of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab
or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any
work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on
a foundation.
      (3)   Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings,
piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include
the installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or
sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure.
      (4)   For a substantial improvement, the actual Start of Construction
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural
part of the building, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, a manufactured home, or a gas,
liquid, or liquefied gas storage tank that is principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure during any
one-year period whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before
damaged condition would equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the
structure before the damage occurred. See definition of SUBSTANTIAL
IMPROVEMENT.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any combination of repairs, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement of a structure, taking place
during any one-year period for which the cost equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value of the structure before the "start of construction" of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred "substantial
damage", regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
      (1)   Any correction of existing violations of state or community health,
sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been identified by the
community code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
historic structure and the alteration is approved by variance issued pursuant
to §
150.29.
   TECHNICAL BULLETIN AND TECHNICAL FACT SHEET. 
      (1)   A FEMA publication that provides guidance concerning the building
performance standards of the NFIP, which are contained in Title 44 of the U.S.
Code of Federal Regulations at Section 60.3. The bulletins and fact sheets are
intended for use primarily by State and local officials responsible for
interpreting and enforcing NFIP regulations and by members of the development
community, such as design professionals and builders. New bulletins, as well as
updates of existing bulletins, are issued periodically as needed. The bulletins
do not create regulations; rather they provide specific guidance for complying
with the minimum requirements of existing NFIP regulations.
      (2)   It should be noted that technical bulletins and technical fact
sheets provide guidance on the minimum requirements of the NFIP regulations.
State or community requirements that exceed those of the NFIP take precedence.
Design professionals should contact the community officials to determine
whether more restrictive State or local regulations apply to the building or
site in question. All applicable standards of the state or local building code
must also be met for any building in a flood hazard area.
   TEMPERATURE CONTROLLED. Having the temperature regulated by a heating and/or
cooling system, built-in or appliance.
   UNSHADED X ZONE. The areas of minimal flood hazard shown on the FIRM which
are areas outside of the Special Flood Hazards Areas and higher than the
elevation of the 0.2% annual flood chance.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this ordinance.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance with the standards of this chapter is presumed
to be in violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION (WSE). The height, in relation to NAVD 1988, of
floods of various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or
riverine areas.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
Watercourse includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
(Ord. 20-01, passed 5-20-2020)
§ 150.06 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all areas within the jurisdiction of the Town of
Duck.
(Ord. 20-01, passed 5-20-2020)
§ 150.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   (A)   The SFHAs are those identified under the Cooperating Technical State
(CTS) agreement between the State of North Carolina and FEMA in its FIS dated
June 19, 2020 shown on the FIS for Dare County and associated DFIRM panels,
including any digital data developed as part of the FIS, which are adopted by
reference and declared a part of this chapter, and all revisions thereto after
January 1, 2021. Future revisions to the FIS and DFIRM panels that do not
change flood hazard data within the jurisdictional authority of the Town of
Duck are also adopted by reference and declared a part of this chapter.
   (B)   Subsequent Letter of Map Revisions (LOMRs) and/or Physical Map
Revisions (PMRs) shall be adopted within three months.
(Ord. 20-01, passed 5-20-2020)
§ 150.08 ESTABLISHMENT OF A LOCAL ELEVATION STANDARDS FOR SHADED X AND X ZONES.
   A locally adopted elevation standards shall apply to any Shaded X or X zone
as identified on the effective DFIRMs for Dare County. These areas may be
vulnerable to flooding from storm surge, wind-driven tides, and excessive
rainfall associated with storm systems. Many of these areas have flooded during
past storm events and continue to remain at risk to flooding. Therefore, an
elevation standard and other floodplain development standards have been
determined by the Town of Duck to be appropriate for these Shaded X and X zones
as defined in §
150.05. All development activities in any Shaded X or X zone shall conform to
the provisions set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 20-01, passed 5-20-2020)
§ 150.09 ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 20-01, passed 5-20-2020)
§ 150.10 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted,
altered, or developed in any way without full compliance with the terms of this
ordinance and other applicable regulations.
(Ord. 20-01, passed 5-20-2020)
§ 150.11 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this ordinance and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(Ord. 20-01, passed 5-20-2020)
§ 150.12 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this ordinance, all provisions
shall be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 20-01, passed 5-20-2020)
§ 150.13 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
consideration. Larger floods can and will occur. Actual flood heights may be
increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not imply that land
outside the SFHAs or uses permitted within such areas will be free from
flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability on the part
of the Town of Duck or by any officer or employee thereof for any flood damages
that result from reliance on this ordinance or any administrative decision
lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. 20-01, passed 5-20-2020)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 150.25 DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Director of Community Development, hereinafter referred to as the
“Floodplain Administrator,” or their designee, is hereby appointed to
administer and implement the provisions of this ordinance. In instances where
the Floodplain Administrator receives assistance from others to complete tasks
to administer and implement this ordinance, the Floodplain Administrator shall
be responsible for the coordination and community's overall compliance with the
National Flood Insurance Program and the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 20-01, passed 5-20-2020)
§ 150.26 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT APPLICATION, PERMIT AND CERTIFICATION
REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Application requirements. Application for a Floodplain Development
Permit shall be made to the Floodplain Administrator prior to any development
activities. The following items shall be presented to the Floodplain
Administrator to apply for a floodplain development permit:
      (1)   A site plan drawn to scale which shall include, but shall not be
limited to, the following specific details of the proposed floodplain
development:
         (a)   The nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area of
development/disturbance; existing and proposed structures, utility systems,
grading/pavement areas, fill materials, storage areas, drainage facilities, and
other development;
         (b)   The boundary of the SFHA, Shaded X or X Zone as delineated on
the FIRM or other flood map as determined in §
150.07, or a statement that the entire lot is within the SFHA;
         (c)   Flood zone(s) designation of the proposed development area as
determined on the FIRM or other flood map as determined in §
150.07;
         (d)   The BFE and/or RFPE where provided as set forth in §§
150.07 or
150.27;
         (e)   The old and new location of any watercourse that will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development;
         (f)   The boundary and designation date of the Coastal Barrier
Resource System (CBRS) area or Otherwise Protected Areas (OPA), if applicable;
and
         (g)   The certification of the site plan by a registered land surveyor
or professional engineer.
      (2)   Proposed elevation, and method thereof, of all development
including but not limited to:
         (a)   Elevation in relation to NAVD 1988 of the proposed reference
level (including basement) of all structures;
         (b)   Elevation in relation to NAVD 1988 to which any non-residential
structure in Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A99, Shaded X or X will be floodproofed; and
         (c)   Elevation in relation to NAVD 1988 to which any proposed utility
systems will be elevated or floodproofed.
      (3)   If floodproofing, a Floodproofing Certificate (FEMA Form 086-0-34)
with supporting data, an operational plan, and an inspection and maintenance
plan that include, but are not limited to, installation, exercise, and
maintenance of floodproofing measures.
      (4)   A foundation plan, drawn to scale, which shall include details of
the proposed foundation system to ensure all provisions of this chapter are
met. These details include but are not limited to:
         (a)   The proposed method of elevation, if applicable (i.e., fill,
solid foundation perimeter wall, solid backfilled foundation, open foundation
on columns/posts/piers/piles/shear walls); and
         (b)   Openings to facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic
flood forces on walls in accordance with §
150.41(D)(3) when solid foundation perimeter walls are used in Zones A, AE, AH,
AO, A99, Shaded X or X.
         (c)   The following, in CHHA, in accordance with the provisions of §§
150.41(D)(4) and
150.42:
            1.   V-Zone Certification with accompanying plans and
specifications verifying the engineered structure and any breakaway wall
designs; in addition, prior to the certificate of compliance/occupancy
issuance, a registered professional engineer or architect shall certify the
finished construction is compliant with the design, specifications and plans
for VE Zone construction.
            2.   Plans for open wood latticework or insect screening, if
applicable; and
            3.   Plans for non-structural fill, if applicable. If non-
structural fill is proposed, it must be demonstrated through coastal
engineering analysis that the proposed fill would not result in any increase in
the BFE or otherwise cause adverse impacts by wave ramping and deflection on to
the subject structure or adjacent properties.
      (5)   Usage details of any enclosed areas below the lowest floor.
      (6)   Plans and/or details for the protection of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems to be located and
constructed to minimize flood damage.
      (7)   Certification that all other local, state and Federal permits
required prior to floodplain development permit issuance have been received.
      (8)   Documentation for placement of recreational vehicles and/or
temporary structures, when applicable, to ensure that the provisions of §
150.41 (F) and (G) of this chapter are met.
      (9)   In Shaded X and X zones, a survey prepared by a licensed North
Carolina surveyor may be used to demonstrate the natural grades of the parcel
relative to the RFPE of ten feet.
   (B)   Permit requirements. The Floodplain Development Permit shall include,
but is not limited to:
      (1)   A complete description of all the development to be permitted under
the floodplain development permit (e.g. house, garage, pool, septic, bulkhead,
cabana, pier, bridge, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or
drilling operations, or storage of equipment or materials, etc.).
      (2)   The flood zone determination for the proposed development in
accordance with available data specified in §
150.07.
      (3)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
reference level and all attendant utilities.
      (4)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
protection of all public utilities.
      (5)   All certification submittal requirements with timelines.
      (6)   The flood openings requirements, if in Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A99,
Shaded X or X Zone.
      (7)   Identify uses of enclosures below the RFPE and a statement that
they are limited to the following uses: parking, building access and limited
storage only.
      (8)   A statement, if in CHHA, that there will be no alteration of sand
dunes which would increase potential flood damage.
      (9)   A statement, if in CHHA, that there will be no fill used for
structural support.
      (10)   A statement, that all materials below RFPE will be flood resistant
materials.
   (C)   Certification requirements.
      (1)   Elevation Certificates for AE, AO, VE, Shaded X and X Zones.
         (a)   An Elevation Certificate (FEMA Form 086-0-33) for the proposed
development must be submitted as part of the permit application materials. It
shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain
Administrator a certification of the elevation of the reference level, in
relation to NAVD 1988. The Floodplain Administrator or designee shall review
the certificate data submitted. Deficiencies with the elevation certificate
detected by such review shall be corrected by the permit holder prior to the
start of construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure to make
required corrections shall be cause to deny a floodplain development permit.
         (b)   1.   With the understanding that lesser documentation leads to a
greater assumption of risk by the permit holder and property owner, the permit
holder has the following options for submission of an under-construction
documentation:
               A.   The Town of Duck encourages submission of an under-
construction elevation certificate to the Floodplain Administrator at the time
a rough-in inspection is scheduled with the Town of Duck Building Inspector;
               B.   In lieu of an elevation certificate, the permit holder may
submit alternative documentation from a registered land surveyor or
professional engineer regarding the elevation of the reference level in
relation to mean sea level; or
               C.   The permit holder may opt not to submit an under-
construction elevation certificate or alternative documentation from a
registered land surveyor or professional engineer prior to the rough-in
inspection.
            2.   If submitted, the Floodplain Administrator shall review the
elevation certificate or other documentation and report any deficiencies to the
permit holder immediately and such deficiencies shall be corrected immediately
prior to further work being permitted to proceed.
         (c)   A final Finished Construction Elevation Certificate (FEMA Form
086-0-33) is required after construction is completed and prior to certificate
of compliance/occupancy issuance. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of final as-built
construction of the elevation of the reference level and all attendant
utilities. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data
submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
permit holder immediately and prior to certificate of compliance/occupancy
issuance. In some instances, another certification may be required to certify
corrected as-built construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure
to make required corrections shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a
certificate of compliance/occupancy. The finished construction elevation
certificate certifier shall provide at least two photographs showing the front
and rear of the building taken within 90 days from the date of certification.
The photographs must be taken with views confirming the building description
and diagram number provided in division (A). To the extent possible, these
photographs should show the entire building including foundation. If the
building has split-level or multi-level areas, provide at least 2 additional
photographs showing side views of the building. In addition, when applicable,
provide a photograph of the foundation showing a representative example of the
flood openings or vents. All photographs must be in color and measure at least
three inches by three inches. Digital photographs are acceptable.
         (d)   In Shaded X and X zones, the proposed and under construction
elevation certificates are not needed if a current survey of the parcel is
submitted that demonstrates the natural grade of the structure footprint is
above the RFPE of ten feet. In lieu of the finished construction elevation
certificate, an as-built survey of the parcel shall be submitted to certify the
finished graded of the parcel is compliant with the RFPE or ten feet NAVD or
above.
      (2)   Floodproofing certificate.
         (a)   If non-residential floodproofing is used to meet the Regulatory
Flood Protection Elevation requirements, a Floodproofing Certificate (FEMA Form
086-0-34), with supporting data, an operational plan, and an inspection and
maintenance plan are required prior to the actual start of any new
construction. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the
Floodplain Administrator a certification of the floodproofed design elevation
of the reference level and all attendant utilities, in relation to NAVD 1988.
Floodproofing certification shall be prepared by or under the direct
supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by same. The
Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data, the operational
plan, and the inspection and maintenance plan. Deficiencies detected by such
review shall be corrected by the applicant prior to permit approval. Failure to
submit the certification or failure to make required corrections shall be cause
to deny a Floodplain Development Permit. Failure to construct in accordance
with the certified design shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a
certificate of compliance/occupancy.
         (b)   A final Finished Construction Floodproofing Certificate (FEMA
Form 086-0-34), with supporting data, an operational plan, and an inspection
and maintenance plan are required prior to the issuance of a certificate of
compliance/occupancy. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to
the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the floodproofed design
elevation of the reference level and all attendant utilities, in relation to
NAVD 1988. Floodproofing certificate shall be prepared by or under the direct
supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by same. The
Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data, the operational
plan, and the inspection and maintenance plan. Deficiencies detected by such
review shall be corrected by the applicant prior to certificate of occupancy.
Failure to submit the certification or failure to make required corrections
shall be cause to deny a floodplain development permit. Failure to construct in
accordance with the certified design shall be cause to deny a certificate of
compliance/occupancy.
      (3)   Elevation of chassis. If a manufactured home is placed within Zones
A, AE, AH, AO, A99, Shaded X or X and the elevation of the chassis is more than
36 inches in height above grade, an engineered foundation certification is
required in accordance with the provisions of §
150.41 (C)(2).
      (4)   Alterations and relocations. If a watercourse is to be altered or
relocated, a description of the extent of watercourse alteration or relocation;
a professional engineer's certified report on the effects of the proposed
project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the effects to
properties located both upstream and downstream; and a map showing the location
of the proposed watercourse alteration or relocation shall all be submitted by
the permit applicant prior to issuance of a floodplain development permit.
      (5)   Certification exemptions. The following structures, if located
within Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A99, Shaded X or X are exempt from the elevation/
floodproofing certification requirements specified in items (a) and (b) of this
section:
         (a)   Recreational Vehicles meeting requirements of §
150.41(F); and
         (b)   Temporary Structures meeting requirements of §
150.41(G).
      (6)   V-Zone/CHHA certification. A V-Zone/CHHA Certification with
accompanying design plans and specifications is required prior to issuance of a
Floodplain Development permit within CHHA. It shall be the duty of the permit
applicant to submit to the Floodplain Administrator said certification to
ensure the design standards of this ordinance are met. A registered
professional engineer or architect shall develop or review the structural
design, plans, and specifications for construction and certify that the design
and methods of construction to be used are in accordance with accepted
standards of practice for meeting the provisions of this chapter. This
certification is not a substitute for an elevation certificate.
      (7)   Non-conversion agreement. A non-conversion agreement shall be
required for all new construction and substantial improvements which feature an
enclosure area below the RFPE and with walls greater than four feet in height
that may be converted after occupancy of the structure. This signed, completed
non-conversion agreement shall be completed by the property owner of record (if
different than the permit holder) and shall be recorded in the Dare County
Register of Deeds. A copy of the recorded agreement shall be provided to the
Town of Duck Building Inspector prior to the issuance of the certificate of
occupancy. Failure to submit the certification shall be cause to withhold the
issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
      (8)   Release of restrictive covenant. If a property which is bound by a
non-conversion agreement is modified to remove enclosed areas below RFPE, then
the owner may request release of restrictive covenant after staff inspection
and submittal of confirming documentation.
      (9)   Acknowledgment form. Acknowledgment forms shall be signed and
completed by property owners or authorized agent at the time permits are issued
by the Town of Duck Building Inspector. This acknowledgment form indicates the
specific flood zone designation for the subject property; outlines the
construction standards for elevation of the structure to the regulatory flood
elevation and explains the use restrictions associated with the property.
   (D)   Determinations for existing buildings and structures. For applications
for building permits to improve buildings and structures, including
alterations, movement, relocation, enlargement, replacement, repair, change of
occupancy, additions, rehabilitations, renovations, substantial improvements,
repairs of substantial damage, and any other improvement of or work on such
buildings and structures, the Floodplain Administrator, in coordination with
the Building Official, shall:
      (1)   Estimate the market value, or require the applicant to obtain an
appraisal of the market value prepared by a qualified independent appraiser, of
the building or structure before the start of construction of the proposed
work; in the case of repair, the market value of the building or structure
shall be the market value before the damage occurred and before any repairs are
made;
      (2)   Compare the cost to perform the improvement, the cost to repair a
damaged building to its pre-damaged condition, or the combined costs of
improvements and repairs, if applicable, to the market value of the building or
structure;
      (3)   Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage; and
      (4)   Notify the applicant if it is determined that the work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage and that compliance
with the flood resistant construction requirements of the NC Building Code and
this chapter is required.
(Ord. 20-01, passed 5-20-2020; Am. Ord. 22-04, passed 7-6-2022)
§ 150.27 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Floodplain Administrator shall perform, but not be limited to, the
following duties:
   (A)   Review all floodplain development applications and issue permits for
all proposed development to assure that the requirements of this ordinance have
been satisfied.
   (B)   Review all proposed development to assure that all necessary local,
state and Federal permits have been received, including Section 404 of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334.
   (C)   Notify adjacent communities and the North Carolina Department of
Public Safety, Division of Emergency Management, State Coordinator for the
National Flood Insurance Program prior to any alteration or relocation of a
watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA).
   (D)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is maintained.
   (E)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to NAVD 1988) of the reference
level (including basement) and all attendant utilities of all new and
substantially improved structures, in accordance with the provisions of §
150.26(C).
   (F)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to NAVD 1988) to which all new
and substantially improved structures and utilities have been floodproofed, in
accordance with the provisions of §
150.26(C).
   (G)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to NAVD 1988) of all public
utilities in accordance with the provisions of §
150.26(C).
   (H)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, obtain
certifications from a registered professional engineer or architect in
accordance with the provisions of §§
150.26(C) and
150.41(B).
   (I)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of boundaries
of the SFHAs, Shaded X or X zones, floodways, or non-encroachment areas (for
example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions), make the necessary interpretation. The person
contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity
to appeal the interpretation as provided in this article.
   (J)   When BFE data has not been provided in accordance with the provisions
of §
150.07, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any BFE data in order to
administer the provisions of this chapter.
   (K)   Permanently maintain all records that pertain to the administration of
this chapter and make these records available for public inspection,
recognizing that such information may be subject to the Privacy Act of 1974, as
amended.
   (L)   Make on-site inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant to
a floodplain development permit progresses, the Floodplain Administrator shall
make as many inspections of the work as may be necessary to ensure that the
work is being done according to the provisions of the local ordinance and the
terms of the permit. In exercising this power, the Floodplain Administrator has
a right, upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises
within the jurisdiction of the community at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
   (M)   Issue stop-work orders as required. Whenever a building or part
thereof is being constructed, reconstructed, altered, or repaired in violation
of this ordinance, the Floodplain Administrator may order the work to be
immediately stopped. The stop-work order shall be in writing and directed to
the person doing or in charge of the work. The stop-work order shall state the
specific work to be stopped, the specific reason(s) for the stoppage, and the
condition(s) under which the work may be resumed. Any person violating a stop-
work order shall be subject to a civil penalty per violation in the amount set
forth in §
10.99. The person cited for the violation must pay the civil penalty within
five days of being cited for violating the stop-work order. In the event the
person cited for the violation does not pay the penalty within the prescribed
time, the town may bring a civil action to recover the penalty and the
associated court costs.
   (N)   Revoke floodplain development permits as required. The Floodplain
Administrator may revoke and require the return of the floodplain development
permit by notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason(s) for the
revocation. Permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the
approved application, plans, and specifications; for refusal or failure to
comply with the requirements of state or local laws; or for false statements or
misrepresentations made in securing the permit. Any floodplain development
permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state or local law may
also be revoked.
   (O)   Make periodic inspections throughout the special flood hazard areas
within the jurisdiction of the community. The Floodplain Administrator and each
member of his or her inspections department shall have a right, upon
presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
territorial jurisdiction of the department at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
   (P)   Follow through with corrective procedures of §
150.28.
   (Q)   Review, provide input, and make recommendations for variance requests.
   (R)   Maintain a current map repository to include, but not limited to,
historical and effective FIS Report, historical and effective FIRM and other
official flood maps and studies adopted in accordance with the provisions of §
150.07, including any revisions thereto, including letters of map change issued
by FEMA.
   (S)   Coordinate revisions to FIS reports and FIRMs, including Letters of
Map Revision Based on Fill (LOMR-Fs) and Letters of Map Revision (LOMRs).
(Ord. 20-01, passed 5-20-2020; Am. Ord. 22-03, passed 7-6-2022)
§ 150.28 CORRECTIVE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Violations to be corrected. When the Floodplain Administrator finds
violations of applicable state and local laws; it shall be his or her duty to
notify the owner or occupant of the building of the violation. The owner or
occupant shall immediately remedy each of the violations of law cited in such
notification.
   (B)   Actions in event of failure to take corrective action. If the owner of
a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action, the
Floodplain Administrator shall give the owner written notice, by certified or
registered mail to the owner's last known address or by personal service,
stating:
      (1)   That the building or property is in violation of the floodplain
management regulations;
      (2)   That a hearing will be held before the Floodplain Administrator at
a designated place and time, not later than ten days after the date of the
notice, at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by
counsel and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
      (3)   That following the hearing, the Floodplain Administrator may issue
an order to alter, vacate, or demolish the building; or to remove fill as
applicable.
   (C)   Order to take corrective action. If, upon a hearing held pursuant to
the notice prescribed above, the Floodplain Administrator shall find that the
building or development is in violation of the Flood Damage Prevention
Ordinance, he or she shall issue an order in writing to the owner, requiring
the owner to remedy the violation within a specified time period, not less than
60 calendar days, nor more than 180 days. Where the Floodplain Administrator
finds that there is imminent danger to life or other property, he or she may
order that corrective action be taken in such lesser period as may be feasible.
   (D)   Appeal. Any owner who has received an order to take corrective action
may appeal the order to the local elected governing body by giving notice of
appeal in writing to the Floodplain Administrator and the clerk within ten days
following issuance of the final order. In the absence of an appeal, the order
of the Floodplain Administrator shall be final. The local governing body shall
hear an appeal within a reasonable time and may affirm, modify and affirm, or
revoke the order.
   (E)   Failure to comply with order. If the owner of a building or property
fails to comply with an order to take corrective action for which no appeal has
been made, or fails to comply with an order of the governing body following an
appeal, the owner shall be subject to the civil penalty per violation set forth
in §
10.99. The person cited for the violation must pay the civil penalty within
five days of being cited for the violation. In the event the person cited for
the violation does not pay the penalty within the prescribed time, the town may
bring a civil action to recover the penalty and the associated court costs.
(Ord. 20-01, passed 5-20-2020; Am. Ord. 22-03, passed 4-6-2022)
§ 150.29 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Town of Duck Board of Adjustment as established by the Town of
Duck, hereinafter referred to as the “appeal board,” shall hear and decide
requests for variances from the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the appeal board may appeal
such decision to the Court, as provided in G.S. Ch. 7A.
   (C)   Variances may be issued for:
      (1)   The repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon the
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure's continued designation as a historic structure and that the variance
is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure;
      (2)   Functionally dependent facilities if determined to meet the
definition as stated in § 150.05 of this chapter, provided provisions of §
150.29(I)(2) and (4) have been satisfied, and such facilities are protected by
methods that minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no
additional threats to public safety; or
      (3)   Any other type of development provided it meets the requirements of
this section.
   (D)   In reviewing variances, the appeal board shall consider all technical
evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other sections of
this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location as defined
under §
150.05 of this ordinance as a functionally dependent facility, where
applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      (11)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (E)   A written report addressing each of the above factors shall be
submitted with the application for a variance.
   (F)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of
this ordinance, the appeal board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes and objectives of this
chapter.
   (G)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the RFPE and the elevation to which
the structure is to be built and that such construction below the RFPE
increases risks to life and property, and that the issuance of a variance to
construct a structure below the RFPE may result in increased premium rates for
flood insurance up to $25 per $100 of insurance coverage. Such notification
shall be maintained with a record of all variance actions, including
justification for their issuance.
   (H)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions and report any variances to the FEMA and the State of North Carolina
upon request.
   (I)   Conditions for variances:
      (1)   Variances shall not be issued when the variance will make the
structure in violation of other federal, state, or local laws, regulations, or
ordinances.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued prior to development permit
approval.
      (4)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, or
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   (J)   A variance may be issued for solid waste disposal facilities or sites,
hazardous waste management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage
facilities that are located at elevations below the RFPE in the SFHA and Shaded
X and X zones provided all of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The use serves a critical need in the community.
      (2)   No feasible location exists for the use at elevations at or above
the RFPE in the SFHA and Shaded X and X zones.
      (3)   The reference level of any structure is elevated or floodproofed to
at least the RFPE.
      (4)   The use complies with all other applicable Federal, state and local
laws.
      (5)   The Town of Duck has notified the Secretary of the North Carolina
Department of Public Safety of its intention to grant a variance at least 30
calendar days prior to granting the variance.
(Ord. 20-01, passed 5-20-2020)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 150.40 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   The following provisions are required:
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be designed
(or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, and
lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage in accordance
with the FEMA Technical Bulletin 2, Flood Damage-Resistant Materials
Requirements.
   (C)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damages.
   (D)   All new electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, and other service equipment shall be located at or above the RFPE or
designed and installed to prevent water from entering or accumulating within
the components during the occurrence of the base flood. These include, but are
not limited to, HVAC equipment, water softener units, bath/kitchen fixtures,
ductwork, electric/gas meter panels/boxes, utility/cable boxes, water heaters,
and electric outlets/switches.
      (1)   Replacements that are part of a substantial improvement,
electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning equipment, and
other service equipment shall also meet the above provisions.
      (2)   Replacements that are for maintenance and not part of a substantial
improvement, may be installed at the original location provided the addition
and/or improvements only comply with the standards for new construction
consistent with the code and requirements for the original structure.
   (E)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters.
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (H)   New solid waste disposal facilities and sites, hazardous waste
management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage facilities shall not
be permitted, except by variance as specified in §
150.29(J). A structure or tank for chemical or fuel storage incidental to an
allowed use or to the operation of a water treatment plant or wastewater
treatment facility may be located in a SFHA only if the structure or tank is
either elevated or floodproofed to at least the RFPE and certified in
accordance with the provisions of §
150.26(C).
   (I)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall be
consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (J)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water
systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
   (K)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (L)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
received all necessary permits from those governmental agencies for which
approval is required by federal or state law, including Section 404 of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334.
   (M)   When a structure is partially located in a SFHA, the entire structure
shall meet the requirements for new construction and substantial improvements.
   (N)   When a structure is located in multiple flood hazard zones or in a
flood hazard risk zone with multiple base flood elevations, the provisions for
the more restrictive flood hazard risk zone and the highest RFPE shall apply.
(Ord. 20-01, passed 5-20-2020)
§ 150.41 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In addition to the provisions of §
150.40, the following provisions are required:
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure (including manufactured homes) shall have the
reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the regulatory
flood protection elevation, as defined in §
150.05 of this chapter.
   (B)   Non-residential construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or other non-residential structure
shall have the reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the
RFPE, as defined in §
150.05. Structures located in Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A99 Shaded X and X may be
floodproofed to the RFPE in lieu of elevation provided that all areas of the
structure, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, below the
RFPE are watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water, using structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the effect of buoyancy. For AO Zones,
the floodproofing elevation shall be in accordance with §
150.43. A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that the
floodproofing standards of this subsection are satisfied. Such certification
shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator as set forth in §
150.26(C), along with the operational plan and the inspection and maintenance
plan.
   (C)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   New and replacement manufactured homes shall be elevated so that
the reference level of the manufactured home is no lower than the RFPE, as
defined in §
150.05.
      (2)   Manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement, either
by certified engineered foundation system, or in accordance with the most
current edition of the State of North Carolina Regulations for Manufactured
Homes adopted by the Commissioner of Insurance pursuant to G.S. 143-143.15.
Additionally, when the elevation would be met by an elevation of the chassis 36
inches or less above the grade at the site, the chassis shall be supported by
reinforced piers or engineered foundation. When the elevation of the chassis is
above 36 inches in height, an engineering certification is required.
      (3)   All enclosures or skirting below the lowest floor shall meet the
requirements of §
150.41(D).
      (4)   An evacuation plan must be developed for evacuation of all
residents of all new, substantially improved or substantially damaged
manufactured home parks or subdivisions located within flood prone areas. This
plan shall be filed with and approved by the Floodplain Administrator and the
local Emergency Management Coordinator.
   (D)   Elevated buildings. Fully enclosed area, of new construction and
substantially improved structures, which is below the lowest floor or below the
lowest horizontal structural member in VE zones:
      (1)   Shall not be designed or used for human habitation, but shall only
be used for parking of vehicles, building access, or limited storage of
maintenance equipment used in connection with the premises. Access to the
enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow for parking of vehicles
(garage door) or limited storage of maintenance equipment (standard exterior
door), or entry to the living area (stairway or elevator). The interior portion
of such enclosed area shall not be finished or partitioned into separate rooms,
except to enclose storage areas;
      (2)   Shall be constructed entirely of flood resistant materials at least
to the regulatory flood protection elevation; and
      (3)   Shall include, in Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A99, Shaded X and X, flood
openings to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on walls by
allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters. To meet this requirement, the
openings must either be certified by a professional engineer or architect or
meet or exceed the following minimum design criteria:
         (a)   A minimum of two flood openings on different sides of each
enclosed area subject to flooding;
         (b)   The total net area of all flood openings must be at least one
square inch for each square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding or a
minimum of one engineered inch for each square foot of enclosed area for an
engineered opening;
         (c)   If a building has more than one enclosed area, each enclosed
area must have flood openings to allow floodwaters to automatically enter and
exit consistent with §
150.41(D)(3)(a) above;
         (d)   The bottom of all required flood openings shall be no higher
than one foot above the higher of the interior or exterior adjacent grade;
         (e)   Flood openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other
coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions; and
         (f)   Enclosures made of flexible skirting are not considered
enclosures for regulatory purposes, and, therefore, do not require flood
openings. Masonry or wood underpinning, regardless of structural status, is
considered an enclosure and requires flood openings as outlined above.
      (4)   In CHHA shall either be free of obstruction or constructed with
breakaway walls, open wood latticework or insect screening, provided they are
not part of the structural support of the building and are designed so as to
breakaway, under abnormally high tides or wave action without causing damage to
the elevated portion of the building or supporting foundation system or
otherwise jeopardizing the structural integrity of the building. The following
design specifications shall be met:
         (a)   Material shall consist of open wood or plastic lattice or insect
screening; or
         (b)   Breakaway walls shall contain the required amount and size of
flood vents consistent with §
150.41(D)(3)(a) and (b) and meet the following design specifications:
            1.   Design safe loading resistance shall be not less than ten nor
more than 20 pounds per square foot; or
            2.   Breakaway walls that exceed a design safe loading resistance
of 20 pounds per square foot (either by design or when so required by State or
local codes) shall be certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect that the breakaway wall will collapse from a water load less than
that which would occur during the base flood event, and the elevated portion of
the building and supporting foundation system shall not be subject to collapse,
displacement, or other structural damage due to the effects of wind and water
loads acting simultaneously on all building components (structural and
nonstructural). The water loading values used shall be those associated with
the base flood. The wind loading values used shall be those required by the
North Carolina State Building Code.
      (5)   Property owners shall be required to execute and record a non-
conversion agreement prior to issuance of a building permit declaring that the
area below the lowest floor shall not be improved, finished or otherwise
converted to habitable space. This agreement shall be recorded with the Dare
County Register of Deeds and shall transfer with the property in perpetuity.
The Town of Duck will have the right to inspect the enclosed area. Such
inspection should be coordinated with the property owner.
      (6)   Release of restrictive covenant. If a property which is bound by a
non-conversion agreement is modified to remove enclosed areas below RFPE, then
the owner may request release of restrictive covenant after staff inspection
and submittal of confirming documentation.
   (E)   Additions/improvements/conversions. 
      (1)   Standards in all flood zones (AE, AO, VE, Shaded X, and X).
         (a)   Additions and/or improvements to pre-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
            1.   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or
improvements must be designed to minimize flood damages and must not be any
more non-conforming than the existing structure.
            2.   A substantial improvement, with modifications/rehabilitations/
improvements to the existing structure or the common wall is structurally
modified more than installing a doorway, both the existing structure and the
addition must comply with the standards for new construction.
         (b)   Additions to pre-FIRM or post-FIRM structures that are a
substantial improvement with no modifications/rehabilitations/improvements to
the existing structure other than a standard door in the common wall, shall
require only the addition to comply with the standards for new construction.
         (c)   Additions and/or improvements to post-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
            1.   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or
improvements only must comply with the standards for new construction
consistent with the code and requirements for the original structure.
            2.   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
         (d)   A substantial improvement must comply with the standards for new
construction. For each building or structure, the one-year period begins on the
date of the first improvement or repair of that building or structure
subsequent to the effective date of this ordinance. If the structure has
sustained substantial damage, any repairs are considered substantial
improvement regardless of the actual repair work performed. The requirement
does not, however, include either:
            1.   Any project for improvement of a building required to correct
existing health, sanitary or safety code violations identified by the code
enforcement official and that are the minimum necessary to assume safe living
conditions.
            2.   Any alteration of a historic structure provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
historic structure.
         (e)   Areas in existing structures may be converted to conditioned,
temperature-controlled space provided the use is limited to parking, storage
and access. Property owner will be required to record a non-conversion
agreement consistent with §
150.41(D)(5).
      (2)   Additional standards in Shaded X and X Zones. Remodeling or
renovations of existing structures with the reference level located below the
current applicable RFPE that do not increase the footprint or temperature-
controlled area of the structure may be authorized at the existing reference
level or higher. Reconstruction of damage to the structure with no increase in
footprint may be authorized at the existing reference level or higher.
   (F)   Recreational vehicles. Recreational vehicles shall either:
      (1)   Meet the following standards for temporary placement:
         (a)   Be on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days; or
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use. (A recreational
vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is
attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities, and has no
permanently attached additions.)
      (2)   Permanent placement. Recreational vehicles located in the Town of
Duck that do not meet the limitations of temporary placement shall meet all the
requirements for new construction.
   (G)   Temporary non-residential structures. Prior to the issuance of a
floodplain development permit for a temporary structure, the applicant must
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a plan for the removal of such structure
(s) in the event of a hurricane, flash flood or other type of flood warning
notification. The following information shall be submitted in writing to the
Floodplain Administrator for review and written approval:
      (1)   A specified time period for which the temporary use will be
permitted. Time specified may not exceed three months, renewable up to one
year;
      (2)   The name, address, and phone number of the individual responsible
for the removal of the temporary structure;
      (3)   The time frame prior to the event at which a structure will be
removed (i.e., minimum of 72 hours before landfall of a hurricane or
immediately upon flood warning notification);
      (4)   A copy of the contract or other suitable instrument with the entity
responsible for physical removal of the structure; and
      (5)   Designation, accompanied by documentation, of a location outside
the special flood hazard area, to which the temporary structure will be moved.
   (H)   Accessory structures. The following criteria shall be met:
      (1)   Accessory structures shall not be used for human habitation
(including working, sleeping, living, cooking or restroom areas)
      (2)   Accessory structures may have conditioned, temperature-controlled
space provided the use is limited to parking or storage. The property owner
will be required to record a non-conversion agreement consistent with §
150.41(D)(5). Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning, and
other service equipment associated with an accessory structure shall be located
at or above the RFPE.
      (3)   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential;
      (4)   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the
building site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
      (5)   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance with
the provisions of §
150.40(A);
      (6)   Accessory structures, regardless of the size or cost, shall not be
placed below elevated buildings in the CHHA;
      (7)   All service facilities such as electrical shall be installed in
accordance with the provisions of §
150.40(D); and
      (8)   Flood openings to facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic
flood forces shall be provided below Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation in
conformance with the provisions of §
150.41(D)(3). The Floodplain Administrator shall certify installation of
required flood openings in compliance with these provisions.
      (9)   Secondary structures located on the same parcel in addition to a
principal use structure which feature conditioned, temperature-controlled areas
elevated above the regulatory flood protection elevation shall be constructed
consistent with §§
150.20 and
150.21.
   (I)   Tanks. Gas and liquid storage tanks shall meet the following criteria:
      (1)   Underground tanks. Underground tanks in flood hazard areas shall be
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads during conditions of the design flood,
including the effects of buoyancy assuming the tank is empty;
      (2)   Above-ground tanks, elevated. Above-ground tanks in flood hazard
areas may be elevated to or above the Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation on
a supporting structure that is designed to prevent flotation, collapse or
lateral movement during conditions of the design flood. Tank-supporting
structures shall meet the foundation requirements of the applicable flood
hazard area;
      (3)   Above-ground tanks, not elevated. Above ground tanks that do not
meet the elevation requirements of §§
150.41(B) and (I)(2) shall not be permitted in the CHHA. Above-ground tanks in
flood hazard areas may be located below the regulatory flood protection
elevation provided the tanks are designed, constructed, installed, and anchored
to resist all flood-related and other loads, including the effects of buoyancy
and lateral movement, during conditions of the design flood and without release
of contents in the floodwaters or infiltration by floodwaters into the tanks.
Tanks shall be designed, constructed, installed, and anchored to resist the
potential buoyant and other flood forces acting on an empty tank during design
flood conditions.
      (4)   Tank inlets and vents. Tank inlets, fill openings, outlets and
vents shall be located at or above the regulatory flood protection elevation or
fitted with covers designed to prevent lateral movement, the inflow of
floodwater or outflow of the contents of the tanks during conditions of the
design flood.
(Ord. 20-01, passed 5-20-2020)
§ 150.42 COASTAL HIGH HAZARD AREA.
   Coastal High Hazard Areas are SFHAs established in §
150.07. These areas have special flood hazards associated with high velocity
waters from storm surges or seismic activity and, therefore, all new
construction and substantial improvements shall meet the following provisions
in addition to the provisions of §§
150.40 and
150.41:
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements must be located
landward of the reach of mean high tide and comply with all applicable setback
standards of the town's zoning chapter.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be elevated so
that the bottom of the lowest horizontal structural member of the lowest floor
(excluding pilings or columns) is no lower than the regulatory flood protection
elevation. Floodproofing shall not be utilized on any structures in CHHAs to
satisfy the regulatory flood protection elevation requirements.
   (C)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall have the space
below the bottom of the lowest horizontal structural member of the lowest floor
either be free of obstruction or constructed with breakaway walls, open wood
latticework or insect screening, provided they are not part of the structural
support of the building and are designed so as to breakaway, under abnormally
high tides or wave action without causing damage to the elevated portion of the
building or supporting foundation system or otherwise jeopardizing the
structural integrity of the building. The following design specifications shall
be met:
      (1)   Material shall consist of open wood or plastic lattice having at
least 40 percent of its area open;
      (2)   Insect screening; or
      (3)   Breakaway walls shall meet the following design specifications:
         (a)   Breakaway walls shall have flood openings that allow for the
automatic entry and exit of floodwaters to minimize damage caused by
hydrostatic loads, per §
150.41(D)(3); and
         (b)   Design safe loading resistance shall be not less than ten nor
more than 20 pounds per square foot; or
         (c)   Breakaway walls that exceed a design safe loading resistance of
20 pounds per square foot (either by design or when so required by State or
local codes) shall be certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect that the breakaway wall will collapse from a water load less than
that which would occur during the base flood event, and the elevated portion of
the building and supporting foundation system shall not be subject to collapse,
displacement, or other structural damage due to the effects of wind and water
loads acting simultaneously on all building components (structural and non-
structural). The water loading values used shall be those associated with the
base flood. The wind loading values used shall be those required by the North
Carolina State Building Code.
   (D)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be securely
anchored to pile or column foundations. All pilings and columns and the
structure attached thereto shall be anchored to resist flotation, collapse, and
lateral movement due to the effect of wind and water loads acting
simultaneously on all building components.
      (1)   Water loading values used shall be those associated with the base
flood.
      (2)   Wind loading values used shall be those required by the current
edition of the North Carolina State Building Code.
   (E)   For concrete pads, including patios, decks, parking pads, walkways,
driveways, pool decks, etc. the following is required:
      (1)   Shall be structurally independent of the primary structural
foundation system of the structure and shall not adversely affect structures
through redirection of floodwaters or debris;
      (2)   Shall be constructed to breakaway cleanly during design flood
conditions, shall be frangible, and shall not produce debris capable of causing
damage to any structure. The installation of concrete in small segments
(approximately 4 feet x 4 feet) that will easily break up during the base flood
event or score concrete in 4 feet x 4 feet maximum segments is acceptable to
meet this standard;
      (3)   Reinforcing, including welded wire fabric, shall not be used in
order to minimize the potential for concreted pads being a source of debris;
and
      (4)   Pad thickness:
         (a)   Shall not exceed four inches; or
         (b)   A design professional shall certify that the design and method
of construction to be used will be compliant with the applicable criteria of
this section.
   (F)   For swimming pools and spas, the following is required:
      (1)   They must be designed to withstand all flood-related loads and load
combination and:
         (a)   Be elevated so that the lowest horizontal structural member is
elevated above the RFPE;
         (b)   Be designed and constructed to break away during design flood
conditions without producing debris capable of causing damage to any structure;
or
         (c)   Be sited to remain in the ground during design flood conditions
without obstructing flow that results in damage to any structure.
      (2)   Registered design professionals must certify to local officials
that a pool or spa beneath or near a building in a CHHA will not be subject to
flotation or displacement that will damage building foundations or elevated
portions of the building or any nearby buildings during a coastal flood.
      (3)   Pool equipment shall be located above the RFPE whenever
practicable. Pool equipment shall not be located beneath an elevated structure.
      (4)   Consistency with all applicable standards specified in the town's
zoning chapter.
   (G)   For all elevators, vertical platform lifts, chair lifts, etc., the
following is required:
      (1)   Elevator enclosures must be designed to resist hydrodynamic and
hydrostatic forces as well as erosion, scour, and waves.
      (2)   Utility equipment in CHHAs must not be mounted on, pass through, or
be located along breakaway walls.
      (3)   The cab, machine/equipment room, hydraulic pump, hydraulic
reservoir, counter weight and roller guides, hoist cable, limit switches,
electric hoist motor, electrical junction box, circuit panel, and electrical
control panel shall:
         (a)   Be elevated to or above the RFPE; or
         (b)   Constructed using flood damage-resistant components/materials.
      (4)   Elevator shafts/enclosures that extend below the RFPE shall be
constructed of reinforced masonry block or reinforced concrete walls and
located on the landward side of the building to provide increased protection
from flood damage. Drainage must be provided for the elevator pit.
      (5)   Flood damage-resistant materials can also be used inside and
outside the elevator cab to reduce flood damage. Use only stainless steel doors
and door frames below the RFPE. Grouting in of door frames and sills is
recommended.
      (6)   If an elevator is designed to provide access to areas below the
RFPE, it shall be equipped with a float switch system that will activate during
a flood and send the elevator cab to a floor above the RFPE.
   (H)   Accessory structures, regardless of size or cost, shall not be
permitted below elevated structures.
   (I)   Fill/Grading.
      (1)   Minor grading and the placement of minor quantities of
nonstructural fill may be permitted for landscaping and for drainage purposes
under and around buildings and for support of parking slabs, pool decks,
patios, walkways, and similar site elements.
      (2)   The placement of site-compatible, non-structural fill under or
around an elevated building is limited to two feet. Fill greater than two feet
must include an analysis prepared by a qualified registered design professional
demonstrating no harmful diversion of floodwaters or wave runup and wave
reflection that would increase damage to adjacent elevated buildings and
structures.
      (3)   The fill material must be similar and consistent with the natural
soils in the area.
      (4)   Nonstructural fill with finished slopes that are steeper than five
units horizontal to one unit vertical shall be permitted only if an analysis
prepared by a qualified registered design professional demonstrates no harmful
diversion of floodwaters or wave runup and wave reflection that would increase
damage to adjacent elevated buildings and structures.
      (5)   Fill and grading activities must be consistent with the applicable
standards as specified in the town's zoning chapter.
   (J)   There shall be no alteration of sand dunes or mangrove stands which
would increase potential flood damage.
   (K)   No manufactured homes shall be permitted except in an existing
manufactured home park or subdivision. A replacement manufactured home may be
placed on a lot in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision provided
the anchoring and elevation standards of this section have been satisfied.
   (L)   Recreational vehicles may be permitted in CHHAs provided that they
meet the recreational vehicle criteria of §
150.41(F).
   (M)   A deck that is structurally attached to a building or structure shall
have the bottom of the lowest horizontal structural member at or above the RFPE
and any supporting members that extend below the RFPE shall comply with the
foundation requirements that apply to the building or structure, which shall be
designed to accommodate any increased loads resulting from the attached deck.
The increased loads must be considered in the design of the primary structure
and included in the V-Zone Certification required under §
150.26(C)(6).
   (N)   A deck or patio that is located below the RFPE shall be structurally
independent from buildings or structures and their foundation systems, and
shall be designed and constructed either to remain intact and in place during
design flood conditions or to break apart into small pieces to minimize debris
during flooding that is capable of causing structural damage to the building or
structure or to adjacent buildings and structures.
   (O)   In CHHAs, development activities other than buildings and structures
shall be permitted only if also authorized by the appropriate state or local
authority; if located outside the footprint of, and not structurally attached
to, buildings and structures; and if analyses prepared by qualified registered
design professionals demonstrate no harmful diversion of floodwaters or wave
runup and wave reflection that would increase damage to adjacent buildings and
structures. Such other development activities include but are not limited to:
      (1)   Bulkheads, seawalls, retaining walls, revetments, and similar
erosion control structures;
      (2)   Solid fences and privacy walls, and fences prone to trapping
debris, unless designed and con-structed to fail under flood conditions less
than the design flood or otherwise function to avoid obstruction of
floodwaters.
      (3)   Docks, piers and similar structures.
   (P)   No more than four electrical outlets and no more than four electrical
switches may be permitted below RFPE unless required by building code.
(Ord. 20-01, passed 5-20-2020)
§ 150.43 STANDARDS FOR AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING (ZONE AO).
   Located within the SFHAs established in §
150.07, are areas designated as shallow flooding areas. These areas have
special flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist and where the path of flooding
is unpredictable and indeterminate. In addition to §§
150.40 and
150.41, all new construction and substantial improvements shall meet the
following requirements:
   (A)   The reference level shall be elevated at least as high as the
designated base flood depth specified on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM)
plus a freeboard of one foot above the highest adjacent grade OR at or above
ten feet NAVD 1988, whichever is greater.
   (B)   Non-residential structures may, in lieu of elevation, be floodproofed
to the same level as required above in §
150.43(A) so that the structure, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, below that level shall be watertight with walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water and with structural components having the
capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of
buoyancy. Certification is required in accordance with §§
150.26(C)(2) and
150.41(B).
   (C)   Adequate drainage paths shall be provided around structures on slopes,
to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed structures.
(Ord. 20-01, passed 5-20-2020)
LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS
§ 150.55 EFFECT ON RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES UNDER THE EXISTING FLOOD DAMAGE
PREVENTION ORDINANCE.
   This chapter in part comes forward by re-enactment of some of the provisions
of the Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance enacted September 3, 2003 as amended,
and it is not the intention to repeal but rather to re-enact and continue to
enforce without interruption of such existing provisions, so that all rights
and liabilities that have accrued thereunder are reserved and may be enforced.
The enactment of this ordinance shall not affect any action, suit or proceeding
instituted or pending. All provisions of the Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance
of the Town of Duck enacted on September 3, 2003, as amended, which are not
reenacted herein are repealed.
(Ord. 20-01, passed 5-20-2020)
§ 150.56 EFFECT UPON OUTSTANDING FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMITS.
   Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the plans,
construction, size, or designated use of any development or any part thereof
for which a floodplain development permit has been granted by the Floodplain
Administrator or his or her authorized agents before the time of passage of
this ordinance; provided, however, that when construction is not begun under
such outstanding permit within a period of six months subsequent to the date of
issuance of the outstanding permit, construction or use shall be in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 20-01, passed 5-20-2020)
§ 150.99 PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION.
   In addition to the penalty provisions set forth in G.S. § 143-215.58, any
person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to a civil
penalty in the amount of $100 per violation. Each day such violation continues
shall be considered a separate offense. The person cited for the violation must
pay the civil penalty within five days of being cited for the violation. In the
event that the person cited for the violation does not pay the civil penalty
within the prescribed time, the town may bring a civil action to recover the
penalty and associated court costs. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the
Town of Duck from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or
remedy any violation.
(Ord. 20-01, passed 5-20-2020)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Office of Building Inspector; duties
   
151.02   Building Inspector; right of entry for inspection
   
151.03   Certificate of occupancy in general
   
151.04   Site inspection prerequisite to issuance of certificate of occupancy
   
151.05   Sewage disposal system prerequisite to connection of electricity
   
151.06   State Building Code adopted; on file
Permits
   
151.20   Permits required
   
151.21   Application
   
151.22   Expiration
   
151.23   Commencement of work
   
151.24   Valuation of structure and the like
   
151.25   Appeal of decisions of the Building Inspector
   
151.26   Fees prerequisite to issuance; exemptions
   
151.27   Records to be kept by Building Inspector
   
151.28   Penalty added to fee
   
151.29   Bond
   
151.30   Temporary toilet facilities
   
151.31   Pedestrian safety and protection of facilities
   
151.32   Violations
   
151.33   Review of decision
Moving and Demolition of Buildings and Structures
   
151.45   Compliance with subchapter
   
151.46   Bond
   
151.47   Maximum time building or structure may remain on streets
   
151.48   Notification to officials; beginning and completing work; safety
precautions
   
151.49   Maximum time building or structure may remain on a temporary
foundation
   
151.50   Permit required
   
151.51   Application for permit
   
151.52   Procedure for moving a building from a location within either an ocean
hazard or estuarine AEC
   
151.53   Refusal to issue; appeal to Town Council
   
151.54   Copies to be sent to Fire Chief and like officials
   
151.55   Demolition of structures; compliance
   
151.56   Permit for demolition; procedure; appeal
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 OFFICE OF BUILDING INSPECTOR; DUTIES.
   Under the authority granted to the town by G.S. § 160A-411, the Office of
Building Inspector for the town is hereby established. The Building Inspector
so appointed shall have all of the duties vested in the Office by the General
Statutes.
(Ord. 03-09, passed 7-2-2003)
§ 151.02 BUILDING INSPECTOR; RIGHT OF ENTRY FOR INSPECTION.
   The Building Inspector of the town has the right at any hour of the day and
any day of the week to access a lot or site for which a building permit has
been requested or issued but for which a certificate of occupancy has not yet
been issued, for the purposes of inspection of the premises in accordance with
this chapter, the Zoning Chapter and the building code of the town.
(Ord. 03-09, passed 7-2-2003)
§ 151.03 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY IN GENERAL.
   (A)   When required.
      (1)   No new building shall be occupied and no change in occupancy of a
building or part of a building shall be made until after the Building Inspector
shall have issued a certificate of occupancy.
      (2)   No certificate of occupancy shall be issued by the Building
Inspector without determining that the proposed building complies with the
terms and conditions of this subchapter, the town code, all pertinent adopted
policies, codes and regulations of the town, the State of North Carolina, and
the federal government.
      (3)   Compliance includes but is not limited to installation and
completion of all required parking on the property; display of street numbers
as required; removal of construction dumpsters, temporary toilet facilities and
debris from the property; and repair and cleanup of any affected public
property and vehicular or pedestrian accessways.
   (B)   Issuance; contents. Upon completion of a building erected in
accordance with approved plans, and after the final inspection referred to in §
151.06 below and upon application therefor, the Building Inspector shall issue
a certificate of occupancy, stating the nature of the occupancy permitted, the
number of persons for each floor when limited by law, and the allowable load
per square foot for each floor in accordance with the provisions of this code.
   (C)   Temporary occupancy. A temporary certificate of occupancy may be
issued for a portion of a building which may safely be occupied prior to final
completion of the building.
   (D)   Existing buildings.
      (1)   A certificate of occupancy for any existing building may be
obtained by applying to the Building Inspector and supplying the information
and data necessary to determine compliance with this code for the occupancy
intended.
      (2)   Where necessary, in the opinion of the Building Inspector, 2 sets
of detailed drawings or a general inspection, or both, may be required. When,
upon examination and inspection, it is found that the building conforms to the
provisions of this code for the occupancy, a certificate of occupancy shall be
issued.
(Ord. 03-09, passed 7-2-2003)
§ 151.04 SITE INSPECTION PREREQUISITE TO ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   Before a certificate of occupancy can be issued for a building which has
been constructed, altered or moved, the site of the construction, alteration or
move shall have been cleaned up of all excess building materials, remnants and
trash and the same inspected by the Building Inspector.
(Ord. 03-09, passed 7-2-2003)
§ 151.05 SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM PREREQUISITE TO CONNECTION OF ELECTRICITY.
   No person supplying electricity within the town shall commence service to a
dwelling or a proposed dwelling or structure until he or she has been presented
a certificate from the County Board of Health that the dwelling or structure
has a sewage disposal system that complies with the minimum health requirements
of the County Board of Health.
(Ord. 03-09, passed 7-2-2003)
§ 151.06 STATE BUILDING CODE ADOPTED; ON FILE.
   The minimum standards, provisions and requirements for safe and stable
design, methods of construction and usage of materials in buildings and
structures hereafter erected, enlarged, altered, repaired, moved, converted to
other uses or demolished, and the equipment, maintenance, use and occupancy of
all buildings and structures in the town to which the state building code
applies shall be regulated in accordance with the terms of the state building
code and its appendices, which are hereby adopted and incorporated in this
chapter by reference as fully as though set forth herein, and the amendments
thereto as are prepared and published from time to time by the State Building
Code Council and approved by the State Insurance Commissioner; that a certified
copy of the code shall be placed and remain on file in the office of the
Building Inspector or Town Clerk.
(Ord. 03-09, passed 7-2-2003)
PERMITS
§ 151.20 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, construct or build, or
cause or authorize the same, on any lot or parcel of land within the corporate
limits, any building or structure of any kind or description, until that person
first submits to the Building Inspector a duly signed and completed application
for a building permit.
   (B)   Until the person obtains a permit to erect, build or construct a
building or structure as described in the application for permit, it shall be
unlawful for the person to proceed with the erection, building or construction
of a building or structure as herein provided.
(Ord. 03-09, passed 7-2-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.21 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Applications for building permits for new construction of principal
structures shall be accompanied by at least the following:
      (1)   Street address for project or dwelling;
      (2)   A survey, in duplicate, showing:
         (a)   Metes and bounds description;
         (b)   Dimensions of lot and lot numbers;
         (c)   Elevation of lot at approximate center of proposed structures;
         (d)   Existing and proposed buildings;
         (e)   First floor elevation of proposed structures;
         (f)   Existing and proposed driveways;
         (g)   Existing and proposed septic facilities, including tanks,
distribution boxes and nitrification lines;
         (h)   Setbacks from property lines;
         (i)   If the lot is within an area of environmental concern (AEC), the
survey shall show the location of the first line of stable natural vegetation,
the CAMA setback line and contour lines at 2-foot intervals depicting any dunes
located within an oceanfront AEC that are to be disturbed by the construction;
and
         (j)   The location of any marsh areas or estuarine waters within or
abutting the lot, and if the lot is within the watershed area of environmental
concern.
      (3)   A Coastal Area Management Act permit or CAMA exemption letter,
whichever is applicable, if any proposed development depicted on the survey
lies within an area of environmental concern;
      (4)   Two sets of construction drawings to scale with dimensions that
show at least the following:
         (a)   Foundation plan or piling schedule;
         (b)   Floor plans;
         (c)   Cross sections of wall and roof design with connections;
         (d)   Elevations; and
         (e)   Proposed building height.
      (5)   A current permit for a sewage system issued by the County
Environmental Health Department or the Division of Environmental Management of
the State Department of Natural Resources and Community Development;
      (6)   Receipt for the payments of any fees imposed by the town or county,
including, but not limited to, water tap fee and water impact fee;
      (7)   Payment of building permit and review fees in accordance with the
currently adopted fee schedule; and
      (8)   Any other information determined necessary by the Building
Inspector to ensure that construction will be in compliance with the State
Building Code.
   (B)   All building permit applications for remodeling, additions to existing
structures or construction of accessory structures shall be accompanied by
sufficient information to allow the Planning and Development Department to
verify that the proposed work will be in compliance with the Zoning Chapter,
the State Building Code, the Coastal Area Management Act and state regulations
for sewage treatment. This may require the following information:
      (1)   A survey or drawing showing the proposed work in relation to
property lines and existing structures;
      (2)   Proposed first floor elevations;
      (3)   Coastal Area Management Act permit or CAMA exemption letter;
      (4)   Construction drawings showing foundation plan or piling schedule,
floor plans, cross sections of wall and roof design with connections,
elevations and proposed building height;
      (5)   Current permit for a sewage system issued by the County
Environmental Health Department;
      (6)   Receipts for payments of any fees imposed by the town, including,
but not limited to, water tap fee and water impact fee, if applicable;
      (7)   Payment of the building permit and review fees in accordance with
the currently adopted fee schedule; and
      (8)   Independent appraisal of value of existing structures and proposed
work.
(Ord. 03-09, passed 7-2-2003)
§ 151.22 EXPIRATION.
   (A)   A building permit expires if work does not commence within 6 months of
its issuance. In these cases, a new permit shall be obtained to replace the
expired permit before work can commence.
   (B)   Construction is considered commenced when work has begun to install
the permanent pilings or foundation and is continued in a normal fashion.
Minimal work on the pilings or foundation that is done for the purpose of
avoiding a permit expiration is not considered as commencement of work.
   (C)   If after commencement of work authorized under a building permit, no
required inspections are scheduled and conducted within any 12-month period,
the building permit shall automatically expire.
(Ord. 03-09, passed 7-2-2003)
§ 151.23 COMMENCEMENT OF WORK.
   (A)   If any person undertakes the commencement of work regarding a building
or structure before obtaining the necessary permit from the town, he or she
shall be subject to the additional fees as prescribed in the adopted fee
schedule of the town.
   (B)   The term COMMENCEMENT OF WORK shall include any of the following
activities relating to a building or structure:
      (1)   Initiation of any construction or repair work;
      (2)   Clearing or grading not specifically permitted under a land
disturbance permit;
      (3)   Excavation or batter boards set for a foundation;
      (4)   Demolition as defined by the North Carolina Building Code; or
      (5)   Delivery of construction materials, equipment, or dumpsters related
to a demolition or construction activity.
(Ord. 03-09, passed 7-2-2003; Am. Ord. 15-05, passed 6-3-2015)
§ 151.24 VALUATION OF STRUCTURE AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   If, in the opinion of the Building Inspector, the valuation of a
building, alteration or structure appears to be underestimated on the
application, the permit shall be denied unless the applicant can show detailed
estimated cost to meet the approval of the Building Inspector.
   (B)   The term ESTIMATED COST as used in this section means the current
value of all services, labor and materials.
(Ord. 03-09, passed 7-2-2003)
§ 151.25 APPEAL OF DECISIONS OF THE BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   Whenever the Building Inspector shall reject or refuse to approve the mode
or manner of construction proposed to be followed or materials to be used in
the erection or alteration of a building or structure, or when it is claimed
that the provisions of this code do not apply or that an equally good or more
desirable form of construction can be employed in any specific case, or when it
is claimed that the sure intent and meaning of this code or any of the
regulations thereunder have been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the owner
of the building or structure, or his or her duly authorized agent, may appeal
from the decision of the Building Inspector to the Commissioner of Insurance or
other official specified in G.S. § 143-139.
(Ord. 03-09, passed 7-2-2003)
§ 151.26 FEES PREREQUISITE TO ISSUANCE; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   No permit shall be issued until the fees prescribed in this section
shall have been paid, nor shall an amendment to a permit be approved until the
additional fee, if any, due to an increase in the estimated cost of the
building or structure, shall have been paid.
   (B)   The fees for permits required under this subchapter shall be according
to the schedule established from time to time by ordinance of the Town Council
and on file in the office of the Town Clerk.
   (C)   No fees will be required for permits or certificates of occupancy for
churches and buildings to be used for charitable or governmental purposes.
(Ord. 03-09, passed 7-2-2003)
§ 151.27 RECORDS TO BE KEPT BY BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   The Building Inspector shall keep a permanent and accurate accounting of all
permit fees and other monies collected, the names of all persons upon whose
account the same was paid and the date and amount of payment.
(Ord. 03-09, passed 7-2-2003)
§ 151.28 PENALTY ADDED TO FEE.
   (A)   If any construction, alteration, repair or other work requiring a
permit under §§
151.20 through
151.32 is commenced before the permit is secured and fee paid for same, a
penalty shall be added to the fee due, as provided for in the town’s adopted
fee schedule.
   (B)   The fee penalty herein provided shall be in addition to and not in
lieu of any other remedies prescribed by law.
(Ord. 03-09, passed 7-2-2003)
§ 151.29 BOND.
   (A)   The Building Inspector, as a condition precedent to the issuance of a
permit pursuant to this subchapter, may require a bond to be executed by the
person desiring the building permit, the bond to be executed by a corporate
surety authorized to do business in the state.
   (B)   The bond shall be made payable to the town in the amount of $5,000.
The bond shall indemnify the town against any damage caused by the proposed
construction to streets, curbs, sidewalks, hydrants and any other public
property.
   (C)   Bond release shall be conditioned upon the cleanup and removal of all
trash, garbage and excess building materials, and a satisfactory inspection of
the sidewalk or multiuse path affected by site development and construction
activities as certified by the Building Inspector.
(Ord. 03-09, passed 7-2-2003)
§ 151.30 TEMPORARY TOILET FACILITIES.
   (A)   The applicant for any building permit requiring a County Department of
Environmental Health septic tank sewage disposal improvement permit shall
provide and maintain 1 or more temporary suitable toilet facilities on the
construction site.
   (B)   The temporary toilet facilities shall be in accordance with the
provisions of the State Building Code.
   (C)   The temporary toilet facilities shall meet County Department of
Environmental Health rules and regulations, shall be placed on-site prior to
the start of construction, shall remain on-site until a certificate of
occupancy is issued and shall meet the town’s principal building setback line
requirements.
   (D)   Construction sites with adjoining property lines may share toilet
facilities; provided, that the distance separating the facility and the nearest
part of the structure under construction shall not exceed 200 feet. In cases of
shared facilities, no setback shall be required from the common property line.
(Ord. 03-09, passed 7-2-2003)
§ 151.31 PEDESTRIAN SAFETY AND PROTECTION OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   The property owner and general contractor shall be held responsible
for the creation of any unsafe condition on that portion of a sidewalk or
multiuse path affected by activities involving site development, construction,
alteration or repair.
   (B)   The property owner and general contractor are responsible for any
damage to a sidewalk or multiuse facility as a result of activities involving
site development, construction, alteration or repair.
   (C)   Any reasonable measure implemented to protect a sidewalk or multiuse
path is encouraged, provided the protective measures are temporary and limited
to normal work hours only.
   (D)   At no time shall protective measures that are implemented remain in
place so as to create an unsafe condition or interfere with the normal use of a
sidewalk or multiuse path after dusk and before dawn, or on weekends.
(Ord. 03-09, passed 7-2-2003)
§ 151.32 VIOLATIONS.
   Any violation of §§
151.01 through
151.06 above shall subject the offender to additional fees prescribed in the
town’s adopted fee schedule or additional remedies prescribed by law.
(Ord. 03-09, passed 7-2-2003)
§ 151.33 REVIEW OF DECISION.
   (A)   An applicant or permit holder has the right to request an informal
internal review of any inspection decision made by a Building Inspector. Such
review will be conducted by the Director of Community Development.
   (B)   A decision on the review must occur within a reasonable timeframe. The
town will strive to conduct its review within 5 working days from the
submission of a complete application for review.
   (C)   In instances where the Director of Community Development is not
available to complete the review within a reasonable timeframe, the review may
be conducted by the Town Manager.
(Ord. 17-17, passed 2-7-2018)
MOVING AND DEMOLITION OF BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES
§ 151.45 COMPLIANCE WITH SUBCHAPTER.
   No building or part of any building, structure or dwelling shall be moved
through, across or over any sidewalk, street, alley or highway within the
corporate limits of the town without the owner or contractor complying with the
terms and conditions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 03-09, passed 7-2-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.46 BOND.
   (A)   The Building Inspector, as a condition precedent to the issuance of a
permit pursuant to this subchapter, may require a bond to be executed by the
person desiring the removal permit, the bond to be executed by a corporate
surety authorized to do business in the state.
   (B)   The bond shall be made payable to the town and for an amount as the
Building Inspector may determine to be adequate and commensurate with the size
and circumstances surrounding the moving of the building.
   (C)   The bond shall indemnify the town against any damage caused by the
moving of the building or structure to streets, curbs, sidewalks, hydrants and
any other property which may be affected by the moving of a building or
structure.
   (D)   The surety bond shall also be conditioned upon and liable for strict
compliance with the terms of the permit, as to the route to be taken and limit
of time in which to effect the removal, to repair or provide compensation for
the repair of damages or injury to property and to pay the town an amount of
$50 a day for each day’s delay in completing the removal, and for repairing any
damages to property or public improvement or in clearing all public streets,
alleys or highways of all debris occasioned thereby.
(Ord. 03-09, passed 7-2-2003)
§ 151.47 MAXIMUM TIME BUILDING OR STRUCTURE MAY REMAIN ON STREETS.
   Any building or structure being moved for which a permit was granted shall
not be allowed to remain in or on the streets of the town for more than 24
hours unless approved by the Town Manager.
(Ord. 03-09, passed 7-2-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.48 NOTIFICATION TO OFFICIALS; BEGINNING AND COMPLETING WORK; SAFETY
PRECAUTIONS.
   (A)   The person in charge of moving any building or structure shall notify
the Chief of the Fire Department, the Chief of Police and the Superintendent of
the Waterworks of the County of Dare of the date and hour that he or she
proposes to begin the moving of the building over the streets or highways of
the town and the estimated time required for the removal of the building from
the old to the new location and the clearing of the streets.
   (B)   In addition thereto, he or she shall provide, at his or her own
expense, the following safety requirements:
      (1)    Every building that occupies any portion of public property or
street or highway after sundown shall have sufficient light continuously
burning between sunset and sunrise for the protection of the public. There
shall be a minimum of 5 red lights placed on each street side of the building.
The red lights shall be attached to the building in a fashion as to indicate
its extreme width, height and size. There shall be placed, in addition to the
red lights on the building, flares at regular intervals for a distance of 200
feet up the street or highway on each side of the building; and
      (2)   When more than 50% of the hard surface or running surface of a
street or highway is occupied at night by the building while the building is in
transit over the streets or highways, the owner or person moving the building
shall employ at his or her expense 2 flagpersons, 1 in the direction to which
the building is moving and the other in the direction from which it is going,
at a sufficient distance therefrom in order to direct or divert or stop traffic
around the building while the building may be occupying the entire paved or
running surface of the street or highway. Red lights shall be employed in
flagging traffic at night.
(Ord. 03-09, passed 7-2-2003)
§ 151.49 MAXIMUM TIME BUILDING OR STRUCTURE MAY REMAIN ON A TEMPORARY
FOUNDATION.
   (A)   No building shall remain on a temporary foundation for more than 30
days before it is located on its permanent foundation in accordance with the
approved site plan.
   (B)   In the event a building remains on a temporary foundation for more
than 5 days, the same shall be tied down and secured with at least 4 anchors of
a minimum size of 4 feet in length with a minimum 4-inch auger on end, screwed
into the ground, and tied to the structure.
(Ord. 03-09, passed 7-2-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.50 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall move or cause to be moved any building or part of any
building, structure or dwelling within a lot, or through, across or over any
sidewalk, street, alley or highway within the corporate limits of the town
without first applying for and obtaining a permit from the Building Inspector.
   (B)   The Building Inspector shall inspect the structure prior to
authorizing issuance of a permit to move it within or into the town. Prior to
the issuance of a building permit, the owner or applicant shall pay all
appropriate fees and bonds in accordance with the consolidated fee schedule of
the town.
(Ord. 03-09, passed 7-2-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.51 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Any person, before moving or attempting to move any building or part of any
building or structure referred to in §§
151.45 through
151.56, shall file written application with the Building Inspector, setting
forth the following information:
   (A)   The type and kind of building or structure to be moved;
   (B)   The date that moving will take place over streets or highways of the
town;
   (C)   The extreme dimensions of the length, height and width of the building
or structure;
   (D)   The present location and proposed new location of the building or
structure by lot, block, subdivision and street numbers or other description
adequate for an accurate location thereof;
   (E)   The approximate time the building or structure will be upon the
streets and the contemplated route that will be taken from present to new
location;
   (F)   Public utilities and public agencies to which notice or from which
clearance is required and which will be affected; and
   (G)   Owners of property that might be affected.
(Ord. 03-09, passed 7-2-2003)
§ 151.52 PROCEDURE FOR MOVING A BUILDING FROM A LOCATION WITHIN EITHER AN OCEAN
HAZARD OR AN ESTUARINE AEC.
   (A)   Obtain a CAMA permit, if required.
   (B)   At a minimum, the following building permit provisions shall apply:
      (1)   All pilings and portions of pilings shall be removed from the
ground and site in their entirety; all electrical, cable, telephone and water
service pipes and lines shall be removed to the point of their service
connections; all septic tanks, drain lines and service lines shall be removed
from the site in their entirety; all broken glass shall be removed from the
premises and disposed of appropriately prior to moving the structure;
      (2)   For structures relocated on the same lot and within an ocean hazard
AEC, all concrete/asphalt shall be removed (unless permitted by CAMA) oceanward
of the relocated structure;
      (3)   In all other cases, all concrete/asphalt within the ocean hazard
AEC shall be removed from the site;
      (3)   All sandbags shall be removed; and
      (4)   All debris shall be disposed of utilizing approved disposal sites.
   (C)   To ensure compliance with this subchapter, the town code and the
building permit, the holder of the building permit shall contact and receive
approval from the Building Inspector prior to proceeding with the following
schedule. Failure to call for any required inspection(s) shall result in the
assessment of a fee as set forth in the consolidated fee schedule of the town.
All septic tanks, drain lines and pilings shall not be removed from the site
without specific authorization from the Building Inspector. After the issuance
of a building permit for moving a structure, the following minimum procedures
shall be followed:
      (1)   The applicant shall contact the Dare County Department of
Environmental Health to locate on-site the septic tank and drainfield;
      (2)   Prior to commencing work the applicant shall inform the Building
Inspector and the Building Inspector shall inspect the site and count the
pilings;
      (3)   After the Building Inspector inspects the site in division (C)(2)
above, the applicant may remove the structure from the foundation;
      (4)   After removal of the pilings, septic tank and drain lines, and
prior to their removal from the site, the applicant shall call for an
inspection, and shall receive approval from the Building Inspector prior to
continuing work;
      (5)   The applicant shall remove all debris and clean up the site;
      (6)   In an ocean hazard AEC, the applicant shall remove all sand bags,
rebuild and stabilize the dune, then call for inspection of the site by the
Building Inspector and CAMA official. If the site is found in compliance the
Building Inspector shall issue a certificate of compliance; and
      (7)   In an estuarine AEC, the applicant shall call for an inspection of
the site by the Building Inspector and CAMA official. If the site is found in
compliance the Building Inspector shall issue a certificate of compliance.
(Ord. 03-09, passed 7-2-2003)
§ 151.53 REFUSAL TO ISSUE; APPEAL TO TOWN COUNCIL.
   (A)   If, in the opinion of the Building Inspector, the moving of any
building or part thereof will cause injury to persons or property, either
public or private, or injury to the streets and other public facilities of the
town, he or she shall not issue a permit, and the building shall not be moved
over the streets of the town.
   (B)   In the event that any permit is refused by the Building Inspector, the
owner or contractor may appeal therefrom to the Town Council, and the
application shall be passed upon by the Council at a duly convened meeting
thereof.
(Ord. 03-09, passed 7-2-2003)
§ 151.54 COPIES TO BE SENT TO FIRE CHIEF AND LIKE OFFICIALS.
   Upon the issuance of a permit under this subchapter, the Building Inspector
shall send a copy thereof to the Chief of the Fire Department, the
Superintendent of the Waterworks of Dare County, local authorities in charge of
the telephone and light companies and others whose property may be affected by
the removal.
(Ord. 03-09, passed 7-2-2003)
§ 151.55 DEMOLITION OF STRUCTURES; COMPLIANCE.
   No person shall demolish any building or part of any building, structure or
dwelling within the corporate limits of the town without complying with the
terms and conditions of this subchapter, the town code, all pertinent adopted
policies of the town and the State of North Carolina.
(Ord. 03-09, passed 7-2-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.56 PERMIT FOR DEMOLITION; PROCEDURE; APPEAL.
   (A)   Permit required.
      (1)   No person shall demolish any building or part of any building,
structure or dwelling within the corporate limits of the town without first
applying for and obtaining a permit from the Building Inspector.
      (2)   Prior to the issuance of a building permit, the owner or applicant
shall pay all appropriate fees and bonds in accordance with the consolidated
fee schedule of the town.
      (3)   Septic tanks, drain lines, or pilings shall not be removed from the
site without specific authorization from the Building Inspector.
      (4)   No permit shall be issued for commercial property demolition, or
demolition of residential properties that were at any time used for commercial
purposes, without submission of an asbestos report.
   (B)   Procedure for demolition from a location within an ocean hazard or an
estuarine AEC:
      (1)   Obtain a CAMA permit, if required;
      (2)   At a minimum, the following building permit provisions shall apply:
         (a)   All pilings and portions of pilings shall be removed from the
ground and the site in their entirety;
         (b)   All glass doors, windows and the like and all broken glass shall
be removed and disposed of appropriately prior to demolition;
         (c)   All electrical, cable, telephone and water service pipes and
lines shall be removed to the point of their service connections;
         (d)   All septic tanks, drain lines and service lines shall be removed
from the site in their entirety;
         (e)   Unless permitted by CAMA, all concrete/asphalt within the ocean
hazard AEC shall be removed;
         (f)   All sand bags shall be removed from the site; and
         (g)   All debris shall be disposed of utilizing approved disposal
sites.
      (3)   To ensure compliance with this subchapter, the town code and the
building permit, the holder of the building permit shall contact and receive
approval from the Building Inspector prior to proceeding with the following
schedule. Failure to call for any required inspection(s) shall result in the
assessment of a fee as set forth in the consolidated fee schedule of the town.
All septic tanks, drain lines and pilings shall not be removed from the site
without specific authorization from the Building Inspector. After the issuance
of a building permit for the demolition of a structure, the following minimum
procedures shall be followed:
         (a)   The applicant shall contact the Dare County Department of
Environmental Health to locate on-site the septic tank and drainfield;
         (b)   Prior to commencing work the applicant shall inform the Building
Inspector and the Building Inspector shall inspect the site and count the
pilings;
         (c)   The applicant shall remove all glass from the structure, i.e.,
windows, doors, mirrors and the like;
         (d)   The applicant shall demolish the structure;
         (e)   After removal of the pilings, septic tank and drain lines, and
prior to their removal from the site, the applicant shall call for an
inspection, and shall receive approval from the Building Inspector prior to
continuing work;
         (f)   The applicant shall remove all debris and clean up the site;
         (g)   In an ocean hazard AEC, the applicant shall remove all sand
bags, rebuild and stabilize the dune, then call for inspection of the site by
the Building Inspector and CAMA official. If the site is found in compliance
the Building Inspector shall issue a certificate of compliance; and
         (h)   In an estuarine AEC, the applicant shall call for inspection of
the site by the Building Inspector and CAMA official. If the site is found in
compliance the Building Inspector shall issue a certificate of compliance.
   (C)   Refusal to issue; appeal to Town Council.
      (1)   If, in the opinion of the Building Inspector, the demolition of any
structure or part thereof will cause injury to persons or property, either
public or private, or injury to the streets and other public facilities of the
town, he or she shall not issue a permit and the structure shall not be
demolished.
      (2)   In the event that any permit is refused by the Building Inspector,
the owner or contractor may appeal therefrom to the Town Council, and the
application shall be considered by the Town Council at a duly convened meeting
thereof.
(Ord. 03-09, passed 7-2-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 152: REBUILDING AND RECONSTRUCTION; DAMAGING STORMS
Section
   
152.01   Intent
   
152.02   Definitions
   
152.03   Hurricane and storm reconstruction
   
152.04   Reconstruction task force
§ 152.01 INTENT.
   (A)   Following a damaging storm and enactment of a building moratorium it
is the intent of the town to allow rebuilding and reconstruction in an orderly
manner.
   (B)   The town will control the issuance of building permits to manage the
location, timing and sequence of reconstruction and repair.
   (C)   It is further the intent of this chapter that the town establish,
prior to the storm, a special reconstruction task force which will oversee the
recovery and reconstruction process and serve as an advisory body to the Town
Council on recovery/reconstruction issues.
   (D)   A main responsibility of this body will be to identify opportunities
to mitigate future storm damages through the management of reconstruction.
   (E)   To further the intent of this chapter, the town will make every effort
to develop its capacity to identify and orchestrate various post-storm
reconstruction resources, while at the same time ensuring maximum local control
over the reconstruction process.
(Ord. 02-03, passed 5-1-2002)
§ 152.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DESTROYED STRUCTURE. A structure that is a total loss or damaged to such an
extent that repairs are not technically or economically feasible, that is, 50%
or more of replacement cost at the time of damage or destruction.
   INCIPIENT INLET. An ocean-to-sound inlet which has been formed, or an inlet
in the first stages of formation, or an inlet which has opened and is now
closed, as a result of a severe storm event.
   INCIPIENT INLET HIGH HAZARD AREA. That land area on both sides of an inlet,
an incipient inlet, or former inlet which has closed.
   LOCAL DAMAGE ASSESSMENT TEAM. A damage assessment team, required by the
state division of emergency management, whose function is to assess losses to
property immediately after a storm. The assessment is used to determine if the
area can qualify for federal or state disaster assistance.
   MAJOR DAMAGED STRUCTURE. A structure that can be made habitable with
extensive repairs. Damage may include foundation, roof structure and major
structural components. The indicator for this category is if the cost to repair
is greater than 10% and less than 50% of the replacement cost at the time of
damage.
   MINOR DAMAGED STRUCTURE. A structure that can be made habitable in a short
period of time with minimal repairs. Damage may include doors, windows, floors,
furnaces, water heaters and other minor structural damage. An indicator for
this category is if the cost to repair is 10% or less of the replacement cost
at the time of damage.
   STORM EVENT.
      (1)   Any natural weather event causing damage and destruction of
property.
      (2)   A storm event shall include, but not be limited to, hurricanes,
northeasters, tornadoes, fire, waterspouts, and ice or snow storms.
(Ord. 02-03, passed 5-1-2002)
§ 152.03 HURRICANE AND STORM RECONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Determination of damage.
      (1)   A primary task of the local damage assessment team is to identify
structures which as a result of the storm event have been damaged.
      (2)   The local damage assessment team will recommend to the Building
Inspector those structures which have:
         (a)   Been destroyed;
         (b)   Received major damage; or
         (c)   Received minor damage.
      (3)   The Building Inspector will then inspect the damaged structures and
place each structure in 1 of the above categories.
   (B)   Declaration of a building moratorium. The initial post-storm
reconstruction moratorium shall be declared in effect upon the occurrence of 1
or more of the following findings:
      (1)   The town is struck by a hurricane of force equal to or greater than
4 on the Saffir-Simpson scale as determined by the National Weather Service;
      (2)   The town is declared a disaster area by either the governor of the
state or the President of the United States;
      (3)   One hundred or more structures have received major damage or have
been destroyed as determined by the Building Inspector; or
      (4)   Upon the finding by the Mayor, or in the absence of the Mayor, the
Mayor Pro Tem of the town, of the existence of a state of emergency in
accordance with G.S. § 14-288, the Mayor or Mayor Pro Tem, as the case may be,
shall declare the initial building moratorium, pursuant to G.S. § 160A-174,
where the Mayor finds a moratorium is necessary for the protection of lives,
safety and property, or due to the inability of the town to maintain acceptable
levels of public order and services. The Mayor may, based upon the above
findings, extend the initial moratorium until a time as the state of emergency
no longer exists.
   (C)   Moratoriums.
      (1)   Initial building moratorium.
         (a)   Upon the declaration of a building moratorium the initial post-
storm moratorium shall be in effect for a minimum period of 48 hours.
         (b)   No building permits shall be issued during this time period.
After expiration of this initial moratorium the following moratoria shall then
apply.
      (2)   Destroyed structure moratorium.
         (a)   No building permit shall be issued within 30 days following the
expiration of the initial moratorium for the replacement of any structure which
has been destroyed.
         (b)   All replacement building shall be subject to meeting all the
requirements of the zoning ordinance for the Town of Duck and all applicable
town codes, prior to the issuance of a building permit.
      (3)   Major damaged structure moratorium.
         (a)   No building permit for repairs of a major damaged structure
shall be issued for at least 7 days following the expiration of the initial
moratorium.
         (b)   All repairs to a major damaged structure shall meet the
requirements of the Zoning Chapter for the Town of Duck and all applicable town
codes, prior to issuance of a building permit.
      (4)   Minor damaged structure moratorium.
         (a)   Permits for the repair of minor damaged structures may be issued
following the expiration of the initial moratorium.
         (b)   All repairs to minor damaged structures shall meet the
requirements of the Zoning Chapter for the Town of Duck and all applicable town
codes, prior to issuance of a building permit.
      (5)   Incipient inlet moratorium.
         (a)   The Mayor or Town Council may on their own, or upon
recommendation by the reconstruction task force, designate any land area
bordering an incipient inlet, former inlet or potential inlet as an incipient
inlet high hazard area.
         (b)   No building permits shall be issued until a time that the inlet
has either closed to such a degree that re-opening is unlikely or that the
inlet migration has been stabilized.
         (c)   The reconstruction task force shall recommend to the Town
Council conditions which will allow for repair of existing damaged structures
within the incipient inlet high hazard area.
      (6)   Outstanding building permits moratorium.
         (a)   All building permits which were issued prior to the storm event
shall be revoked and shall not be reissued for a minimum period of 30 days
following the expiration of the initial moratorium, unless upon finding by the
Chief Building Inspector on a case-by-case basis that sufficient inspection
staff is available to adequately inspect the structures should construction
begin or resume.
         (b)   Applications for building permits revoked under this section
shall be reissued at no charge.
      (7)   Site plan review.
         (a)   Site plans which have been submitted to the town prior to the
storm event shall not be reviewed by the staff, Planning Board or Town Council
for a period of 30 days following the expiration of the initial moratorium.
         (b)   All submittal dates and review periods shall be adjusted
accordingly to reflect the time period covered by this 30-day moratorium.
      (8)   Time limit of acceptance of plans.
         (a)   No new site plans, zoning requests or subdivision plats shall be
accepted by the town for a period of 30 days following the expiration of the
initial moratorium.
         (b)   All submittal dates and review periods shall be adjusted
accordingly to reflect the time period covered by this 30-day moratorium.
      (9)   Duration of moratorium. All moratoriums other than the initial
moratorium as enacted in division (B)(4) above shall be in effect for the
length of time described above and may be canceled or extended by the Mayor or
resolution by the Town Council.
   (D)   Emergency repairs.
      (1)   While a moratorium is in effect no construction or reconstruction
activity may be undertaken, excepting only minor interior repairs and emergency
repairs necessary to prevent injury or loss of life or imminent collapse or
other substantial additional damage to the structure.
      (2)   For illustrative purposes only, items that constitute minor repairs
may include temporary roof repairs to avoid further water damage, minor repairs
to steps and the temporary shoring up of a structure to avoid imminent
collapse.
(Ord. 02-03, passed 5-1-2002)
§ 152.04 RECONSTRUCTION TASK FORCE.
   (A)   Created.
      (1)   The reconstruction task force shall be activated and mobilized upon
the declaration of the initial building moratorium.
      (2)   The task force shall be responsible for advising the Town Council
on a wide range of post-storm reconstruction issues.
   (B)   Primary function.
      (1)   A primary function of the task force is to receive and review
damage reports and other analyses of post-storm circumstances and to compare
these circumstances with mitigation opportunities identified prior to the storm
to discern appropriate areas for post-storm change and innovation.
      (2)   The reconstruction task force can review in a more specific fashion
alternative mechanisms for bringing these changes about and recommend the
coordination of internal and external resources for achieving these ends.
   (C)   Responsibilities.
      (1)   The reconstruction task force shall have the following
responsibilities.
      (2)   In addition to the responsibilities in division (B) above, the
reconstruction task force shall:
         (a)   Review the nature of damages, identify and evaluate alternate
program approaches for repairs and reconstruction, and formulate
recommendations for handling community recovery;
         (b)   Recommend rezoning changes in areas of damage;
         (c)   Set a calendar of milestones for reconstruction tasks in
conjunction with the Town Manager and department heads;
         (d)   Initiate requests for repairs to critical utilities and
facilities;
         (e)   Recommend the expiration or extension of a moratorium for
“major” and “minor” repairs;
         (f)   Recommend the designation of any land bordering an incipient
inlet or inlet as an incipient inlet high hazard area; and
         (g)   Recommend the lifting or extension of a moratorium for new
development;
(Ord. 02-03, passed 5-1-2002)
CHAPTER 153: REPAIR, CLOSING OR DEMOLITION OF ABANDONED STRUCTURES
Section
   
153.01   Finding; intent
   
153.02   Duties of the Building Inspector
   
153.03   Powers of the Building Inspector
   
153.04   Standards for enforcement
   
153.05   Procedure for enforcement
   
153.06   Methods of service of complaints and orders
   
153.07   In rem action by Inspector; placarding
   
153.08   Costs a lien on premises
   
153.09   Alternative remedies
§ 153.01 FINDING; INTENT.
   (A)   It is found that there exist within the town abandoned structures
which the Town Council finds to be hazardous to the health, safety and welfare
of the residents of the town due to the attraction of insects or rodents;
conditions creating a fire hazard; dangerous conditions constituting a threat
to children; or frequent use by vagrants as living quarters in the absence of
sanitary facilities.
   (B)   Therefore, pursuant to the authority granted by G.S. § 160A-441, it is
the intent of this chapter to provide for the repair, closing or demolition of
any abandoned structures in accordance with the same provisions and procedures
as are set forth by law for the repair, closing or demolition of dwellings
unfit for human habitation.
(Ord. 02-07, passed 5-1-2002)
§ 153.02 DUTIES OF THE BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   The Building Inspector is designated as the officer to enforce the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector to:
      (1)   Locate abandoned structures within the town and determine which
structures are in violation of this chapter;
      (2)   Take action pursuant to this chapter as may be necessary to provide
for the repair, closing or demolition of the structures;
      (3)   Keep an accurate record of all enforcement proceedings begun
pursuant to the provision of this chapter; and
      (4)   Perform other duties as may be prescribed in this chapter or
assigned by the Town Council.
(Ord. 02-07, passed 5-1-2002)
§ 153.03 POWERS OF THE BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   The Building Inspector is authorized to exercise powers as may be necessary
to carry out the intent and the provisions of this chapter, including the
following powers in addition to others granted in this chapter:
   (A)   To investigate the condition of buildings within the town in order to
determine which structures are abandoned and in violation of this chapter;
   (B)   To enter upon premises for the purpose of making inspections;
   (C)   To administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses and receive
evidence; and
   (D)   To designate other officers, agents and employees of the town as he or
she deems necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 02-07, passed 5-1-2002)
§ 153.04 STANDARDS FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Every abandoned structure within the town shall be deemed in violation
of this chapter whenever the structure constitutes a hazard to the health,
safety or welfare of town citizens as a result of:
      (1)   The attraction of insects or rodents;
      (2)   Conditions creating a fire hazard;
      (3)   Dangerous conditions constituting a threat to children; or
      (4)   Frequent use of vagrants as living quarters in the absence of
sanitary facilities.
   (B)   In making the preliminary determination of whether or not an abandoned
structure is in violation of this chapter, the Building Inspector may, by way
of illustration and not limitation, consider the presence or absence of the
following conditions:
      (1)   Holes or cracks in the structure’s floors, walls, ceilings or roof
which might attract rodents and insects, or become breeding places for rodents
and insects;
      (2)   The collection of garbage or rubbish in or near the structure which
might attract rodents and insects, or become breeding places for rodents and
insects;
      (3)   Violations of the State Building Code, the State Electrical Code or
the Fire Prevention Code which constitute a fire hazard in the structure;
      (4)   The collection of garbage, rubbish or combustible material which
constitutes a fire hazard in the structure;
      (5)   The use of the structure or nearby grounds or facilities by
children as a play area;
      (6)   Violations of the State Building Code which might result in danger
to children using the structure or nearby grounds or facilities as a play area;
and/or
      (7)   Repeated use of the structure by transients and vagrants, in the
absence of sanitary facilities, for living, sleeping, cooking or eating.
(Ord. 02-07, passed 5-1-2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.05 PROCEDURE FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Preliminary investigation; notice; hearing.
      (1)   Whenever a petition is filed with the Building Inspector by at
least 5 residents of the town charging that any structure exists in violation
of this chapter or whenever it appears to the Inspector, upon inspection, that
any structure exists in violation of this chapter, the Building Inspector
shall, if the preliminary investigation discloses a basis for the charges,
issue and cause to be served upon the owner of and parties in interest in the
structure, a complaint stating the charges and containing a notice that a
hearing will be held before the Inspector at a fixed place, not less than 10
nor more than 30 days after the serving of the complaint.
      (2)   The owner or any party in interest shall have the right to file an
answer to the complaint and to appear in person, or otherwise, and give
testimony at the place and time fixed in the complaint.
      (3)   Notice of the hearing shall also be given to at least 1 of the
persons signing a petition relating to the structure.
      (4)   Any person desiring to do so may attend the hearing and give
evidence relevant to the matter being heard. The rules of evidence prevailing
in courts of law or equity shall not be controlling in hearings before the
Inspector.
   (B)   Procedure after hearing.
      (1)   After the notice and hearing, the Inspector shall state in writing
the determination as to whether the structure violates this chapter.
      (2)   If the Inspector determines that the dwelling is in violation, the
Inspector shall state in writing findings of fact to support that determination
and shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner an order directing and
requiring the owner to either repair, alter and improve the structure or else
remove or demolish the structure within a specified period of time not to
exceed 90 days.
      (3)   All requirements of G.S. § 160A-443(3) shall be complied with
before proceeding with any further action.
   (C)   Failure to comply with order.
      (1)   In personam remedy. If the owner of any structure shall fail to
comply with an order of the Inspector within the time specified in the order,
the Inspector may submit to the Town Council at its next regular meeting a
resolution directing the Town Attorney to petition the superior court for an
order directing the owner to comply with the order of the Inspector, as
authorized by G.S. § 160A-446(g).
      (2)   In rem remedy. After failure of an owner of a structure to comply
with an order of the Inspector within the time specified in the order, if
injunctive relief has not been sought or has not been granted as provided in
division (C)(1) above, the Inspector shall submit to the Town Council an
ordinance ordering the Inspector to cause the structure to be removed or
demolished, as provided in the original order of the Inspector, and pending the
removal or demolition, to placard the dwelling as provided by G.S. § 160A-443
(4).
   (D)   Petition to Superior Court by owner. Any person aggrieved by an order
issued by the Inspector shall have the right, within 30 days after issuance of
the order, to petition the Superior Court for a temporary injunction
restraining the Inspector pending a final disposition of the cause, as provided
by G.S. § 160A-446(f).
(Ord. 02-07, passed 5-1-2002)
§ 153.06 METHODS OF SERVICE OF COMPLAINTS AND ORDERS.
   (A)   Complaints or orders issued by the Inspector shall be served upon
persons either personally or by registered or certified mail; but if the
whereabouts of the persons are unknown and cannot be ascertained by the
Inspector in the exercise of reasonable diligence, the Inspector shall make an
affidavit to that effect; and the serving of the complaint or order upon the
person may be made by publication once at least 10 days prior to the date of
the hearing in a newspaper having general circulation in the town.
   (B)   Where service is made by publication, a notice of the pending
proceedings shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises affected by
the complaint or order.
(Ord. 02-07, passed 5-1-2002)
§ 153.07 IN REM ACTION BY INSPECTOR; PLACARDING.
   (A)   After failure of an owner of a structure to comply with an order of
the Inspector issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, and upon
adoption by the Town Council of an ordinance authorizing and directing the
Inspector to do so, as provided by G.S.§ 160A-443(5), the Inspector shall
proceed to cause the structure to be removed or demolished, as directed by the
ordinance of the Town Council, and shall cause to be posted on the main
entrance of the structure a placard prohibiting the use or occupation of the
structure.
   (B)    Use or occupation of a building that has such a placard posted on the
main entrance shall result in a civil penalty in the amount set forth in §
10.99 per violation. The person cited for the violation must pay the civil
penalty within five days of being cited for the violation. In the event that
the person cited for the violation does not pay the civil penalty within the
prescribed time, the town may bring a civil action to recover the penalty and
the associated court costs.
   (C)   Each ordinance shall be recorded in the office of the Register of
Deeds of the County and shall be indexed in the name of the property owner in
the grantor index, as provided by G.S. § 160A-443(5).
(Ord. 02-07, passed 5-1-2002; Am. Ord. 19-05, passed 11-6-2019)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.08 COSTS A LIEN ON PREMISES.
   (A)   As provided by G.S. § 160A-443(6), the amount of the cost of any
removal or demolition caused to be made or done by the Inspector pursuant to
this chapter shall be a lien against the real property upon which the cost was
incurred.
   (B)   The lien shall be filed, have the same priority, and be enforced and
the costs collected as provided by G.S. §§ 160A-216 et seq.
(Ord. 02-07, passed 5-1-2002)
§ 153.09 ALTERNATIVE REMEDIES.
   Neither this chapter nor any of its provisions shall be construed to impair
or limit in any way the power of the town to define and declare nuisances and
to cause their abatement by summary action or otherwise, or to enforce this
chapter by criminal process; and the enforcement of any remedy provided in this
chapter shall not prevent the enforcement of any other remedy provided in this
chapter or in other ordinances or laws.
(Ord. 02-07, passed 5-1-2002)
CHAPTER 154: AREAS OF ENVIRONMENTAL CONCERN
Section
   
154.01   Purposes
   
154.02   Geographic extent of jurisdiction
   
154.03   Definitions
   
154.04   Designated Local Permit Officer
   
154.05   Duties of the Local Permit Officer
   
154.06   Minor development permit required
   
154.07   Minor permit process
   
154.08   Appeals
   
154.09   Injunctive relief
   
154.10   Amendments; implementation and enforcement program
   
154.11   Procedures for responding to plan administration and enforcement
complaints
 
   
154.99   Penalty
§ 154.01 PURPOSES.
   The purposes of the implementation and enforcement plan are to establish:
   (A)   Procedures to be followed in issuing minor development permits in
Areas of Environmental Concern within the Town of Duck jurisdictional limits,
including methods of coordinating with other local permits;
   (B)   Scope and coverage of the program including the geographic extent of
jurisdiction of the local management program;
   (C)   Responsibilities and capabilities of permit-letting agencies;
including a description of the criteria to be used in choosing the Local Permit
Officer;
   (D)   Methods of identifying and taking into account projects and impacts of
regional, state and national concern where applicable;
   (E)   Procedures to ensure that the program is consistent with the adopted
Land Use Plan for the entire jurisdiction; and
   (F)   Relates other governmental action in regards to the adopted Land Use
Plan and provides procedures for assuring consistency of action.
(Ord. 06-03, passed 5-3-2006)
§ 154.02 GEOGRAPHIC EXTENT OF JURISDICTION.
   The issuance of minor development permits as required by the CAMA shall be
administered and enforced in those AECs (or parts of those AECs), which are
located within the corporate boundaries of the Town of Duck.
(Ord. 06-03, passed 5-3-2006)
§ 154.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADOPTED LAND USE PLAN. The Town of Duck Land Use Plan prepared and adopted
by the Town of Duck and approved by the Coastal Resources Commission (CRC)
pursuant to the Coastal Area Management Act Part 2, being G.S. §§ 113A-100 et
seq.
   AREAS OF ENVIRONMENTAL CONCERN (AECS). Areas designated by the CRC, in which
development shall require a minor or major development permit.
   COASTAL AREA MANAGEMENT ACT (CAMA). The law that relates to the management
program for orderly growth in the coastal area of North Carolina as adopted by
the General Assembly in 1974.
   COASTAL RESOURCES COMMISSION (CRC). The Coastal Area Management Act , being
G.S. §§ 113A-100 et seq., established the Coastal Resources Commission within
the Department of Environment and Natural Resources.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any activity in a duly designated area of environmental concern
involving, requiring or consisting of the construction or enlargement of a
structure; excavation; dredging, filling; dumping; removal of clay, silt, sand,
gravel or minerals; bulkheading, driving of pilings; clearing or alteration of
land as an adjunct of construction; alteration or removal of sand dunes;
alteration of the shore, bank or bottom of the Atlantic Ocean or any sound,
bay, river, creek, stream, lake or canal.
   IMPLEMENTATION AND ENFORCEMENT PLAN. The Local Management Program for the
implementation and enforcement of Minor Permit requirements within Areas of
Environmental Concern and the policies of the adopted Land Use Plan within the
Town of Duck.
   LOCAL PERMIT OFFICER. The locally designated official(s) who will administer
and enforce the Minor Development Permit program in Areas of Environmental
Concern and the policy requirements of the Land Use Plan over the entire
planning area of the Town of Duck.
   MAJOR DEVELOPMENT. Any development, which requires permissions, licensing,
approval, certification or authority in any form from the North Carolina
Environmental Management Commission, the North Carolina Department of Human
Resources, the North Carolina Department of Environment and Natural Resources,
the North Carolina Department of Administration, the North Carolina Mining
Commission, the North Carolina Pesticides Board, the North Carolina
Sedimentation Control Commission or any federal agency or authority; or
development which occupies a land or water area in excess of 20 acres; includes
a structure or structures in excess of a ground area of 60,000 square feet on a
single parcel; or which contemplates drilling for or excavating natural
resources on land or under water.
   MINOR DEVELOPMENT. Any development other than a major development.
   TOWN. The Town of Duck.
(Ord. 06-03, passed 5-3-2006)
§ 154.04 DESIGNATED LOCAL PERMIT OFFICER.
   (A)   Creation of position. The Town of Duck shall designate 1 or more
employee(s) to hold the position of Local Permit Officer.
   (B)   Qualifications:
      (1)   Any designated Local Permit Officer shall be required to complete
an initial training course from the Division of Coastal Management (DCM),
within 12 months of appointment;
      (2)   The Local Permit Officer(s) shall attend all regional work sessions
held by DCM to inform and coordinate the activities of the Local Permit
Officers in each region; and
      (3)   In addition, the Local Permit Officer shall be knowledgeable of
other local, state or federal permit or regulatory requirements.
   (C)   Appointments.
      (1)   The Town of Duck shall notify the Commission of the names of all
designated Local Permit Officers.
      (2)   In order to continue to process permits in a timely fashion and to
avoid the issuance of passive grants, the town shall immediately notify the
Division of Coastal Management (DCM) and the Coastal Resources Commission (CRC)
in writing when the Local Permit Officer resigns or is for any reason unable to
perform his or her duties.
      (3)   This notice shall indicate the method or methods by which the
locality will continue to process permits in a thorough and timely fashion.
      (4)   These methods can include, but are not limited to, the following:
         (a)   The appointment of a temporary Local Permit Officer (LPO) until
a time as a permanent replacement is selected;
         (b)   The appointment of 1 or more LPO(s);
         (c)   Evidence that an agreement exists between the locality and
another appropriate agency for the assumption of the permit program; and
         (d)   A formal request that the Secretary/DCM assume the permit
function for the locality.
(Ord. 06-03, passed 5-3-2006)
§ 154.05 DUTIES OF THE LOCAL PERMIT OFFICER.
   (A)   General enforcement.
       (1)   The Local Permit Officer shall administer and enforce in duly
designated AECs; the Minor Development Permit process as herein established, as
well as all applicable local ordinances and all other guidelines and standards
established by the Coastal Resources Commission (CRC) and the Town of Duck
pursuant to the Coastal Area Management Act (CAMA), being G.S. §§ 113A-100 et
seq.
      (2)   In addition the Local Permit Officer shall:
         (a)   Be familiar with existing state and federal permits required in
this jurisdiction so as to provide aid to potential developers in determining
when a major development permit rather than minor development permit is
required, and to aid the developers in applying to the CRC when a major
development permit is required, and in general, aid applicants in regard to
other state or federal permit requirements;
         (b)   Assist in identifying and assessing projects of greater than
local concern and bring them to the attention of the CRC (projects of regional,
state or national concern are almost certain to require some other state permit
and, therefore, require a major development permit from the Commission.
Therefore, they will usually be brought to the attention of the Commission
through the major development permit application);
         (c)   Be responsible for implementing any procedures agreed on by the
Town Council to which this plan applies for the purpose of coordinating the
CAMA Minor Development Permits with other locally required permits. The locally
required permits include, but are not limited to, plumbing permits, electrical
permits, building permits, septic tank permits, floodplain or sand dune permits
and certifications of compliance with zoning and subdivision regulations;
         (d)   Be responsible for implementing any enforcement procedures,
actions or standards that the Town Council may wish to enforce in regards to
the adopted Land Use Plan or revision thereof; and
         (e)   Assist in coordinating permit-letting activities with other
local jurisdictions as necessary.
   (B)   Records.
      (1)   The Local Permit Officer shall prepare a quarterly summary of all
permit applications and their disposition from the immediately preceding
quarter, to be presented to the Town Council for the Town of Duck, to the CRC
and to the Secretary of the North Carolina Department of Environment and
Natural Resources (NCDENR).
      (2)   Correct and comprehensive records of all transactions related to
minor development permit requests (applications, grants, denials, other
dispositions) shall be maintained by the Local Permit Officer, and those
records shall be kept so long as any part of the structure or entity to which
it relates remains in existence; or, in the case of denials or other instances,
for a period of 10 years.
      (3)   From date of receipt and acceptance of application and/or decision
on an application, the Local Permit Officer must, within 5 workings days, mail
and/or submit copies of same to the appropriate field consultant or the nearest
field office of the Division of Coastal Management.
   (C)   Location.
      (1)    The Local Permit Officer shall be located in the Town of Duck,
Planning Zoning and Inspections offices, located at 1200 Duck Road, Duck, North
Carolina and can be reached at (252)-255-1234.
      (2)   The mailing address is:
Local Permit Officer
Town of Duck, Planning Zoning and Inspections Department
P.O. Box 8369
Duck, NC 27949
      (3)   The Commission shall be notified immediately of any change in the
location of the Local Permit Officer.
(Ord. 06-03, passed 5-3-2006)
§ 154.06 MINOR DEVELOPMENT PERMIT REQUIRED.
   The following permit-letting requirements and information in regards to AECs
shall be available for review and inspection in the Town of Duck Planning,
Zoning and Inspections Department:
   (A)   Description of all AECs within the Town of Duck planning and zoning
jurisdiction that is sufficiently clear to provide notice to all property
owners within those AECs that a permit must be secured before any development
may proceed on that property;
   (B)   A copy of the standards for development adopted by the Coastal
Resources Commission for each type of AEC found in the jurisdiction and the
statutory grounds on which a permit application may be denied or conditioned;
   (C)   The statutory definition of development, as provided in the Coastal
Area Management Act (G.S. § 113A-103(5a));
   (D)   A copy of the approved permit application form for both major and
minor development in AECs;
   (E)   The name and office address of the Local Permit Officer; and
   (F)   A copy of this plan.
(Ord. 06-03, passed 5-3-2006)
§ 154.07 MINOR PERMIT PROCESS.
   (A)   Application.
      (1)   An application for a permit for minor development shall consist of
a completed application using the applicable form adopted and approved by DCM
and a check or money order, payable to the Town of Duck in the amount of $100,
or as amended in 15A NCAC 07J .0204(b)(6)(B).
      (2)   Monies so collected shall only be used in the administration of the
permit program, specifically including the cost of required public notices and
hearing.
   (B)   Application review period. Disposition of the application by the Local
Permit Officer shall take place within 25 days of receipt of a complete
application, unless the Local Permit Officer gives written notice by registered
mail of an additional 25 day extension as necessary for proper evaluation of
the application.
   (C)   General procedure for processing an application.
      (1)   The Local Permit Officer shall return incomplete, insufficient or
unauthorized applications within a reasonable time.
      (2)   The 25-day period for consideration of the application shall begin
to run upon receipt of a complete application.
      (3)   The time period will continue to run in the case of an incomplete
or insufficient application until the Local Permit Officer returns it, with
reasons for the rejection in writing, to the applicant for correction of the
deficiencies.
      (4)   The time period will begin to run again when a correct application
is returned to the Local Permit Officer.
      (5)   Any application received requesting a permit for an activity that
constitutes major development shall be returned by the Local Permit Officer
with appropriate instructions for submitting the major permit application to
the DCM.
      (6)   The Local Permit Officer shall determine from the application what
other permits are required for the development. The Local Permit Officer shall
inform the applicant of these other permit requirements and aid him or her in
properly applying for such permits.
      (7)   The Local Permit Officer shall ordinarily make final decisions
concerning the minor development permit only after he or she has determined
that any other required local permits will be issued, the application is
consistent with the applicable criteria set forth in G.S. § 113A-120, the
standards for development set forth in 15A NCAC, Subchapters 7H and 7M, and any
other applicable rules adopted by the CRC.
      (8)   When an evaluation results in none of the above findings, an
unconditional approval shall be granted by the Local Permit Officer. Otherwise,
the Local Permit Officer shall deny or conditionally approve a properly
completed minor development permit application.
   (D)   Proper procedural requirements for disposition.
      (1)   The procedures and requirements of processing applications shall be
conducted in a manner consistent with the expeditious and reasonable
evaluation, as well as rational disposition of minor development permits, as
set forth and required by the Coastal Area Management Act, being G.S. §§ 113A-
100 et seq.
      (2)   The following general procedures shall be followed in reference to
application disposition:
         (a)   Unconditioned approval. A minor development permit shall be
granted only if consideration of the application results in no inappropriate
findings, as set forth in division (C) above.
         (b)   Denial. Where the Local Permit Officer denies a minor
development permit or an application is returned to the applicant for reasons
as set forth in division (C) above, statutory grounds upon which the denial is
based or the reasons the Local Permit Officer returns an application shall be
set forth in writing.
         (c)   Conditional approval.
            1.   The approval of a minor development permit may be conditioned
upon the applicant’s amending his or her proposal to take whatever measures are
reasonably necessary to protect the public interest with respect to the
findings enumerated in division (C) above.
            2.   Conditional approval shall be granted upon the acceptance by
the applicant of certain reasonable conditions as set out by the Local Permit
Officer for public interest protection with respect to appropriate findings
listed in G.S. § 113A-120.
            3.   The applicant must sign the conditioned grant of approval as
an acceptance of the permit conditions before the permit shall become
effective. Statutory grounds upon which a conditional approval is granted shall
be set out in writing.
         (d)   Passive approval.
            1.   Failure to approve, conditionally approve or deny a properly
completed and filed application, or for the Local Permit Officer to not give
notice of an extension beyond the initial 25-day disposition period shall
result in passive approval.
            2.   A passive approval shall have the full force and effect of an
unconditioned approval.
   (E)   Property owner requirements.
      (1)   The property owner shall display a properly granted minor
development permit in full view on the site of the development.
      (2)   This requirement shall apply to every permit no matter how it is
granted.
      (3)   It is therefore necessary that the property owner acquire a permit
received by passive approval for the purposes of posting on the site before
proceeding with the development.
   (F)   Record keeping requirements.
      (1)   Permit applications shall be numbered serially using a 5-digit
numbering system.
      (2)   The first 2 digits will indicate the year in which the application
is made, and the last 3 digits will run serially in the order in which the
applications are received.
      (3)   These numbers shall include the letter prefix “D-“ to designate the
Town of Duck. For example, the first permit applications will be in 2006, and
will be numbered D-06-001, D-06-002 and so on.
      (4)   Along with the applications, the Local Permit Officer shall
maintain a record of all evidence and all matters relevant to each minor
development application.
      (5)   Relevant information shall include, but not be limited to
applications, correspondence, public notices, responses to public notices and a
copy of the final disposition.
      (6)   In cases involving denial or conditional approval, the Local Permit
Officer shall send a copy of a conditional approval or denial disposition
record to the applicant, either in person or by registered mail.
      (7)   One copy shall be maintained by the Local Permit Officer.
(Ord. 06-03, passed 5-3-2006) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.08 APPEALS.
   (A)   Appeal to the Coastal Resources Commission.
      (1)   Any person directly affected by the local decision of the Local
Permit Officer including the Secretary of the North Carolina Department of
Environment and Natural Resources, may within 20 days of the Local Permit
Officer’s disposition, request an appeal hearing by filing a petition with the
Office of Administrative Hearings.
      (2)   The hearing shall be a quasi-judicial hearing conducted by an
administrative law judge in accordance with the requirements of the Coastal
Area Management Act (CAMA), being G.S. §§ 113A-100 et seq., and any other state
laws applicable to the procedures. Final decision in the appeal will be made by
the CRC based on evidence presented in the hearing.
   (B)   Appeal to Superior Court. Any person directly affected by any final
decision or order of the Coastal Resources Commission may appeal to Superior
Court.
   (C)   Appeal pending. No action for which a minor development permit is
required shall be taken while appeal of the Local Permit Officer’s disposition
of that permit request is pending.
(Ord. 06-03, passed 5-3-2006)
§ 154.09 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   (A)   Injunctive relief.
      (1)   Upon violation of the provisions adopted by the town pursuant to
the CAMA relating to the issuance of minor development permits, the Local
Permit Officer may, either before or after the institution of proceedings for
the collection of any penalty imposed by the CAMA for the violation, institute
a civil action in the General Court of Justice in the name of the town upon the
relation of the Local Permit Officer for injunctive relief to restrain the
violation and for other or further relief in the premises as the court shall
deem proper.
      (2)   Neither the institution of the action nor any of the proceedings
thereon shall relieve any party to the proceedings from any penalty prescribed
by the CAMA for any violation of same.
   (B)   Notice. The Local Permit Officer shall notify the Secretary of any
civil action undertaken by or against the officer under the CAMA.
(Ord. 06-03, passed 5-3-2006) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.10 AMENDMENTS; IMPLEMENTATION AND ENFORCEMENT PROGRAM.
   (A)   Notice of public hearing.
      (1)   Amendments to this Implementation and Enforcement Plan shall be in
accordance with the notice and public hearing requirements set forth in the
Coastal Area Management Act, being G.S. §§ 113A-100 et seq. and the Coastal
Resources Commission’s “Criteria for Local Implementation and Enforcement
Plans” pertaining to the adoption of the original plan.
      (2)   In addition the following shall be required:
         (a)   Prior to this plan being amended, a public hearing shall be held
by the Town Council concerning the proposed amendment. It shall be open to
comment from any interested persons, agencies or groups;
         (b)   Notice of the public hearing shall go out at least 15 days prior
to the date of the hearing; shall state the time, place and subject matter of
the hearing and shall indicate the nature of the proposed action; shall state
that copies of the proposed amendment are available for public inspection at
the town office; and shall appear at least once no less than 15 days prior to
the hearing in at least 1 newspaper of general circulation in the affected
area; and
         (c)   A complete record of the public hearing and comments shall be
compiled and maintained. The record of the public hearing, written comment and
any documentation filed with the Local Permit Officer as to the proposed
amendment must:
            1.   Consist of a written account from the minutes or transcribed
from an electronic recording, and all written documents;
            2.   Remain open for 15 days after the hearing; and
            3.   Be available to the Commission upon request.
   (B)   Procedure to amend. Requests for amendment of this plan shall be
referred to the Planning Board. If the amendment is recommended by the majority
of the Board, that recommendation shall then be conveyed to the Town Council
for final approval.
   (C)   Request to waive formal amendment requirements. Whenever a proposed
amendment is deemed by the Planning Board and Town Council to be of little
interest to the public, a petition may be sent to the Coastal Resources
Commission for a waiver of the formal hearing and notice requirements. A like
petition shall include the proposed amendment and state why the Planning Board
and Town Council concluded that the rights or convenience of the public is not
substantially affected by it.
   (D)   Commission approval.
      (1)   Upon local acceptance of any amendment requiring notice and
hearing, the amendment shall be submitted to the Commission for approval.
      (2)   Upon Coastal Resources Commission’s approval, the amendment shall
be adopted as part of the ordinance(s) implementing this plan.
(Ord. 06-03, passed 5-3-2006)
§ 154.11 PROCEDURES FOR RESPONDING TO PLAN ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   Citizen complaints.
      (1)   Upon receiving complaints from local citizens that the
Implementation and Enforcement Plan is not being properly administered and
enforced, the Duck Town Council will investigate the situation and respond to
the alleged deficiencies.
      (2)   If the person making the complaint is not satisfied, then he or she
will be advised that he or she may take their complaint either in writing or in
person to the CRC.
   (B)   Response to the CRC.
      (1)   Upon notification from the CRC concerning deficiencies in
administration and enforcement of the plan, the Town Council will investigate
the alleged problem and prepare a response for the CRC.
      (2)   If the allegation of deficiencies is found to be valid, the Town
Council will, within 30 days of the original notifications from the CRC, inform
the CRC of its willingness and ability to correct the deficiency and prevent
similar problems in the future.
      (3)   If the Town Council finds the CRC’s allegation of deficiencies
invalid, they will so inform the CRC.
      (4)   If the CRC disagrees with that finding, the Town Council may
request a hearing before the CRC or in some other manner attempt to reach a
mutually acceptable agreement with the CRC within a 90-day period after receipt
of the CRC’s original notification of the 90-day period, then the authority to
issue permits for minor development pursuant to this plan shall be
automatically relinquished until a time as the CRC is convinced that the
program will be properly enforced.
(Ord. 06-03, passed 5-3-2006)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
    (A)    Violation of any of the provisions of this chapter or failure to
comply with any of its requirements, including violation of conditions and
safeguards established in connection with grants of variance or special
exceptions, shall result in a civil penalty. The civil penalty shall be in the
amount set forth in § 10.99 per violation, unless a penalty has already been
specified within the chapter. The person cited for the violation must pay the
civil penalty within five days of being cited for the violation. In the event
that the person cited for the violation does not pay the civil penalty within
the prescribed time, the town may bring a civil action to recover the penalty
and the associated court costs.
   (B)   In addition, if any person continues or further commits any of the
above violations after written notice from the Local Permit Officer, the court
may determine that each day during which the violation continues or is repeated
constitutes a separate violation subject to the foregoing penalties.
(Ord. 06-03, passed 5-3-2006; Am. Ord. 19-05, passed 11-6-2019)
CHAPTER 155: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
   
155.01   General provisions
   
155.02   Procedure for subdivision plat approval
   
155.03   Standards
   
155.04   Administration and enforcement
   
155.05   Definitions
§ 155.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Title. This chapter will be known as the Subdivision Chapter of Duck,
North Carolina.
   (B)   Authority. The Town Council for the Town of Duck, North Carolina
hereby adopts this chapter under the authority of G.S.§ 160D-801.
   (C)   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to establish procedures and
standards for the development and subdivision of real estate within the town in
an effort to, among other things, ensure proper legal description,
identification, monumentation and recordation of real estate boundaries;
further the orderly layout and appropriate use of land; provide safe,
convenient and economic circulation of vehicular traffic; provide suitable
building sites which drain properly and are readily accessible to emergency
vehicles; assure the proper installation of roads and utilities; and help
conserve and protect the physical and economic resources of the town.
   (D)   Substance. The Dare County Register of Deeds shall record no plat of a
subdivision of land within the Town of Duck until the Town of Duck has approved
a final plat of the subdivision.
   (E)   Exemptions. Pursuant to G.S. § 160D-802, the provisions of this
chapter do not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   The combination or recombination of portions of previously
subdivided and recorded lots, where the total number of lots is not increased
and the resultant lots are equal to or exceed the standards established by this
chapter.
      (2)   The division of land into parcels greater than 10 acres where no
street right-of-way dedication is involved.
      (3)   The public acquisition by purchase of strips of land for the
widening or opening of streets or for public transportation corridors.
      (4)   The division of a tract of land in single ownership, the entire
area of which is no greater than 2 acres, into not more than 3 lots, where no
street right-of-way dedication is involved and where the resultant lots are
equal to or exceed the standards established by this chapter.
      (5)   The division of a tract into parcels in accordance with the terms
of a probated will or in accordance with intestate succession under N.C.
Chapter 29.
(Ord. passed 8-7-2002; Am. Ord. 15-01, passed 3-4-2015; Am. Ord. 17-16, passed
2-7-2018; Am. Ord. 21-02, passed 6-2-2021)
§ 155.02 PROCEDURE FOR SUBDIVISION PLAT APPROVAL.
   (A)   Expedited review and recordation. Consistent with the standards of
G.S. § 160D-802, the town will only require a plat for recordation for the
division of a tract or parcel of land in single ownership if all of the
following criteria are met:
      (1)   The tract or parcel to be divided is not exempted under §
155.01(E).
      (2)   No part of the tract or parcel to be divided has been divided under
the rules of this division in the 10 years prior to division.
      (3)   The entire area of the tract or parcel to be divided is greater
than 5 acres.
      (4)   After division, no more than 3 lots result from the division.
      (5)   After division, all resultant lots comply with the following
requirements:
         (a)   Any lot dimension size requirements of the applicable land-use
regulations.
         (b)   The use of the lots is in conformity with the applicable zoning
requirements.
         (c)   A permanent means of ingress and egress is recorded for each
lot.
   (B)   Sketch plan.
      (1)   Contents. The subdivider shall submit to the Subdivision
Administrator a sketch plan of the proposed subdivision containing the
following information:
         (a)   A sketch map of the vicinity of the proposed subdivision showing
its location in relation to neighboring tracts, subdivisions, roads and
waterways;
         (b)   The boundaries of the entire tract in common ownership and the
portion of the tract to be subdivided;
         (c)   The total acreage to be subdivided;
         (d)   The existing and proposed uses of the land within the
subdivision; and the existing uses of land adjoining it;
         (e)   The proposed street layout with approximate pavement and right-
of-way width, lot layout and size of lots;
         (f)   The name, address and telephone number of the owner and, if
applicable, a written and acknowledged statement of the owner designating the
subdivider or other person to act as his or her agent for the submission of
plats;
         (g)   The name, if any, of the proposed subdivision;
         (h)   Streets and lots of adjacent developed or platted properties;
         (i)   If applicable, the zoning classification of the tract and of
adjacent properties; and
         (j)   A statement from the Dare County Health Department that a copy
of the sketch plan has been submitted to that agency.
      (2)   Review.
         (a)   The Subdivision Administrator shall review the sketch plan for
general compliance with the requirements of this chapter and other applicable
policies and shall advise the subdivider of the policies applicable to the
proposed subdivision and the procedures to be followed in the preparation and
submission of the preliminary and final plats.
         (b)   One copy of the sketch plan shall be retained for the files of
the Subdivision Administrator.
   (C)   Preliminary plat.
      (1)   Submission and contents.
         (a)   After the Subdivision Administrator has reviewed the sketch plan
and provided comments or informally acknowledged sufficiency, the subdivider
shall submit to the Subdivision Administrator 18 copies of a preliminary plat
of the subdivision at a scale of 1 inch to 100 feet, drawn on a sheet 18 inches
by 24 inches or another size as may be required for recording by the Dare
County Register of Deeds.
         (b)   A professional engineer shall prepare the preliminary plat or
land surveyor currently licensed or registered by the North Carolina State
Board of Registration for Professional Engineers and Land Surveyors and shall
show or have attached to it a document showing the following information:
            1.   Title block containing:
               a.   Property designation;
               b.   Name of owner;
               c.   Location (including township, county and state);
               d.   Date or dates survey was conducted and plat prepared;
               e.   A scale of drawing in feet per inch listed in words or
figures; and
               f.   Name, address, registration number and seal of the land
surveyor and/or professional engineer.
            2.   A map of the vicinity of subdivision showing the relationship
between the proposed subdivision and surrounding area;
            3.   Corporate limits, township boundaries, county lines if on the
subdivision tract;
            4.   The names, titles, firm association, addresses and telephone
numbers of all owners, sub-dividers, mortgages, planners, architects, landscape
architects and engineers responsible for the subdivision;
            5.   The registration numbers and seals of the professional
engineers and land surveyors;
            6.   North arrow and orientation;
            7.   Boundary lines of the tract to be subdivided fully dimensioned
by lengths and bearings, and the location of existing boundary lines of
adjoining lands;
            8.   The names of owners of adjoining properties;
            9.   The names of any adjoining subdivisions of record, proposed or
under review;
            10.   Minimum building setback lines, front, side and rear;
            11.   The zoning classifications of the tract to be subdivided and
adjoining properties (if area is not zoned, that shall be indicated);
            12.   Existing property lines on the tract to be subdivided and on
adjoining properties;
            13.   Existing buildings or other structures, watercourses,
bridges, culverts, storm drains, both on the land to be subdivided and land
immediately adjoining;
            14.   Proposed lot lines, lot and block numbers and approximate
dimensions;
            15.   Lots numbered consecutively throughout the subdivision;
            16.   Wooded areas, marshes, swamps, mean high tide lines,
vegetation line, primary and other dunes, ponds or lakes, streams or streambeds
and any other natural features affecting the site;
            17.   Flood hazard, flood-way and flood-way fringe areas;
            18.   Base flood elevation data if available;
            19.   The following data concerning streets:
               a.   Proposed streets;
               b.   Existing and platted streets on adjoining properties and in
the proposed subdivision;
               c.   Rights-of-way, location and dimensions;
               d.   Pavement widths;
               e.   Approximate grades;
               f.   Design engineering data for all corners and curves;
               g.   Typical street cross sections;
               h.   Street names;
               i.   Type of street dedication; all streets must be designated
either “public” or “private;” and
               j.   Where streets are dedicated to the public but not accepted
into the state or town system before lots are sold, a statement explaining the
status of the street and a draft street maintenance agreement.
            20.   The location and dimensions of all:
               a.   Utility and other easements;
               b.   Riding trails;
               c.   Natural buffer areas;
               d.   Pedestrian or bicycle paths;
               e.   Parks and recreation areas with specific type indicated;
               f.   School sites;
               g.   Areas to be dedicated to or reserved for public use;
               h.   Areas to be used for purposes other than residential with
the purpose of each stated; and
               i.   The proposed ownership and maintenance of recreation and
open space lands, trails, paths and the like.
            21.   The plans for utility layouts including:
               a.   Sanitary sewers;
               b.   Storm sewers;
               c.   Other drainage facilities;
               d.   Water distribution lines;
               e.   Natural gas lines;
               f.   Telephone lines;
               g.   Electric lines;
               h.   Cable television lines; and
               i.   Illustrative connections to existing systems, line sizes,
the location of fire hydrants, blow-offs, manholes, force mains and gate valves
and the like.
            22.   Plans for individual water supply and sewage disposal
systems;
            23.   Profiles based upon mean sea level datum for sanitary sewers
and storm sewers;
            24.   Site calculations including:
               a.   Acreage in total tract to be subdivided;
               b.   Acreage in parks and recreation areas, areas of
environmental concern, and other non-residential uses, by category;
               c.   Total number of parcels created;
               d.   Acreage in the smallest lot in the subdivision; and
               e.   Linear feet in streets.
            25.   The name and location of any property or buildings within the
proposed subdivision or within any contiguous property that is located on the
United States Department of Interior’s National Register of Historic Places or
which have been deemed to have historical, cultural or archaeological resource
potential by the North Carolina Department of Cultural Resource;
            26.    If any property, or any portion of any property, or any
structures, located on any property proposed to be subdivided are determined to
be historically, culturally or archaeologically significant, or potentially
significant, the Subdivision Administrator may require a detailed evaluation of
that site or structure. If a detailed evaluation is required and the results of
that evaluation establish the validity of a cultural, historical or
archaeological resource, the developer shall be notified in writing by the
Subdivision Administrator that a 90-day administrative “hold” on the review of
the preliminary plat has been invoked. During this 90-day period, the developer
shall take action as may be necessary to prescriptively remove and preserve any
remnant artifacts, relocate or submit plans for the relocation or preservation
of any historic structures, or present for the Subdivision Administrator’s
consideration any other mitigation plan to address the historical, cultural or
archaeological resources on the property proposed to be subdivided;
            27.   Sufficient engineering data to determine readily and
reproduce on the ground every straight or curved line, street lines, lot line,
right-of-way line, easement line and setback line, including dimensions,
bearings or deflection angles, radii, central angles and tangent distance for
the center line or curved property lines that are not the boundary line or
curved streets. All dimensions shall be measured to the nearest 1/10 of a foot
and all angles to the nearest minute;
            28.   The accurate locations and descriptions of all monuments,
elevations, markers and control points;
            29.   A copy of any proposed deed restrictions or similar
covenants;
            30.   A copy of the document or documents for the creation and
continued operation of the homeowners, landowners or similar association of the
consumers of the subdivision;
            31.    Topographic map when it is determined by the Subdivision
Administrator that one is needed, with 1-foot or 2-foot contour intervals;
            32.   Boundaries of all areas of environmental concern designated
in accordance with the Coastal Area Management Act of 1974, being G.S. §§ 113A-
100 et seq.;
            33.   If any portion of any lot within the subdivision falls within
an area of environmental concern the following notice shall be placed on the
face of the plat:
“Some portions of some lots in this subdivision are located in areas of
environmental concern. Individual permits may be required before development
may take place in these areas.”
            34.   All certifications and approvals required by state law
including proof that when improved in accordance with the preliminary plat the
public streets and roads will be eligible for inclusion in the state system in
accordance with G.S. § 136-102.6, eligible for inclusion in the town’s street
system or, if private will comply with the same standards except for stipulated
exceptions;
            35.   If the subdivision is to be developed in phases, the
boundaries of each phase and the sequence in which each is to be developed; an
inventory and evaluation of the soil and water resources within the proposed
subdivision; and
            36.   If the subdivision is within the service area of any public
or private water supply system, a statement from the chief executive official
of the system indicating if the proposed subdivision may be connected to that
system.
      (2)   Review.
         (a)   Review by other agencies. The Subdivision Administrator will
submit the preliminary plat to the District Highway Engineer, the County Health
Director, and to other appropriate agencies including review necessary to
assure coordination with the North Carolina Coastal Management Program and
offices of the town for review and recommendations.
         (b)   Review by Subdivision Administrator.
            1.   After considering any report and/or recommendations received
in addition to any comments which the subdivider may have, the Subdivision
Administrator shall approve or disapprove the preliminary plat.
            2.   If the Subdivision Administrator disapproves the preliminary
plat the reasons for the action shall be stated, and recommendations made on
the basis of which the proposed subdivision could be approved.
   (D)   Final plat.
      (1)   Preparation of final plat and installation of improvements. Upon
approval of the preliminary plat by the Town Council, the subdivider may
proceed with the preparation of the final plat and installation of required
improvements in accordance with the approved preliminary plat and the
requirements of this chapter. Prior to approval of a final plat, the subdivider
shall have installed the improvements specified in this chapter. The
Subdivision Administrator will accept no final plat for review unless
accompanied by a statement signed by the subdivider certifying that all the
provisions of this chapter have been complied with and that all the required
improvements have been installed. The final plat shall include only that
portion of the preliminary plat which the subdivider proposed to record at that
time.
      (2)   Submission of the final plat.
         (a)   The subdivider shall submit to the Subdivision Administrator the
final plat, so marked, for review.
         (b)   The final plat for the subdivision or for the first phase of the
subdivision as indicated in the sequence of phases on the approved preliminary
plat shall be submitted not more than 12 months after the date on which the
preliminary plat was approved; otherwise approval of the preliminary plat shall
expire and be null and void.
         (c)   The Subdivision Administrator shall grant a one-time extension
of 12 months for the installation of improvements and submission of the final
plat if the subdivider applies for the extension in writing before the
expiration of the initial period and has begun to install the required
improvements and has made substantial progress (over 60% of total improvement
costs as certified by a professional engineer currently licensed and registered
in the State of North Carolina).
         (d)   A final plat for each subsequent phase must be submitted within
12 months after the final plat for the previous phase has been approved or the
approval of the preliminary plat as to the remaining phases shall be null and
void.
         (e)   The final plat shall be prepared in accordance with the highest
professional standards by a land surveyor or professional engineer currently
licensed and registered in the State of North Carolina by the North Carolina
State Board of Registration for Professional Engineers and Land Surveyors.
         (f)   The final plat shall conform to the provisions for plats,
subdivisions, and mapping requirements set forth in G.S. § 47-30 and shall show
or have attached to it a document showing the same information required for the
preliminary plat.
         (g)   Eighteen copies of the final plat shall be submitted; 3 shall be
reproducible black or blue line prints.
         (h)   The final plat shall be of a size suitable for recording in the
Dare County Register of Deeds and shall be at a scale of not less than 1 inch
equals 200 feet. Maps may be placed on more than 1 sheet with appropriate match
lines.
         (i)   Submission of the final plat shall be accompanied by a cashiers
or certified check payable to the Dare County Register of Deeds in the amount
of the recording fee for the final plat and related documents.
      (3)   Certification. The following signed and acknowledged certificates
or required portions thereof shall appear on all copies of the final plat:
Certificate of Ownership and Dedication
   I hereby certify that I am the owner of the property shown and described
hereon, which is located in the subdivision jurisdiction of the Town of Duck,
North Carolina and that I hereby adopt this plan of subdivision with my free
consent, establish minimum building setback lines, and dedicate all streets,
alleys, walks, parks and other sites and easements to public or private use as
noted. Furthermore, I hereby dedicate all sanitary sewer, storm sewer and water
lines to the Town of Duck, North Carolina.
____________________   ________________________________________________
Date               Owners
   I ________________, hereby certify that__________________________ personally
appeared before me this day and acknowledged the due execution of this
certificate. Witness my hand and official seal this the _______ day of
___________, A.D. 20____.
_____________         ______________________________________
(Official Seal)         Signature
State of North Carolina
Dare County
   I __________________, certify that this map was (drawn by me), (drawn under
my supervision), from (an actual survey made by me) (an actual survey made
under my supervision) (deed description recorded in Book_____, Page ___________
and the like) (other); that the ratio of precision as calculated by latitudes
and departure is 1: ______; that the boundaries not surveyed are shown as
broken lines plotted from information found in Book _____, Page _________; that
this map was prepared in accordance with G.S. § 47-30, as amended; and that the
prescribed reference points have been properly placed. Witness my hand and seal
this the ______day of ______________, A.D. 20_____.
            ________________________________________
            Registered Land Surveyor/Professional Engineer
(Official Seal)
            ________________________________________
            Registration Number
   I ______________, hereby certify that _________________ personally appeared
before me this day and acknowledged the due execution of this certificate.
Witness my hand and official seal this the ____________day of ______________,
A.D. 20_____.
(Official Seal)         _______________________________________
                  Signature
      (4)   Review by the Subdivision Administrator.
         (a)   The Subdivision Administrator shall review the final plat and
shall approve the final plat if it is in compliance with this chapter or
disapprove it if it is not within 75 days of receiving the plat.
         (b)   During review of the final plat, the Subdivision Administrator
may, with the consent of the Town Council, appoint a registered land surveyor
to confirm the accuracy of the final plat and/or installation of improvements.
If substantial errors are found, the costs shall be charged to the subdivider
and shall be paid before the plat will be considered further; the plat shall
not be recommended for approval until the errors have been corrected.
         (c)   If the Subdivision Administrator approves the final plat, the
approval shall be shown on each copy of the plat by the following signed
certificate:
   I hereby certify that the subdivision plat shown hereon has been found to
comply with the Subdivision Chapter of the Town of Duck North Carolina and that
this plat has been approved by the Town of Duck Subdivision Administrator for
recording in the Office of the Register of Deeds of Dare County.
_________         __________________________________________
Date            Town of Duck Subdivision Administrator
         (d)   If the Subdivision Administrator disapproves the final plat, the
reasons for the disapproval shall be stated in writing, specifying the
provisions of this chapter with which the final plat does not comply.
         (e)   The Subdivision Administrator shall retain 1 copy of the reasons
and 1 print of the plat as part of its proceedings; 1 copy of the reasons and 1
copy of the plat shall be transmitted to the subdivider.
         (f)   If the final plat is disapproved the subdivider may make changes
as will bring the final plat into compliance and resubmit same for
reconsideration by the Subdivision Administrator as if it were an original
submission of a final plat.
         (g)   If the final plat is approved by the Subdivision Administrator,
1 reproducible and 1 print of the plat shall be returned to the subdivider, 1
reproducible and 1 print shall be filed with the County Tax Supervisor’s
Office, 1 print shall be retained by the Subdivision Administrator for his or
her files, and 1 reproducible shall be filed by the Subdivision Administrator
with the Register of Deeds.
Certificate of Approval for Recording Plat and Acceptance of Dedications
   I _____________, the Town Clerk of Dare County, North Carolina, do certify
that on the ____day of ____________, _________, the Town Council approved this
plat for recording and accepted the dedication of the roads, easements, public
purposes as shown hereon, but assume no responsibility to open or maintain the
same until, in the opinion of the governing body of the Town of Duck, it is in
the public interest to do so.
________________________         (Seal)    ________________
Date                              Town Clerk                     
                           (Seal)   ________________
                                  Mayor
(Ord. passed 8-7-2002; Am. Ord. 17-16, passed 2-7-2018; Am. Ord. 21-02, passed
6-2-2021)
§ 155.03 STANDARDS.
   Each subdivision shall comply with the design standards of this chapter as
minimums and shall contain the improvements specified which shall be installed
and paid for by the subdivider. Land shall be dedicated or reserved as
required.
   (A)   Reference points. Prior to the approval of the final plat, permanent
reference points shall have been placed in accordance with G.S. §§ 39-32.1 et
seq. the following requirements:
      (1)   Subdivision corner tie. At least 1 corner of the subdivision shall
be designated by course and distance (tie) from a readily discernible reference
marker.
      (2)   Monuments.
         (a)   Within each block of a subdivision at least 2 monuments designed
as control corners shall be installed.
         (b)   The surveyor shall employ additional monuments when necessary.
Monuments shall be constructed of concrete with steel reinforcing rods running
their entire length and shall be at least 4 inches in diameter or square and
not less than 3 feet in length.
         (c)   Each monument shall have imbedded in its top or attached by a
suitable means a metal plat of non-corrosive material and marked plainly with
the point, the surveyor’s registration number and the words “monument” or
“control corner.”
         (d)   A monument shall be set at least 6 inches exposed above the
ground, unless this requirement is impractical because of vehicular traffic or
other factors. Elevation above sea level shall be shown on the metal plat on at
least 1 of the monuments.
      (3)   Stakes. Each lot shall be adequately staked to show the boundaries
of the lot with stakes not less than 3 feet long and driven into the ground not
less than 2 feet.
   (B)   General standards.
      (1)   Design and development. The design and development of subdivisions
shall preserve the natural terrain, natural drainage, existing topsoil, trees
and natural vegetation to the maximum extent possible.
      (2)   Floods. All subdivisions shall be designed to be consistent with
the need to minimize flood damage.
      (3)   Utilities. All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities
and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and
constructed to minimize flood damage.
      (4)   Environment. All lots, improvements, structures and utilities shall
comply with the applicable areas of environmental concern (AEC) standards and
any other rules promulgated pursuant to the Coastal Area Management Act of
1974, being G.S. §§ 113A-100 et seq.
      (5)   Blocks.
         (a)   The lengths, widths and shapes of blocks shall be determined
with due regard to provision of adequate building sites suitable to the special
needs of the type of use contemplated; requirements of the Town of Duck Zoning
Chapter; needs for vehicular and pedestrian circulation; control and safety of
street traffic; limitations and opportunities of topography; and convenient
access to water areas.
         (b)   Length shall not be greater than 1,400 nor less than 400 feet.
Blocks shall have sufficient width to allow 2 tiers of lots of minimum depth
except where single tier lots are required to separate residential development
from through vehicular traffic or another type of use, in non-residential
subdivision, or where abutting a water area.
      (6)   Non-residential lots. The size, shape and orientation of lots for
other than residential purposes shall be with side lot lines as close to
perpendicular (right angles) to the right-of-way or private street as possible.
      (7)   Residential lots. Residential lots shall comply with the following
requirements.
         (a)   Lots shaped and filled. Any lot shaped or filled must be
approved as to quality and content by the County Health Department.
         (b)   Orientation of lot lines. Side lot lines shall be substantially
at right angles or radial to street lines.
         (c)   Minimum lot width. Lots should have a minimum width of not less
than 75 feet measured at the front building setback line.
      (8)   Lot size.
         (a)   All lots in a new subdivision shall conform to the requirements
of the Zoning Chapter for the district in which the subdivision is located.
         (b)   Conformance means, among other things, that the smallest lot in
the subdivision must meet all dimensional requirements of the
Chapter 156. It is not sufficient merely for the average lot to meet the
requirements.
         (c)   No land area shall be omitted from a plat when to do so would
have the effect of creating a residual parcel of inadequate lot size.
      (9)   Buffer strips. The Subdivision Administrator shall recommend the
use of a buffer strip of 10 feet in width adjacent to NC 12 (Duck Road) and to
commercial or industrial development which would be part of the platted lots
but have the following restriction on the face of the plat:
“This strip reserved for the planting of trees or shrubs by the owner; the
building of structures prohibited.”
      (10)   Electricity. Telephone, electric and cable television service
within subdivisions shall be installed underground.
   (C)   Suitability of land.
      (1)   If, based on an inventory and evaluation of the soil and water
resources of the tract under consideration, the Subdivision Administrator
determines that a portion of that tract is not suited for the use proposed,
that area shall not be platted for that unless:
         (a)   The subdivider has permanently remedied the condition which made
the land unsuitable; or
         (b)   All the area requirements of this chapter are met by each lot
without including the unsuitable land in the calculation.
      (2)   Areas that have been used for disposal of solid waste shall not be
subdivided unless tests by the County Health Department, a structural engineer
and a soils expert determine that the land is suitable for the purpose
proposed.
      (3)   Land which the Subdivision Administrator finds to be unsuited for
development due to improper drainage, topography, soil characteristics, ground
water elevation, susceptibility to flooding or failure to meet the criteria of
G.S. Ch. 130 Article 13C shall not be subdivided, unless adequate methods are
utilized to correct the unsuitable conditions.
      (4)   Any land disturbing activity, as defined in G.S. § 113A-52, shall
be accomplished in accordance with the requirements of G.S. Ch. 113A Article 4.
Any required land preparation must be completed prior to submission of the
final plat for approval.
   (D)   Storm water drainage system. The subdivider shall provide a surface
water drainage system constructed to the standards of the North Carolina
Department of Transportation, subject to the approval of the preliminary plat
by the Subdivision Administrator.
      (1)   No surface water shall be channeled or directed into a sanitary
sewer.
      (2)   Where feasible, the subdivider shall connect to an existing storm
drainage system.
      (3)   Where an existing storm drainage system cannot feasibly be extended
to the subdivision, a surface drainage system shall be designed to protect the
proposed development from water damage.
      (4)   Surface drainage course shall have side slopes of at least 3 feet
or horizontal distance for each 1 foot of vertical distance, and courses shall
be of sufficient size to accommodate the drainage area without flooding, and
designed to comply with the standards and specification for erosion control of
the North Carolina Sedimentation Pollution Control Act.
      (5)   The minimum grade along the bottom of a surface drainage course
shall be a vertical fall of at least 1 foot in each 200 feet of horizontal
distance.
      (6)   Stream banks and channels downstream from any land disturbing
activity shall be protected from increased degradation by accelerated erosion
caused by increased velocity of runoff from the land disturbing activity in
accordance with the North Carolina Sedimentation Pollution Control Act.
      (7)   Anyone constructing a dam or impoundment within the subdivision
must comply with the North Carolina Dam Safety Law.
      (8)   In all areas of special flood hazards, all subdivision proposals
shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood damage.
   (E)   Subdivision name. The name of the subdivision shall not duplicate nor
closely approximate the name of an existing subdivision within the Town of
Duck.
   (F)   Street/road names and signs. Streets and roads shall be named and
those names shall be indicated on signs designed, constructed and placed in
accordance with §
156.130 of the Town Code and existing policy of the Town of Duck.
   (G)   Solid waste collection.
      (1)   The Subdivision Administrator shall require, for each 25 lots, a
site not exceeding 400 square feet, which is easily accessible by conventional
containerized waste collection vehicles, containers for public or private solid
waste collection.
      (2)   Each site shall be improved with pavement or other permanent
material to ensure unimpeded ingress and egress by waste collection vehicles.
   (H)   Utility and other easements. Easements shall be provided as follows:
      (1)   Easements for underground or above ground utilities shall be
provided where necessary, across lots or centered on rear or side lot lines and
shall be at least 10 feet wide for water and sanitary sewer lines and as
required by the utility companies involved, for telephone, gas and power lines;
      (2)   A crosswalk easement no less than 8 feet in width shall be provided
when it is required by the Subdivision Administrator;
      (3)   Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainage way,
channel or stream, there shall be provided a storm water easement or drainage
right-of-way conforming substantially with the lines of the watercourse, and
the further width as will be adequate for the purpose. Parallel streets or
parkways may be required in connection therewith;
      (4)   Where a subdivision is adjacent to the Atlantic Ocean, an easement
for dune maintenance adjacent to the mean high water mark may be required, or
other provisions as to dune maintenance shall be required by the Subdivision
Administrator; and
      (5)   Lakes, ponds, creeks and similar areas within the town will be
accepted for maintenance only if it is recommended by the Subdivision
Administrator and approved by the Town Council.
   (I)   Water and sanitary sewer systems.
      (1)   Each lot in all subdivisions within the town’s jurisdiction shall
be provided with an extension of the Dare County water system at the
subdivider’s expense if in the judgment of Dare County there is adequate unused
capacity in the system to serve the subdivision.
      (2)   All lots in subdivisions not connected to municipal or county water
and/or sanitary sewer systems must have a suitable source of water supply and
sanitary sewage disposal, which complies with the regulations of the Dare
County Health Department and with the applicable laws of North Carolina.
   (J)   Streets.
      (1)   Public streets.
         (a)   Except as provided in division (J)(2) below, all subdivision
lots shall abut a public street.
         (b)   All public streets shall be built to the standards of this
chapter and all other applicable standards of the town and the State of North
Carolina.
         (c)   Public streets which are eligible for acceptance into the state
highway system shall be constructed to the standards necessary to be put on the
state highway system and shall be put on the system.
         (d)   Streets which are not eligible to be put on the state highway
system because there are too few lots or residences shall, nevertheless, be
dedicated to the public and shall be built in accordance with the standards
necessary to be put on the state highway system so as to be eligible to be put
on the system at a later date.
         (e)   An executed maintenance agreement with provisions for
maintenance of the street until it is put on the state highway system shall be
included with the final plat.
      (2)   Private streets.
         (a)   The Town Council may permit subdivision lots to abut private
streets only on the recommendation of the Subdivision Administrator following a
determination by the Subdivision Administrator in which the Town Council
concurs that the protection of environmental and/or aesthetic values would be
best served by a street and/or right-of-way which is narrower than required by
the North Carolina Department of Transportation with the exception of the
width, grading and clearance of the right-of-way and the width of the pavement
required which may be modified when doing so and only to the extent that doing
so will clearly protect environmental and/or aesthetic values and will not
endanger or diminish the public health, safety and welfare as determined by the
Town Council.
         (b)   The subdivider shall submit, as a part of the preliminary plat,
the signed statement of a licensed professional engineer stating that the
proposed streets as designed will meet all of the requirements with stated
detailed exceptions.
         (c)   The subdivider shall provide for inspections to ensure that the
streets are being constructed in accordance with the approved preliminary plat
by an independent licensed professional engineer during the construction
process, the reports of which are to be submitted and approved as part of the
preliminary plat.
         (d)   As a part of the final plat the subdivider shall submit a
certificate of an independent licensed professional engineer that the streets
have been constructed in accordance with the approved preliminary plat.
         (e)   The ownership of the streets shall be conveyed to a home or lot
owners’ association or similar organization.
         (f)   The subdivider must submit evidence that the ultimate owner of
the streets will be institutionally and fiscally capable of maintaining the
streets and rights-of-way to the specified standards in perpetuity.
         (g)   The subdivider must agree to maintain the streets until the
owner organization is fully functional and must agree to contribute to that
organization its share of the maintenance for all lots retained by the
subdivider or successor.
         (h)   The final plat, the uniform covenants and each deed conveying
lots in the subdivision shall plainly indicate that the streets are privately
owned and their maintenance is the responsibility of the owner’s organization
in perpetuity.
      (3)   Subdivision street disclosure statement.
         (a)   All streets shown on the final plat shall be designated in
accordance with North Carolina state law and designation as public shall be
conclusively presumed an offer of dedication to the public.
         (b)   Where streets are dedicated to the public but not accepted into
the state highway system, before lots are sold, a statement explaining the
status of the street shall be included with the final plat.
      (4)   Conformity of proposed streets to existing maps or plans. The
location and width of all proposed streets shall be in conformity with official
plans or maps of the town and with existing or amended plans of the Subdivision
Administrator.
      (5)   Continuation of existing streets. The proposed street layout shall
be coordinated with the existing road system of the surrounding area and where
possible, existing principal streets shall be extended.
      (6)   Access to adjacent properties. It is desirable to provide access to
an adjoining property in order to increase services provision, reduce traffic
congestion, and provide network connectivity of streets and travel ways. As
such, proposed streets shall be extended by dedication to the boundary of the
property, and a temporary turnaround shall be provided until such time as a
connection can be made.
      (7)   Large tracts or parcels. Where land is subdivided into larger
parcels than ordinary building lots, the parcels shall be arranged so as to
allow for the opening of future roads and logical further subdivision in
accordance with the established block length standards.
      (8)   Non-residential streets. The subdivider of a non-residential
subdivision must provide streets in accordance with the appropriate North
Carolina Department of Transportation Standards and the standards in this
chapter, whichever are stricter in regard to each particular item.
      (9)   Design standards.
         (a)   The design of all streets and roads within the jurisdiction of
this chapter shall be in accordance with the accepted policies of the North
Carolina Department of Transportation Division of Highways, as taken or
modified from the American Association of State Highway Officials (AASHO)
manuals.
         (b)   The North Carolina Department of Transportation, Division of
Highways Subdivision Roads Minimum Construction Standards, current edition,
shall apply for any items not included in this chapter, or where stricter than
this chapter.
(Ord. passed 8-7-2002; Am. Ord. 17-04, passed 6-7-2017; Am. Ord. 21-02, passed
6-2-2021)
§ 155.04 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Records, minutes, budgetary requirements. The Town Council and the
Planning Board shall provide for the appropriate keeping of records, minutes
and other proceedings held with respect to the Planning Board’s responsibility
under the terms of this chapter, and the Town Council may provide for budgetary
requirements as may be necessary in the administration of this chapter.
   (B)   Amendments. The Town Council may amend this chapter from time to time
through a legislative hearing and decision.
   (C)   Conflicts with the Zoning Chapter. Should the requirements of this
chapter conflict with those of the Town of Duck Zoning Chapter, the more
stringent requirements shall prevail.
   (D)   Violations.
      (1)   Any person who, being the owner, or agent of the owner, of any land
located within the jurisdiction of this chapter 4 transfers or sells the land
by reference to, exhibition of, or any other use of a plat showing a
subdivision of the land, before the plat has been properly approved in
accordance with this chapter and recorded in the Office of the Register of
Deeds, shall be subject to the civil penalty set forth in §
10.99 per violation. The person cited for the violation must pay the civil
penalty within five days of being cited for the violation. In the event that
the person cited for the violation does not pay the civil penalty within the
prescribed time, the town may bring a civil action to recover the penalty and
the associated court costs.
      (2)   The description of metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer
or other document used in the process of selling or transferring shall not
exempt the transaction from the penalties provided therefore.
      (3)   The town may also seek injunctive relief for the illegal
subdivision, transfer and conveyance of sale of land.
(Ord. passed 8-7-2002; Am. Ord. 19-05, passed 11-6-2019; Am. Ord. 21-02, passed
6-2-2021)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING. A subordinate building consisting of walls and a roof,
the use of which is clearly incidental to that of a principal building on the
same lot.
   ADMINISTRATIVE DECISION. Decisions made in the implementation,
administration, or enforcement of development regulations that involve the
determination of facts and the application of objective standards set forth in
this chapter. These are sometimes referred to as ministerial decisions or
administrative determinations.
   ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING. A proceeding to gather facts needed to make an
administrative decision.
   ADMINISTRATOR or ADMINISTRATOR OF THIS CHAPTER. The person designated by the
Town Manager to administer this chapter.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE. The line within a property defining the required
minimum distance between any building and the adjacent right-of-way or lot.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. A comprehensive plan that has been officially adopted by
the governing board pursuant to G.S. § 160D-501.
   DECISION-MAKING BOARD. A governing board, planning board, board of
adjustment, historic district board, or other board assigned to make quasi-
judicial decisions under this chapter.
   DETERMINATION. A written, final, and binding order, requirement, or
determination regarding an administrative decision.
   DEVELOPMENT APPROVAL. An administrative or quasi-judicial approval made
pursuant to this chapter that is written and that is required prior to
commencing development or undertaking a specific activity, project, or
development proposal. DEVELOPMENT APPROVALS include, but are not limited to,
zoning permits, site plan approvals, special use permits (formerly conditional
use permits) variances, and certificates of appropriateness. The term also
includes all other regulatory approvals required by regulations adopted
pursuant to this chapter, including plat approvals, permits issued, development
agreements entered into, and building permits issued.
   DEVELOPMENT REGULATION. A unified development ordinance, zoning regulation,
subdivision regulation, erosion and sedimentation control regulation,
floodplain or flood damage prevention regulation, mountain ridge protection
regulation, stormwater control regulation, wireless telecommunication facility
regulation, historic preservation or landmark regulation, housing code, State
Building Code enforcement, or any other regulation adopted pursuant to this
chapter.
   DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOT. A lot with front and rear street frontage.
   EVIDENTIARY HEARING. A hearing to gather competent, material and substantial
evidence in order to make findings for a quasi-judicial decision required by a
development regulation adopted under this chapter.
   GOVERNING BOARD. The Town Council shall be known as the GOVERNING BOARD of
the Town of Duck.
   LANDOWNER OR OWNER. The holder of the title in fee simple. Absent evidence
to the contrary, the town may rely on the county tax records to determine who
is a LANDOWNER. The landowner may authorize a person holding a valid option,
lease, or contract to purchase to act as his or her agent or representative for
the purpose of making applications for development approvals.
   LOT.
      (1)   A portion of a subdivision or any other parcel of land intended as
a unit for transfer or ownership or for development or both.
      (2)   The word LOT includes the words PLOT, PARCEL or TRACT.
   OFFICIAL MAPS OR PLANS. Any maps or plans officially adopted by the Town
Council as a guide for the development of the county.
   PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT REGULATION JURISDICTION. The geographic area
defined in G.S. Ch. 160D within which the town may undertake planning and apply
the development regulations authorized by this chapter.
   PLANNING BOARD. Town of Duck Planning Board.
   QUASI-JUDICIAL DECISION. A decision involving the finding of facts regarding
a specific application of a development regulation and that requires the
exercise of discretion when applying the standards of the regulation. The term
includes, but is not limited to, decisions involving variances, special use
permits, certificates of appropriateness, and appeals of administrative
determinations. Decisions on the approval of subdivision plats and site plans
are QUASI-JUDICIAL in nature if the regulation authorizes a decision-making
board to approve or deny the application based not only upon whether the
application complies with the specific requirements set forth in the
regulation, but also on whether the application complies with one or more
generally stated standards requiring a discretionary decision on the findings
to be made by the decision-making board.
   ROAD.
      (1)   A right-of-way for vehicular traffic.
      (2)   The word ROAD shall include the word STREET.
         CUL-DE-SAC or MINOR DEAD-END ROAD. A road permanently terminated by a
turnaround or dead-end.
         MARGINAL ACCESS ROAD. A minor (service) road which parallels and is
immediately adjacent to a primary road or highway, which provides access to the
properties abutting it and which separates the abutting properties from high
speed vehicular traffic.
         PRIMARY ROAD. A road designed to carry heavy volumes of vehicular
traffic.
         SECONDARY OR COLLECTOR ROAD. A road designed to carry medium volumes
of vehicular traffic, to provide access to the primary road system and to
provide access to abutting properties.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person, owners, broker, surveyor, engineer, planner,
corporation, partnership or the like who subdivides or develops any land deemed
to be a subdivision as defined in this section.
   SUBDIVISION. Per G.S. § 160D-802, and as used in this chapter, a SUBDIVISION
shall mean any division of a tract or parcel of land into 2 or more lots,
building sites or other divisions, for the purpose, whether immediate or
future, of sale or building development, including any division of land
involving the dedication of a new street or a change in existing streets. The
following shall not be included within this definition, nor shall they be
subject to the regulations prescribed by this chapter:
      (1)   Combination or recombination of portions of previously subdivided
and recorded lots where the total number of lots is not increased and the
resultant lots are equal to or exceed the standards of the town as established
by this chapter;
      (2)   The division of land into parcels greater than 10 acres, where no
street right-of-way dedication is involved;
      (3)   The public acquisition by purchase of strips of land for the
widening or opening of streets or for public transportation system corridors;
and
      (4)   The division of a tract of land in single ownership, the entire
area of which is no greater than 2 acres, into not more than 3 lots, where no
street right-of-way dedication is involved, and if the resultant lots are equal
to or exceed the standards of the town as established by this chapter; and
      (5)   The division of a tract into parcels in accordance with the terms
of a probated will or in accordance with intestate succession under G.S. Ch.
29.
   SUBDIVISION ADMINISTRATOR. The Subdivision Administrator shall be appointed
by the Town Council. The powers and duties of the Administrator shall be to
implement the provisions of this chapter with the assistance of the appropriate
technical staff. The specific responsibilities of the Administrator  shall
include, but not be limited to, conferring with the subdividers, reviewing
plans and plats, coordinating and collaborating with the appropriate experts on
the plan and plats, and making field investigations of plans and improvements,
and presenting plans and plats where appropriate.
   TOWN COUNCIL. See GOVERNING BOARD.
(Ord. passed 8-7-2002; Am. Ord. 21-02, passed 6-2-2021)
CHAPTER 156: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
156.001   Authority for enactment and purposes of chapter
   
156.002   Definitions
   
156.003   Interpretation of chapter; conflicting provisions
   
156.004   Territorial applicability of chapter
   
156.005   Compliance with chapter; use, occupancy and construction requirements
   
156.006   Height, bulk, density, lot coverage, yard and open space requirements
   
156.007   Combination of required spaces
   
156.008   Reduction of yards or lots below minimum requirements
   
156.009   One principal building per lot
   
156.010   Lot access requirements
   
156.011   Vision clearance at intersections
   
156.012   Yard requirements
District Regulations
   
156.025   Zoning districts established; official zoning map
   
156.026   Interpretation of district boundaries
   
156.027   Classification of added territory
   
156.028   Schedule of district regulations adopted; amendments generally
   
156.029   C-PR Conservation Public Recreation Conventional District
   
156.030   RS-1 Single-Family Residential Conventional District
   
156.031   RS-2 Single-Family Residential Conventional District
   
156.032   R-2 Medium Density Residential Conventional District
   
156.033   C-1 Neighborhood Commercial Conventional District
   
156.034   C-2 General Commercial Conventional District
   
156.035   S-1 Special Conventional District
   
156.036   V-C Village Commercial Conventional District
   
156.037   Ocean and Sound Overlay District
   
156.038   Reserved
   
156.039   Reserved
   
156.040   Permitted and prohibited use table
Exemptions Generally
   
156.050   Walls and fences
   
156.051   Building features exempt from setbacks or minimum yard requirements
   
156.052   Reduction in minimum yard requirements in residential districts based
on error in building, structure or site feature location
   
156.053   Vertical additions to nonconforming structures
   
156.054   Special uses for specified improvements to single-family dwellings in
existence on July 1, 2003
   
156.055   Administrative reduction in minimum yard requirements for
improvements to single-family residential dwellings in existence on July 1,
2003
   
156.056   Building features and structures exempt from district height
regulations
   
156.057   Special use permit; small child care homes
   
156.058   Wireless telecommunications systems (WTS)
   
156.059   Group development projects
   
156.060   Sexually oriented businesses
   
156.061   Formula businesses
   
156.062   Relocation of oceanfront structures threatened by erosion
   
156.063   Encroachment of structures on the ocean beach
   
156.064   Beach bulldozing
   
156.065   Special use permit: village commercial development option
Non-Conformities
   
156.070   Intent of subchapter
   
156.071   Non-conforming lots of record
   
156.072   Non-conforming uses of land
   
156.073   Non-conforming structures
   
156.074   Non-conforming uses of buildings or of buildings and premises in
combination
   
156.075   Repairs and maintenance
   
156.076   Permitted special uses not non-conforming
Off-Street Parking and Loading
   
156.090   Off-street parking required
   
156.091   Minimum off-street parking requirements
   
156.092   Off-street parking requirements for single-family and 2-family
(duplex) dwellings
   
156.093   Parking lot requirements for all uses other than single-family and 2-
family (duplex) dwelling units
   
156.094   Number of off-street parking spaces required
   
156.095   Off-street loading
   
156.096   Special use permit for parking or loading space requirements
Commercial Developments and Design Regulations
   
156.110   Purpose and applicability
   
156.111   Design standards for buildings
   
156.112   Parking, paving and access design standards for lots
   
156.113   Design standards for services and utilities
   
156.114   Design standards for natural areas and features
   
156.115   Design standards for landscaping and open space
   
156.116   Design standards for lighting
   
156.117   Site plan and plan of development requirements
   
156.118   Deviation or variance from commercial design and development
standards and site plan requirements
Miscellaneous Regulations
   
156.124   Standards within the primary and frontal dunes
   
156.125   Water supply and sewage disposal
   
156.126   Standards for the scale of residential development
   
156.127   Sand dune provisions
   
156.128   Land disturbing activities
   
156.129   Eating establishments
   
156.130   Signs
   
156.131   Outdoor storage, display and sale of goods
   
156.132   Dish antennas
   
156.133   Outdoor lighting
   
156.134   Prohibited use of major recreational equipment parked or stored
   
156.135   Access to N.C. Highway 12
   
156.136   Major and minor home occupations
   
156.137   Tree and vegetation preservation and planning
   
156.138   Wind energy facilities
   
156.139   Solar energy systems
   
156.140   Accessory dwelling units
General Administration and Enforcement
   
156.150   Zoning Administrator
   
156.151   Building permits; generally
   
156.152   Effects of chapter on outstanding building permits
   
156.153   Health Department; permits; approval
   
156.154   Permit application
   
156.155   Special use permits
   
156.156   Temporary moratoria on development approval
   
156.157   Temporary uses
   
156.158   Certificates of occupancy
   
156.159   Duties of Zoning Administrator, Board of Adjustment, courts and Town
Council as to matters of appeal
Board of Adjustment
   
156.160   Established; composition; terms; vacancies; removal of members;
compensation
   
156.161   Officers; rules and regulations
   
156.162   Meetings; minutes; alternate members; hearing notices; continuances;
rules of procedure
   
156.163   Powers generally
   
156.164   Administration of oaths
   
156.165   Appeals
   
156.166   Interpretation of zoning maps, lot and district boundary lines and
the like
   
156.167   Variances
Changes and Amendments
   
156.180   Procedures generally
   
156.181   Planning Board action
   
156.182   Application fee
 
   
156.999   Penalties
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.001 AUTHORITY FOR ENACTMENT AND PURPOSES OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   In accordance with the applicable provisions of G.S. Chs. 160A and
160D (Local Planning and Development Regulations), the Town Council, having
designated the Town Planning Board as the planning agency to prepare a zoning
plan showing proposed district boundaries and recommending a procedure by which
the zoning regulations and restrictions and the boundaries of the zoning
districts shall be determined, established and enforced, and from time to time
amended, supplemented or changed, and having received from the Planning Board a
certified plan taking into consideration the character of each district and its
peculiar suitability for particular uses with a view to conserving the value of
buildings and encouraging the most appropriate use of land throughout the town,
hereby adopts this chapter.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter have been prepared in accordance with a
comprehensive plan for the development of the town and are designed to lessen
congestion in the streets; to secure safety from fire, panic and other dangers;
to promote health and the general welfare; to provide adequate light and air;
to prevent the overcrowding of land; to avoid undue concentration of
population; to facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water,
sewerage, schools, parks and other public requirement; and to give reasonable
consideration to expansion and development within the town, so as to provide
for its orderly growth and development.
(Ord. 04-21, passed 10-6-2004, § 1; Am. Ord. 21-01, passed 6-2-2021)
§ 156.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A-WEIGHTED SOUND LEVEL. The sound pressure level in decibels as measured on
a sound level meter using the A-weighting network. The level so read is
designated dB(A).
   ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT. A secondary dwelling unit established in
conjunction with and clearly subordinate to a principal dwelling unit, whether
part of the same structure as the principal dwelling unit, or as a detached
structure on the same lot.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use which is clearly incidental to and customarily found in
connection with the principal use, and located on the same lot with the
principal use. This shall include uses such as swimming pools, tennis courts,
private piers and docks, private boathouses, sheds, gazebos, pergolas, and
detached garages.
   ADMINISTRATIVE DECISION. Decisions made in the implementation,
administration, or enforcement of development regulations that, involve the
determination of facts and the application of objective standards set forth in
this chapter. These are sometimes referred to as ministerial decisions or
administrative determinations.
   ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING. A proceeding to gather facts needed to make an
administrative decision.
   ADULT ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein
coin-operated or token-operated or electronically, electrically or mechanically
controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors or other image-
producing devices are maintained to show images to 1 or more persons per
machine at any 1 time, and where the images so displayed are distinguished or
characterized by the depicting or describing of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE. Defined in G.S. § 14-202.10(1) which is incorporated herein
by reference.
   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, restaurant or similar commercial
establishment that for at least 10% of its business hours in any day features:
      (1)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or semi-nudity;
      (2)   Live performances that are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities;
      (3)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other
photographic reproductions that are characterized by the depiction or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; or
      (4)   Persons who engage in lewd, lascivious or erotic dancing or
performances that are intended for the sexual interests or titillation of an
audience or customers.
   ADULT ESCORT. A person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a
companion, guide or date for another person for the purpose of participating
in, engaging in, providing or facilitating “specified sexual activities.”
   ADULT ESCORT AGENCY. A person or business that furnishes, offers to furnish,
or advertises to furnish adult escorts as 1 of its business purposes for
consideration.
   ADULT ESTABLISHMENT. Defined in G.S. § 14-202.10(2), which is incorporated
herein by reference.
   ADULT LIVE ENTERTAINMENT. Defined in G.S. § 14-202.10(3), which is
incorporated herein by reference.
   ADULT LIVE ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS. Defined in G.S. § 14-202.10(4), which is
incorporated herein by reference.
   ADULT MEDIA CENTER.
      (1)   Adult media center includes, but is not limited to, an adult book
store, and an adult video store and means any place:
         (a)   Which receives more than 50% of its gross income during any
calendar month from the sale, rental or both of books, periodicals, magazines,
video-tapes, CD-ROM, computer software, movies and other products offered in
photographic, print, electronic, magnetic or digital or other imaging medium
which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting,
describing or presenting specified anatomical areas as defined in G.S. § 14-
202.10(10), or specified sexual activities as defined in G.S. § 14-202.10(11),
or sexually oriented devices as defined in G.S. § 14-202.10(9), or any
combination thereof; or
         (b)   Having more than 25% of its merchandise inventory consisting of
books, periodicals, magazines, video-tapes, CD-ROM, computer software, movies
and other products offered in photographic, print, electronic, magnetic or
digital or other imaging medium which are distinguished or characterized by
their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or presenting specified
anatomical areas as defined in G.S. § 14-202.10(10), or specified sexual
activities as defined in G.S. § 14-202.10(11), or sexually oriented devices as
defined in G.S. § 14-202.10(9), or any combination thereof.
      (2)   A commercial establishment may have other business purposes on the
same building site that do not involve the offering for sale or rental of
material depicting or describing specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas and still be categorized as ADULT MEDIA CENTER.
      (3)   Other business purposes will not serve to exempt like commercial
establishments from being categorized as an adult media center so long as 1 of
its business purposes is the offering for sale or rental for consideration the
specified materials which depict or describe specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT MOTEL. A hotel, motel, or similar commercial establishment that:
      (1)   Offer accommodation to the public for any form of consideration and
provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmission, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, slides or other photographs reproductions that are
characterized by the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas;
      (2)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less
than 12 hours; or
      (3)   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to sub-rent the room
for a period of time that is less than 12 hours.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. Defined in G.S. § 14-202.10(5), which is
incorporated herein by reference.
   ADULT MINI MOTION PICTURE THEATER. Defined in G.S. § 14-202.10(6), which is
incorporated herein by reference.
   ADULT THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar commercial
establishment that for at least 10% of its business hours in any day, features
persons who appear in a state of nudity or live performances that are
characterized by the exposure of specified anatomical areas or by specified
sexual activities.
   ADULT VIDEO STORE. A commercial establishment that, as 1 of its principal
business purposes, offers for sale or rental for any form of consideration any
1 or more of the following: books, magazines, periodicals or other printed
matter, or photographs, films, motion picture, video tapes or cassettes, video
reproductions, CD-ROMS, slides or other visual representations which depict or
describe specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; or any
combination thereof.
   ALLEY. A minor right-of-way, dedicated to public use, which affords a
secondary means of vehicular access to the back or side of properties otherwise
abutting a street and which may be used for public utility purposes.
   AMBIENT NOISE. The sound present in a given environment, being usually a
composite of sounds from many sources. For the purposes of this chapter, this
shall be the A-weighted sound level in decibels that is exceeded 90% of the
time.
   AVERAGE FINISHED GRADE. 
      (1)   The average surface elevation of that portion of a lot to be
covered by a structure after grading has been completed.
      (2)   The average finished grade will be calculated by taking the average
of the actual elevations at the four corners of a structure. When the footprint
of a structure is not generally rectangular or is unusually shaped, the average
finished grade will be calculated using the most logical points as determined
by the Zoning Administrator.
   BAR/TAVERN.  An establishment primarily engaged in the sale and service of
alcoholic beverages for on-premises consumption during any period of the day as
permitted by law. The incidental sale or provision of food or snacks shall not
entitle such a use to be considered an eating establishment under other
provisions of this code.
   BED AND BREAKFAST HOME.
      (1)   A single-family dwelling that consists of a single dwelling unit,
together with the rental of not more than 3 dwelling rooms on a daily or weekly
basis to tourists, vacationers or other transients; where the provision of
meals, if provided at all, is limited to the breakfast meal; and where the bed
and breakfast operation is conducted by persons who own and reside within the
dwelling unit with the assistance of not more than the equivalent of 1 full-
time employee and where the permitted occupancy is 12 persons or less.
      (2)   A BED AND BREAKFAST HOME must be located on NC 12.
   BED AND BREAKFAST INN. A commercial establishment providing for the rental
of dwelling rooms on a daily or weekly basis to tourists, vacationers or other
transients; where the bed and breakfast operation is conducted by persons who
own and reside on the property, with the assistance of not more than 3 full-
time employees and where the permitted occupancy is 24 persons or less.
   BEDROOM EQUIVALENT.
      (1)   An area or room other than a designated bedroom which may serve as
a bedroom by virtue of its layout, as determined by the Dare County Department
of Environmental Health in its review and determination of septic capacity of a
dwelling.
      (2)   BEDROOM EQUIVALENTS so determined shall count as bedrooms for the
purposes of determining standards for residential construction based on lot
size per § 156.126.
   BONA FIDE FARM PURPOSES. Agricultural activities as set forth in G.S. §
160D-903.
   BUFFER STRIP. A device of material or space used to provide sight and sound
screening from adjoining properties. The required height and width of the
BUFFER STRIP and the materials used in its construction vary according to use.
Where a BUFFER STRIP is required under the provisions of this chapter, the
Zoning Administrator shall approve or disapprove the buffer strip.
   BUILDING. Any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any
use or occupancy.
   BUILDING, ACCESSORY. A subordinate building consisting of walls and a roof,
the use of which is clearly incidental to that of a principal building on the
same lot.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the tallest roofline of
a building (not counting chimneys and similar features) to the top of the slab
at the approximate center of the structure or to the average finished grade
where no slab is present. Finished grade below the slab shall be established in
accordance with the town’s land-disturbing activities regulations.
      (1)   In cases where the regulatory flood protection elevation (as
defined in
Chapter 150) is higher than the average finished grade in AE, AO, or X flood
zones, the height measurement shall begin at the top of the slab at grade for
enclosures, or from the top of the lowest floor above the regulatory flood
protection elevation when no portion of the structure is located at grade,
whichever is applicable, provided that the top of the lowest floor does not
exceed 2 feet above the regulatory flood protection elevation.
      (2)   In cases where the regulatory flood protection elevation (as
defined in
Chapter 150) is lower than the average finished grade in AE, AO, or X flood
zones, the height measurement shall begin at the top of the slab at the
approximate center of the structure or to the average finished grade where no
slab is present.
      (3)   In a Coastal High Hazard Area (as defined in
Chapter 150), the height measurement shall begin at the bottom of the lowest
horizontal member consistent with the town’s standards for free and clear of
obstruction (as defined in Chapter 150). Such measurement shall begin no higher
than 3 feet above the highest finished adjacent grade.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building in which is conducted the principal use of
the lot on which it is located.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE. A line parallel to or concentric with the street
right-of-way establishing the minimum allowable distance between the right-of-
way and the nearest portion of any building, excluding the outermost 3 feet of
any uncovered porches, step, eaves, gutters and similar fixtures.
   BUILT UPON AREA or BUA. That portion of a development project that is
covered by impervious materials or partially impervious surfaces and used to
calculate stormwater run-off potential, including buildings; pavement and
compacted gravel areas, such as roads or parking lots; and paths and recreation
facilities, such as athletic courts and concrete pool decks. BUILT-UPON AREA
does not include the surface area of pools, wooden slatted decks, or un-
compacted, washed gravel, or pervious or partially pervious paving material to
the extent that the paving material absorbs water or allows water to infiltrate
through the paving material. BUILT-UPON AREA is distinct from lot coverage, as
calculated under this chapter. For the purposes of this chapter, BUILT-UPON
AREA shall be calculated in accordance with the methodology prescribed in the
latest edition of the NCDENR - Division of Water Quality - Stormwater Best
Management Practices (BMP) Manual.
   BULLETIN BOARD. A sign used to announce meetings or programs to be held on
the premises of a church, school, auditorium, library, museum, community
recreation center or similar non-commercial place of public assembly.
   CHILD CARE CENTER, LARGE. Any child-care center, which is authorized to
provide care to 80 or more children.
   CHILD CARE CENTER, MEDIUM. Any child-care center, which is authorized to
provide care to at least 30 but no more than 79 children.
   CHILD CARE CENTER, SMALL. Any child-care center, which is authorized to
provide care for a maximum of 29 children.
   CHILD CARE HOME, LARGE. A child care arrangement as described above in which
the provider may care for between 6 and 12 children when any child present is
pre-school aged and a maximum of 15 children all of whom are school aged.
   CHILD CARE HOME, SMALL.
      (1)   Any child care program or child care arrangement wherein any person
not excluded in G.S. § 110-86(2) provides child care on a regular basis of at
least once a week for more than 4 hours per day for more than 2 children under
the age of 13 and for fewer than 6 children at any 1 time, wherever operated
and whether or not operated for profit.
      (2)   The 4-hour limit applies regardless of the time of day and
regardless of whether the same or different children attend.
      (3)   Cooperative arrangements among parents to provide care for their
own children as a convenience rather than for employment are not included.
      (4)   To determine whether a child care arrangement is a child care home,
all children shall be counted except for the operator’s own school-aged
children and school-aged children who reside at the location of the day care
home.
   COLUMBARIUM. A structure or building substantially exposed above ground
intended to be used for the interment of the cremated remains of a deceased
person.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. A comprehensive plan that has been officially adopted by
the governing board pursuant to G.S. § 160D-501.
   CONDOMINIUM. Ownership in common with others of a parcel of land and certain
parts of a building thereon which would normally be used by all the occupants,
together with individual ownership in fee of a particular unit in the building.
   DECIBEL (dB). A unit for describing the amplitude of sound equal to 20 times
the logarithm to the base ten of the ratio of the pressure of the sound
measured to the reference pressure, which is 20 micro newtons per square meter.
   DECISION-MAKING BOARD. A governing board, planning board, board of
adjustment, historic district board, or other board assigned to make quasi-
judicial decisions under this chapter.
   DESIGN STORM. Rainfall event, expressed in depth, measured in inches, for
the purposes of this chapter and independent of storm duration, utilized for
the calculation of storage volume required for BMP's.
   DETERMINATION. A written, final, and binding order, requirement, or
determination regarding an administrative decision.
   DEVELOPER. A person, including a governmental agency or redevelopment
authority, who undertakes any development and who is the landowner of the
property to be developed or who has been authorized by the landowner to
undertake development on that property.
   DEVELOPMENT.   
      (1)   Any of the following:
         (a)   The construction, erection, alteration, enlargement, renovation,
substantial repair, movement to another site, or demolition of any structure.
         (b)   The excavation, grading, filling, clearing, or alteration of
land.
         (c)   The subdivision of land as defined in G.S. § 160D-802.
         (d)   The initiation or substantial change in the use of land or the
intensity of use of land.
      (2)   This definition does not alter the scope of regulatory authority
granted by this chapter.
   DEVELOPMENT APPROVAL. An administrative or quasi-judicial approval made
pursuant to this chapter that is written and that is required prior to
commencing development or undertaking a specific activity, project or
development proposal. DEVELOPMENT APPROVALS include, but are not limited to,
zoning permits, site plan approvals, special use permits (formerly conditional
use permits), variances, and certificates of appropriateness. The term also
includes all other regulatory approvals required by regulations adopted
pursuant to this chapter, including plat approvals, permits issued, development
agreements entered into, and building permits issued.
   DEVELOPMENT REGULATION. A unified development ordinance, zoning regulation,
subdivision regulation, erosion and sedimentation control regulation, flood
plain or flood damage prevention regulation, mountain ridge protection
regulation, stormwater control regulation, wireless telecommunication facility
regulation, historic preservation or landmark regulation, housing code, State
Building Code enforcement or any other regulation adopted pursuant to this
chapter.
   DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT OR REFRESHMENT STAND. Any place or premises used for
sale, dispensing or serving of food, refreshments or beverages in automobiles,
including those establishments where customers may serve themselves and may eat
or drink the food, refreshments or beverages on the premises.
   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA SALES. The term is defined in G.S. § 90-113.21(a). In
addition to the list of factors or evidence enumerated in G.S. § 90-113.21(b)
that may be considered in determining whether an object is drug paraphernalia
for purposes of this chapter, the town may also consider the following other
relevant evidence, as expressly referenced in G.S. § 90-113.21(b), in
determining whether an object is drug paraphernalia and whether a business
enterprise is engaging in drug paraphernalia sales:
      (1)   Direct or circumstantial relevant evidence of the ratio of sales of
the objects to the total sales of the business enterprise; and
      (2)   Direct or circumstantial relevant evidence of the ratio of the
quantity of the objects physically on display and physically in stock at or in
the physical location of the business enterprise located in the town, to the
total quantity of all merchandise physically on display and physically in stock
at or in the location of the business enterprise physically located in the
town.
   DUPLEX. Any dwelling place designed for, or occupied by, two families.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, manufactured home, or mobile home, or
part thereof, used and occupied for human habitation or intended to be so used,
and includes any outhouses and appurtenances belonging thereto or usually
enjoyed therewith. The term does not include any manufactured home, mobile
home, or recreational vehicle, if used solely for a seasonal vacation purpose.
   DWELLING UNIT. A single unit providing complete, independent living
facilities for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for living,
sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation.
   EATING ESTABLISHMENT.  
      (1)   Any establishment that provides as a principal use the sale of
food, frozen desserts or beverages in a ready form for consumption state either
within the eating establishment or off- premises.
      (2)   EATING ESTABLISHMENTS may consist of any of the following:
         (a)   Establishments where patrons are seated on premises, either
inside the building or at an exterior dining area, and provided table service
by an employee;
         (b)   Establishments where patrons are seated on premises, either
inside the building or at an exterior dining area, and are served at a counter
by an employee;
         (c)   EATING ESTABLISHMENTS shall also include carry-out
establishments, where food, frozen desserts or beverages are served primarily
in disposable or edible containers, and packaged in a manner where customers
can readily take the food off-premises. This includes, but is not limited to,
delis, snack bars, ice cream shops, coffee shops, pastry shops and yogurt
shops.
      (3)   Eating establishments shall comply with all applicable requirements
of § 156.129.
   ELECTRONIC GAMING OPERATIONS. Any for-profit business or enterprise, whether
as a principal or an accessory use, where persons utilize electronic gaming
terminals to conduct games of chance, including but not limited to sweepstakes,
and where cash, merchandise or other items of value are redeemed or otherwise
distributed, whether or not the value of the distribution is determined by
electronic games played or by predetermined odds. The businesses or enterprises
have as a part of its operation the running of one or more games or processes
with any of the following characteristics: (1) payment, directly or as an
intended addition to the purchase of a product, whereby the customer receives
one or more electronic sweepstakes tickets, cards, tokens or similar items
entitling or empowering the customer to enter a sweepstakes, and without which
item the customer would be unable to enter the sweepstakes; or (2) payment,
directly or an intended addition to the purchase of a product, whereby the
customer can request a no purchase necessary free entry of one or more
sweepstakes tickets or other item entitling the customer to enter a
sweepstakes. The term ELECTRONIC GAMING OPERATIONS includes, but is not limited
to, cyber-gaming establishments, internet cafes, internet sweepstakes, beach
sweepstakes, video sweepstakes, cybercafes or internet cafes, which have a
finite pool of winners and includes both those connected to an internet or not.
This does not include any electronic gaming terminal that directly accepts cash
or coins in any way other than payment or purchase through an attendant. This
term does not include any machine, computer, terminal or software deemed
illegal and in no way attempts to make legal any electronic gaming operation or
part thereof that has been determined to be illegal by state and federal
authorities. This does not include any lottery endorsed or permitted by the
state.
   ELECTRONIC GAMING TERMINAL. Any electronic machine, computer gaming
terminal, gaming station or similar device, used in connection with electronic
gaming operations.
   EVIDENTIARY HEARING. A hearing to gather competent, material, and
substantial evidence in order to make findings for a quasi-judicial decision
required by a development regulation adopted under this chapter.
   FAMILY. One or more persons operating as a housekeeping unit.
   FASCIA. A plain horizontal band placed at the termination of a roof.
   FLAG. A piece of cloth, paper or similar flexible material generally
displayed on a flagpole.
   GOVERNING BOARD. The Town Council shall be known as the GOVERNING BOARD of
the Town of Duck.
   GUEST-ROOM. A room or group of rooms available for rent in a bed and
breakfast home that is used or intended for habitation and sleeping but not for
cooking or eating purposes.
   HOME OCCUPATION. A profession or occupation carried on by a member of a
family or a member of a recognized profession residing on the premises;
provided, that no merchandise or commodity other than that produced on the
premises is sold on the premises; provided, further, that not over 25% of the
total actual floor area of any structure is used for home occupations or
professional purposes.
   HOTEL (also applicable to MOTEL). A commercial establishment that contains
multiple guest rooms for the purpose of providing overnight lodging facilities
to the general public for compensation,
with or without meals and/or other services, and which has common facilities
for reservations, cleaning services, combined utilities and on-site management
and reception. This definition shall not preclude the use of trade names such
as “Holiday Inn,” “Travelodge” or similar trade names. The application of the
definition shall apply to the nature of the structure and not its trade name).
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. Any material that prevents the infiltration of water
into the soil.
   LANDOWNER OR OWNER. The holder of the title in fee simple. Absent evidence
to the contrary, the town may rely on the county tax records to determine who
is a LANDOWNER. The landowner may authorize a person holding a valid option,
lease, or contract to purchase to act as his or her agent or representative for
the purpose of making applications for development approvals.
   LEGISLATIVE DECISION. The adoption, amendment or repeal of a regulation
under this chapter. The term also includes the decision to approve, amend, or
rescind a development agreement consistent with the provisions of G.S. Ch.
160D, Article 10.
   LEGISLATIVE HEARING. A hearing to solicit public comment on a proposed
legislative decision.
   LOT.
      (1)   A parcel of land which fronts on and has ingress and egress by
means of a public right- of-way or an approved private street and which is
occupied or intended to be occupied by a building or groups of buildings as
provided herein with the customary accessories and open spaces.
      (2)   The word LOT includes the words “plot,” “parcel” or “tract.”
   LOT AREA. The total horizontal area included within lot lines. For the
purposes of determining lot coverage, maximum building size or number of
bedrooms, the lot area for oceanfront properties shall be considered the area
landward of the static vegetation line or first line of stable natural
vegetation (as determined pursuant to Coastal Area Management Act regulations)
that lies within the remaining lot lines or the lot square footage determined
by the Dare County Tax Assessment Office for real estate tax assessment
purposes, whichever is greater.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot, at least 2 adjoining sides of which abut for their full
lengths on a street provided, that the interior angle at the intersection of 2
adjoining sides is less than 135 degrees.
   LOT COVERAGE. That portion of the lot area, expressed as a percentage, that
is occupied and obstructed by an improvement or a structure on or above the
ground, including but not limited to buildings, covered decks, concrete patios,
gazebos, pools, concrete, asphalt, or similar paved parking areas, concrete,
asphalt, or similar paved private sidewalks, concrete, asphalt, or similar
driveways and roadways, and any accessory use or structure requiring location
above ground.
      (1)   Impervious components of innovative wastewater systems to be
installed shall be included in the calculation of LOT COVERAGE.
      (2)   Uncovered decks and open arbors, pergolas, overhangs and similar
structures located over pervious surfaces shall be excluded from the
calculation of LOT COVERAGE.
      (3)   For single-family dwellings, gravel over a sand base or plastic
grid reinforced gravel pavement systems shall be excluded from the calculation
of LOT COVERAGE.
      (4)   On commercially zoned properties, gravel driveways, drive aisles,
and parking spaces constructed in accordance with §
156.112 shall be excluded from the calculation of LOT COVERAGE.
      (5)   Artificial turf installed over an entirely pervious base shall be
excluded from the calculation of LOT COVERAGE.
      (6)   The water area of a swimming pool shall be excluded from the
calculation of LOT COVERAGE.
      (7)   Driveways and parking areas consisting of alternative materials
that are entirely pervious, including pervious pavers and similar surfaces,
shall not be included in the calculation of LOT COVERAGE. An N.C. licensed
engineer must prepare a design and specifications certifying that such
materials are 100% pervious for a 10-year, 2-hour storm event. Prior to the
issuance of a certificate of completion, the licensed engineer must certify
that the proposed improvements have been constructed in accordance with the
project design and specifications. The engineer must also submit a maintenance
plan for the pervious surface materials to maintain perviousness over time. It
is the responsibility of the  property owner to record the design
specifications, maintenance plan, and certification of the owner's
responsibility for maintenance at the Dare County Register of Deeds Office and
maintain the pervious materials consistent with the recorded maintenance plan.
      (8)   Other semi-pervious surfaces used for driveways or parking, such as
pervious concrete, shall be considered 60% impervious for the purpose of LOT
COVERAGE calculation. Similarly, other types of improvements located elsewhere
on a site shall be considered 60% impervious for the purposes of LOT COVERAGE
calculation. Such materials must either be documented for perviousness and
certified by an N.C. licensed engineer or installed according to the
manufacturer's specifications for the base and surface. It is the
responsibility of the property owner to provide sufficient documentation,
including owner certification, of installation consistent with manufacturer's
standards and to maintain the surface according to the engineer's or
manufacturer's specifications to maintain perviousness over time. It is the
responsibility of the property owner to record the design specifications,
maintenance plan, and certification of the owner's responsibility for
maintenance at the Dare County Register of Deeds Office and maintain the
pervious materials consistent with the recorded maintenance plan.
      (9)   Ground-mounted components of solar energy systems shall be excluded
from the calculation of lot coverage; however, no more than 5% of the total lot
area may be covered with a solar energy system.
      (10)   Public sidewalks and similar public improvements located on
privately owned properties shall not be included in the calculation of LOT
COVERAGE.
   LOT, DEPTH. The average distance from the street right-of-way line of the
lot to its rear line, measured in a general direction of the sidelines of the
lot.
   LOT LINES. The line bounding a lot, as follows.
      (1)   Lot line, front. The line separating a lot from that street which
is designated as the front street on the building permit, certificate of
occupancy or subdivision plat.
      (2)   Lot line, rear. The lot boundary opposite and most distant from the
front lot line, in the case of a pointed or irregular lot, it shall be an
imaginary line parallel to and farthest from the front lot line, not less than
30 feet long and wholly within the lot.
      (3)   Lot line, side. Any lot boundary line not a front line or rear lot
line.
   LOT WIDTH. The width of a lot at the required building setback line,
measured at right angles to its depth.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot, which is part of a subdivision recorded in the office
of the County Register of Deeds, or a lot or parcel described by metes and
bounds, the description of which has been so recorded.
   LOW IMPACT DEVELOPMENT. A stormwater management design framework aimed at
minimizing the negative impacts of stormwater run-off by mimicking pre-
development hydrology.
   MAJOR HOME OCCUPATION.
      (1)   A profession or occupation carried on by a member of a family or a
member of a recognized profession residing on the premises; provided, that no
merchandise or commodity other than that produced on the premises is sold on
the premises.
      (2)   The term MAJOR HOME OCCUPATION shall exclude any funeral home,
kennel, veterinary office, animal hospital, nursery school and any
establishment in which goods other than that produced on the premises are
offered for sale.
   MANUFACTURED HOME OR MOBILE HOME. A structure as defined in G.S. § 143-145
(7).
   MEDICAL CLINIC. A building or structure, or portion thereof, where medical
services are provided for outpatients only.
   MINOR HOME OCCUPATION.
      (1)   The use of an area located within a dwelling unit for business or
commercial purposes by a person for whom the dwelling unit is the primary
residence and in which he or she resides during nonbusiness hours.
      (2)   It shall be understood that home telecommuting for an employer
located elsewhere, which is allowed by right, is not a minor home occupation.
      (3)   Any of the occupations listed under the definition of the term
“major home occupation” may qualify as a MINOR HOME OCCUPATION provided that
the proposed use meets the criteria listed above.
      (4)   The term MINOR HOME OCCUPATION shall not include any funeral home;
kennel; veterinarian office; animal hospital; nursery school; minor or major
repair, detailing, or painting of engines (small or large), major appliances,
vehicles, trailers or boats; palm reading or fortunetelling; health salon, gym,
dance studio, aerobic exercise studio, beauty or hair salon, massage
establishment; welding, material or metal fabrication shops or machine shops;
gift or antique shop or on-premises retail sales not meeting the criteria in
this section; or other similar uses which will likely create an adverse impact
on a residential neighborhood, subject to review and approval of the Zoning
Administrator.
   MOBILE HOME, CLASS A. A mobile home that meets or exceeds the construction
standards promulgated by the United States Department of Housing and Urban
Development that were in effect at the time of construction and that satisfies
each of the following additional criteria:
      (1)   The home has a length not exceeding 3 times its width;
      (2)   The pitch of the home’s roof has a minimum vertical rise of 1 foot
for each 5 feet of horizontal run, and the roof is finished with a type of
shingle that is commonly used in standard residential construction;
      (3)   The exterior siding consists of wood, hardboard or aluminum (vinyl
covered or painted, but in no case exceeding the reflectivity of gloss white
paint) comparable in composition, appearance and durability to the exterior
siding commonly used in standard residential construction;
      (4)   A continuous, permanent masonry curtain wall, unpierced except for
required ventilation and access, is installed under the home after placement on
the lot and before occupancy; and
      (5)   The tongue, axles, transporting lights and removable towing
apparatus are removed after placement on the lot and the home shall be attached
to the ground as required by the building code before occupancy.
   MODULAR UNIT. A factory fabricated, transportable building, designed to be
used by itself or to be incorporated with similar units at a building site into
a modular structure. The term is intended to apply to major assemblies and does
not include pre-fabricated panels, trusses, plumbing trees or other pre-
fabricated sub-elements, which are to be incorporated into a structure at the
site.
   NIGHT CLUBS. A place of entertainment generally open primarily in the
evening offering entertainment such as music, space for dancing, and/or a stage
area; and usually serving alcoholic beverages and food for consumption on the
premises. An establishment is not a nightclub if it has a Class A restaurant
license from the State of North Carolina.
   NON-CONFORMING USE.
      (1)   A use of a building or land which does not conform to the
regulations of the district in which the building or land is situated but was
lawful before adoption of this chapter.
      (2)   The term NON-CONFORMING USE shall not be deemed to apply to
renovation or expansion of a single-family residence where the number of
bedrooms permitted in relation to lot size is not increased.
   NORTH CAROLINA STORMWATER BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES MANUAL or NCDENR BMP
MANUAL. The stormwater design manual approved by the North Carolina Division of
Energy, Mineral, and Land Resources. All references herein to the NC BMP Manual
are to the latest published edition or revision.
   NUDE MODEL STUDIO. Any place where a person who appears in a state of nudity
or displays specified anatomical areas is provided to be observed, sketched,
drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed or similarly depicted by other persons
who pay money or any form of consideration. There is excepted from this
definition any studio which is part of a school for artists who are regularly
enrolled in a course of instruction in the arts, and in which the use of nude
models involves less than 10% of the course hours.
   NUDITY or STATE OF NUDITY. The appearance of a human bare buttock, anus,
male genitals, female genitals or female breast without a fully opaque
complete-covering of the breast below a point immediately above the top of the
areola, or human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state even if completely
and opaquely covered.
   OFFICE.
      (1)   Any room, studio, clinic, suite or building wherein the primary use
is the conduct of a business such as accounting, correspondence, research,
editing, administration or analysis; or the conduct of a business by
salespersons, sales representatives, or manufacturer’s representatives; or the
conduct of a business by professionals such as engineers, architects, land
surveyors, artists, musicians, lawyers, accountants, real estate brokers,
insurance agents, dentists or physicians, and landscape architects.
      (2)   For the purpose of this chapter, an OFFICE shall not involve
manufacturing, fabrication, production, processing assembling, cleaning,
testing, repair or storage of materials, goods and products; or the sale and/or
delivery of any materials, goods or products which are physically located on
the premises.
   OPEN SPACE. An unoccupied space open to the sky.
   OPEN STORAGE. Unroofed storage area, whether fenced or not.
   OUTDOOR ADVERTISING STRUCTURE. A sign and structure (also known as a
billboard) which directs attention to a business, commodity, service or
entertainment conducted, sold or offered which are not produced, sold or
otherwise available on the premises where the sign is erected and maintained.
This definition shall not be held to include any board, sign or surface used to
display official notices issued by courts or public officers in the performance
of official duty, or used to advertise any business or institution conducted on
the premises where the structure is located, nor shall it be held to include a
real estate sign advertising for sale or rent the property upon which it
stands.
   OUTDOOR RECREATION ACTIVITY. Any activity conducted outdoors for the purpose
of leisure, relaxation and/or personal enjoyment.
   OUTDOOR RECREATION ACTIVITY, ACCESSORY. Any activity or improvement designed
and used incidental and subordinate to a principal use where access to the
activity or improvement is limited to the exclusive use of the patrons of the
principal use.
   OUTDOOR RECREATION ACTIVITY, COMMERCIAL. Any conduct or any improvement
designed solely for the purpose of facilitating an outdoor recreation activity
where fees are collected in exchange for access to the improvement. This
definition shall not be held to include outdoor recreation activities for which
fees are collected but which is conducted by or sponsored by local government
or which is conducted for a bona fide nonprofit and approved by the local
government.
   PARKING SPACE. A vehicular storage space, plus the necessary access space.
It shall always be located outside any dedicated right-of-way.
   PENNANTS. As prohibited herein, pennants are triangular pieces of flexible
material generally tapering to a point and joined by a string. Individual
tapered pieces of material (such as nautical signaling devices) are considered
flags and regulated as flags herein.
   PERSONAL SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT. Establishment primarily engaged in the
repair, care, maintenance or customizing of personal property that is worn or
carried about the person, or is a physical component of the person, including
laundry cleaning services, linen supply, photographic studies, beauty shops,
barbershops, shoe repair, clothing rental, tailors and similar place of
business.
   PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT REGULATION JURISDICTION. The geographic area
defined in G.S. Ch. 160D within which the town may undertake planning and apply
the development regulations authorized by this chapter.
   PORCH. An area that is open and unobstructed to the exterior, except for
guard railings, and is covered by a pitched roof that is supported by columns.
   PROPERTY. All real property subject to land-use regulation by the town. The
term includes any improvements or structures customarily regarded as a part of
real property.
   QUASI-JUDICIAL DECISION. A decision involving the finding of facts regarding
a specific application of a development regulation and that requires the
exercise of discretion when applying the standards of the regulation. The term
includes, but is not limited to, decisions involving variances, special use
permits, certificates of appropriateness, and appeals of administrative
determinations. Decisions on the approval of subdivision plats and site plans
are QUASI-JUDICIAL in nature if the regulation authorizes a decision-making
board to approve or deny the application based not only upon whether the
application complies with the specific requirements set forth in the
regulation, but also on whether the application complies with one or more
generally stated standards requiring a discretionary decision on the findings
to be made by the decision-making board.
   READER BOARD. A permanent sign, affixed either to the wall of a structure or
to an existing freestanding sign, which is comprised of a surface to which
letters may be attached on a temporary basis. The area of a READER BOARD sign
is to be included in the area of wall-mounted or ground-mounted signage
permitted.
   RENTAL PROPERTY MANAGEMENT/MAINTENANCE OFFICE.
      (1)   Any building or portion of a building where the principal function
is to serve as an administrative office and centralized logistics facility for
conducting property management, maintenance, housekeeping, and general upkeep
of vacation rental properties.
      (2)   For the purpose of this chapter, a rental property management/
maintenance office shall not involve the storage or staging of construction
materials or equipment. Storage and repair(s) of materials shall be limited to
the following items:
         (a)   Minor repairs such as window screen repair, appliance repair,
and the like.
         (b)   Storage of vacation rental convenience items such as housewares,
small countertop appliances, water bottles, linens, and the like.
   RESIDENT BUSINESS. A profession or occupation carried on by a member of a
family or a member of a recognized profession residing on the premises;
provided that merchandise or services produced on or off the premises may be
displayed and sold on the premises and up to 1,000 square feet or 40% of the
total floor area of the home, whichever is lesser, may be used for the purpose
of conducting business.
   SAND DUNE. A rounded hill or ridge of loose, gritty grains of disintegrated
rock heaped up by the wind. A SAND DUNE may or may not be covered by vegetation
or trees.
   SEMI-NUDE. A state of dress in which clothing covers no more than the human
bare buttock, anus, male genitals, female genitals or female breast without a
fully opaque complete-covering of the breast below a point immediately above
the top of the areola, or human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state
even if completely and opaquely covered.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. A business or commercial enterprise that, as 1 of
its business purposes, offers for any form of consideration:
      (1)   Physical contact by customers in the form of wrestling or tumbling
between persons of the opposite sex; or
      (2)   Activities between male and female persons, or persons of the same
sex when 1 or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or semi-nudity.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS.
      (1)   A business which offers its customers or patrons any device,
activity or demonstration depicting specified sexual activities, or which is
intended to appeal to sexual interests, titillation or arousal of the customer
or patron.
      (2)   A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS shall include an adult establishment
as defined in G.S. § 14-202.10(2) and, in addition, without limitation: adult
arcade, adult bookstore, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult media center,
adult live entertainment business, adult motel, adult motion picture theater,
adult mini motion picture theater, adult theater, adult escort agency, nude
model studio and sexual encounter center.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS ACTIVITIES. Those activities usually provided
for, promoted, or offered by a sexually oriented business as defined herein,
whether or not as the principal business purpose or as a sideline or accessory
business purpose and whether or not in connection with or on the same premises
with a business which is not a sexually oriented business.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED DEVICES. Defined in G.S. § 14-202.10(9) which is
incorporated herein by reference.
   SHADOW FLICKER. The visible flicker effect when rotating turbine blades cast
shadows on the ground and nearby structures causing the repeating pattern of
light and shadow
   SIGN. A SIGN shall include all structural members.
      (1)   SIGN, ANIMATED. Any sign, which uses movement or change of lighting
to depict action or to create a special effect or scene.
      (2)   SIGN AREA.
         (a)   The entire face of a sign including any nonstructural
embellishments, but not including the supporting structure.
         (b)   In the case of a double-faced sign where the interior angle
formed by the faces is 45 degrees or less or where the sign faces are parallel
with no more than 24 inches between each sign face, only 1 display face shall
be used in calculating the area.
         (c)   The AREA OF SIGNS, composed in whole or in part of free-standing
letters, devices or sculptured matter not mounted on a measurable surface,
shall be construed to be the area of the least square, rectangle or circle that
will enclose the letters, devices or sculptured matter.
      (3)   SIGN, ARCADE. Any sign suspended underneath an awning, canopy,
marquee, eave, archway or other structure which forms a covered walkway.
      (4)   SIGN, BUILDING-MOUNTED. Any sign attached to a building, including
a wall-mounted sign, projecting sign, canopy sign, porch sign, and window sign,
but specifically excluding any roof sign.
      (5)   SIGN, CANOPY. Any sign which is painted or printed on or attached
flat against a canopy or awning.
      (6)   SIGN, ELECTRONIC MESSAGE BOARD. A sign, or portion of a sign that
displays electronically generated text, images, graphics, or video whereby the
message is formed using a panel or matrix consisting of light emitting diodes
(LED's), fiber optics, light bulbs or other illumination devices within the
display area. ELECTRONIC MESSAGE BOARD SIGNS include, but are not limited to,
signs also known as electronic reader boards, electronic message center signs,
tri-panel message systems, and commercial electronic-variable message signs
(CEVMS).
      (7)   SIGN FACE. The area of a sign used for visual communication.
       (8)   SIGN, FLASHING. An illuminated sign of direct or indirect lighting
on which the artificial light flashes on and off in regular or irregular
sequences.
      (9)   SIGN, FREESTANDING. A sign supported by 1 or more poles or braces
set firmly in the ground or in a foundation and not attached to a building.
      (10)   SIGN, GOVERNMENT. A sign or notice erected and maintained by the
town, county, state or Federal government.
      (11)   SIGN, HANGING. A sign suspended from braces, beams or other
supports which may be either freestanding or building-mounted.
      (12)   SIGN HEIGHT. As applied to a sign, height shall be measured as the
vertical distance between the highest part of the sign or its supporting
structure, whichever is highest, and the ground.
      (13)   SIGN, NON-CONFORMING. A lawfully existing sign which becomes
nonconforming on the effective date of a new ordinance or amendment thereto
because it does not conform fully with all standards and regulations therein.
      (14)   SIGN, PORCH. A sign that is attached in whole or in part to the
fascia of a porch roof.
      (15)   SIGN, PORTABLE. A sign that is not permanently attached to the
ground, a structure or a building and that can be moved from one location to
another and used for a temporary purpose. This shall include “A”-frame signs,
sandwich board signs and signs mounted and displayed on a stationary vehicle.
      (16)   SIGN, RESIDENTIAL. Any sign located on property within a
residential zoning district (RS-1, RS-2, and R-2).
      (17)   SIGN, RESIDENTIAL IDENTIFICATION. A sign which denotes the name of
a residential subdivision, condominium or apartment complex. Such signs are
permitted for the purpose of assisting the local government with traffic flow
and public safety.
      (18)   SIGN, REVOLVING/ROTATING. A sign that revolves 360 degrees.
      (19)   SIGN, ROOF. A sign erected, constructed or maintained above or on
the roof of any building.
      (20)   SIGN, SANDWICH (also called an A-FRAME SIGN). A portable sign
which is constructed of durable materials, which has 2 flat faces, with or
without changeable copy, and is designed to be placed on the ground.
      (21)   SIGN STRUCTURE. Anything built or constructed for the purpose of
supporting a sign.
      (22)   SIGN, TEMPORARY. A sign constructed of cloth, fabric, plywood or
other lightweight material, and designed or intended for a period not to exceed
90 days and which does not constitute a structure subject to the North Carolina
State Building Code or Town of Duck ordinances.
      (23)   SIGN, UNDER-CANOPY. Any sign suspended underneath an awning,
canopy, marquee, eave, archway or other structure which forms a covering for a
walkway.
      (24)   SIGN, WALL. A sign painted on or attached parallel to the wall of
a building, including any sign attached to a mansard.
      (25)   SIGN, WINDOW. A sign attached to or applied upon the inside or
outside face of a window or transparent door or adjacent thereto (placed in a
manner within a building so that it is visible from the exterior of the
building through a window and intended to be viewed from the outside), not to
include window merchandise displays.
   SITE PLAN. A scaled drawing and supporting text showing the relationship
between lot lines and the existing or proposed uses, buildings, or structures
on the lot. The SITE PLAN may include site-specific details such as building
areas, building height and floor area, setbacks from lot lines and street
rights-of-way, intensities, densities, utility lines and locations, parking,
access points, roads, and stormwater control facilities that are depicted to
show compliance with all legally required development regulations that are
applicable to the project and the site plan review. A site plan approval based
solely upon application of objective standards is an administrative decision,
and a site plan approval based in whole or in part upon the application of
standards involving judgment and discretion is a quasi-judicial decision. A
SITE PLAN may also be approved as part of a conditional zoning decision.
   SKIRTING AREA. That area beneath a mobile home from the underside of the
floor area to the ground.
   SLEEPING UNIT. A room or space in which people sleep, which can also include
permanent provisions for living, eating, and either sanitation or kitchen
facilities but not both. Such rooms and spaces that are also part of a dwelling
unit are not SLEEPING UNITS.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. An energy system which converts solar energy to usable
thermal, mechanical, chemical or electrical energy for use in the heating or
cooling of a structure, for heating domestic water or water used in swimming
pools and hot tubs, or for the generation of electricity.
   SOLAR PHOTOVOLTAIC SYSTEM. The total components and sub-systems of a solar
energy system that, in combination, convert solar energy into electric energy
suitable for connection to a utilization load. This may include cells arranged
in solar arrays, combiners, inverters, over-current protection devices, and any
required disconnecting means.
   SOLAR WATER HEATING SYSTEM. A solar energy system that converts direct solar
radiation energy into thermal energy and transfers that energy to raise the
temperature of water.
   SPECIAL USE PERMIT. A permit issued to authorize development or land uses in
a particular zoning district upon presentation of competent, material, and
substantial evidence establishing compliance with one or more general standards
requiring that judgment and discretion be exercised as well as compliance with
specific standards. The term includes permits previously referred to as
conditional use permits or special exceptions.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Defined in G.S. § 14-202.10(10), which is
incorporated herein by reference.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Defined in G.S. § 14-202.10(11) which is
incorporated herein by reference.
   STORMWATER BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES or BMPs. Hereafter referred to as “Best
Management Practices” or “BMPs”; actions to control stormwater runoff, and can
include structural BMPs, such as infiltration devices, retention ponds,
filters, and constructed wetlands; and non-structural BMPs, such as maintenance
practices, street sweeping, public education, and outreach programs.
   STORMWATER RUNOFF. The flow of surface water resulting from precipitation.
   STREET.  
      (1)   Any permanently dedicated public right-of-way which has been
accepted for maintenance by the State Department of Transportation; or
      (2)   Any other open area providing the principal means of access for
vehicles or pedestrians from a public right-of-way to a building or use of land
and which:
         (a)   Is at least 30 feet in width;
         (b)   Has been approved by the Town Council as a street to satisfy the
requirements of this chapter; and
         (c)   Is covenanted by its owner to remain open and unobstructed
throughout the life of any building or use which depends thereon to satisfy any
requirement of this chapter.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
location on the ground or attachment to something having location on the
ground.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of land for the purpose of sale or development as
specified in G.S. § 160D-802.
   TAVERN. See BAR/TAVERN.
   TOWNHOUSE.
      (1)   A single-family dwelling on its own individual lot but connected on
2 sides, by means of a common wall for at least 10 feet of its length, to 2
other single-family dwellings or an end dwelling of a row of such or like
dwellings.
      (2)   No more than 6 like dwelling units may be attached in a single
group.
   TRAILER. Any of the following.
      CAMPING TRAILER. A folding structure of canvas or other material mounted
on wheels and designed for travel, recreation and vacation use.
      MOTOR HOME. A portable, temporary dwelling to be used for travel,
recreation and vacation, constructed as an integral part of a self propelled
vehicle.
      PICKUP COACH. A structure designed to be mounted on a truck chassis for
use as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreation and vacation.
      TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicular, portable structure built on a chassis,
designed to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational and
vacation uses. When factory-equipped for the roads, it shall have a body width
not exceeding 8 feet and a body length not exceeding 32 feet.
   TRANSIT STOPS. A place along a route where buses, trolleys, or other forms
of mass transportation stop to discharge and take on passengers.
   USED or OCCUPIED. As applied to any land or building, shall be construed to
include the words INTENDED, ARRANGED or DESIGNED TO BE USED OR OCCUPIED.
   VARIANCE.
      (1)   A relaxation of the terms of this chapter where the variance will
not be contrary to the public interest and where, owing to conditions peculiar
to the property and not the result of the actions of the applicant, a literal
enforcement of this chapter would result in unnecessary and undue hardship.
      (2)   As used in this chapter, a VARIANCE is authorized only for height,
area and size of structure or size of yards and open spaces.
      (3)   The establishment or expansion of the use otherwise prohibited
shall not be allowed by variance, nor shall a VARIANCE be granted because of
the presence of non-conformities in the zoning district or uses in an adjoining
zoning district.
   WIND DEVICE.
      (1)   Any flag, banner, balloon, streamer or similar device that moves
freely in the wind.
      (2)   All WIND DEVICES are considered to be flags and are regulated as
flags, except as otherwise provided herein.
   WIND ENERGY FACILITY. An electric generating facility, whose main purpose is
to supply electricity, consisting of 1 or more wind turbines and other
accessory structures and/or buildings, including substations, meteorological
towers, electrical infrastructure, transmission lines and other appurtenant
structures and facilities.
   WIND ENERGY FACILITY, COMMERCIAL. An electric generating facility consisting
of 1 or more wind turbines under common ownership or operating control that
includes substations, MET towers, cables/wires and other building accessories
to such facility, whose main purpose is to supply electricity to off-site
customer(s).
   WIND ENERGY FACILITY, SUPPLEMENTARY. A single system designed to supplement
other electricity sources as an accessory use to existing buildings or
facilities, wherein the power generated is used primarily for on-site
consumption. A supplemental wind energy facility may consist of a single wind
turbine mounted either on a freestanding tower or on the roof of a building
with associated control or conversion electronics.
   WIND POWER. The conversion of wind energy into another form of energy.
   WIND TURBINE. A wind energy conversion system that converts wind energy into
electricity through the use of a wind turbine generator, and may include a
nacelle, rotor, tower, guy wires and pad transformer.
   WIND TURBINE HEIGHT. The distance measured from grade at the center of the
tower to the highest point of the turbine rotor or tip of the turbine blade
when it reaches its highest elevation.
   YARD. A required open space other than a court, unoccupied and unobstructed
by an improvement or a structure or portion of a structure (including pools,
sheds, decks, patios, gazebos and similar features); provided, that fences,
walls, poles, posts and other customary yard accessories, ornaments and
furniture may be permitted in any yard, subject to height limitations and
requirements limiting obstruction of visibility or any other requirement of
this chapter and further provided that driveways and parking spaces may be
located within the required front and side yards but no closer than 5 feet to
the side property line and further provided that building mechanicals such as
heating and air conditioning units may be located in the side or rear yard but
no closer than 5 feet from any property line.
   YARD, FRONT.
      (1)   A yard extending between side lot lines across the front of a lot
adjoining a street. Depth of the required FRONT YARD shall be measured at right
angles to a straight line joining the foremost points of the side lot lines.
      (2)   The foremost point of the side lot line, in the case of rounded
property corners at street intersections, shall be assumed to be the point at
which the side and front lot lines would have met without the rounding. FRONT
and rear yard lines shall be essentially parallel.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the rear of the lot between side lot
lines. Depth of a required REAR YARD shall be measured in a manner so that the
yard established is a strip of the minimum width required by district
regulations, with its inner edge parallel with the rear lot line.
   YARD, SIDE.
      (1)   A yard extending from the rear line of the required front yard to
the rear yard.
      (2)   Width of a required SIDE YARD shall be measured in a manner so that
the yard established is a strip of the minimum width required by district
regulations, with its inner edge parallel with the side lot line.
   ZONING MAP AMENDMENT OR REZONING. An amendment to a zoning regulation for
the purpose of changing the zoning district that is applied to a specified
property or properties. The term also includes (1) the initial application of
zoning when land is added to the territorial jurisdiction of the town that has
previously adopted zoning regulations; and (2) the application of an overlay
zoning district or a conditional zoning district. The term does not include (1)
the initial adoption of a zoning map by the town; (2) the repeal of a zoning
map and readoption of a new zoning map for the entire planning and development
regulation jurisdiction; or (3) updating the zoning map to incorporate
amendments to the names of zoning districts made by zoning text amendments
where there are no changes in the boundaries of the zoning district or land
uses permitted in the district.
(Ord. 04-21, passed 10-6-2004, § 2; Am. Ord. 04-24, passed 11-3-2004; Am. Ord.
05-06, passed 5-4-2005; Am. Ord. 06-02, passed 5-3-2006; Am. Ord. 07-12, passed
9-5-2007; Am. Ord. 07-15, passed 10-3-2007; Am. Ord. 08-03, passed 7-2-2008;
Am. Ord. 09-002, passed 4-8-2009; Am. Ord. 10-04, passed 3-3-2010; Am. Ord. 10-
06, passed 5-5-2010; Am. Ord. 10-10, passed 1-5-2011; Am. Ord. 11-08, passed 1-
4-2012; Am. Ord. 12-01, passed 6-6-2012; Am. Ord. 12-06, passed 10-3-2012; Am.
Ord. 12-08, passed 11-7-2012; Am. Ord. 14-02, passed 6-4-2014; Am. Ord. 15-07,
passed 6-3-2015; Am. Ord. 16-01, passed 1-6-2016; Am. Ord. 16-04, passed 7-6-
2016; Am. Ord. 16-07, passed 11-2-2016; Am. Ord. 17-04, passed 6-7-2017; Am.
Ord. 17-05, passed 7-5-2017; Am. Ord. 17-07, passed 8-2-2017; Am. Ord. 17-11,
passed 10-4-2017; Am. Ord. 19-07, passed 12-4- 2019; Am. Ord. 20-02, passed 5-
20-2020; Am. Ord. 21-01, passed 6-2-2021; Am. Ord. 22-05, passed 8-3-2022; Am.
Ord. 23-01, passed 5-3-2023; Am. Ord. 23-08, passed 8-2-2023; Am. Ord. 23-14,
passed 12-6-2023; Am. Ord. 24-04, passed 1-8-2025)
§ 156.003 INTERPRETATION OF CHAPTER; CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter, they
shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public
safety, health, convenience, prosperity and general welfare.
   (B)   It is not intended by this chapter to interfere with or abrogate or
annul any easements, covenants or other agreements between parties; provided,
that where this chapter imposes a greater restriction upon the use of buildings
or premises or upon the height of buildings, or requires larger open spaces,
than are imposed or required by other ordinances, rules or regulations, or by
easements, covenants or agreements, the provisions of this chapter shall
govern.
   (C)   The Zoning Administration shall use the following factors as a
guideline when classifying a new or unlisted use to determine if such use is
classified in a manner consistent with other similar uses in the applicable
zoning district.
      (1)   Consistency with the stated intent of the zoning district;
      (2)   Consistency with the adopted vision statement and Comprehensive &
Land Use Plan;
      (3)   Density of development (number of units, square footage, etc.);
      (4)   Intensity of use;
      (5)   Type of activity associated with the use;
      (6)   Number of customers and length of stay;
      (7)   Generation of pedestrian and vehicular traffic;
      (8)   Potential impacts such as noise, light, odor, etc.; and
      (9)   Public safety.
(Ord. 04-21, passed 10-6-2004, § 3; Am. Ord. 16-02, passed 4-6-2016; Am. Ord.
21-01, passed 6-2-2021)
§ 156.004 TERRITORIAL APPLICABILITY OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all lands, structures
and uses thereon within the planning and development regulation jurisdiction
designated on the official zoning map of the town.
   (B)   Pursuant to G.S. § 160D-903, property that is located in the
extraterritorial jurisdiction which is used for bona fide farm purposes is
exempt from the regulations of this chapter.
   (C)   The planning and development regulation jurisdiction of the town may
be modified from time to time in accordance with G.S. § 160D-202.
(Ord. 04-21, passed 10-6-2004, § 4; Am. Ord. 21-01, passed 6-2-2021)
§ 156.005 COMPLIANCE WITH CHAPTER; USE, OCCUPANCY AND CONSTRUCTION
REQUIREMENTS.
   No building, structure or land shall be used or occupied, and no structure
thereof shall be constructed, except in conformity with all of the regulations
specified in this chapter for the district in which it is located.
(Ord. 04-21, passed 10-6-2004, § 5) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.006 HEIGHT, BULK, DENSITY, LOT COVERAGE, YARD AND OPEN SPACE
REQUIREMENTS.
   No building or other structure shall be erected or altered:
   (A)   To exceed the height or bulk limitations as set forth in this chapter;
   (B)   To accommodate or house a greater number of families than permitted by
this chapter;
   (C)   To occupy a greater percentage of lot area than permitted by this
chapter; or
   (D)   To have narrower or smaller rear yards, front yards, side yards or
other open spaces than required in this chapter, or in any other manner
contrary to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 04-21, passed 10-6-2004, § 6) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.007 COMBINATION OF REQUIRED SPACES.
   No part of a yard or other open space, or off-street parking or loading
space, required about or in connection with any building for the purpose of
complying with this chapter shall be included as part of a yard, open space or
off-street parking or loading space similarly required for any other building,
except as otherwise provided in this chapter (e.g. group development projects
or village commercial development option).
(Ord. 04-21, passed 10-6-2004, § 7) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.008 REDUCTION OF YARDS OR LOTS BELOW MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No yard or lot existing on July 3, 2002 shall be reduced in dimension
or area below the minimum requirements set forth in this chapter.
   (B)   Yards or lots created after July 3, 2002 shall meet at least the
minimum requirements established by the chapter.
(Ord. 04-21, passed 10-6-2004, § 8) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.009 ONE PRINCIPAL BUILDING PER LOT.
   Only 1 principal building and its customary accessory buildings may be
erected on any lot, except as otherwise provided in this chapter (e.g. group
development projects or village commercial development option).
(Ord. 04-21, passed 10-6-2004, § 9) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.010 LOT ACCESS REQUIREMENTS.
   No structure requiring a building permit shall be erected on any lot which:
   (A)   Does not abut either a public right-of-way or a private street or
easement at least 30 feet in width, which has been approved in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter and recorded by the Register of Deeds of the
county; or
   (B)   Does not have a cart road, land or other access to a public street or
highway, which access is described in an instrument recorded in the office of
the County Register of Deeds prior to adoption of this section or described and
sworn to or affirmed by affidavits presented to the Zoning Administrator
setting forth the fact that the same existed prior to adoption of this section.
(Ord. 04-21, passed 10-6-2004, § 10) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.011 VISION CLEARANCE AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   On a corner lot which abuts a state-maintained right-of-way in any
district, no planting, structure, fence, wall or other obstruction to vision
more than 3 feet in height shall be placed or maintained within the triangular
area formed by the intersecting street right-of-way lines and a straight line
connecting points on street lines, each of which is 25 feet distance from the
point of intersection.
   (B)   On all rights-of-way proper setback for vision clearance shall be
determined by the Zoning Administrator, but in no case shall the requirement
exceed that above.
(Ord. 04-21, passed 10-6-2004, § 11)
§ 156.012 YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   Unless otherwise provided in this chapter, no principal structure or
principal use, structure intended for outdoor recreational use, such as pools
and tennis courts, or other accessory buildings or structures shall be located
within the front, side or rear yards (setback areas).
(Ord. 04-21, passed 10-6-2004, § 12)
DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 156.025 ZONING DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED; OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the town is hereby divided into
zoning areas within which this chapter will apply. The zones or districts for
each zoning area are shown on 1 or more sheets of an “Official Zoning Map of
the Town of Duck, North Carolina,” which together, with all explanatory matter
thereon, is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this
chapter.
   (B)   The official zoning map for each zoning area shall be identified by
the signature of the Mayor and attested by the Town Clerk and shall bear the
seal of the town under the following words:
   “This is to certify that this is the official zoning map referred to in §§
156.025 through
156.036 of the Zoning Ordinance of the Town of Duck, North Carolina,” together
with the date of adoption of this chapter (July 3, 2002).”
   (C)   If, in accordance with §§
156.180 through
156.182 below, changes are made in district boundaries or other matter
portrayed on the official zoning map, the changes shall be promptly entered on
the official zoning map after the amendment has been approved by the Town
Council.
   (D)   Regardless of the existence of purported copies of the official zoning
map which may be made or published, the official zoning map which shall be
located in the town’s municipal office shall be the final authority as to the
current zoning status of land and water areas, buildings and other structures
in the town.
   (E)   The official zoning map shall be maintained for public inspection in
the office of the Town Clerk or the office of the Community Development. The
maps may be in paper or a digital format approved by the town.
   (F)   Other maps and regulatory language, as necessary to accomplish the
purpose of this chapter, are hereby incorporated by reference. This includes
but is not limited to maps of flood plains, soils, watersheds, water supply
protection areas, and United States Geological Survey (USGS) maps depicting
streams or other water courses.
   (G)   For state law as to authority of the town to establish zoning
districts and regulate and restrict construction, uses of land or buildings and
the like, therein, see G.S. Ch. 160D.
(Ord. 04-22, passed 11-3-2004, § 13.1; Am. Ord. 21-01, passed 6-2-2021)
§ 156.026 INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of any of the zoning
districts as shown on the official zoning map, the following rules shall apply.
   (A)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines of
streets, highways or alleys shall be construed to follow the centerlines.
   (B)    Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines
shall be construed as following the lot lines.
   (C)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following town limits shall be
construed as following the town limits.
   (D)   Boundaries indicated as following shorelines shall be construed to
follow the shorelines, and in the event of change in the shoreline shall be
construed to follow the shoreline as changed; boundaries indicated as
approximately following the centerlines of streams, rivers, canals, lakes or
other bodies of water shall be construed to follow the centerlines.
   (E)   Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extensions of features
indicated in divisions (A) through (D) above shall be construed to be parallel
to or an extension of such features. Distances not specifically indicated on
the official zoning map shall be determined by the scale of the map.
   (F)   Where physical or cultural features existing on the ground are at
variance with those shown on the official zoning map, or in other circumstances
not covered by divisions (A) through (E) above, the Zoning Administrator shall
interpret the district boundaries.
(Ord. 04-22, passed 11-3-2004, § 13.2; Am. Ord. 15-04, passed 4-1-2015; Am.
Ord. 17-07, passed 8-2-2017; Am. Ord. 21-01, passed 6-2-2021)
§ 156.027 CLASSIFICATION OF ADDED TERRITORY.
   All territory not included under the provisions of this chapter but added to
the zoned area after July 3, 2002 shall be considered to be in the same
classification as contiguous property until otherwise classified.
(Ord. 04-22, passed 11-3-2004, § 14)
§ 156.028 SCHEDULE OF DISTRICT REGULATIONS ADOPTED; AMENDMENTS GENERALLY.
   (A)   The schedule of regulations set out in this subchapter limiting the
use of buildings and land and the bulk and arrangement of buildings within the
various districts established by this chapter is hereby adopted for the town.
   (B)   These district regulations may be amended as provided in §§
156.180 through
156.182 below.
(Ord. 04-22, passed 11-3-2004, § 15)
§ 156.029 C-PR CONSERVATION PUBLIC RECREATION CONVENTIONAL DISTRICT.
   The following regulations shall apply to the C-PR (Conservation Public
Recreation District).
   (A)   Intent. The C-PR District is established to provide restricted usage
of property located in areas conducive to and appropriate for recreational
facilities, public and private utilities, town uses and conservation areas.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted by right:
      (1)   Conservation and open space areas;
      (2)   Passive recreation facilities such as bike trails, picnic areas,
bird watching facilities and hiking trails;
      (3)   Public parks and playgrounds, parking areas, and pedestrian or
vehicular beach access;
      (4)   United States government uses and facilities;
      (5)   Town uses and facilities;
      (6)   Plant nurseries and greenhouses; and
      (7)   Fine craft and folk art production.
   (C)   Special uses. The following special uses are permitted subject to the
requirements of this district, and additional regulations and requirements
imposed by the Town Council as provided in §§
156.155 et seq.:
      (1)   Fire stations, schools, facilities for water supply, sewerage and
police protection, but not including any materials or equipment yard;
      (2)   Public clubs, including boat launching areas, golf courses, tennis
courts, picnic areas, beach clubs and concessions integral thereto; provided,
that there is no open commercial activity;
      (3)   Private clubs, including boat launching areas, tennis courts,
community centers, libraries, picnic areas, beach clubs and concessions
integral to them;
      (4)   Transit stops;
      (5)   Agricultural buildings;
      (6)   Commercial animal production;
      (7)   Commercial crop production (indoor or outdoor); and
      (8)   Livestock shelters and stables.
   (D)   Dimensional requirements:
      (1)   Minimum lot size: 20,000 square feet;
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 100 feet; measured at the building setback line;
      (3)   Minimum front yard: 50 feet;
      (4)   Minimum side yard: 25 feet; an additional 25 feet side yard
adjacent to the street is required for a corner lot;
      (5)   Minimum rear yard: 50 feet;
      (6)   Maximum allowable lot coverage: 25%; and
      (7)   Height limitation: 35 feet for buildings and structures, except
that the height of communications and water towers shall be determined within
the context of the approved special use permit therefor.
(Ord. 04-22, passed 11-3-2004, § 16; Am. Ord. 09-03, passed 4-8-2009; Am. Ord.
16-04, passed 7-6-2016; Am. Ord. 17-04, passed 6-7-2017; Am. Ord. 21-01, passed
6-2-2021)
§ 156.030 RS-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL CONVENTIONAL DISTRICT.
   The following regulations shall apply to the RS-1 Single-Family Residential
District:
   (A)   Intent. The RS-1 District is established to provide for the low-
density development of single-family detached dwellings in an environment that
promotes orderly neighborhoods, characterized by low vehicular traffic flows,
abundant open space and limited impact of development on the natural
environment and adjacent land uses.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted by right:
      (1)   Detached single-family dwellings, not to include mobile homes;
      (2)   Customary accessory buildings, including swimming pools and tennis
courts;
      (3)   Town owned or leased facilities;
      (4)   Minor home occupations;
      (5)   Plant nurseries and greenhouses;
      (6)   Fine craft and folk art production; and
      (7)   Accessory dwelling units, subject to the provisions of §
156.140.
   (C)   Special uses. The following special uses are permitted subject to the
requirements of this chapter and additional regulations and requirements as may
be imposed by the Town Council as provided in §§
156.155 et seq.:
      (1)   Public and private utility facilities must provide a vegetated
buffer strip at least 10 feet in width where the facility abuts a residential
lot or use;
      (2)   Major home occupations;
      (3)   Private clubs, including boat launching areas, tennis courts,
community centers, libraries, picnic areas, beach clubs and concessions
integral to them and provided that no sign other than a directional sign is
allowed;
      (4)    Pole-mounted yard and area lighting; provided that the yard or
area lighting must be shielded to prevent the direct rays of the light from
extending beyond the property lines of the lot on which it is located.
Installation of low-voltage ground-mounted lights less than 24 inches in height
above the ground are exempt from this special use permit requirement;
      (5)   Small child care homes as defined in §
156.002 above and subject to the authorization provisions of §
156.057 below;
      (6)   Churches and other associated church facilities including
fellowship halls, sanctuaries, parsonages, church schools, parking areas and
offices; and
      (7)   Bed and breakfast homes may be permitted subject to the
requirements of this chapter and provided that the following minimum conditions
are met:
         (a)   No more than 3 guest rooms shall be available for rental to
guests. Guest rooms shall be constructed as part of the primary residential
structure and not separate or detached from the principal structure. Any other
bedrooms or bedroom equivalents in the structure shall be limited to use by the
owner;
         (b)   The bed and breakfast home shall be owner occupied and shall not
employ more than the equivalent of 1 full-time employee who is not a resident
of the home;
         (c)   No separate kitchen facilities shall be provided for the guests’
use. Microwaves and refrigerators shall not be located in guest rooms. Food
service at the bed and breakfast home shall be limited to guests and not open
to the public as a restaurant, catering service or take-out food service;
         (d)   The bed and breakfast home shall be located on a lot with its
entire frontage along a state numbered highway. This shall not include roads
included in the state’s secondary maintenance system and designated with a SR
number;
         (e)   A bed and breakfast home shall be located on an individual lot
or a subdivision lot with no deed restriction or subdivision covenant that
prohibits commercial activity;
         (f)   Parking: 1 space for each guest room available for rental plus
the requirements of §§
156.070 through
156.096 for single-family structures. These spaces should be individually
designated for bed and breakfast guests and aligned so that the spaces are
horizontally adjacent and will not necessitate vertical double spacing;
         (g)   Signage: a single sign may be permitted consistent with the
standards outlined in §
156.130; and
         (h)   No retail activities other than food and beverage sales
incidental to the operation of the bed and breakfast home shall be allowed on
the premises;
      (8)   Transit stops;
      (9)   Agricultural buildings;
      (10)   Commercial animal production;
      (11)   Commercial crop production (indoor or outdoor); and
      (12)   Livestock shelters and stables.
   (D)   Dimensional requirements.
      (1)   Minimum lot size:
         (a)   Single-family lots served by a private well and an on-site
septic tank/drain field system: 20,000 square feet of area;
         (b)   Single-family lots served by a central water supply and an on-
site septic tank/drain field system: 15,000 square feet of area; and
         (c)   Single-family lots served by a central water supply and a
central wastewater disposal system: 15,000 square feet of area.
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 75 feet, measured at the building setback line.
      (3)   Minimum front yard: 25 feet.
      (4)   Minimum side yard: 10 feet. An additional 10-foot side yard
adjacent to the street is required for a corner lot.
      (5)   Minimum rear yard: 25 feet.
      (6)   Maximum allowable lot coverage by principal use and all accessory
structures: 30%. Lot coverage may be increased to 35% provided that stormwater
management improvements meeting the following criteria are provided on the
development site:
         (a)   Stormwater runoff from the built-upon area of the site must be
directed into an approved stormwater management system designed to accommodate
the volume of runoff generated by 1.5 inches of rainfall over a 2 hour period
(1.5 inch design storm).
         (b)   The stormwater management system shall be designed in accordance
with the standards, methodology, and procedures prescribed in the state
Stormwater Best Management Practices Manual (NCDENR BMP Manual).
         (c)   Storage capacity (interstitial storage) within existing soils
and/or fill material shall not be counted towards the volume requirement for
the stormwater management design.
         (d)   The designed stormwater management system may include any of the
following low-impact development principles and best management practices as
the primary method for the treatment of stormwater:
            1.   Landscaped swales;
            2.   Infiltration basins;
            3.   Bioretention or rain gardens;
            4.   Rainwater harvesting to include cisterns and/or rain barrels;
            5.   Subsurface drainage systems;
            6.   Other methods approved by the Zoning Administrator.
         (e)   The bottoms of stormwater swales and basins should maintain 12
inches above the seasonal high-water table to avoid long periods of standing
water due to elevated water tables. The seasonal high water table elevation
must be verified by a soil inspection by a licensed soil scientist or may be
verified by a County Health Department wastewater site evaluation.
         (f)   The stormwater management systems shall adhere to all setbacks,
separations, and standards required by the state on-site wastewater regulations
and building code. In no instance shall open drainage systems be located
beneath a building.
         (g)   Rainwater harvesting, rain barrels or cisterns must include
plans for the ultimate disposal of the collected rainwater (pump to irrigation,
slow release through drip tubing etc.). Open systems must include plans to
prevent mosquito breeding.
         (h)   The stormwater management plan must clearly delineate water
sheds or drainage areas within the subject property. This should include a roof
plan depicting roof runoff and the method to collect or direct the volume from
each portion of the roof area towards the stormwater management system. In some
situations, the plan may require a detailed topographic survey and a detailed
grading plan.
         (i)   Stormwater plans must be prepared by a state licensed
professional engineer or surveyor and shall include volumetric calculations.
Prior to the issuance of a certificate of completion for the project, a state
licensed professional engineer or surveyor shall certify that the proposed
improvements have been constructed in accordance with the project design.
         (j)   If permeable surfaces, such as pervious pavement or artificial
turf, are used as part of the lot coverage calculation, then the property owner
must provide written certification that the surface material was installed and
will be maintained according to the manufacturer’s specifications.
      (7)   Height limitation: 35 feet.
(Ord. 04-22, passed 11-3-2004, § 17; Am. Ord. 14-02, passed 6-4-2014; Am. Ord.
16-04, passed 7-6-2016; Am. Ord. 16-07, passed 11-2-2016; Am. Ord. 16-08,
passed 2-1-2017; Am. Ord. 17-04, passed 6-7-2017; Am. Ord. 21-01, passed 6-2-
2021; Am. Ord. 22-07, passed 9-7-2022; Am. Ord. 23-02, passed 5-3-2023)
§ 156.031 RS-2 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL CONVENTIONAL DISTRICT.
   The following regulations shall apply to the RS-2 Single-Family Residential
District:
   (A)   Intent. The RS-2 District is established to provide for the low-
density development of single-family detached dwellings in an environment that
promotes orderly neighborhoods, characterized by low vehicular traffic flows,
abundant open space and limited impact of development on the natural
environment and adjacent land uses.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted by right:
      (1)   Detached single-family dwellings, not to include mobile homes;
      (2)   Customary accessory buildings, including swimming pools and tennis
courts;
      (3)   Town owned or leased facilities;
      (4)   Minor home occupations;
      (5)   Plant nurseries and greenhouses;
      (6)   Fine craft and folk art production; and
      (7)   Accessory dwelling units, subject to the provisions of §
156.140.
   (C)   Special uses. The following special uses are permitted subject to the
requirements of this chapter and additional regulations and requirements as may
be imposed by the Town Council as provided in §§
156.155 et seq.:
      (1)   Public and private utility facilities (must provide a vegetated
buffer strip at least 10 feet in width where the facility abuts a residential
lot or use);
      (2)   Major home occupations;
      (3)   Private clubs, including boat launching areas, tennis courts,
community centers, libraries, picnic areas, beach clubs and concessions
integral to them;
      (4)    Pole-mounted yard and area lighting; provided that the yard or
area lighting must be shielded to prevent the direct rays of the light from
extending beyond the property lines of the lot on which it is located.
Installation of low-voltage ground-mounted lights less than 24 inches in height
above the ground are exempt from this special use permit requirement;
      (5)   Small child care homes as defined in §
156.002 above and subject to the authorization provisions of §
156.057 below;
      (6)   Churches and other associated church facilities including
fellowship halls, sanctuaries, parsonages, church schools, parking areas and
offices;
      (7)   Transit stops;
      (8)   Agricultural buildings;
      (9)   Commercial animal production;
      (10)   Commercial crop production (indoor or outdoor); and
      (11)   Livestock shelters and stables.
   (D)   Dimensional requirements.
      (1)   Minimum lot size:
         (a)   Single-family lots served by a private well and an on-site
septic tank/drain field system: 20,000 square feet of area;
         (b)   Single-family lots served by a central water supply and an on-
site septic tank/drain field system: 15,000 square feet of area; and
         (c)   Single-family lots served by a central water supply and a
central wastewater disposal system: 15,000 square feet of area.
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 75 feet, measured at the building setback line.
      (3)   Minimum front yard: 25 feet.
      (4)   Minimum side yard: 10 feet. An additional 10-foot side yard
adjacent to the street is required for a corner lot.
      (5)   Minimum rear yard: 20 feet.
      (6)   Maximum allowable lot coverage by principal use and all accessory
structures: 30%. Lot coverage may be increased to 35% provided that stormwater
management improvements meeting the following criteria are provided on the
development site:
         (a)   Stormwater runoff from the built-upon area of the site must be
directed into an approved stormwater management system designed to accommodate
the volume of runoff generated by 1.5 inches of rainfall over a 2 hour period
(1.5 inch design storm).
         (b)   The stormwater management system shall be designed in accordance
with the standards, methodology, and procedures prescribed in the state
Stormwater Best Management Practices Manual (NCDENR BMP Manual).
         (c)   Storage capacity (interstitial storage) within existing soils
and/or fill material shall not be counted towards the volume requirement for
the stormwater management design.
         (d)   The designed stormwater management system may include any of the
following low-impact development principles and best management practices as
the primary method for the treatment of stormwater:
            1.   Landscaped swales;
            2.   Infiltration basins;
            3.   Bioretention or rain gardens;
            4.   Rainwater harvesting to include cisterns and/or rain barrels;
            5.   Subsurface drainage systems;
            6.   Other methods approved by the Zoning Administrator.
         (e)   The bottoms of stormwater swales and basins should maintain 12
inches above the seasonal high-water table to avoid long periods of standing
water due to elevated water tables. The seasonal high water table elevation
must be verified by a soil inspection by a licensed soil scientist or may be
verified by a County Health Department wastewater site evaluation.
         (f)   The stormwater management systems shall adhere to all setbacks,
separations, and standards required by the state on-site wastewater regulations
and building code. In no instance shall open drainage systems be located
beneath a building.
         (g)   Rainwater harvesting, rain barrels or cisterns must include
plans for the ultimate disposal of the collected rainwater (pump to irrigation,
slow release through drip tubing etc.). Open systems must include plans to
prevent mosquito breeding.
         (h)   The stormwater management plan must clearly delineate water
sheds or drainage areas within the subject property. This should include a roof
plan depicting roof runoff and the method to collect or direct the volume from
each portion of the roof area towards the stormwater management system. In some
situations, the plan may require a detailed topographic survey and a detailed
grading plan.
         (i)   Stormwater plans must be prepared by a state licensed
professional engineer or surveyor and shall include volumetric calculations.
Prior to the issuance of a certificate of completion for the project, a state
licensed professional engineer or surveyor shall certify that the proposed
improvements have been constructed in accordance with the project design.
         (j)   If permeable surfaces, such as pervious pavement or artificial
turf, are used as part of the lot coverage calculation, then the property owner
must provide written certification that the surface material was installed and
will be maintained according to the manufacturer’s specifications.
      (7)   Height limitation: 52 feet.
(Ord. 04-22, passed 11-3-2004, § 18; Am. Ord. 03-16, passed 11-5-2003; Am. Ord.
14-02, passed 6-4-2014; Am. Ord. 16-04, passed 7-6-2016; Am. Ord. 16-07, passed
11-2-2016; Am. Ord. 16-08, passed 2-1-2017; Am. Ord. 17-04, passed 6-7-2017;
Am. Ord. 21-01, passed 6-2-2021; Am. Ord. 22-07, passed 9-7-2022; Am. Ord. 23-
02, passed 5-3-2023)
§ 156.032 R-2 MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDENTIAL CONVENTIONAL DISTRICT.
   The following regulations shall apply to the R-2 Medium Density Residential
District.
   (A)   Intent.
      (1)   The R-2 District is intended to encourage the development of
moderate density residential neighborhoods, with a mix of permanent and short-
term seasonal residents, and to serve as a transition zone between the low-
density area and more intensely developed areas.
      (2)   The maximum density shall not exceed 6 dwelling units per acre.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted by right:
      (1)   Detached single-family dwellings;
      (2)   Duplexes, with each unit subject to the dimensional requirements
for single-family dwellings in the district, except for the side yards required
at any common walls;
      (3)   Customary accessory buildings, including private swimming pools;
      (4)   Mobile homes, Class A;
      (5)   Town owned or leased facilities;
      (6)   Minor home occupations;
      (7)   Plant nurseries and greenhouses;
      (8)   Fine craft and folk art production; and
      (9)   Accessory dwelling units, subject to the provisions of §
156.140.
   (C)   Special uses. The following special uses are permitted, subject to the
requirements of this district and additional regulations and requirements
imposed by the Town Council as provided in §§
156.150 et seq.:
      (1)   Churches and cemeteries;
      (2)   Fire stations, schools and other public buildings;
      (3)   Major home occupations;
      (4)   Private clubs, including boat launching areas, golf courses, tennis
courts, community centers, libraries, picnic areas, beach clubs and concessions
integral thereto; provided, that there is no open commercial activity;
      (5)   Public and private utility facilities;
      (6)   Townhouse developments, under the provisions of §§
156.054 with a maximum density of 6 dwelling units per acre;
      (7)   Public or private parks and playgrounds;
      (8)    Small  child care homes as defined in §
156.002 above, and subject to the authorization provisions of §§
156.057 and
156.155;
      (9)   Small, medium and large child care centers as defined in §
156.002 above, only as an accessory use of an existing or proposed church,
school or other public building;
      (10)   Public and private utility facilities must provide a vegetated
buffer strip at least 10 feet in width that provides year round screening to
adjacent properties where the facility abuts a residential lot or use;
      (11)   Pole-mounted yard and area lighting; provided, that the yard or
area lighting must be shielded to prevent the direct rays of the light from
extending beyond the property lines of the lot on which it is located.
Installation of low-voltage ground-mounted lights less than 24 inches in height
above the ground are exempt from this special use permit requirement;
      (12)   Transit stops;
      (13)   Agricultural buildings;
      (14)   Commercial animal production;
      (15)   Commercial crop production (indoor or outdoor); and
      (16)   Livestock shelters and stables.
   (D)   Dimensional requirements.
      (1)   Minimum lot size:
         (a)   Single-family lots served by a private well and an on-site
septic tank/drain field system: 20,000 square feet of area;
         (b)   Single-family lots served by a central water supply and an on-
site septic tank/drain field system: 15,000 square feet of area;
         (c)   Single-family lots served by a central water supply and a
central wastewater disposal system: 15,000 square feet of area; and
         (d)   Duplex: 25,000 square feet; except, that if served by an
approved public or community sewage disposal system, lot size may be reduced to
15,000 square feet.
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 75 feet, measured at the building setback line.
      (3)   Minimum front yard: 25 feet.
      (4)   Minimum side yard: 10 feet. An additional 10-foot side yard
adjacent to the street is required for a corner lot.
      (5)   Minimum rear yard: 20% of lot depth, but the yard need not exceed
20 feet.
      (6)   Maximum allowable lot coverage by principal use and all accessory
structures: 30%. Lot coverage may be increased to 35% provided that stormwater
management improvements meeting the following criteria are provided on the
development site:
         (a)   Stormwater runoff from the built-upon area of the site must be
directed into an approved stormwater management system designed to accommodate
the volume of runoff generated by 1.5 inches of rainfall over a 2 hour period
(1.5 inch design storm).
         (b)   The stormwater management system shall be designed in accordance
with the standards, methodology, and procedures prescribed in the state
Stormwater Best Management Practices Manual (NCDENR BMP Manual).
         (c)   Storage capacity (interstitial storage) within existing soils
and/or fill material shall not be counted towards the volume requirement for
the stormwater management design.
         (d)   The designed stormwater management system may include any of the
following low-impact development principles and best management practices as
the primary method for the treatment of stormwater:
            1.   Landscaped swales;
            2.   Infiltration basins;
            3.   Bioretention or rain gardens;
            4.   Rainwater harvesting to include cisterns and/or rain barrels;
            5.   Subsurface drainage systems;
            6.   Other methods approved by the Zoning Administrator.
         (e)   The bottoms of stormwater swales and basins should maintain 12
inches above the seasonal high-water table to avoid long periods of standing
water due to elevated water tables. The seasonal high water table elevation
must be verified by a soil inspection by a licensed soil scientist or may be
verified by a County Health Department wastewater site evaluation.
         (f)   The stormwater management systems shall adhere to all setbacks,
separations, and standards required by the state on-site wastewater regulations
and building code. In no instance shall open drainage systems be located
beneath a building.
         (g)   Rainwater harvesting, rain barrels or cisterns must include
plans for the ultimate disposal of the collected rainwater (pump to irrigation,
slow release through drip tubing etc.). Open systems must include plans to
prevent mosquito breeding.
         (h)   The stormwater management plan must clearly delineate water
sheds or drainage areas within the subject property. This should include a roof
plan depicting roof runoff and the method to collect or direct the volume from
each portion of the roof area towards the stormwater management system. In some
situations, the plan may require a detailed topographic survey and a detailed
grading plan.
         (i)   Stormwater plans must be prepared by a state licensed
professional engineer or surveyor and shall include volumetric calculations.
Prior to the issuance of a certificate of completion for the project, a state
licensed professional engineer or surveyor shall certify that the proposed
improvements have been constructed in accordance with the project design.
         (j)   If permeable surfaces, such as pervious pavement or artificial
turf, are used as part of the lot coverage calculation, then the property owner
must provide written certification that the surface material was installed and
will be maintained according to the manufacturer’s specifications.
      (7)   Height limitation: 35 feet.
(Ord. 04-22, passed 11-3-2004, § 19; Am. Ord. 14-02, passed 6-4-2014; Am. Ord.
16-04, passed 7-6-2016; Am. Ord. 16-07, passed 11-2-2016; Am. Ord. 16-08,
passed 2-1-2017; Am. Ord. 17-04, passed 6-7-2017; Am. Ord. 21-01, passed 6-2-
2021; Am. Ord. 22-07, passed 9-7-2022; Am. Ord. 23-02, passed 5-3-2023)
§ 156.033 C-1 NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL CONVENTIONAL DISTRICT.
   The following regulations shall apply to the C-1 Neighborhood Commercial
District:
   (A)   Intent. The C-1 District is established primarily to encourage the
concentration of commercial facilities in clusters and to provide readily
accessible shopping facilities for permanent and seasonal residents.
      (1)   All C-1 Districts shall be at least 2 acres in area but not larger
than 4 acres.
      (2)   The maximum density shall not exceed 4 residential dwelling units
per acre.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted by right:
      (1)   Retail sales;
      (2)   General and medical offices;
      (3)   Personal service establishments;
      (4)   Town-owned or leased facilities;
      (5)   Small child care centers as defined in §
156.002;
      (6)   Medium child care centers as defined in §
156.002;
      (7)   Large child care centers as defined in §
156.002;
      (8)   Minor home occupations;
      (9)   Major home occupations, provided the profession or occupation is a
by-right permitted use in the district;
      (10)   Accessory apartments located above/attached to commercial
buildings. The total floor area of accessory apartments shall not exceed 50% of
the floor area of the commercial structure to which it is accessory (floor area
to be calculated exclusive of porches or decks);
      (11)   Resident business;
      (12)   Plant nurseries and greenhouses;
      (13)   Fine craft and folk art production; and
      (14)   Duplexes, subject to the dimensional requirements of the R-
2 zoning district for residential uses.
   (C)   Special uses. The following special uses shall be permitted, subject
to the requirements of this section and additional regulations and requirements
imposed by the Town Council as provided in this chapter:
      (1)   Gas pumps in conjunction with a permitted use under division (B)
above; provided, that no principal or accessory building shall be located
within 50 feet of a residential use or residential district, and that any gas
pumps shall be set back at least 25 feet from any right-of-way;
      (2)   Public and private utility facilities;
      (3)   Boat-launching and rental facilities;
      (4)   Commercial or institutional structures greater than 5,000 gross
square feet, excluding decks and porches, but less than 10,000 gross square
feet;
      (5)   Eating establishments as defined in §
156.002, and subject to the requirements §
156.129;
      (6)   Post offices;
      (7)   Churches and religious institutions;
      (8)   Rental property management and maintenance offices;
      (9)   Transit stops;
      (10)   Agricultural buildings;
      (11)   Commercial animal production;
      (12)   Commercial crop production (indoor or outdoor);
      (13)   Livestock shelters and stables; and
      (14)   Microbreweries/microdistilleries.
   (D)   Dimensional requirements.
      (1)   Minimum lot size: Lots shall be of sufficient size to meet the
requirements of the County Health Department, to provide adequate siting for
structures and to provide parking, loading and maneuvering space for vehicles
as required by §§
156.090 through
156.096. In addition, a vegetated buffer strip at least 10 feet in width that
provides year round screening to adjacent properties is required where a
commercial use or zone abuts a residential use or zone.
      (2)   Minimum front yard: 15 feet.
      (3)   Minimum side yard: 10 feet. No side yard required if commercial
building constructed with a common wall. An additional 5-foot side yard
adjacent to the street is required for a corner lot.
      (4)   Minimum rear yard: 20 feet.
      (5)   Maximum allowable lot coverage by principal use and all accessory
structures: 50%.
      (6)   Height limitation: 35 feet.
      (7)   Maximum gross building size: 5,000 square feet excluding decks,
porches and similar non-heated space, except as otherwise provided herein.
(Ord. 04-22, passed 11-3-2004, § 20; Am. Ord. 11-08, passed 1-4-2012; Am. Ord.
16-04, passed 7-6-2016; Am. Ord. 21-01, passed 6-2-2021; Am. Ord. 22-05, passed
8-3-2022)
§ 156.034 C-2 GENERAL COMMERCIAL CONVENTIONAL DISTRICT.
   The following regulations shall apply to the C-2 General Commercial
District.
   (A)   Intent. The C-2 District is established to provide for the proper
grouping and development of commercial facilities to serve permanent residents
and the general public.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted by right:
      (1)   General and medical offices;
      (2)   Retail establishments;
      (3)   Personal service establishments;
      (4)   Small child care centers as defined in §
156.002 above;
      (5)   Medium child care centers as defined in §
156.002 above;
      (6)   Large child care centers as defined in §
156.002 above;
      (7)   Public and private schools;
      (8)   Town-owned or leased facilities; and
      (9)   Accessory apartments located above/attached to commercial
buildings. The total floor area of accessory apartments shall not exceed 50% of
the floor area of the commercial structure to which it is accessory (floor area
to be calculated exclusive of porches or decks).
      (10)   Electronic gaming operations, as defined in §
156.002, are permitted as an accessory use to any retail or eating
establishment use provided that the following requirements are met:
         (a)   Minimum separation. Electronic gaming operations shall not be
located within 1,000 feet in any direction from any other establishment to
which this section applies as an accessory use. Measurement of distance
separation shall be in a straight line from the property line of the proposed
use to the nearest property line of the uses specified in division (B)(10). For
the purposes of this section, a use shall be considered existing or established
if it is in existence at the time an application is submitted.
         (b)   Hours of operation. Operating hours of the electronic gaming
operations shall be the same as the normal operating hours of the business in
which it is located.
         (c)   Maximum number of electronic gaming terminals. The maximum
number of electronic gaming terminals for electronic gaming operations is 2 per
business and only as an accessory use.
         (d)   Accessibility of electronic gaming terminals. All electronic
gaming terminals shall be open for direct, unobstructed access by police
officers, fire department personnel, and emergency response personnel, and
shall be visible from the main entrance of the business.
         (e)   Age restrictions. No business engaged in the activity of
electronic gaming operations as an accessory use shall allow, permit or condone
any person under the age of 18 to engage in electronic gaming operations.
         (f)   Operations. No alcoholic beverages will be served or consumed on
the premises of electronic gaming operations. If food or beverages (excluding
alcoholic beverages) are served, the establishment must meet the requirements
of the Dare County Department of Health.
         (g)   Minimum paved parking spaces. Off-street parking shall be
provided at the ratio of 1 parking space per electronic gaming terminal.
         (h)   Signage. Establishments conducting electronic gaming operations
shall prominently post the rules of the electronic gaming operations on the
interior of the establishment in a manner that is clearly visible to all
patrons and customers. All exterior signs for electronic gaming operations
shall meet the standards outlined in §
156.130.
         (i)   Penalty. Violations of any provisions of division (B)(10) shall
be subject to a civil penalty in the amount of $500 per violation. Each day any
single violation continues shall be considered a separate violation and subject
to a civil penalty;
      (11)   Plant nurseries and greenhouses; and
      (12)   Fine craft and folk art production.
   (C)   Special uses. The following special uses shall be permitted, subject
to the requirements of this district and additional regulations and
requirements imposed by the Town Council as provided in §
156.155  et seq.:
      (1)   Public and private utility facilities;
      (2)   Commercial or institutional structures greater than 5,000 gross
square feet, excluding decks and porches, but less than 15,000 gross square
feet;
      (3)   Hotel resort;
      (4)   Theaters;
      (5)   Private commercial recreational facilities such as swimming pools
and tennis courts;
      (6)   Eating establishments as defined in §
156.002, and subject to the requirements §
156.129;
      (7)   Churches and religious institutions;
      (8)   Rental property management and maintenance offices;
      (9)   Transit stops;
      (10)   Agricultural buildings;
      (11)   Commercial animal production;
      (12)   Commercial crop production (indoor or outdoor);
      (13)   Livestock shelters and stables; and
      (14)   Microbreweries/microdistilleries.
   (D)   Dimensional requirements.
      (1)   Minimum lot size:
         (a)   Commercial lots shall be of sufficient size to meet requirements
of the Dare County Health Department, to provide adequate siting for structures
and to provide parking, loading and maneuvering space for vehicles as required
by §§
156.090 through
156.096 below; and
         (b)   In addition, a vegetated buffer strip at least 10 feet in width
that provides  year-round  screening to adjacent properties is required where a
commercial use or zone abuts a residential use or zone.
      (2)   Minimum front yard: 15 feet.
      (3)   Minimum side yard: 10 feet. No side yard required if commercial
building constructed with a common wall. An additional 5-foot yard adjacent to
the street is required for a corner lot.
      (4)   Minimum rear yard: 20 feet.
      (5)   Maximum allowable lot coverage by principal use and all accessory
structures: 60%.
      (6)   Height limitation: 35 feet.
      (7)   No building or other facility, such as parking areas, incinerators,
trash collection areas and the like, shall be located nearer than 50 feet to
boundaries of RS-1 Districts. The width of a road and its right-of-way along
the boundary may be included as part of all of the 50-foot separation zone.
      (8)   Maximum gross building size: 5,000 square feet excluding decks,
porches and similar non-heated space, except as otherwise provided herein.
(Ord. 04-22, passed 11-3-2004, § 21; Am. Ord. 11-08, passed 1-4-2012; Am. Ord.
12-05, passed 8-1-2012; Am. Ord. 12-08, passed 11-7-2012; Am. Ord. 16-04,
passed 7-6-2016; Am. Ord. 17-04, passed 6-7-2017; Am. Ord. 19-09, passed 1-15-
2020; Am. Ord. 21-01, passed 6-2-2021)
§ 156.035 S-1 SPECIAL CONVENTIONAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. The S-1 Special District is established as a transitional area
to allow broad flexibility of services and uses while establishing certain
density limitations, setbacks, parking requirements and other general
requirements.
   (B)   Permitted uses. With the exception of those uses specifically
prohibited in §
156.040, all uses are permitted.
   (C)   Multiple building project. Projects with more than 1 principal
building per lot shall be submitted for site plan review under §§
156.059 and
156.117 below, but shall be subject to the dwelling density limitations of
division (D) below.
   (D)   Dimensional requirements.
      (1)   Minimum lot size; residential lots:
         (a)   Single-family detached residential lot, 20,000 square feet of
soils classified as “suitable” for septic tank ground absorption wastewater
treatment systems within the USDA soil survey for Dare County or by the Dare
County Department of Health;
         (b)   Single-family detached residential lot served by central water
supply, 15,000 square feet of soils classified as “suitable” for septic tank
ground absorption wastewater treatment systems either in the USDA soil survey
for Dare County or by the Dare County Department of Health; and
         (c)   Single-family detached residential lot served by central water
supply and central wastewater treatment plant, 15,000 square feet.
      (2)   The composition of soils on lots served by off-site wastewater
treatment shall be as follows:
         (a)   Soils not classified as wetlands, coastal marsh, or United
States Army Corps of Engineers 404 jurisdictional soils: not less than 11,250
square feet per lot; and
         (b)   Lots that are platted at greater than 15,000 square feet may
have a greater amount of wetland soils, but must have at least 11,250 square
feet of soils not classified as wetland, coastal marsh, or U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers Section 404 jurisdictional soils.
      (3)   Minimum lot width: 75 feet, measured at the building setback line.
      (4)   Minimum front yard: 25 feet.
      (5)   Minimum side yard: 10 feet. For lots with 50 feet or less width
existing prior to September 9, 1987 the minimum side yard setback shall be 8
feet. For lots with greater than 50 feet of width the side yard setback shall
be 10 feet.
      (6)   Maximum allowable lot coverage by principal use and all accessory
structures: 60%.
      (7)   Height limitation: 52 feet.
      (8)   Duplex/2-family structures: 30,000 square feet of soils classified
as “suitable” for ground absorption wastewater treatment systems for structures
to be served by a private well and septic tank. If a central water supply is
available, the minimum lot size may be reduced to 25,000 square feet. If
central water and off-site wastewater treatment is available, the lot size may
be reduced to 20,000 square feet.
      (9)   Density limitations for multi-family structures, condominiums,
townhouses, hotels and motels:
         (a)   Multi-family structures:
            1.   Structures on a lot or tract that have no soils classified as
wetlands, coastal marsh, or U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Section 404
jurisdictional soils; 5 units per acre;
            2.   Structures on a lot or tract that has between 01% and 19.9% of
soils that are classified as wetlands, coastal marsh, or U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers Section 404 jurisdictional soils; 4 units per acre; and
            3.   Structures on a lot or tract that has 20% or more of its soils
classified as wetlands, coastal marsh or U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Section
404 jurisdictional soils; 3 units per acre.
         (b)   Hotels, motels, and similar structures:
            1.   Structures on a lot or tract that has no soils classified as
wetlands, coastal marsh, or U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Section 404
jurisdictional soils; 10 rental units per acre;
            2.   Structures on a lot or tract that has between .01 and 19.9% of
its soils classified as wetlands, coastal marsh, or U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers Section 404 jurisdictional soils; 8 rental units per acre; and
            3.   Structures on a lot or tract that has more than 20% of its
soils classified as wetlands, coastal marsh, or U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Section 404 jurisdictional soils; 6 rental units per acre.
      (10)   Group developments:
         (a)   The minimum lot size requirements for group development projects
shall be the same as those for multi-family structures.
         (b)   Minimum rear yard: 20 feet.
         (c)   Maximum allowable lot coverage by principal use and all
accessory structures: 60%.
         (d)   Height limitation: 52 feet.
         (e)   Maximum gross building size: 5,000 square feet excluding decks,
porches and similar non-heated space, except as otherwise provided herein.
      (11)   Commercial lots:
         (a)   Minimum lot size: commercial lots shall be of sufficient size to
meet requirements of the County Health Department, to provide adequate siting
for structures and to provide parking, loading and maneuvering space for
vehicles as required by §§
156.090 through
156.096. In addition, a visual buffer is required where a commercial use or
zone abuts a residential use or zone;
         (b)   Minimum front yard: 15 feet;
         (c)   Minimum side yard: 10 feet. No side yard required if commercial
building constructed with a common wall. An additional 5 feet adjacent to the
street is required for a corner lot;
         (d)   Minimum rear yard: 20 feet;
         (e)   Maximum allowable lot coverage by principal use and all
accessory structures: 60%; and
         (f)   Height limitation: 52 feet.
(Ord. 04-22, passed 11-3- 2004, § 22; Am. Ord. 16-02, passed 4-6-2016; Am. Ord.
16-04, passed 7-6-2016; Am. Ord. 21-01, passed 6-2-2021)
§ 156.036 V-C VILLAGE COMMERCIAL CONVENTIONAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. The V-C District is established to provide limited commercial
areas to serve existing or developing residential neighborhoods in the town.
The intent of this district is to provide the goods and services needed by
permanent and seasonal visitors in concentrated locations on state maintained
highways.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted by right:
      (1)   General and medical offices;
      (2)   Retail establishments;
      (3)   Personal service establishments;
      (4)   Public and private schools;
      (5)   Town-owned or leased facilities;
      (6)   Minor home occupations;
      (7)   Major home occupations, provided the profession or occupation is a
by-right permitted use in the district;
      (8)   Accessory apartments located above/attached to commercial
buildings. The total floor area of accessory apartments shall not exceed 50% of
the floor area of the commercial structure to which it is accessory (floor area
to be calculated exclusive of porches or decks);
      (9)   Plant nurseries and greenhouses; and
      (10)   Fine craft and folk art production.
   (C)   Special uses. The following special uses may be permitted, subject to
the requirements of this district and additional regulations and requirements
imposed by the Town Council as provided in §§
156.155 et seq.:
      (1)   Gas pumps in conjunction with a permitted use under division (B)
above; provided, that no principal or accessory building shall be located
within 50 feet of a residential use or residential district, and that any gas
pumps shall be set back at least 25 feet from all rights-of-way;
      (2)   Public and private utility facilities;
      (3)   Boat-launching and rental facilities;
      (4)   Eating establishments as defined in §
156.002, and subject to the requirements §
156.129.
      (5)    Group developments with a maximum area of 5,000 square feet per
individual building excluding porches and decks;
      (6)   Resident businesses;
      (7)   Churches and other associated church facilities including
fellowship halls, sanctuaries, parsonages, church schools, parking areas,
offices, and columbaria structures, provided that the following requirements
shall be met:
         (a)   Columbaria structures shall not significantly change the
exterior appearance of the site visible from roadway rights-of-way and adjacent
properties.
         (b)   Columbaria structures shall be constructed with minimum impact
to surrounding areas.
         (c)   Columbaria structures shall not constitute a significant portion
of the site.
         (d)   Columbaria structures shall meet the setbacks of the underlying
zoning district.
         (e)   Columbaria structures shall not exceed 5 feet in height.
      (8)   Commercial or institutional structures greater than 5,000 gross
square feet, excluding decks and porches, but less than 10,000 gross square
feet; and
      (9)   Bed and breakfast inns.
      (10)   Rental property management/maintenance office.
         (a)   Buildings and sites shall be designed and constructed in strict
accordance with the town commercial development and design standards.
         (b)   Buildings shall not exceed 5,000 square feet of gross floor area
excluding decks, porches and similar non-heated space.
         (c)   Traffic/transportation.
            1.   The site plan shall incorporate a pedestrian friendly design
that limits parking between commercial buildings and adjacent rights-of-way.
            2.   Vans and step vans are allowed for delivery of items (e.g.
parcel delivery) however tractor trailers are not allowed.
         (d)   All repair work and maintenance activities, other than normal
maintenance to the building and grounds, shall occur inside the principal
structure.
         (e)   Freestanding signage shall be discouraged in settings where not
practical or necessary to the nature of the business. All signage shall conform
to §
156.130.
         (f)   A vegetated buffer strip at least 20 feet in width that provides
year round screening is required where this use abuts a residential zone.
      (11)   Post offices;
      (12)   Transit stops;
      (13)   Agricultural buildings;
      (14)   Commercial animal production;
      (15)   Commercial crop production (indoor or outdoor);
      (16)   Livestock shelters and stables; and
      (17)   Microbreweries/microdistilleries.
   (D)   Dimensional requirements.
      (1)   Minimum lot area: 20,000 square feet. Commercial lots shall be of
sufficient size to meet requirements of the Dare County Health Department, to
provide adequate siting for structures, and to provide parking, loading and
maneuvering space for vehicles as required by §§
156.090 through
156.096 below. In addition, a vegetated buffer strip at least 10 feet in width
that provides year-round screening to adjacent properties and a 20-foot wide
setback is required where a commercial use or zone abuts a residential use or
zone.
      (2)   Minimum front yard: 15 feet.
      (3)   Minimum side yard: 10 feet. No side yard required if commercial
building constructed with a common wall. An additional 5-foot side yard
adjacent to the street is required for a corner lot.
      (4)   Minimum rear yard: 20 feet.
      (5)   Maximum allowable lot coverage by principal use and all accessory
structures: 60%.
      (6)   Height limitation: 35 feet.
      (7)   Maximum gross building size: 5,000 square feet excluding decks,
porches and similar non-heated space, except as otherwise provided herein.
(Ord. 04-22, passed 11-3-2004, § 23; Am. Ord. 06-05, passed 6-7-2006; Am. Ord.
10-04, passed 3-3-2010; Am. Ord. 11-08, passed 1-4-2012; Am. Ord. 12-06, passed
10-3-2012; Am. Ord. 16-04, passed 7-6-2016; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 12-4-2019;
Am. Ord. 21-01, passed 6-2-2021)
§ 156.037 OCEAN AND SOUND OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Definition. The Ocean and Sound Overlay District shall consist of all
waters abutting the town on the Atlantic Ocean and Currituck Sound that are
within 1,000 feet of the town's shoreline, plus the adjacent CAMA Areas of
Environmental Concern.
   (B)   Intent. The Ocean and Sound Overlay District is established to provide
for the appropriate use of the ocean and sound waters that adjoin the town,
including any island areas therein, as well as the Areas of Environmental
Concern as established by the Coastal Area Management Act (CAMA) appurtenant
thereto, to ensure the continued aesthetic, environmental, and recreational
value that these waters provide to the town, its residents, visitors and the
surrounding area. The Ocean and Sound Overlay District regulations are in
addition to all other town ordinances that regulate, for example, the use of
personal watercraft and driving on the beach, and that prohibit specified
commercial activities in public trust areas. Nothing contained within this
section shall be deemed, however, to prohibit or regulate commercial fishing
and navigation. Whenever practical, the town encourages property owners to use
natural design and materials when considering shoreline stabilization projects.
   (C)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Swimming, boating, sailing, fishing, hunting, wading, crabbing,
clamming, and other active and passive noncommercial recreational activities.
      (2)    Water-dependent commercial recreation activities, provided that
the base of the activity is located in a zoning district that permits such
activity or such base is located outside the planning and development
regulation jurisdiction of the town and further provided that such activity
meets all other relevant town ordinances.
      (3)   On all land abutting the ocean and sound waters, uses permitted
shall be those established in the underlying zoning district, subject to all
other relevant town ordinances as well as CAMA and other relevant state and
federal agency permitting requirements.
      (4)   Piers and docks, provided such facilities are permitted by CAMA,
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers or U.S. Coast Guard, whichever is applicable, and
provided further that the activity associated with the pier or dock is also
permitted by the zoning district where the pier or dock is anchored.
      (5)   Future recreational activities or uses (those not introduced on the
waters of the town as of May 1, 2002) may be allowed as a special use, subject
to procedures described in §
156.155. The purpose of the special use permit is to provide for appropriate
review of new activities prior to their introduction and allow for conditions
to ensure activities that are compatible with the character of the district.
      (6)   The following improvements when associated with the installation of
a living shoreline or marsh restoration project in Currituck Sound. Such
projects must obtain approval from all applicable state and federal agencies.
         (a)   Sills;
         (b)   Groins;
         (c)   Riprap;
         (d)   Fill/addition of wetland soils to be planted with marsh
vegetation.
   (D)   Prohibited activities.
      (1)   No permitted beach push or dune restoration activity may take place
in the public trust area on weekends or holidays.
      (2)   No filling of wetland areas shall occur within the Ocean and Sound
Overlay District.
      (3)   No parasail landing and takeoff or seaplane landing and takeoff or
similar activities may take place within the Ocean and Sound Overlay District.
      (4)   No water skiing or tubing and similar recreational towing
activities may take place within the Ocean and Sound Overlay District.
      (5)   The use or placement of sandbags for the purpose of temporary
erosion control as outlined in the North Carolina Administrative Code (15A NCAC
07H .0308) and the North Carolina General Statutes (§ 113A-115.1).
      (6)   All other uses not expressly permitted are hereby prohibited.
(Ord. 07-08, passed 6-6-2007; Am. Ord. 10-14, passed 1-5-2011; Am. Ord. 17-04,
passed 6-7-2017; Am. Ord. 17-15, passed 1-3-2018; Am. Ord. 21-01, passed 6-2-
2021) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.038 RESERVED.
§ 156.039 RESERVED.
§ 156.040 PERMITTED AND PROHIBITED USE TABLE.
   (A)   The following Permitted/Prohibited Use Table lists use
classifications, categories, and types and indicates whether each is allowed
with an administrative permit, is allowed with a special use permit, or is
prohibited.
   (B)   Conventional zoning district descriptions. The use table lists
allowable and prohibited uses for each zoning district in the Town of Duck. A
general description outlining the intent of each district is provided below.
      (1)   Conservation Public Recreation (C-PR). The C-PR District is
established to provide restricted usage of property located in areas conducive
to and appropriate for recreational facilities, public and private utilities,
town uses and conservation areas.
      (2)   Single-Family Residential (RS-1). The RS-1 District is established
to provide for the low-density development of single-family detached dwellings
in an environment that promotes orderly neighborhoods, characterized by low
vehicular traffic flows, abundant open space and limited impact of development
on the natural environment and adjacent land uses.
      (3)   Single-Family Residential (RS-2). The RS-2 District is established
to provide for the low-density development of single-family detached dwellings
in an environment that promotes orderly neighborhoods, characterized by low
vehicular traffic flows, abundant open space and limited impact of development
on the natural environment and adjacent land uses.
      (4)   Medium Density Residential (R-2). The R-2 District is intended to
encourage the development of moderate density residential neighborhoods, with a
mix of permanent and short-term seasonal residents, and to serve as a
transition zone between the low-density area and more intensely developed
areas.
      (5)   Neighborhood Commercial (C-1). The C-1 District is established
primarily to encourage the concentration of commercial facilities in clusters
and to provide readily accessible shopping facilities for permanent and
seasonal residents.
      (6)   General Commercial (C-2). The C-2 District is established to
provide for the proper grouping and development of commercial facilities to
serve permanent residents and the general public.
      (7)   Special (S-1). The S-1 Special District is established as a
transitional area to allow broad flexibility of services and uses while
establishing certain density limitations, setbacks, parking requirements and
other general requirements.
      (8)   Village Commercial (V-C). The V-C District is established to
provide limited commercial areas to serve existing or developing residential
neighborhoods in the town. The intent of this district is to provide the goods
and services needed by permanent and seasonal visitors in concentrated
locations on state maintained highways.
      (9)   Ocean and Sound Overlay (OSO). The Ocean and Sound Overlay District
is established to provide for the appropriate use of the ocean and sound waters
that adjoin the town, including any island areas therein, as well as the Areas
of Environmental Concern as established by the Coastal Area Management Act
(CAMA) appurtenant thereto, to ensure the continued aesthetic, environmental,
and recreational value that these waters provide to the town, its residents,
visitors and the surrounding area.
   (C)   Organization of uses. The use table organizes allowable uses by use
classifications, use categories, and use types, together providing a systematic
basis for identifying and consolidating or distinguishing unidentified land
uses to determine whether a particular land use is allowable in a particular
zoning district and in addressing future land uses.
      (1)   Use classifications. Use classifications identify broad general
classification of uses and include residential uses, institutional uses,
agricultural uses, commercial uses, and industrial uses. Use classifications
are further broken down into a series of general use categories and more
specific use types.
      (2)   Use categories. Use categories describe the major sub-groups of the
respective use classifications and are based on common functional, product, or
physical characteristics, such as the type and amount of activity, the type of
customers or residents, how goods or services are sold or delivered, and site
conditions. For example, the residential use classification is divided into the
household living and group living use categories. Use categories are further
broken down into a series of individual use types.
      (3)   Use types. The specific use types are included in the respective
use category. They identify the specific principal uses that are considered to
fall within characteristics identified in the use category. For example, duplex
dwellings, live/work dwellings, manufactured homes, single-family detached
dwellings, and townhouse dwellings are use types in the household living use
category.
   (D)   Prioritization. Certain use categories and use types are addressed
specifically in the zoning ordinance and/or permitted/prohibited use table.
      (1)   The allowance for any specifically listed use type in the
permitted/prohibited use table takes precedence over requirements for a broader
use category.
      (2)   Likewise, the allowance for any use category in the permitted/
prohibited use table takes precedence over a broader use classification.
   (E)   Permit types.
      (1)   Permitted uses. A “P” in a cell of the use table indicates that the
corresponding use classification, category or type is permitted in the
corresponding zoning district. Permitted uses are subject to compliance with
all use-specific standards and applicable development regulations of the zoning
ordinance.
      (2)   Uses requiring a special use permit. An "S" in a cell of the use
table indicates that the corresponding use classification, category or type is
permitted in the corresponding zoning district, subject to approval of a
special use permit for the proposed use. Uses requiring a special use permit
are subject to compliance with all use-specific standards and applicable
development regulations of the zoning ordinance, as well as the special use
approval process and criteria found in §
156.155 of the zoning ordinance.
      (3)   Prohibited uses. An “X” in a cell of the use table indicates that
the corresponding use classification, category or type is prohibited in the
corresponding zoning district
   (F)   Classification of unlisted uses. The Zoning Administrator shall
determine whether or not an unlisted use is substantially similar to an already
defined use category or use type. Unlisted uses which are found to be
dissimilar to an already defined use category or use type are prohibited. The
Zoning Administrator shall use the following factors as a guideline when
classifying a new or unlisted use to determine if such use is classified in a
manner consistent with other similar uses in the applicable zoning district.
      (1)   Consistency with the stated intent of the zoning district;
      (2)   Consistency with the adopted vision statement and Comprehensive &
Land Use Plan;
      (3)   Density of development (number of units, square footage, etc.);
      (4)   Intensity of use;
      (5)   Type of activity associated with the use;
      (6)   Number of customers and length of stay;
      (7)   Generation of pedestrian and vehicular traffic;
      (8)   Potential impacts such as noise, light, odor, etc.; and
      (9)   Public safety.
Type of use Zoning District                        Additional Standards
            C-PR RS-1 RS-2 R-2 C-1 C-2 S-1 V-C OSO
Type of use         Zoning District                        Additional Standards
                    C-PR RS-1 RS-2 R-2 C-1 C-2 S-1 V-C OSO
AGRICULTURAL
Agricultural        S    S    S    S   S   S   P   S   X    
buildings
Commercial animal   S    S    S    S   S   S   P   S   X    
production
Commercial crop
production (indoor  S    S    S    S   S   S   P   S   X    
or outdoor)
Plant nurseries and P    P    P    P   P   P   P   P   X    
greenhouses
Livestock shelters  S    S    S    S   S   S   P   S   X    
and stables
Other agricultural  X    X    X    X   X   X   P   X   X    
uses
RESIDENTIAL
Household Living
Accessory           X    X    X    X   P   P   P   P   X   §
apartments                                                 156.033(B)(11)
Accessory dwelling  X    P    P    P   X   X   P   X   X   §
units                                                      156.140
Customary Accessory X    P    P    P   X   X   P   X   X    
Structures
Duplexes            X    X    X    P   P   X   P   X   X    
Mobile/manufactured X    X    X    P   X   X   P   X   X    
homes
Multi-family        X    X    X    X   X   X   P   X   X    
residences
Single-family       X    P    P    P   X   X   P   X   X    
residences
Townhouses          X    X    X    P   X   X   P   X   X   §
                                                           156.032(C)(6)
Group Living
Bed and breakfast   X    S    X    X   X   X   X   X   X   §
homes                                                      156.030(C)(7)
Bed and breakfast   X    X    X    X   X   X   P   X   X    
inns
Convents and        X    X    X    X   X   X   X   X   X    
monasteries
Dormitories and     X    X    X    X   X   X   X   X   X    
residence halls
Fraternity and      X    X    X    X   X   X   X   X   X    
sorority houses
Halfway houses      X    X    X    X   X   X   X   X   X    
Other residential   X    X    X    X   X   X   P   X   X    
uses
COMMERCIAL
Entertainment/Recreational Facilities
Boat launching/     X    X    X    X   S   X   P   S   X    
rental facilities
Campgrounds         X    X    X    X   X   X   X   X   X    
Electronic gaming   X    X    X    X   X   P   P   X   X   §
operations                                                 156.034(B)(10)
Night clubs         X    X    X    X   X   X   X   X   X    
Theaters            X    X    X    X   X   S   P   X   X    
Other
entertainment/      X    X    X    X   X   X   X   X   X    
recreational
facilities
Offices
General offices     X    X    X    X   P   P   P   P   X    
Laboratories        X    X    X    X   X   X   X   X   X    
Medical offices     X    X    X    X   P   P   P   P   X    
Rental property                                            §
management and      X    X    X    X   S   S   P   S   X   156.036(C)(11)
maintenance offices
Retail Sales
Drug paraphernalia  X    X    X    X   X   X   X   X   X    
sales
Eating                                                     §
establishments and  X    X    X    X   S   S   P   S   X   156.129
restaurants
Formula businesses  X    X    X    X   S   S   S   S   X   §
                                                           156.061
Gasoline pumps and  X    X    X    X   S   X   P   S   X   §
sales                                                      156.033(C)(1)
Group developments  X    X    X    S   S   S   P   S   X   §
                                                           156.059
Microbreweries/     X    X    X    X   S   S   P   S   X    
microdistilleries
Motor vehicle
sales, service and  X    X    X    X   X   X   X   X   X    
rental
establishments
Outdoor display,                                           §
storage and sale -  X    X    X    X   P   P   P   P   X   156.131(B)
general merchandise
Outdoor goods -                                            §
temporary displays, X    X    X    X   P   P   P   P   X   156.131(A) and (E)
storage and sales
Pawn shops          X    X    X    X   X   X   X   X   X    
Produce stands/                                            §
holiday goods       X    X    X    X   P   P   P   P   X   156.131(C)
(temporary)
Retail sales        X    X    X    X   P   P   P   P   X    
Smoke and vapor     X    X    X    X   X   X   X   X   X    
shops
SERVICES
Alcohol and drug
detoxification,
rehabilitation and  X    X    X    X   X   X   X   X   X    
treatment
facilities
Bail bond services  X    X    X    X   X   X   X   X   X    
Childcare center                                           §
(small)             X    X    X    S   P   P   P   X   X   156.002; §
                                                           156.032(C)(9)
Childcare center                                           §
(medium)            X    X    X    S   P   P   P   X   X   156.002; §
                                                           156.032(C)(9)
Childcare center                                           §
(large)             X    X    X    S   P   P   P   X   X   156.002; §
                                                           156.032(C)(9)
Childcare homes     X    S    S    S   P   P   P   X   X   §
(small)                                                    156.057
Home occupations    X    P    P    P   P   X   P   P   X   §
(minor)                                                    156.136(B)
Home occupations    X    S    S    S   P   X   P   P   X   §
(major)                                                    156.136(A)
Hotel resort        X    X    X    X   X   S   P   X   X    
Kennels             X    X    X    X   X   X   X   X   X    
Motor vehicle body
and paint           X    X    X    X   X   X   X   X   X    
establishments
Motor vehicle
washing             X    X    X    X   X   X   X   X   X    
establishments
Personal service    X    X    X    X   P   P   P   P   X    
establishments
Radio and           X    X    X    X   X   X   X   X   X    
television stations
Recreational
facilities          X    X    X    X   X   S   P   X   X    
(commercial)
Resident businesses X    X    X    X   P   X   P   X   X   §
                                                           156.002
Sexually oriented   X    X    X    X   X   X   X   X   X   §
businesses                                                 156.006
Shooting ranges     X    X    X    X   X   X   X   X   X    
Tattoo, body
piercing and body   X    X    X    X   X   X   X   X   X    
art establishments
Other services      X    X    X    X   X   X   P   X   X    
INDUSTRIAL
Energy facilities
Satellite dish      X    X    X    X   X   X   X   X   X    
farms
Solar energy farms  X    X    X    X   X   X   X   X   X    
Solar energy                                               §
systems ( accessory P    P    P    P   P   P   P   P   X   156.139
)
Wind energy                                                §
facilities          X    X    X    X   X   X   X   X   X   156.138
(commercial)
Wind energy                                                §
facilities          P    P    P    P   P   P   P   P   X   156.138
(supplementary)
Other energy        X    X    X    X   X   X   P   X   X    
facilities
Manufacturing, processing and assembly facilities
Asphalt and         X    X    X    X   X   X   X   X   X    
concrete plants
Assembly or
packaging of        X    X    X    X   X   X   X   X   X    
articles
Beverage
manufacturing,
bottling and        X    X    X    X   X   X   X   X   X    
processing
facilities
Brick and masonry   X    X    X    X   X   X   X   X   X    
facilities
Electrical          X    X    X    X   X   X   X   X   X    
equipment assembly
Fine craft and folk P    P    P    P   P   P   P   P   X    
art production
Foundries           X    X    X    X   X   X   X   X   X    
Manufacturing,
processing,
assembly and other  X    X    X    X   X   X   X   X   X    
industrial
facilities
Metal products
facilities          X    X    X    X   X   X   X   X   X    
(fabrication and
assembly)
Recycling materials
collection and      X    X    X    X   X   X   X   X   X    
processing
Resource extraction X    X    X    X   X   X   X   X   X    
facilities
Stone cutting,
shaping and         X    X    X    X   X   X   X   X   X    
finishing
facilities
Waste recovery      X    X    X    X   X   X   X   X   X    
facilities
Other
manufacturing,      X    X    X    X   X   X   P   X   X    
processing and
assembly facilities
Warehousing
Warehousing and     X    X    X    X   X   X   X   X   X    
storage facilities
Junk yards, scrap
yards, and salvage  X    X    X    X   X   X   X   X   X    
facilities
Landfills, and
solid waste         X    X    X    X   X   X   X   X   X    
disposal facilities
Outdoor storage of
construction        X    X    X    X   X   X   X   X   X    
equipment and
materials
Outdoor storage in                                         §
crates, trailers    X    X    X    X   X   X   X   X   X   156.131(D)
and storage units
Outdoor storage of
vehicles, equipment X    X    X    X   X   X   X   X   X    
and other goods
Other warehousing/  X    X    X    X   X   X   P   X   X    
storage facilities
Transportation
Aircraft hangars    X    X    X    X   X   X   X   X   X    
(commercial)
Airports, airfields X    X    X    X   X   X   X   X   X    
and heliports
Bus, truck and
transportation      X    X    X    X   X   X   X   X   X    
terminals, yards
and parking lots
Distribution
centers, parcel
delivery centers    X    X    X    X   X   X   X   X   X    
and delivery
warehouses
Taxi and pedicab
storage and         X    X    X    X   X   X   X   X   X    
dispatch
Transit stops       S    S    S    S   S   S   S   S   X    
Other
transportation      X    X    X    X   X   X   P   X   X    
related facilities
PUBLIC/INSTITUTIONAL
Public Institutions
Post offices        X    X    X    X   S   X   P   S   X    
Schools             S    X    X    S   X   P   P   P   X    
Fire stations       S    P    P    S   P   P   P   P   X    
Jails and prisons   X    X    X    X   X   X   X   X   X    
Mental hospitals    X    X    X    X   X   X   X   X   X    
Police stations     S    P    P    S   P   P   P   P   X    
Town uses and       P    P    P    S   P   P   P   P   P    
facilities
United States
government uses and P    P    P    P   P   P   P   P   P    
facilities
Other public        X    X    X    X   X   X   P   X   X    
institutions
Religious Institutions
Accessory church    X    S    S    S   X   P   P   P   X    
schools
Cemeteries          X    X    X    S   X   X   P   X   X    
Churches and
religious           X    S    S    S   S   S   P   S   X    
institutions
Crematoriums (human X    X    X    X   X   X   X   X   X    
or animal)
Customary accessory X    S    S    S   X   X   P   S   X   §
church facilities                                          156.036(C)(8)
RECREATIONAL
Conservation and    P    P    P    P   P   P   P   P   P    
open spaces
Beach and sound     P    P    P    P   P   P   P   P   P    
accesses
Passive recreation  P    P    P    P   P   P   P   P   P    
facilities
Public parks and
playgrounds         P    P    P    P   P   P   P   P   P    
(includes
associated parking)
Public clubs and    S    P    P    S   P   P   P   P   S    
recreational areas
Private clubs,                                             §
community centers   X    S    S    S   S   S   P   X   X   156.030(C)(3); §
and recreational                                           156.032(C)(4)
facilities
Other recreational  X    X    X    X   X   X   P   X   X    
facilities
WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION SYSTEMS
Existing WTS -                                             §
eligible facilities P    P    P    P   P   P   P   P   X   156.058
request
Existing WTS -                                             §
substantial         X    X    S    X   S   S   S   S   X   156.058
modification
Free-standing                                              §
telecommunications  X    X    X    X   S   S   S   S   X   156.058
tower
Antenna attached to                                        §
building or         X    X    X    X   S   S   S   S   X   156.058
structure
Stealth antenna     P    S    S    P   P   P   P   P   P   §
                                                           156.058
Small wireless      P    S    S    P   P   P   P   P   P   §
facility                                                   156.058
 
(Ord. 16-04, passed 7-6-2016; Am. Ord. 16-07, passed 11-2-2016; Am. Ord. 16-08,
passed 2-1-2017; Am. Ord. 21-01, passed 6-2-2021; Am. Ord. 22-05, passed 8-3-
2022; Am. Ord. 23-10, passed 9-6-2023)
EXEMPTIONS GENERALLY
§ 156.050 WALLS AND FENCES.
   The setback requirements of this chapter shall not prohibit any necessary
retaining wall or prohibit any wall or fence. However, within any residential
district no wall or fence, including a retaining wall or bulkhead, shall exceed
6 feet in height, and within any commercial district no wall or fence,
including a retaining wall or bulkhead shall exceed 10 feet in height.
(Ord. 04-23, passed 10-6-2004, § 24; Am. Ord. 05-04, passed 4-6-2005; Am. Ord.
06-01, passed 4-5-2006)
§ 156.051 BUILDING FEATURES EXEMPT FROM SETBACKS OR MINIMUM YARD REQUIREMENTS.
    Building features that may be exempt from minimum yard requirements,
setbacks or building restriction lines are described as follows:
   (A)   Sills, cornices and similar ornamental features as well as roof eaves
and overhangs may project not exceeding 12 inches into any required front, side
or rear yard or beyond any required front, side or rear setback or building
restriction line;
   (B)   Bay windows, stoops, covered entryways, stairs and similar features of
a principal structure may project not exceeding 3 feet into any required front
yard or beyond any required front setback or building restriction line (plus an
additional 12 inches for features as noted in this section); and
   (C)   No ornamental feature, bay window, stoop, stairs, eave, overhang or
similar feature of an accessory structure shall project into any required
front, rear or side setback or building restriction lines applicable to
accessory structures;
   (D)   Community ocean and sound access walkway structures located within
common property designated as such at the time of subdivision plat recordation,
within an easement granted to a subdivision or community association for the
purposes of providing community access to the ocean or sound, or within the
right-of-way of a private street, are exempt from the minimum yard requirements
of this chapter as well as the applicable provisions of §
156.128(A)(2). Dune walkover structures subject to this exemption must still
comply with all applicable standards found in §
156.124(C)(1);
   (E)   Private walkway structures less than 4 feet in width that directly
connect to walkway structures listed in division (D) above are exempt from the
minimum yard requirements of this chapter as well as the applicable provisions
of §
156.128(A)(2). This exemption shall also apply to private walkway structures
constructed for the purpose of providing ocean or sound access that are shared
between 2 adjoining property owners. Dune walkover structures subject to this
exemption must still comply with all applicable standards found in §
156.124(C)(1);
   (F)   Private walkway structures less than 4 feet in width constructed less
than 12 inches above grade are exempt from the minimum yard requirements of
this chapter as well as the applicable provisions of §
156.128(A)(2). Dune walkover structures and sound access walkways are not
exempt from minimum yard requirements unless in compliance with the standards
of §
156.051(E). Walkway structures are not exempt from minimum yard requirements if
the walkway abuts a swimming pool deck or is located within 3 feet of a
swimming pool; and
   (G)   Municipally owned walkways, boardwalks, multi-use paths and sidewalks
are exempt from the minimum yard requirements of this chapter as well as the
applicable provisions of §
156.128(A)(2).
(Ord. 04-23, passed 10-6-2004, § 24; Am. Ord. 05-04, passed 4-6-2005; Am. Ord.
06-01, passed 4-5-2006; Am. Ord. 08-05, passed 11-5-2008; Am. Ord. 17-07,
passed 8-2-2017; Am. Ord. 21-01, passed 6-2-2021; Am. Ord. 22-08, passed 9-7-
2022)
§ 156.052 REDUCTION IN MINIMUM YARD REQUIREMENTS IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS BASED
ON ERROR IN BUILDING, STRUCTURE OR SITE FEATURE LOCATION.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the Zoning
Administrator may approve a reduction in the minimum yard requirements where an
existing or partially constructed building or structure, driveway, patio,
swimming pool or pool deck, sign or similar feature does not comply with the
requirements applicable when construction of a building or structure or similar
features noted above began, provided that:
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator determines that:
      (1)   The error does not exceed 10% of the minimum yard or setback
requirement;
      (2)   The noncompliance occurred in good faith and through no fault of
the property owner, or was the result of an error in the location of the
building or other site feature subsequent to the issuance of a building permit,
if it was required;
      (3)   The reduction will not be detrimental to the use and enjoyment of
other property in the immediate vicinity or result in unsafe conditions;
      (4)   To enforce compliance with the minimum yard or setback requirements
would cause unreasonable hardship upon the owner; and
      (5)   The reduction will not result in an increase in density or floor
area ratio from that permitted by the applicable zoning district regulations.
   (B)   In approving a like reduction, the Zoning Administrator shall allow
only a reduction necessary to provide the requested relief and may prescribe
conditions, including, but not limited to, landscaping and screening measures,
to mitigate any negative impacts of the reduction.
   (C)   Upon the issuance of written approval of a reduction for a particular
building, sign, structure or similar site feature in accordance with the
provisions of this section, the same shall be deemed to be lawful.
(Ord. 04-23, passed 10-6-2004, § 24; Am. Ord. 05-04, passed 4-6-2005; Am. Ord.
06-01, passed 4-5-2006)
§ 156.053 VERTICAL ADDITIONS TO NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, for single-family
dwellings built prior to July 3, 2002, with principal structures that encroach
into the minimum required yards of a residential zoning district, additions
shall be permitted within the existing building footprint, exclusive of
uncovered decks, provided that the completed structure shall not exceed the
maximum building height of the zoning district in which it lies, and provided
that the side yard shall not be less than 8 feet, and the front and rear yards
shall be not less than 15 feet, and that the addition conforms to all other
provisions of the zoning district regulations.
   (B)   Vertical additions to uncovered decks shall be permitted only as
additional uncovered decks of the same or less footprint.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, for any single-
family dwelling built prior to July 3, 2002 that exceeds the maximum height for
the zoning district in which it is located, an addition can be constructed to
match the height of the existing roofline, provided that the addition does not
exceed the maximum building height of the zoning district by more than one
foot. The addition must conform with all other provisions of the town's adopted
zoning, flood damage prevention, and building code regulations.
(Ord. 04-23, passed 10-6-2004, § 24; Am. Ord. 05-04, passed 4-6-2005; Am. Ord.
06-01, passed 4-5-2006; Am. Ord. 17-02, passed 4-5-2017; Am. Ord. 21-01, passed
6-2-2021; Am. Ord. 25-03, passed 6-4-2025)
§ 156.054 SPECIAL USES FOR SPECIFIED IMPROVEMENTS TO SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLINGS IN
EXISTENCE ON JULY 1, 2003.
   The Town Council may, by special use permit, modify the minimum yard and
building setback and height requirements to allow improvements to existing
single-family homes that had approved certificates of occupancy on July 1,
2003, in accordance with the following provisions:
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator shall review the proposed application and
determine if a special use permit is necessary to permit reasonable opportunity
to improve the subject property;
   (B)   Upon determination by the Zoning Administrator that a special use
permit is necessary, the town shall process the application and schedule an
evidentiary public hearing by the Town Council in accordance with the
procedures set forth in §
156.155 as well as the procedures set forth below:
   (C)   The Town Council may grant a special use only after determining that
the application meets the following criteria:
      (1)   The site for the proposed use is adequate in size and shape, and
the proposed use will not negatively affect adjacent property or the
surrounding area;
      (2)   The special use will not be inconsistent with the objectives
specified in the CAMA Comprehensive & Land Use Plan;
      (3)   The applicant has demonstrated that the requirements of this
chapter are unreasonable or impractical due to unusual building design, lot
shape or mature vegetation; or there are practical siting constraints where
original placement of the dwelling on the lot prohibits reasonable improvements
that meet existing requirements;
      (4)   Any height special use authorized under the terms of this section
for an addition to an existing structure shall be limited to no greater than 5
feet beyond the maximum height permitted in the zoning district; and
      (5)   The proposed structural modifications meet sound residential design
objectives to:
         (a)   Minimize loss of privacy on neighboring properties;
         (b)   Maximize image of quality residential development to the street
frontage; and
         (c)   Avoid reduction of light and air to neighboring properties.
(Ord. 04-23, passed 10-6-2004, § 24; Am. Ord. 05-04, passed 4-6-2005; Am. Ord.
06-01, passed 4-5-2006; Am. Ord. 09-07, passed 8-5-2009; Am. Ord. 21-01, passed
6-2-2021)
§ 156.055 ADMINISTRATIVE REDUCTION IN MINIMUM YARD REQUIREMENTS FOR
IMPROVEMENTS TO SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DWELLINGS IN EXISTENCE ON JULY 1,
2003.
   The Zoning Administrator may approve a reduction in the minimum yard
requirements for existing single-family homes that had approved certificates of
occupancy on July 1, 2003, only to accommodate limited improvements to an
existing residence and to approve construction of driveways on substandard lots
or shared driveways in accordance with the following provisions:
   (A)   The property owner or contract purchaser shall submit an application
to the Zoning Administrator. At the time of application, the applicant shall
pay a fee in accordance with the town’s fee schedule;
   (B)   The applicant shall submit all information deemed necessary by the
Zoning Administrator to permit adequate review of the application;
   (C)   The applicant shall provide notice, by certified mail, to the
homeowners’ association in the community to which the subject property belongs
and to owners of each property abutting or across the street from the subject
property informing them that a request for reduction of minimum yard
requirements has been submitted and will be considered by the Zoning
Administrator. If the property abutting or across the street from the subject
property is of condominium ownership, then notification sent to the condominium
association shall be sufficient to satisfy this provision;
   (D)   For applications concerning residential properties located in
neighborhoods with homeowners’ association architectural review processes, the
applicant shall submit evidence of approval of the requested special use by the
applicable homeowners’ association. For properties without homeowners’
association architectural review processes, the applicant shall submit a
notarized affidavit stating that an architectural review process does not exist
in the subject community;
   (E)   The Zoning Administrator may approve a reduction upon finding that the
proposal meets the following criteria:
      (1)   The improvement proposed is consistent with the Comprehensive &
Land Use Plan;
      (2)   The improvement proposed does not increase the footprint of the
existing single-family dwelling, nor does it convert structural elements that
are not currently under roof (such as open decks) to living space;
      (3)   The proposed expansion will not adversely affect adjacent property
or the surrounding area;
      (4)   The applicant has demonstrated that the proposed improvement cannot
reasonably or logically be accommodated elsewhere on the lot (in the case of
shared driveways or individual driveways on narrow lot frontages that render
the combination of setback and driveway width standards impossible to attain);
and
      (5)   The proposed structural modifications meet sound residential design
objectives to:
         (a)   Minimize loss of privacy on neighboring properties; and
         (b)   Avoid reduction of light and air to neighboring properties.
   (F)   The Zoning Administrator may impose conditions upon any reduction as
deemed necessary in the public interest to secure compliance with the
considerations in this section; and
   (G)   If the Zoning Administrator does not approve a reduction, the
applicant may file a special use for consideration by the Town Council or a
variance for consideration by the Board of Adjustment, in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 04-23, passed 10-6-2004, § 24; Am. Ord. 05-04, passed 4-6-2005; Am. Ord.
06-01, passed 4-5-2006; Am. Ord. 21-01, passed 6-2-2021)
§ 156.056 BUILDING FEATURES AND STRUCTURES EXEMPT FROM DISTRICT HEIGHT
REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The following architectural features may extend no more than 5 feet
above the applicable zoning district height limit:
      (1)   Chimneys;
      (2)   Cupolas/observation towers, provided the floor area of the
structure is no greater than 64 square feet, including the stairwell; and
      (3)   Parapet walls and mechanical appurtenances, provided they extend no
more than 4 feet above the roof line of the building to which they are
attached.
   (B)   Certain structures, including wind turbines, wireless
telecommunications systems, and water towers, are allowed to exceed maximum
height limitations of the zoning district in which they are located, subject to
the standards, limitations, and procedures as set forth in other applicable
sections of this chapter.
   (C)   Church spires may extend no more than 30 feet above applicable zoning
district height limit.
   (D)   This section shall not apply to variances to the height regulations
contained in this chapter, which shall be considered by the Board of Adjustment
in accordance with the procedures of §
156.167.
(Ord. 04-23, passed 10-6-2004, § 25; Am. Ord. 10-10, passed 1-5-2011; Am. Ord.
10-13, passed 1-5-2011; Am. Ord. 21-01, passed 6-2-2021)
§ 156.057 SPECIAL USE PERMIT; SMALL CHILD CARE HOMES.
   In zoning districts RS-1 and R-2, a small child care home as defined in §
156.002 above may be authorized by the Town Council by a special use permit.
Upon determination by the Zoning Administrator that a special use permit is
necessary, the town shall process the application and schedule an evidentiary
public hearing by the Town Council in accordance with the procedures set forth
in §
156.155 as well as the procedures set forth below.
   (A)   The applicant shall provide documentation that all supplementary
permit, registration and/or license applications have been submitted to the
appropriate review agencies at the time a special use permit is scheduled for
review by the Town Council. Within 90 days of the date the Town Council
authorized the special use permit, the applicant shall submit copies of all
supplementary permits and/or licenses. Upon receipt of all necessary
supplementary permits and/or licenses, the staff shall issue the special use
permit. Failure to deliver those necessary supplementary permits and/or
licenses within 90 days shall render the Town Council approval null and void.
   (B)   The applicant shall provide affidavits attesting to the applicant’s
occupancy of the proposed small child care home.
   (C)   The applicant shall submit a site plan depicting the proposed site and
all associated improvements. The staff shall review the site plan for
compliance with the regulatory guidelines of the zoning district where the
small child care home is proposed.
   (D)   A special use permit for a small child care home shall not be
authorized if another small child care home is in operation within a 500 foot
radius of the applicant’s proposed location.
   (E)   Permit validity, expiration, renewal and discontinuance.
      (1)   A special use permit shall be valid for a period not to exceed 24
months from the date of authorization.
      (2)   Ninety days prior to the expiration of the special use permit, the
applicant shall request re-authorization of the special use permit.
      (3)   There shall be no limit on renewal requests. Each renewal request
shall be considered by the Town Council and may be authorized or rejected at
the discretion of the Council.
      (4)   If it is not the desire of the applicant to continue to operate the
small child care home, those activities authorized by the special use permit
shall be discontinued immediately.
   (F)   Inspections, violations, revocation and reauthorization.
      (1)   Zoning officials shall be allowed to inspect the small child care
home periodically to check for compliance with all permit conditions and
applicable zoning regulations.
      (2)   If the zoning official finds any violations, the applicant shall be
notified in writing of the violations and be granted 30 days in which to
correct the violations.
      (3)   If after 30 days, the applicant does not correct cited violations,
notice shall be affixed to the site or structure indicating the initiation of
revocation procedures.
      (4)   Fifteen days after the revocation notice has been posted, the
special use permit may be revoked.
      (5)   The special use permit may be reauthorized only after review and
approval by the Town Council.
(Ord. 04-23, passed 10-6-2004, § 26; Am. Ord. 09-07, passed 8-5-2009; Am. Ord.
21-01, passed 6-2-2021)
§ 156.058 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS (WTS).
   (A)   Intent.
      (1)   The purpose of this section is to establish general guidelines for
the siting of telecommunications towers and antennas.
      (2)   The goals of this section are to:
         (a)   Encourage the location of towers in non-residential/non-
historical areas and minimize the total number of towers throughout the
community;
         (b)   Enhance the ability of the providers of telecommunications
services to provide those services to the community quickly, effectively and
efficiently;
         (c)   Strongly encourage the joint use of new and existing tower
sites;
         (d)   Encourage the location of telecommunications towers and
antennas, to the extent possible, in areas where the adverse impact on the
community is minimal;
         (e)   Encourage the location of telecommunications towers and antennas
in configurations that minimize the adverse visual impact of the towers and
antennas;
         (f)   Whenever possible, prioritize space on towers for public purpose
use; and
         (g)   Ensure that the placement, construction, and modification of
wireless communications facilities complies with all applicable state and
federal laws in such a manner as not to unreasonably discriminate between
providers of functionally equivalent personal wireless services or to have the
effect of prohibiting personal wireless services.
   (B)   WTS development types permitted by zoning district.
                 Existing   Existing                        Antenna
                 Wireless   Wireless     Free-standing      Attached  Small
Zoning   Stealth Facility   Facility     Telecommunications to        Wireless
District Antenna Eligible   Substantial  Tower              Building  Facility
                 Facilities Modification                    or
                 Request                                    Structure
                 Existing   Existing                        Antenna
                 Wireless   Wireless     Free-standing      Attached  Small
Zoning   Stealth Facility   Facility     Telecommunications to        Wireless
District Antenna Eligible   Substantial  Tower              Building  Facility
                 Facilities Modification                    or
                 Request                                    Structure
C-PR     Admin   Admin      Not Allowed  Not Allowed        Not       Admin
                                                            Allowed
RS-1     SUP     Admin      Not Allowed  Not Allowed        Not       SUP
                                                            Allowed
RS-2     SUP     Admin      SUP          Not Allowed        Not       SUP
                                                            Allowed
R-2      Admin   Admin      Not Allowed  Not Allowed        Not       Admin
                                                            Allowed
C-1      Admin   Admin      SUP          SUP                SUP       Admin
C-2      Admin   Admin      SUP          SUP                SUP       Admin
S-1      Admin   Admin      SUP          SUP                SUP       Admin
V-C      Admin   Admin      SUP          SUP                SUP       Admin
Admin - Requires administrative approval if applicable standards are met.
SUP - Special use permit application process.
Not allowed - Not permitted in the applicable zoning district.
 
   (C)   Review and approval. All WTS development shall be subject to the
following review and approval procedures:
      (1)   Town Council approval as special uses in the applicable zoning
district:
         (a)   Antenna attached to an existing principal building or structure
up to 100 feet of maximum height including height of principal building or
structure in the zoning district where permitted;
         (b)   Freestanding towers designed for co-location up to 200 feet in
maximum height in the zoning districts where permitted;
         (c)   Freestanding towers designed for 1 provider up to 100 feet in
maximum height in the zoning districts where permitted;
         (d)   Applications for co-location providers on an existing tower
where application for co-location would result in tower height over 200 feet;
         (e)   Stealth antennas located in Single-Family Residential (RS-1 &
RS-2) zoning districts; and
         (f)   Small wireless facilities and utility poles installed to support
small wireless facilities located outside of public rights-of-way in Single-
Family Residential (RS-1 & RS-2) zoning districts.
      (2)   Board of Adjustment review (requires a 4/5 vote for approval).
         (a)   Antenna attached to an existing principal building or structure
over 100 feet of maximum height including height of principal building or
structure in the zoning districts where permitted;
         (b)   Freestanding towers designed for co-location over 200 feet in
maximum height in the zoning districts where permitted; and
         (c)   Freestanding towers designed for 1 provider over 100 feet in
maximum height in the zoning districts where permitted.
      (3)   Administrative review.
         (a)   Stealth antennas located in other than single-family residential
(C-PR, R-2, C-l, C-2, S-l & V-C) zoning districts;
         (b)   Co-location providers on an existing tower where application for
co-location would result in tower height of less than 200 feet of maximum
height;
         (c)   Addition of antenna to existing utility pole, water tower, WTS
tower or similar utility structure; and
         (d)   Small wireless facilities located within public rights-of-way or
other than single-family residential (C-PR, R-2, C-l, C-2, S-l & V-C) zoning
districts, subject to the standards in division (C)(1).
      (4)   Exempt activities. The following items are exempt from the
provisions of this section:
         (a)   Routine maintenance of existing wireless support structures and
facilities, as defined in this section.
         (b)   Replacement of a small wireless facility with another small
wireless facility that is substantially similar or smaller in size, weight, and
height;
         (c)   Noncommercial, amateur radio station antennas;
         (d)   A government owned wireless telecommunications system erected or
installed for the purpose of providing communications for public health or
safety;
         (e)   A temporary wireless telecommunications system, upon the
declaration of a state of emergency by federal, state, or local government, or
a determination of public necessity by the town; except that such system must
comply with all federal and state requirements. No such wireless
telecommunications system shall be exempt from the provisions of this section
beyond the duration of the state of emergency; and
         (f)   Micro wireless facilities.
   (D)   Application process. All applications are subject to the review
processes in accordance with the table in division (B), pertaining to permitted
uses by zoning district. The following approval process shall apply:
      (1)   New wireless telecommunication systems, substantial modifications,
and antenna element replacements.
         (a)   Any application submitted pursuant to this section shall be
reviewed by town staff for completeness. If any required item fails to be
submitted, the application shall be deemed incomplete. Staff shall advise an
applicant in writing within 45 calendar days after submittal of an application
regarding the completeness of the application. If the application is
incomplete, such notice shall set forth the missing items or deficiencies in
the application, which the applicant must correct and/or submit in order for
the application to be deemed complete.
         (b)   The town shall issue a written decision to approve or deny an
application for new wireless telecommunication system, substantial
modifications to an existing system, or antenna replacements within 150
calendar days of such application being deemed complete. Failure to issue a
written decision within 150 calendar days shall constitute an approval of the
application.
      (2)   Eligible facilities requests (including co-location).
         (a)   An eligible facilities request application is deemed complete
unless the town provides notice that the application is incomplete in writing
to the applicant within 45 days of submission or within some other mutually
agreed time frame. Such notice shall identify the deficiencies in the
application which, if cured, would make the application complete. An
application is deemed complete upon re-submission if the additional materials
cure the deficiencies indicated.
         (b)   The town shall issue a written decision approving an eligible
facilities request application within 45 calendar days of such application
being deemed complete. Failure to issue a written decision within 45 calendar
days shall constitute an approval of the application.
      (3)   Supplemental review. The town reserves the right to require a
supplemental review for any type of wireless telecommunication system, as
determined necessary, subject to the following:
         (a)   Where due to the complexity of the methodology or analysis
required to review an application for a wireless communications system, the
town may require technical review by a third party expert, the costs of which
shall be borne by the applicant, to the extent permitted by G.S. § 160A-400.52
(f) and G.S. § 160A-400.53(a)(3), and shall be in addition to other applicable
fees.
         (b)   Based on the results of the expert review, the approving
authority may require changes to the applicant's application or submittals.
         (c)   The supplemental review may address any or all of the following:
            1.   The accuracy and completeness of the application and
accompanying documentation;
            2.   The applicability of analysis techniques and methodologies;
            3.   The validity of conclusions reached;
            4.   Whether the proposed wireless communications facility complies
with the applicable approval criteria set forth in this section; and
            5.   Other items deemed by the town to be relevant to determining
whether a proposed wireless communications system complies with the provisions
of these codes.
   (E)   Application and site plan requirements.
      (1)   Communication companies are encouraged to locate telecommunication
antennas on or in structures other than a tower. These structures may include
church steeples, transmission line towers, utility/light poles, water towers
and the like hidden in a manner so as to not be readily visible (stealth).
      (2)   Where these facilities described in division (E)(1) above are not
available, co-location of facilities is encouraged.
      (3)   When a new tower is proposed to be sited, a determination of
whether the location will provide a minimal level of coverage versus optimal
coverage shall be taken into consideration.
      (4)   The following documentation must be submitted as part of any
application for the approval of the siting of new towers:
         (a)   To determine if a better location or alternative exists,
evidence must be provided that the applicant has investigated the possibilities
for locating the proposed facilities on an existing tower, the use of stealth
technology or location where the facilities would be permitted as an
administratively approved use. The evidence shall consist of copies of letters
sent to owners of all existing towers or other facilities within the
applicant's designated search ring, requesting the following information:
            1.   Tower height;
            2.   Existing and planned tower users;
            3.   Suitability of the tower for co-location, including structural
stability and potential for electromagnetic interference; and
            4.   A general description of the means and projected cost of
shared use of the existing tower.
         (b)   A copy of all responses within 30 days from the mailing date of
the letter required by division (D)(4)(a) above;
         (c)   A summary explanation of why the applicant believes the proposed
facility cannot be located on an existing tower for 1 or both of the following
reasons:
            1.   The structure does not meet the applicant's structural
specifications or technical design requirements.
            2.   A co-location agreement cannot be obtained at a reasonable
market rate and in a timely manner.
         (d)   A survey prepared by a licensed North Carolina surveyor showing
the location of all existing property lines and improvements within a 1,000-
foot radius of the proposed tower site and all proposed improvements including
the tower, antennas, accessory structures and equipment. In addition, the
survey must detail all proposed vegetation removal activities including an
inventory of existing trees to be removed;
         (e)   Drawings of all proposed towers, antennas and accessory
structures and equipment indicating elevations, height, colors and design;
         (f)   Documentation provided by the applicant that the proposed tower
and all antennas and equipment comply with all applicable FCC regulations. In
order to protect the public from unnecessary exposure to electromagnetic
radiation, the tower owner shall provide documentation indicating that the
power density levels do not exceed levels permitted by the FCC;
         (g)   Documentation provided by the applicant that the proposed tower,
antennas and equipment meet FAA aviation and navigation requirements. All
proposed improvements shall not restrict or interfere with air traffic or air
travel from or to any existing or proposed airport. Any lighting shall not
project onto any surrounding residential property. To the extent required by
the FAA, strobes shall be used for night-time lighting. Whenever strobes are
not required by the FAA, flashing beacons are the preferred type of lighting;
         (h)   A copy of the approved National Environmental Policy Act of 1969
(NEPA) compliance report for all towers, antennas, accessory structures or
equipment proposed for the site if one is required;
         (i)   Documentation signed and sealed from a North Carolina licensed
engineer that the proposed tower and antennas meet the structural requirements
of the North Carolina Building Code and the co-location requirements of this
section;
         (j)   Written indemnification of the town and proof of liability
insurance or financial ability to respond to claims up to $1,000,000 in the
aggregate which may arise from operation of the facility during its life at no
cost to the town on a form approved by the Town Attorney;
         (k)   Evidence that the communications tower is structurally designed
to support at least 1 additional telecommunication service provider, and an
affidavit that the owner of the tower is willing to permit other user(s) to
attach communication facilities, on a commercially reasonable basis, which do
not interfere with the primary purpose of the tower. The tower owner may
require that other users agree to negotiate regarding reasonable compensation
to the owner from any liability that may result from the attachment. The site
plan shall indicate a location for at least 1 equipment building in addition to
that proposed for use by the applicant. Priority for co-location on the
proposed tower shall be given to antennas that will serve a public safety need
for the community;
         (l)   The proposed tower shall be designed to accommodate additional
antennas equal in number to the applicant's present and future requirements;
         (m)   In addition to the other consideration of this chapter, the
approving body in determining whether a tower is in harmony with the area or
the effects and general compatibility of a tower with adjacent properties may
consider the aesthetic effects of the tower as well as mitigating factors
concerning aesthetics and may disapprove the tower on the grounds that the
aesthetic effects are unacceptable. Factors relevant to the aesthetic effects
are: the protection of the view in sensitive or particularly scenic areas and
areas specifically designated in adopted plans such as unique natural features,
scenic roadways and historic sites, the concentration of towers in the proposed
area, and whether the height, design, placement or other characteristics of the
proposed tower could be modified to have a less intrusive visual impact; and
         (n)   The approving body may request the applicant to conduct a
balloon height test or similar tests on the proposed tower site to demonstrate
the proposed height of the tower.
   (F)   WTS format preference. The following order of preference shall be used
during the review and approval of WTS development:
      (1)   Stealth antenna;
      (2)   Antenna located on existing WTS facilities, utility poles, water
towers or similar utility structure;
      (3)   Antenna attached to or mounted on an existing building or structure
(single or co-location provider);
      (4)   Free-standing WTS development designed and constructed with co-
location capability;
      (5)   Free-standing WTS development designed and constructed for single-
provider use; and
      (6)   Signage within a wireless facility is only permitted consistent
with the standards outlined in §
156.130.
   (G)   Use guidelines and dimensional requirements.
      (1)   Antennas and towers may be considered either principal or accessory
uses. A different existing use or an existing structure on the same lot shall
not preclude the installation of an antenna or tower on the lot. For purposes
of determining whether the installation of a tower or antenna complies with
district development regulations, including but not limited to, setback
requirements, lot size and coverage requirements, and other like requirements,
the dimensions of the entire lot shall control, even though the antennas or
towers may be located on leased parcels within the lots. Towers that are
constructed, and antennas that are installed, in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter shall not be deemed to constitute the expansion of a
nonconforming use or structure.
      (2)   In order to provide spatial separation and create visual block from
adjacent properties and streets, a buffer shall be installed around the outside
of all improvements on the site, including the tower and guy anchors, any
ground buildings or equipment, and security fencing. Ground buildings located
in a residential district may be located outside the buffered area if they are
constructed so the exterior appearance of the building has the appearance of a
residential dwelling, including pitched roof and frame or brick veneer
construction. The tower's guy anchors may be screened or fenced separately in
order to comply with the requirements of this division.
      (3)   The base of the tower and each guy anchor shall be surrounded by a
security fence or wall at least 8 feet in height unless the tower and all guy
anchors are mounted entirely on a building over 8 feet in height. The tower's
guy anchors may be screened or fenced separately in order to comply with the
requirements of this section.
      (4)   An equipment compound shall only be used to house equipment and
other supplies in support of the operation of the wireless communications
facility or support structure. Any equipment not used in direct support of such
operation shall not be stored on the site.
      (5)   Accessory buildings shall not be used as an employment center for
any worker. This provision does not prohibit the periodic maintenance or
periodic monitoring of equipment and instruments.
      (6)   The proposed tower, antenna, or accessory structure and equipment
shall be placed in a location and in a manner that will minimize the visual
impact on the surrounding area.
      (7)   No commercial advertising, company logo, or signage shall be
allowed on the tower or its related facilities. However, signs shall be posted
that list a telephone number for the owner of the tower and "No Trespassing"
information. This sign shall be located on the accessory building or fencing
and shall not exceed 4 square feet in area.
      (8)   The proposed tower shall be set back from all publicly owned roads
or rights-of-way a distance equal to the tower height. If visible from any
public road or right-of-way, a landscape plan indicating how the applicant
proposes to screen any accessory structure or equipment from view.
      (9)   Setbacks of the base of the tower from all adjacent property lines
shall be 1 foot for each foot of tower height. To encourage shared use of
towers, applications for towers which will operate with more than 1 user
immediately upon completion may have a 10% reduction in the required setbacks,
but in no case shall the setback be less than those required for the underlying
zoning district. Also, to encourage the construction of monopole structures,
monopole towers may have a 20% reduction in the required setbacks. To encourage
location of towers in forested areas with a minimum depth of 65 feet, the tower
may have a 20% reduction in the required setbacks. In no case shall the setback
be less than those required for the underlying zoning district. The setback
reductions shall only be allowed upon a professional engineering certification
which states that the structure's construction will cause the tower to crumble
inward so that in the event of collapse no damage to structures on adjacent
zoning lots will result.
      (10)   The proposed tower shall be set back from all property lines a
distance equal to the proposed tower's fall zone as certified by a registered
North Carolina engineer, plus 20 feet.
      (11)   The proposed tower shall be set back a distance equal to the
tower's height plus 50 feet from any residential structure.
      (12)   No towers shall be located in the public trust waters of the town.
   (H)   Non-conforming towers. Continuation, relocation and reconstruction of,
and enlargements and modifications to towers and associated equipment that do
not meet current requirements of this chapter (towers constructed prior to July
3, 2002) are subject to the following requirements:
      (1)   A site plan shall be submitted for any relocation or reconstruction
of a non-conforming tower.
      (2)   Increases in height shall not exceed 15% of the height of the tower
as it existed in 2002, and shall not equal or exceed a height that would either
require a special use permit or would require the tower, if unlit, to add
lights.
      (3)   Any relocation or structural change:
         (a)   Must be on the tower's current site;
         (b)   Must eliminate the need for an additional tower or provide both
additional co-location opportunities and additional antenna space beyond what
is provided by the current tower; and
         (c)   May not change the style of the tower, if the tower is currently
a monopole.
      (4)   Any relocation must comply with current ordinance setback
requirements, if physically possible, or, if compliance is not possible, the
relocation must not increase the amount by which setbacks are non-conforming,
other than increases necessitated solely by changes in size of the base to
support the new tower. If the foregoing setback requirements cannot be met,
then setbacks may only be decreased by up to 15% of the originally constructed
tower height(s).
      (5)   If a non-conforming tower is damaged beyond 50% of its replacement
value, a replacement tower constructed on the same site or lot may not exceed
the height of the previous tower, and must comply with all requirements of the
current ordinance, except the requirement for a use permit.
   (I)   Decommissioning or abandonment.
      (1)   The owner of the wireless telecommunication facility shall complete
decommissioning of the facility within 180 days of abandonment.
      (2)   The Town Manager may grant a 1 time, 6-month extension to the above
decommissioning timeframe if it is determined that a special or unique
circumstance exists.
      (3)   Decommissioning shall include the removal of all towers, buildings,
cabling, electrical components, roads, and other associated facilities down to
36 inches below grade.
      (4)   Disturbed earth shall be graded and re-seeded, unless the landowner
requests in writing that the access roads or other land surface areas not be
restored.
      (5)   Should the wireless services provider fail to timely remove the
abandoned wireless facility, the town may cause such wireless facility to be
removed and may recover the actual cost of such removal, including legal fees,
if any, from the wireless services provider. The town may take measures,
including the execution of the surety bond, to remove the facility and restore
the land to the condition existing prior to installation of the structure. If
the surety bond amount is insufficient for restoration of the land, the town
may hold the property owner responsible for the difference in cost.
      (6)   To ensure removal of any abandoned tower, antennae, accessory
structure or equipment, a non-cancellable structure removal surety bond or
other security acceptable to the town shall be required, in a form subject to
approval by the Town Attorney, for removal of the facility and naming the town
as a beneficiary. The amount of the surety shall be calculated by an
independent, North Carolina certified professional engineer immediately prior
to the date it is required to be provided, at the expense of the applicant, and
shall be equal to 150% of the cost of removing the facility. The surety amount
shall be recalculated every 5 years thereafter using the same process, and
proof of the updated bond amount shall be forwarded to the town. The surety,
which shall be in the form of a single instrument, shall be provided to the
town upon failure of the owner to complete the decommissioning of the facility
within the time period specified above.
   (J)   Small wireless facilities.
      (1)   Standards. Small wireless facilities and utility poles installed to
support small wireless facilities in the right-of-way shall comply with the
following requirements:
         (a)   Height of new small wireless facilities. New small wireless
facilities in the ROW may not extend (i) more than 10 feet above an existing
utility pole in place as of the effective date of this chapter; or (ii) for
small wireless facilities on a new utility pole, above the height permitted for
a new utility pole under this chapter.
         (b)   Each new or modified utility pole installed to support small
wireless facilities. In the Single-Family Residential (RS-1, RS-2) zoning
districts, where the existing utilities are installed underground, a utility
pole or wireless support structure cannot exceed 40 feet above ground level,
unless the applicant obtains a variance approving the taller utility pole or
wireless support structure. Each new or modified utility pole installed in
public street rights-of-way or other zoning districts shall not exceed the
greater of (i) 10 feet above an existing utility pole; or (ii) 50 feet above
ground level.
         (c)   Maximum size. The small cell facility must conform to the size
and height limitations as defined for a small cell facility in this chapter.
         (d)   Utility pole modifications. Utility pole modifications relating
to small wireless facility collocations shall be fabricated from material
having a degree of strength capable of supporting the small wireless facility
and shall be capable of withstanding wind forces and ice loads in accordance
with applicable standards. A modification shall be securely bound in accordance
with applicable engineering standards.
         (e)   Color. Small wireless facilities shall be the color for the
antenna and related equipment that is consistent with or most blends into the
wireless support structure on which they are installed, unless a different
color is needed for public safety or service reliability reasons.
         (f)   Wiring and cabling. Wires and cables connecting the antenna and
appurtenances serving the small cell facility shall be installed in accordance
with the version of the National Electrical Code and National Electrical Safety
Code adopted by the town and in force at the time of installation. In no event
shall wiring and cabling serving the small wireless facility interfere with any
wiring or cabling installed by a cable television or video service operator,
electric utility, or telephone utility.
         (g)   Guy wires restricted. Guy wires and similar support structures
may not be used as part of the installation of any small wireless facility,
unless the small wireless facility is proposed to be attached to an existing
utility pole that incorporated guy wires prior to the date of the small
wireless application.
         (h)   Grounding. The small wireless facility including any ground-
mounted equipment, shall be grounded in accordance with the requirements of the
most current edition of the National Electrical Code adopted by the town
regarding grounding of wireless facilities.
         (i)   Signage. Other than warning or notification signs required by
federal law or regulations, or identification and location markings, a small
wireless facility shall not have signs installed thereon.
         (j)   Access. Wireless providers and their employees, agents, and
contractors shall have the right of access to utility poles, wireless support
structures and small wireless facilities in the right-of-way at all times for
purposes consistent with this chapter.
      (2)   Other requirements.
         (a)   Small wireless facilities shall be located such that they do not
interfere with public health or safety facility, such as, but not limited to a
fire hydrant, fire station, fire escape, water valve, underground vault, valve
housing structure, or any other public health or safety facility. New utility
poles and small wireless facilities shall not be installed directly over any
water, sewer, or reuse main or service line.
         (b)   Any tree disturbing activity necessary for the installation or
collocation of small wireless facilities and utility poles installed to support
then shall comply with §
156.137, tree and vegetation preservation and planning.
         (c)   Small wireless facilities and utility poles or wireless support
structures on which they are collocated shall not be lighted or marked by
artificial means, except when small wireless facilities are collocated on a
light pole or where illumination is specifically required by the Federal
Aviation Administration or other federal, state, or local regulations.
         (d)   A wireless provider shall repair, at its sole cost and expense,
any damages including but not limited to subsidence, cracking, erosion,
collapse, weakening, or loss of lateral support to public streets, sidewalks,
walks, curbs, gutters, trees, parkways, street lights, traffic signals,
improvements of any kind or nature, or utility lines and systems, underground
utility line and systems, or sewer or water systems and water and sewer lines
that result from any activities performed in connection with the installation
and/or maintenance of a wireless facility in the right-of-way. The wireless
provider shall restore such areas, structures and systems to substantially the
same condition in which they existed prior to the installation or maintenance
that necessitated the repairs.
         (e)   Small wireless facilities shall blend in with the surrounding
environment or otherwise concealed to the extent practicable.
      (3)   Application process for small wireless facilities located within
public rights-of-way or zoning districts other than Single-Family Residential
(RS-1 & RS-2).
         (a)   An applicant seeking to locate small wireless facilities at
multiple locations in the town shall be allowed, at the applicant's discretion,
to file a consolidated application for no more than 25 separate facilities and
receive a permit for the collocation of all the small wireless facilities
meeting the requirements of this section. The town may remove small wireless
facility collocations from a consolidated application and treat separately
small wireless facility collocations (i) for which incomplete information has
been provided or (ii) that are denied. The town may issue a separate permit for
each collocation that is approved.
         (b)   An application must include an attestation that the small
wireless facilities shall be collocated on a utility pole or wireless support
structure and that the small wireless facilities will be activated for use by a
wireless services provider to provide service no later than one year from the
permit issuance date, unless the town and the wireless provider agree to extend
this period or a delay is caused by a lack of commercial power at the site.
         (c)   Within 30 days of receiving an application, the town will
determine and notify the applicant whether the application is complete. If an
application is incomplete, the town must specifically identify the missing
information. The processing deadline is tolled from the time the town sends the
notice of incompleteness to the time the applicant provides the missing
information. That processing deadline also may be amended by mutual agreement
of the applicant and the town.
         (d)   The permit application shall be deemed approved if the town
fails to approve or deny the application within 45 days from the time the
application is deemed complete or a mutually agreed upon time frame between the
town and the applicant.
         (e)   The town may deny a proposed collocation of a small wireless
facility or installation or modification of a utility pole only if the
application:
            i.   Interferes with the safe operation of traffic control
equipment;
            ii.   Interferes with sight lines or clear zones for vehicles or
pedestrians;
            iii.   Interferes with compliance with the Americans with
Disabilities Act or similar federal or state standards regarding pedestrian
access or movement;
            iv.   Fails to comply with reasonable and nondiscriminatory spacing
requirements that apply to other communications service providers and electric
utilities in the right-of-way and that concern the location of ground-mounted
equipment and new utility poles. Such spacing requirements shall not prevent a
small wireless facility from serving any location; and
            v.   Fails to comply with the requirements and design standards
outlined in this chapter and other applicable codes, including screening of
ground-mounted equipment.
         (f)   The permit may specify that collocation of the small wireless
facility shall commence within six months of approval and shall be activated
for use no later than one year from the permit issuance date, unless the town
and the wireless provider agree to extend this period or a delay is caused by a
lack of commercial power at the site.
      (4)   A wireless provider may apply to the town to place, replace, or
modify utility poles in public rights-of-way to support the collocation of
small wireless facilities. Such application shall be accepted and processed in
accordance with the provisions of division (J)(3) and other local codes
governing the placement of utility poles in the public rights-of-way, including
provisions or regulations that concern public safety, objective design
standards for decorative utility poles or town utility poles, or reasonable and
nondiscriminatory stealth and concealment requirements, including those
relating to screening or landscaping, or public safety and reasonable spacing
requirements. The application may be submitted in conjunction with the
associated small wireless facility application.
      (5)   Removal, relocation or modification of a small wireless facility.
         (a)   Notice. Within 90 days following written notice from the town,
the wireless provider shall, at its own expense, protect, support, temporarily
or permanently disconnect, remove, relocate, change or alter the position of
any small wireless facilities or utility pole for which it has a permit
hereunder whenever the town has determined that such removal, relocation,
change or alteration, is reasonably necessary for the construction, repair,
maintenance, or installation of any town improvement in or upon, or the
operations of the town in or upon, the public right-of-way.
         (b)   Emergency removal or relocation of facilities. The town retains
the right to cut or move any small wireless facilities or utility poles located
within the public right-of-way, as the town may determine to be necessary,
appropriate or useful in response to any public health or safety emergency. If
circumstances permit, the town shall notify the wireless provider and provide
it an opportunity to move its small wireless facilities or utility poles prior
to cutting or removing them and shall notify the wireless provider after
cutting or removing a small wireless facility or utility pole.
   (K)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ABANDONMENT. Cessation of use of a wireless support structure, antenna,
or equipment for wireless telecommunications activity with the intention to
give up the use, maintenance, and control of the facilities. A wireless
facility shall be deemed abandoned at the earlier of the date that the wireless
services provider indicates that it is abandoning such facility or the date
that is 180 days after the date that such wireless facility ceases to transmit
a signal, unless the wireless services provider gives the town reasonable
evidence that it is diligently working to place such wireless facility back in
service.
      ACCESSORY EQUIPMENT STRUCTURE. A building or cabinet-like structure
located adjacent to, or in the immediate vicinity of, a wireless
telecommunications tower or antenna to house equipment customarily incidental
to the receiving or transmitting of wireless broadcasts, cellular telephone
calls, voice messaging and paging services.
      ALTERNATIVE TOWER STRUCTURE. Clock towers, sculptures, bell steeples,
light poles and similar alternative-design mounting structures that conceal the
presence of antennas or towers.
      ANTENNA. Equipment used for transmitting or receiving radio frequency
signals which is attached to a tower, building or other structure usually
consisting of a series of directional panels, microwave or satellite dishes or
omni-directional "whip" antennas.
      ANTENNA, STEALTH. Wireless telecommunications antenna and related
equipment designed to blend into surrounding environment or integrated into the
physical structure to which it is attached.
      BASE TRANSCEIVER STATION. Equipment that provides  the  link between
wireless communications and land-based public telephone switching networks,
including radio frequency transceivers, back-up power sources, power amplifiers
and signal processing hardware, typically contained in a small building or
cabinet.
      COLLOCATION. The placement, installation, maintenance, modification,
operation, or replacement of wireless facilities on an existing wireless
support structure, utility pole, or other structure capable of supporting the
attachment of wireless facilities.
      ELIGIBLE FACILITIES REQUEST. A request for modification of an existing
wireless tower or base station that involves co-location of new transmission
equipment or replacement of transmission equipment but does not include a
substantial modification (see definition below).
      MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY. A small wireless facility that meets the
following qualifications: (i) is not larger in dimension than 24 inches in
length, 15 inches in width, and 12 inches in height; and (ii) has no exterior
antenna longer than 11 inches.
      PRE-EXISTING TOWERS AND ANTENNAS. Any tower or antenna on which a permit
has been properly issued prior to the effective date of this chapter.
      ROUTINE MAINTENANCE. Any activities ensuring that wireless facilities and
telecommunications towers are kept in good operating condition. ROUTINE
MAINTENANCE includes inspections, testing, and modifications that maintain
functional capacity and structural integrity. ROUTINE MAINTENANCE includes
replacing antennas of a similar size, weight, shape, and color; replacing
accessory equipment within an existing equipment compound; and relocating
antennas to different heights on an existing tower upon which they are located.
ROUTINE MAINTENANCE does not include substantial modification.
      SEARCH RING. A circle or other shape drawn on a map that indicates where
a site could be located to meet the radio frequency engineering requirements of
a wireless carrier. The size and shape of a search ring varies depending upon
the topography, demographics, and other factors.
      SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY. A wireless facility that meets both of the
following qualifications: (i) each wireless provider's antenna could fit within
an enclosure of no more than six cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an
antenna that has exposed elements, the antenna and exposed elements could fit
within an enclosure of no more than six cubic feet; and (ii) all other wireless
equipment associated with the wireless facility, whether ground- or pole-
mounted, is cumulatively no more than 28 cubic feet in volume. The following
types of associated ancillary equipment are not included in the calculation of
equipment volume: electric meter, concealment elements, telecommunications
demarcation box, ground-based enclosures, grounding equipment, power transfer
switches, cut-off switches, vertical cable runs for the connection of power and
other services, and other support structures.
      SUBSTANTIAL MODIFICATION. The mounting of a wireless facility on a
telecommunications tower that substantially changes the physical dimensions of
the tower. A mounting is presumed to be a substantial modification if it meets
1 or more of the criteria listed below:
         (a)   Increasing the existing vertical height of the structure by the
greater of:
            1.   More than 10%; or
            2.   The height of 1 additional antenna array with separation from
the nearest existing antenna not to exceed 20 feet, whichever is greater.
         (b)   Except where necessary to shelter the antenna from inclement
weather or to connect the antenna to the tower via cable, adding an
appurtenance to the body of an antenna support structure that protrudes
horizontally from the edge of an antenna support structure the greater of:
            1.   More than 20 feet; or
            2.   More than the width of the antenna support structure at the
level of the appurtenance, whichever is greater.
         (c)   Increasing the square footage of the existing equipment compound
by more than 2,500
square feet.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWER. Any structure that is designed and constructed
primarily for the purpose of supporting 1 or more antennas, including self-
supporting lattice towers, guy towers and monopole towers. The term includes
radio and television transmission towers, personal communications service
towers (PCS), microwave towers, common-carrier towers, cellular telephone
towers, alternative tower structures and the like. This definition does not
include any structure erected solely for a residential, non-commercial
individual use, such as television antennas, satellite dishes or amateur radio
antennas.
      TOWER, GUY. A tower design that features supporting cables and wires
anchored to the ground surrounding the tower.
      TOWER, LATTICE. Three- or 4-legged steel girdered structures typically
supporting multiple communications users and services generally ranging from 60
to 200 feet in height.
      TOWER, MONOPOLE. Single pole design, approximately 3 feet in diameter at
the base narrowing to approximately 1 ½ feet at the top, generally ranging from
25 to 150 feet in height.
      UTILITY POLE. Pole used to support essential services such as power,
telephone or cable TV lines, or used to support street or pedestrian way
lighting, typically located in public rights-of-way. Such term shall not
include structures supporting only wireless facilities.
      WIRELESS FACILITY. Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless
communications between user equipment and a communications network, including
(i) equipment associated with wireless communications and (ii) radio
transceivers, antennas, wires, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular and backup
power supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of technological
configuration. The term includes small wireless facilities. The term shall not
include any of the following:
         (a)   The structure or improvements on, under, within, or adjacent to
which the equipment is collocated.
         (b)   Wireline backhaul facilities.
         (c)   Coaxial or fiber-optic cable that is between wireless structures
or utility poles or public utility poles or that is otherwise not immediately
adjacent to or directly associated with a particular antenna.
      WIRELESS PROVIDER. A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless
services provider.
      WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A new or existing freestanding structure,
such as a monopole, tower, or other structure designed to support or capable of
supporting wireless facilities. Such term shall not include utility poles.
      WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION SERVICES (WTS). Licensed or unlicensed
wireless telecommunication services including cellular, digital cellular,
personal communication services (PCS), specialized mobile radio (SMR), enhanced
specialized mobile radio (EPMR), commercial or private paging services or
similar services marketed or provided to the general public. This definition
does not include services by non-commercial entities in the Amateur Radio
Service, Public Safety Radio Service, or licenses assigned to non-profit
organizations, such as the Red Cross, Civil Air Patrol, Military Affiliated
Radio Service (MARS), that are licensed by the Federal Communications
Commission.
(Ord. 04-23, passed 10-6-2004, § 27; Am. Ord. 15-10, passed 7-1-2015; Am. Ord.
17-04, passed 6-7-2017; Am. Ord. 17-13, passed 12-6-2017; Am. Ord. 21-01,
passed 6-2-2021; Am. Ord. 23-10, passed 9-6-2023)
§ 156.059 GROUP DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)    Group development projects, consisting of 2 or more buildings
devoted to a common or similar use and constructed on a single lot, may be
permitted in specified districts established by this chapter; provided, that a
mandatory pre-application conference is held between the Zoning Administrator
and the developer prior to filing the required application for review and
approval of the project by the Town Council. Review and approval shall be
required for all group development projects.
      (2)   Adequate scaled site plans shall be submitted to allow for review
of the size and location of all buildings, structures, streets, drives and
parking spaces and their relationship to any open spaces and adjacent
properties.
      (3)   Group housing development plans shall also be accompanied by a
computation or schedule, expressed in acres or portions thereof, which
indicates the area and percentage of the site devoted to:
         (a)   Gross area;
         (b)   Parking area;
         (c)   Net area;
         (d)   Building area; and
         (e)   Open space.
   (B)   Design standards generally. All group development projects shall
comply with the following design standards:
      (1)   Street access. Any building established as a part of a group
development project, which cannot properly be served by emergency or service
vehicles from an abutting street, shall be made accessible to these vehicles by
a paved driveway having a roadbed width of not less than 20 feet, exclusive of
parking spaces.
      (2)   Off-street parking and loading facilities. Off-street parking and
loading facilities established in connection with a group development project
shall be of a design, location and arrangement as will not interfere with the
efficient flow of traffic through the area and as will not interfere with the
access of emergency or service vehicles.
      (3)   Separation of buildings. All buildings established as a part of a
group development project shall be separated by not less than 20 feet, except
in cases where a fire suppression system meeting all the requirements of NFPA
13 and the North Carolina State Building Code is installed in the proposed
building. In no instance shall the minimum building separation be less than 10
feet, measured from outside wall to outside wall.
      (4)   Setback requirements. Unless otherwise provided by this chapter for
a specific type of group development, each group development project shall
comply with the front yard setback and the side and rear yard requirements
established for the district in which it is located.
      (5)   Prohibited uses. In no case shall a use be permitted as a part of a
group development project that is prohibited by this chapter in the district in
which the project is to be located.
   (C)   Design standards; group housing projects. In addition to the other
standards set forth in this section, a group housing project shall comply with
the following requirements:
      (1)   Setbacks. All buildings established as a part of a group housing
project shall be set back not less than 25 feet from any side or rear property
line;
      (2)   Location. No dwelling structure established as a part of a housing
project shall be situated on a lot so as to face the rear of another dwelling
structure within the development or on adjoining property; and
      (3)   Lot size. A group housing project shall be permitted only on a lot
or plot of ground having an area of not less than 1 acre.
   (D)   Districts where allowed.
      (1)   Group developments may be allowed in the following zoning
districts: R-2, VC, C-1 and C-2.
      (2)    Only those uses listed as permitted and/or special uses in the
applicable zoning district shall be considered for group developments.
      (3)   This language is not intended to allow any use as a group
development that is not permitted by right in the applicable district.
(Ord. 04-23, passed 10-6-2004, § 29; Am. Ord. 11-07, passed 10-5-2011; Am. Ord.
21-01, passed 6-2-2021)
§ 156.060 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Findings. Based on evidence concerning the adverse secondary effects
of sexually oriented businesses on the community and on the findings
incorporated in the cases City of Renton v. Playtime Theaters, Inc., 475 US 41
(1986), Young v. American Mini Theaters, US. 50 (1976), and Barnes v. Glenn
Theater, Inc., 501 US 560 (1991), and on studies in other communities including
but not limited to; Phoenix, Arizona; Tucson, Arizona; Saint Paul, Minnesota;
Houston, Texas; Austin, Texas; Indianapolis, Indiana; Amarillo, Texas; Garden
Grove, California; Southern Shores, North Carolina; and also on findings from
the Report of the Attorney General’s Working Group on the Regulation of
Sexually Oriented Businesses (June 6, 1989, State of Minnesota), a Report on
the Regulation of Adult Establishments in North Carolina (May 22, 1996), and
findings from the year 2000 Census information, the Council finds:
      (1)   According to the studies referenced above, sexually oriented
businesses tend to lend themselves to ancillary unlawful and unhealthy
activities that are uncontrolled by the operators of the establishments.
Further without a reasonable regulation there is no mechanism to make owners of
these establishments responsible for the activities that occur on their
premises;
      (2)   Sexually oriented businesses provide a potential focus for illicit
and undesirable activities by providing a place of contact for numerous
potential customers for prostitution, pandering and other activities;
      (3)   In combination with on-site or nearby alcoholic beverage service or
other sexually oriented businesses, the concentration of uses increases the
quantity of undesirable activities. There is a snowball effect of undesirable
activities that feed upon and support each other;
      (4)   Facilitation of illicit behavior results in the exposure of
children and youth in adjacent neighborhoods or nearby educational or religious
institutions to inappropriate models of behavior which they are unprepared to
understand or respond to effectively. Where criminal activity is involved,
children, women and the elderly are especially prone to victimization;
      (5)   The very existence of a sexually oriented business can have a
negative impact on, and be intimidating to, passers-by;
      (6)   There is a strong tendency for inappropriate activities to seek
nearby venues. Prostitution and other illicit activities will find lightly used
and under used nearby parks, parking lots, garages, alleyways and other spaces
for their activities. A sexually oriented business does not necessarily create
the activity but provides a facilitating setting for supporting these
activities. It provides a legitimizing reason for the presence of individuals
who have illicit intent;
      (7)   Sexually oriented businesses have a negative impact upon both
residential and commercial property values within 3 blocks of the location. The
preponderance of research suggests that the presence of sexually oriented
businesses is considered by real estate appraisers and lenders to be evidence
of community decline and decay. Other research indicates that areas with
sexually oriented businesses experience lower rates of appreciation in property
values and/or higher turnover in properties in comparison to comparable areas
without sexually oriented businesses. Crime rates are significantly higher in
areas with 1 or more sexually oriented businesses than in comparable areas
without these businesses within the same municipality. (See American Center for
Law and Justice on the Secondary Impacts of Sexually Oriented Businesses);
      (8)   Certain employees of sexually oriented businesses, defined as adult
theaters and adult cabarets, may engage in a higher incidence of certain types
of illicit sexual behavior than employees of other commercial establishments;
      (9)   Sexual acts, including masturbation and oral and anal sex, occur at
sexually oriented businesses, especially those that provide private or semi-
private booths or cubicles for viewing films, videos, or live sex shows;
      (10)   Persons frequent adult theaters, adult cabarets and other sexually
oriented businesses for the purpose of engaging in sex within the premises of
the sexually oriented businesses;
      (11)   The frequenting of sexually oriented businesses may facilitate
high risk sexual behaviors which increase one’s risk of transmitting or
contracting a sexually transmissible infection;
      (12)   Sanitary conditions in some sexually oriented businesses are
unhealthy because of the unregulated nature of the activities and the failure
of the owners and the operators of the facilities to self-regulate those
activities and maintain those facilities;
      (13)   The Town of Duck total land area is 2.32 square miles, and
approximately 6 miles in length, with only 5.9% of the land area zoned for
commercial use. The commercial districts in Duck run through the town along NC
12, the major access route to the northern Outer Banks for tourists and
residents. The Village Commercial District is the largest commercial district
and has established an identity for the Town of Duck due to the limited scope
of permitted uses. The limited scope of uses in Duck prevents destination-type
attractions and has promoted a quaint village feel for the town;
      (14)   Extracted from Dare County records from the 2000 Decennial Census,
the Town of Duck had a population of 448 full-time residents. The majority of
these are retired persons and this trend is expected to continue into future
populations;
      (15)   The Town of Duck was officially incorporated in May 2002. Retail
and service businesses necessary for the daily needs of the immediate village
are permitted in the Village Commercial District. Other commercial areas in
Duck north of the village commercial area include eating establishments, real
estate firms, an Inn, and outdoor recreation suppliers;
      (16)   Any First Amendment rights of citizens or visitors to the Town of
Duck to sexually oriented entertainment can readily be met in nearby
communities. Provision for the establishment of sexually oriented businesses
has been made approximately 10 miles south of Duck by the towns of Kill Devil
Hills and Nags Head, and in nearby Elizabeth City. An adult entertainment
business currently operates in Currituck County about 5 miles from the town;
and
      (17)   Hearings were held by the Planning Board on October 8, 2004 and
the Town Council on November 3, 2004 to allow the general public an opportunity
to express opinions on sexually oriented businesses. The consensus held that
sexually oriented businesses would negatively impact life styles and moral
values if permitted in the Town of Duck.
   (B)   Sexually oriented business prohibited. Based upon the input from the
public hearings, studies recited in the findings and the findings in division
(A) above, all sexually oriented businesses as defined in §
156.002 above are prohibited.
(Ord. 04-21, passed 10-6-2004, § 29.1; Am. Ord. 04-24, passed 11-3-2004)
§ 156.061 FORMULA BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the standards in this section regulate the
location and operation of formula business establishments in order to maintain
the town’s unique village character, the diversity and economic vitality of the
community’s commercial districts, and the quality of life of town residents.
The town has determined that preserving unique architecture, signage, graphic
and other design elements so that the town maintains a distinctive visual
appearance and small-scale eclectic ambiance will promote the long-term
viability of the community’s businesses districts. The town has also determined
that preserving a balanced mix of local, regional, and national-based
businesses and small and medium sized businesses will maintain and promote the
long-term economic health of visitor-serving businesses and the community as a
whole. It is therefore the intention of the town that any permitted formula
business establishments shall create a unique visual appearance that reflect
and/or complement the distinctive and unique character of the town, and that no
establishment shall project a visual appearance that is homogenous with its
establishments in other communities.
   (B)   Applicability.
      (1)   “Formula business” means a type of business activity, including
retail, office and restaurants and food service, which:
         (a)   Is required to maintain a standardized (substantially the same)
array of services and/or merchandise, name, trademark, logo, service mark,
symbol, sign, decor, architecture, building or site layout, uniform, color
scheme, menus, or similar standardized feature; and
         (b)   Is substantially the same as 12 or more such establishments,
regardless of ownership or location.
      (2)   Formula businesses shall not include institutional uses such as
banks, post offices, churches or government facilities nor shall it include
franchise or multi-branch real estate offices, utility services, or gas
stations.
   (C)   Special use permit required. A special use permit shall be required
for any formula business establishment in the town.
      (1)   A formula business establishment may be allowed only with a special
use permit;
      (2)   The expansion of any existing formula business establishment shall
require a special use permit or amendment of a special use permit if it already
has one; and
      (3)   A formula business establishment shall fully comply with all
applicable regulations of the zoning ordinance, including required commercial
design guidelines, unless otherwise herein modified.
   (D)   Required findings for approval. In addition to all of the findings
required by §
156.155, Special Use Permits, all of the following findings must be made prior
to the issuance of a special use permit for a formula business establishment:
      (1)   The formula business establishment will be compatible with existing
surrounding uses, and has been designed and will be operated in a non-obtrusive
manner to preserve the community’s distinctive character and ambiance;
      (2)   The formula business establishment will not result in an over-
concentration of formula business establishments in its immediate vicinity or
the town as a whole;
      (3)   The formula business establishment will promote diversity and
variety to assure a balanced mix of commercial uses available to serve both
resident and visitor populations;
      (4)   The formula business establishment will contribute to a diverse and
appropriate blend of businesses in the community and preserve the sea coast
town ambience reflective of the history and people of the community;
      (5)   The formula business establishment will be mutually beneficial to
and would enhance the economic health of surrounding uses in the district;
      (6)   The formula business establishment will contribute to an
appropriate balance of business sizes in the community;
      (7)   The proposed use, together with its design and improvement, is
consistent with the unique character of the town, and would preserve the
distinctive visual appearance and shopping and dining experience of the town
for its residents and visitors; and
      (8)   The proposed intensity of uses on the site is appropriate given the
uses permitted on the site and on adjoining sites including, but not limited to
the following:
         (a)   Size not to exceed 3,000 square feet of gross floor area and
must be in a building that is shared with at least 1 other business that is not
a formula business of any type.
         (b)   Street-facing frontage of any individual formula business shall
not exceed 50 linear feet.
(Ord. 07-04, passed 2-7-2007; Am. Ord. 09-05, passed 5-6-2009; Am. Ord. 09-07,
passed 8-5-2009; Am. Ord. 17-04, passed 6-7-2017; Am. Ord. 21-01, passed 6-2-
2021)
§ 156.062 RELOCATION OF OCEANFRONT STRUCTURES THREATENED BY EROSION.
   (A)   Intent. One of the primary goals in the Town's CAMA Comprehensive &
Land Use Plan is to “Preserve, protect, and enhance the Atlantic Ocean
Shoreline and ensure future generations are able to enjoy its beauty and bounty
and can continue to use the beach and water for active and passive recreation
and leisure activities.” The town intends to establish policies and regulations
to keep its beaches free of erosion threatened or storm damaged structures. To
further this objective, the town encourages oceanfront property owners to
remove or relocate erosion threatened oceanfront structures before they
negatively impact the public beach and the associated dune system. The intent
of this section is to establish regulations and procedures to facilitate the
relocation of oceanfront structures threatened by erosion.
      (1)   Building height. When an existing oceanfront structure is relocated
westward on the same lot, the building height limit may be increased above the
district height up to a maximum of 12 inches under the following circumstances:
         (a)   When the structure being relocated was originally constructed
at-grade on a slab foundation and must be elevated using a raised floor system
to comply with the town’s free and clear of obstruction requirements as
specified in §
150.05 of the town’s Flood Damage Prevention chapter;
         (b)   When it is demonstrated that district height limit cannot be
achieved using the modified floor system without further adjustment to the roof
or other components of the structure; and
         (c)   Only the minimum height increase necessary shall be granted to
accommodate the modified floor system.
      (2)   Special use permit for the relocation of erosion threatened
structures. To facilitate the landward relocation of an erosion threatened
oceanfront structure on the same lot, the Town Council may, by special use
permit, modify the minimum yard and building setback requirements as well as
dimensional and stacking requirements applicable to required parking spaces and
drive aisles established by this chapter, in accordance with the following
provisions:
         (a)   Upon application by the property owner, the town shall process
the application and schedule an evidentiary public hearing by the Town Council
in accordance with the procedures set forth in §
156.155 as well as the procedures set forth below;
         (b)   The Town Council may grant a special use or permit only after
determining that the applicant has clearly demonstrated the following:
            1.   The requested modifications are the minimum necessary to allow
for the relocation of the existing principal structure;
            2.   The applicant does not propose to increase the area of the
principal structure or the number of bedrooms;
            3.   The applicant does not propose to increase size or area of the
property occupied by accessory structures;
            4.   That all structures, to the extent possible, are relocated
outside of the required CAMA setback;
            5.   That the principal structure is situated as far landward as
possible to mitigate future damage potential; and
            6.   The requested reduction results in a development that
preserves the spirit and intent of this section and will not adversely impact
adjacent property or the surrounding area, will not negatively impact existing
traffic flow or pedestrian and vehicular safety and will not be contrary to the
objectives specified in the CAMA Comprehensive & Land Use Plan.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 2-2-2011; Am. Ord. 21-01, passed 6-2-2021)
§ 156.063 ENCROACHMENT OF STRUCTURES ON THE OCEAN BEACH.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to minimize the encroachment
of structures onto the publicly used portion of the beach as a result of
erosion. For the purposes of this section, the PUBLICLY USED PORTION OF THE
BEACH includes the area east of the seaward toe of the frontal dune, the first
line of stable natural vegetation, or the dune escarpment, whichever is
farthest landward.
   (B)   Intent.
      (1)   To preserve necessary longshore access of ocean rescue and
emergency vehicles.
      (2)   To limit unsafe conditions in any publicly used portion of the
beach caused by structures that have become vulnerable to repetitive damage as
a result of erosion. The town finds that oceanfront structures are at far
greater risk of damage when the dune system recedes landward of their location
due to erosion. Without the protection afforded by the dune system, structures
are subjected to direct wave run-up and storm surge conditions that increase
the frequency and intensity of damage they will incur. When damaged structures
are present seaward of the dune system and located on the publicly used portion
of the beach, they are accessible by the public and, therefore, pose health and
safety risks associated with human exposure to scattered debris and litter,
sharp objects, including nails, wood, and broken glass, downed electrical
service lines, damaged wastewater system components, and structures at risk of
imminent collapse.
      (3)   To preserve the commonly accepted public trust rights to recreate
within the dry sand beach area and ensure that public trust lands, which also
include the wet sand beach and submerged lands, remain open and unobstructed.
      (4)   To protect and preserve the natural, aesthetic, and recreational
resources along the oceanfront.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DRY SAND BEACH. The area of the ocean beach between the normal high tide
line and the seaward toe of the frontal dune, or the first line of stable
natural vegetation in such cases where the seaward toe is not readily
identifiable.
      DUNE SYSTEM, FRONTAL DUNE. The first mound of sand located landward of
the beach having sufficient vegetation, height, continuity and configuration to
offer protective value.
      DUNE SYSTEM, PRIMARY DUNE. The first mound of sand located landward of
the beach having an elevation equal to the mean flood level for the area plus 6
feet. The PRIMARY DUNE extends landward to the lowest elevation in the
depression behind the same mound of sand.
      DUNE WALKOVER STRUCTURE. A raised walkway constructed for the purpose of
providing access to the beach from points landward of the dune system.
      ESCARPMENT. The vertical drop or steep slope in the beach profile
separating two comparatively level or more gentle sloping surfaces caused from
high tide or storm tide erosion.
      FIRST LINE OF STABLE NATURAL VEGETATION. This line represents the
boundary between the normal dry sand beach, which is subject to constant flux
due to waves, tides, storms and wind, and the more stable upland areas. The
vegetation line is generally located at or immediately oceanward of the seaward
toe of the frontal dune or erosion escarpment. The Division of Coastal
Management or Local Permit Officer shall determine the location of the stable
and natural vegetation line, based on visual observations of plant composition
and density. If the vegetation has been planted, it may be considered stable
when the majority of the plant stems are from continuous rhizomes, rather than
planted individual rooted sets. The vegetation may be considered natural when
the majority of the plants are mature and additional species native to the
region have been recruited, providing stem and rhizome densities that are
similar to adjacent areas that are naturally occurring. In areas where there is
no stable natural vegetation present, this line may be established by
interpolation between the nearest adjacent stable natural vegetation by on-
ground observations or by aerial photographic interpretation.
      OCEAN BEACH. The lands subject to public trust rights adjacent to the
ocean that consist of unconsolidated soil materials that extend from the normal
low tide line landward to either:
         (a)   The first line of stable natural vegetation; or
         (b)   The toe of slope of the primary or frontal dune.
      The OCEAN BEACH shall include the wet sand beach and the dry sand beach
as defined in this section.
      STATIC VEGETATION LINE. In areas within boundaries of a large-scale beach
fill project, the first line of stable natural vegetation that existed prior to
the onset of project construction shall be defined as the STATIC VEGETATION
LINE. The “onset of project construction” shall be defined as the date sediment
placement begins. A STATIC VEGETATION LINE shall be established in coordination
with the N.C. Division of Coastal management using on-ground observation and
surveys of existing conditions for all areas of the oceanfront that undergo a
large-scale beach fill project. Once a static vegetation line is established,
this line shall be used as the reference point for measuring oceanfront
setbacks in all locations where it is landward of the first line of stable
natural vegetation. In all locations where the first line of stable natural
vegetation is landward of the static vegetation line, the first line of stable
natural vegetation shall be used as the reference point for measuring
oceanfront setbacks.
      TOE OF SLOPE. That point between the beach and the dune system where the
uniform line of slope from the ocean toward the barrier dune begins an abrupt
change upward and becomes the slope of the barrier dune.
      WET SAND BEACH. The area of the ocean beach between the normal high tide
line and the normal low tide line.
   (D)   Limits of encroachment. This section describes when a structure is
determined to be in violation of this section as a result of its encroachment
on the ocean beach.
      (1)   Principal buildings. No portion of a principal building shall be
permitted to encroach onto the ocean beach more than 10 feet beyond the seaward
toe of the frontal dune, or more than 20 feet beyond the first line of stable
natural vegetation, whichever is less.
      (2)   Accessory buildings or structures. Pools shall not encroach onto
the ocean beach beyond the first line of stable natural vegetation or dune
escarpment, whichever is most seaward. Pile-supported accessory buildings or
accessory structures shall not encroach onto the ocean beach more than 10 feet
beyond the seaward toe of the frontal dune, or more than 20 feet beyond the
first line of stable natural vegetation, whichever is less.
      (3)   Dune walkover structures. When in the judgment of the Director of
Community Development a dune walkover structure incurs substantial structural
damage or presents a risk to public safety, the structure must be relocated
landward to the dune escarpment.
         (a)   In no instance shall a dune walkover structure extend more than
20 feet seaward of the seaward toe of the frontal dune or dune escarpment.
         (b)   Dune walkover structures shall be constructed so that the
staircase turns parallel to the dune if there is more than a 12-foot-vertical
rise in the staircase required to provide access to the surface of the beach.
The requirement to turn the stairs shall not apply in instances where it would
preclude the placement of the stairs entirely within the subject property.
      (4)   Encroachment onto wet sand beach prohibited. In no instance shall a
principal building or an accessory building or structure be located so that it
encroaches onto the wet sand beach, observed under normal high tide conditions
for a measurement period of at least three days.
   (E)   Administration and enforcement.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator, or his or her designee, shall be
responsible for determining when a building or structure is in violation with
the provisions of this section.
      (2)   When the Zoning Administrator observes that a structure appears to
be in violation of this section, the Zoning Administrator shall issue and cause
to be served upon the owner of and parties in interest in the structure, a
complaint stating the charges and containing a notice that an administrative
hearing will be held before the Zoning Administrator at a fixed place, not less
than 10 nor more than 30 days after the serving of the complaint.
      (3)   The owner or any party in interest shall have the right to file an
answer to the complaint and to appear in person, or otherwise, and give
testimony at the place and time fixed in the complaint.
      (4)   Any person desiring to do so may attend the hearing and give
evidence relevant to the matter being heard. The rules of evidence prevailing
in courts of law or equity shall not be controlling in hearings before the
Zoning Administrator.
      (5)   After the notice and hearing, the Zoning Administrator shall state
in writing the determination as to whether the structure violates this section.
      (6)   If the Zoning Administrator determines that the structure is in
violation, the Zoning Administrator shall state in writing findings of fact to
support that determination, and shall issue and cause to be served upon the
owner of and parties in interest in the structure an order, directing and
requiring the owner of and parties in interest in the structure to correct or
abate violations of this section within a specified period of time as set forth
in the order.
      (7)   In addition to the remedies prescribed by Town Code and by North
Carolina law, the Director of Community Development may use any and all
remedies authorized and prescribed by G.S. § 160A-175 to enforce the provisions
of this section.
   (F)   Permits for structures in violation of this section.
      (1)   No work shall be performed upon, and no development permits shall
be approved or issued relating to, any building or structure in violation of
this section, except as necessary to eliminate the violation(s).
      (2)   Any work required in order to demolish or remove such a building or
structure from the public trust area or public land, or required to perform
specific work necessary to comply with directions contained within the notice
of violation, may be performed upon issuance of any permits necessary for the
work.
   (G)   Town Council authority to temporarily exempt section requirements.
      (1)   In the event that the town may be impacted by a severe storm event
that causes significant structural damage and erosion, and also meets the
conditions for declaration of a building moratorium as described in §
152.03 (B), the Town Council by declaration may temporarily halt the
enforcement of this section to allow property owners and the town to initiate
recovery activities that may eliminate some or all of the conditions that would
otherwise be considered a violation under the provisions of this section.
      (2)   This exemption shall be re-declared every 60 days if it is the Town
Council's intent to continue the exemption in effect.
(Ord. 11-04, passed 9-21-2011; Am. Ord. 13-04, passed 7-17-2013; Am. Ord. 17-
05, passed 7-5-2017; Am. Ord. 21-01, passed 6-2-2021) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.064 BEACH BULLDOZING.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the definitions from §
156.063 and the following additional definitions shall apply:
      BEACH BULLDOZING. The process of moving natural beach material from any
point seaward of the static vegetation line or first line of stable natural
vegetation to repair storm damage to an existing dune or to create a protective
berm for an imminently threatened structure.
      BEACH FILL PROJECT AREA. The area of oceanfront dune and beach in which
fill is added during a hurricane or erosion protection project sponsored by the
town or any local, state or Federal government agency. The beach fill project
area is intended to include all areas that receive fill, regardless of the
amount.
   (B)   Beach bulldozing and beach fill. When beach bulldozing and/or beach
fill is used to provide protection to a structure or to prevent its collapse,
the seaward toe of the slope of the permitted beach bulldozing/fill area may be
considered as the seaward toe of the frontal dune for the purposes of
determining violations in accordance with this section. In no instance shall
beach bulldozing or fill cause a building or structure to extend more than 20
feet beyond the adjacent first line of stable natural vegetation or static
vegetation line directly north and south of the subject property.
   (C)   Beach bulldozing limitations in beach fill project areas. On the ocean
beach within a beach fill project area, beach bulldozing, pushing sand by
mechanical means, or other mechanical change to the topography is prohibited
except in the following situations:
      (1)   When such work is performed as a part of a hurricane or erosion
protection project or beach nourishment project sponsored by the town or any
local, state or federal government agency;
      (2)   When such work is performed at the direction of, and with
authorization by, the town for the purpose of beach maintenance;
      (3)   When such work is authorized by issuance of a general exemption of
this section by the Town Council following a natural disaster.
      (4)   When such work is authorized by issuance of a general exemption of
this section by the Town Council in instances of documented beach or dune
erosion resulting in an imminently threatened structure (as defined by CAMA).
(Ord. 17-05, passed 7-5-2017; Am. Ord. 21-01, passed 6-2-2021)
§ 156.065 SPECIAL USE PERMIT: VILLAGE COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT OPTION.
   The Town Council may, by special use permit, modify certain development
standards to facilitate development that maintains and enhances the character
of Duck Village.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The Village Commercial Development Option is intended to help
implement the town's adopted vision and CAMA Comprehensive & Land Use Plan by
allowing development or redevelopment of a size, scale and architectural
character that complements Duck Village.
      (2)   The Village Commercial Development Option provides opportunities
for custom site-specific development review to implement town policies
encouraging shared access and parking, limited vehicular access, bicycle and
pedestrian accommodations, a mix of land uses, compatible building design, tree
preservation, adequate stormwater management, and public infrastructure and
amenities; thus reinforcing the Village Commercial District as an exceptional
and distinctive place to live, work, shop, dine, and recreate.
   (B)   Criteria. The Town Council may approve modifications to the
development standards contained in this chapter, subject to the following
limitations:
      (1)   Minimum structure setbacks cannot be reduced by more than 50%.
      (2)   Maximum lot coverage may be increased by no more than 10% provided
that stormwater improvements meeting the following criteria are provided on the
development site:
         (a)   Stormwater runoff from the built-upon area of the site must be
directed into an approved stormwater management system designed to accommodate
the volume of runoff generated by a 4.3 inch design storm. Interstitial soil
storage can be included in the design storm calculation.
         (b)   The stormwater management system shall be designed in accordance
with the standards, methodology, and procedures prescribed in the state
Stormwater Best Management Practices Manual (NCDENR BMP Manual) with the
exception of the design storm which shall be 4.3 inch rainfall event over a two
hour period as noted above.
         (c)   Project designs shall utilize low-impact development principles
and best management practices as the primary method for the treatment of
stormwater.
         (d)   Stormwater plans must be prepared by a state licensed
professional engineer. Prior to the issuance of a certificate of completion for
the project, a state licensed professional engineer must certify that the
proposed improvements have been constructed in accordance with the project
design.
      (3)   Reduction in the amount of required parking for the site is limited
to a maximum of five parking spaces or 20% of the minimum parking requirement
for the site, whichever is greater. Additionally, the amount of reduction
cannot exceed 50% of the minimum parking requirement.
      (4)   Landscape buffers against abutting residentially zoned or used
properties cannot be reduced to less than five feet in width unless an opaque
fence or wall is provided.
      (5)   Building size or height increases are not permitted.
      (6)   Proposed uses must be included on the list of permitted uses for
the Village Commercial (V-C) zoning district.
      (7)   The requested modification cannot be used to remedy existing
violations on a property.
   (C)   General findings. In order to grant approval of a special use under
the Village Commercial Development Option, the Town Council must find that the
applicant has provided substantial evidence that the development proposal
complies with all the following general criteria:
      (1)   The development proposal is consistent with the town's adopted
vision and Comprehensive & Land Use Plan; and
      (2)   The development proposal is consistent with the desired scale,
character, and function of Duck Village; and
      (3)   The subject property, including the development proposal, contains
many of the characteristics outlined in the guidelines listed in §
156.065(E); and
      (4)   The requested modification is the least necessary to accommodate
the proposed development and meet the intent of the Village Commercial
Development Option; and
      (5)   The requested modification will not negatively impact adjacent
properties or the surrounding area.
   (D)   Exemptions. Due to their modest scale, the following types of projects
are not required to comply with the guidelines listed in §
156.065(E) and Town Council does not have to make a finding as outlined in §
156.065(C)(3):
      (1)   Change of use. Change of use with no site improvements resulting in
an increase of five parking spaces or fewer to the minimum number of parking
spaces required.
      (2)   Small development projects. Proposed development not exceeding
either of the criteria listed below:
         (a)   New construction or expansion of structures not exceeding 1,000
square feet or 10% of the existing structures on the property, whichever is
lesser; or
         (b)   Site development or improvements not exceeding a footprint of
1,000 square feet or 5% of the lot size, whichever is lesser.
   (E)   Guidelines. During its review, Town Council will consider the
following guidelines in determining if a Village Commercial Development Option
proposal is consistent with the desired function and character of the Village
Commercial District.
      (1)   Mixed uses. The property contains a mixture of complementary uses
with special emphasis on the provision of long-term accessory dwelling units.
      (2)   Building design. Building design is consistent with the commercial
design guidelines outlined in §
156.111.
      (3)   Building location. The preferred location of buildings and related
site improvements includes orientation toward the street, dual orientation for
soundfront properties abutting the boardwalk, preservation of significant site
features, parking to the side or rear, and minimizing impacts on adjoining
residential properties.
      (4)   Lot coverage. Minimizing lot coverage can include, but is not
limited to, use of semi-pervious surfaces for parking and enhanced stormwater
drainage such as that outlined in the state's stormwater best management
practices.
      (5)   Parking areas. Parking is minimized in the front yard and enhanced
landscaping is included in the parking area design.
      (6)   Pedestrian-friendly. The building location is in close proximity
and has a connection of sufficient width to the public sidewalk and/or
boardwalk.
      (7)   Bicycle-friendly. The site contains convenient connections to the
public bike path. Bike racks and/or public bike equipment or amenities are
provided for public use.
      (8)   Inter-property connections. Provides vehicular and/or pedestrian
connections between properties.
      (9)   Trees/vegetation. Preserves significant trees and vegetation. The
landscaping plan exceeds required planting requirements.
      (10)   Historic preservation. Preserves historic structures or other
features.
      (11)   Public amenities. Amenities offered for public use and enjoyment,
including but not limited to, water fountains, benches, artworks, and rain/sun
shelters. Such features can be public owned or privately owned, but permanently
available to the public.
      (12)   Public infrastructure. Provides desired public infrastructure
improvements meeting a public need. Public infrastructure includes facilities
essential to the function of the community, including but not limited to,
sidewalks, fire hydrants, stormwater improvements, and equipment.
   (F)   Submission requirements. A complete special use application for the
Village Commercial Development Option must include a site plan containing the
following information:
      (1)   Building locations, building heights, number of dwelling units,
proposed uses and gross square footage of all uses;
      (2)   Total area of the application property;
      (3)   Proposed setbacks from all property lines;
      (4)   Proposed methods and layout of landscaping and screening;
      (5)   Proposed methods of ingress, egress and internal circulation;
      (6)   Topographic contours and conceptual grading plan;
      (7)   Proposed improvements to adjacent rights-of-way;
      (8)   Proposed layout of parking area showing individual parking spaces
and landscaping;
      (9)   Proposed on-site pedestrian walkways and other pedestrian/bicycle
accommodations;
      (10)   Calculations for proposed lot coverage and required parking;
      (11)   Proposed development schedule outlining the phases of development,
if applicable;
      (12)   Locations of existing and proposed easements and property lines;
      (13)   Location and description of any structure proposed to be moved or
demolished;
      (14)   Conceptual architectural elevations depicting the proposed
architectural design, materials, and dimensions of all elevations; and
      (15)   Other information deemed necessary for the Town Council to
understand the details and design of the proposed project.
   (G)   Site plan approval.
      (1)   The Town Council may impose conditions as part of the approval of
any Village Commercial Development Option application as deemed necessary in
the public. Surety in a form acceptable to the Town Attorney may be required to
ensure compliance with conditions imposed by the Town Council.
      (2)   Approval of the site plan accompanying the application for the
Village Commercial Development Option will also constitute approval of the
proposed development as to scale, heights, setbacks, parking, required public
improvements, and other development standards specifically addressed.
      (3)   The Director of Community Development may permit minor deviations
from the footprints of structures and improvements on the approved site plan,
provided that the proposed deviations are in substantial accord with the
conceptual development plan, will not result in increased square footage of
development, and will not result in increased height of any structure.
      (4)   Unless otherwise granted during the approval process, a village
commercial development option designation will expire 18 months following the
date of approval by the Town Council unless construction of the proposed
development has commenced. The Director of Community Development may grant a
single 12-month extension provided that the applicant adequately demonstrates
due diligence toward initiation of the development.
(Ord. 19-04, passed 12-4-2019; Am. Ord. 21-01, passed 6-2-2021)
NON-CONFORMITIES
§ 156.070 INTENT OF SUBCHAPTER.
   (A)   Within the districts established by this chapter or amendments that
may later be adopted, there exist lots, structures, uses of land and structures
and characteristics of use which were lawful before July 3, 2002, or before the
date of adoption of any applicable amendment, but which would be prohibited,
regulated or restricted under the terms of this chapter or future amendments.
   (B)   It is the intent of this subchapter to permit these non-conformities
to continue until they are removed but not to encourage their survival. It is
further the intent of this subchapter that non-conformities shall not be
enlarged upon, expanded or extended, nor be used as grounds for adding other
structures or uses prohibited elsewhere in the same district.
(Ord. 04-21, passed 10-6-2004, § 30)
§ 156.071 NON-CONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD.
   (A)   Any district in which single-family dwellings are permitted, a single-
family dwelling and customary accessory buildings may be erected on any single
lot of record on July 3, 2002, subject to the following provisions:
      (1)   Permits for the erection of a single-family dwelling on lots less
than 7,500 square feet in area shall be reviewed by the Town Council in
accordance with the requirements of town code §
156.155 – Special Use Permits.
      (2)   Special use permits for the erection of a single-family dwelling on
lots 7,500 square feet in area or greater shall be reviewed administratively in
accordance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   For lots of record as of November 20, 1975, the following dimensional
requirements shall apply:
      (1)   Lots with 10,000 square feet or less:
         (a)   Front yard setback: 25 feet;
         (b)   Side yard setback: 8 feet. For corner lots, the side yard
setback is 10 feet on the side of the lot that abuts the street;
         (c)   Rear yard setback: 20 feet; and
         (d)   Lot coverage: 50%.
      (2)   Lots with 10,001 to 14,999 square feet:
         (a)   Front yard setback: 25 feet;
         (b)   Side yard setback: 8 feet. For corner lots, the side yard
setback is 10 feet on the side of the lot that abuts the street;
         (c)   Rear yard setback: 20 feet; and
         (d)   Lot coverage: 40%.
   (C)   If two or more lots of record or portions of lots with continuous
frontage have been physically combined for the purpose of development, and if
one or more of the lots involved is less than 7,500 square feet, the lots shall
be considered recombined for the purposes of future development.
(Ord. 04-21, passed 10-6-2004, § 31; Am. Ord. 13-06, passed 11-6-2013; Am. Ord.
21-01, passed 6-2-2021)
§ 156.072 NON-CONFORMING USES OF LAND.
   Where, on July 3, 2002, a lawful use of land exists which would not be
permitted by the regulations imposed by this chapter, and where the use
involves no individual structure with a replacement cost exceeding $1,000, the
use may be continued, so long as it remains otherwise lawful; provided that:
   (A)   No like non-conforming use shall be enlarged or increased, nor
extended to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied on July 3, 2002, or
on the effective date of any applicable amendment of this chapter;
   (B)   No like non-conforming use shall be moved, in whole or in part, to any
portion of the lot or parcel other than that occupied by the use on July 3,
2002, or on the effective date of any applicable amendment of this chapter;
   (C)   If any non-conforming use of land ceases for any reason for a period
of more than 30 days, any subsequent use of the land shall conform to the
regulations specified by this chapter for the district in which the land is
located; and
   (D)   No additional structure not conforming to the requirements of this
chapter shall be erected in connection with the non-conforming use of land.
(Ord. 04-21, passed 10-6-2004, § 32)
§ 156.073 NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   Where a lawful structure exists on July 3, 2002, on the effective date of
any applicable amendment of this chapter, that could not be built under the
terms of this chapter by reason of restrictions on area, number of bedrooms,
lot coverage, height, yards, its location on the lot or other requirements
concerning the structure, the structure may be continued so long as it remains
lawful, subject to the following provisions.
   (A)   No like non-conforming structure may be enlarged or altered in a way
which increases its non-conformity, but any structure or portion thereof may be
altered to decrease its non-conformity.
   (B)   Should the non-conforming structure or non-conforming portion of
structure be destroyed by any means to an extent of more than 50% of its
replacement cost at the time of destruction, it shall not be reconstructed,
except in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Should a structure be moved for any reason for any distance whatever,
it shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the district in which it is
located after it is moved.
   (D)   Any like non-conforming structure located on a lot adjacent to the
Atlantic Ocean or sound waters may be moved on the same lot; provided, that the
movement does not increase the non-conformity of the structure in any way.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any other regulation with respect to non-conforming
structures or lots, any principal structure used for single-family residential
purposes (other than a mobile home) that is subject to documented casualty loss
may be repaired or replaced in kind with a similar structure so long as:
      (1)   The enlargement or replacement does not create new non-conformities
or increase the extent of existing non-conformities with respect to matters
such as number of bedrooms permitted, setbacks and parking;
      (2)   To the extent possible, current parking requirements will be met on
the site during reconstruction of a non-conforming principal residential
structure; this may involve relocation of the principal structure but not
create any new non-conformities with respect to the setback of that structure
or increase the footprint of the structure except in conformance with current
zoning regulations subject to approval by the Zoning Administrator;
      (3)   The building shall be in conformance with the National Flood
Insurance Program requirements and procedures;
      (4)   All structural, plumbing, electrical and related requirements of
the adopted Building Code shall be met at current standards;
      (5)   No portion of the building or structure encroaches into an area
planned for widening or extension of existing or future streets;
      (6)   All natural hazard mitigation requirements of the code of the Town
of Duck and any or all state and federal wetlands and environmental review
approvals are obtained;
      (7)   Repair or reconstruction shall commence within 1 year of the date
of the casualty loss and shall be completed within 2 years from the casualty
loss date. The Planning Director may grant an extension of the commencement
period or the completion period, not to exceed 1 year in either case, if the
applicant demonstrates a reasonable need;
      (8)   The Planning Director shall verify the status of a non-conforming
structure proposed to be reconstructed under the terms of this chapter and may
require an applicant to verify the existence, continuity, nature and extent of
the use or structure as well as the circumstances surrounding the casualty
loss; and
      (9)   An applicant for reconstruction of a non-conforming property under
this section will be required to comply with all applicable parking and
driveway access requirements that can be satisfied on the lot and meet setbacks
to the extent possible. This section applies only to the reconstruction of
single-family homes and shall not be applicable to non-conforming accessory
structures on the property.
   (F)   If an existing accessory structure to a single-family residence, such
as a swimming pool, that does not conform to the minimum setback requirements
of this chapter is undamaged or damaged to an extent less than 50% of its
replacement value in a casualty loss situation related to the principal
dwelling unit on the property, the pool may remain or be repaired in its
originally approved location provided that the criteria established in division
(E)(9) above are met for the principle structure and that the property as
reconstructed will meet the maximum lot coverage requirements established by
the Zoning Chapter. In approving the continuation or repair of an accessory
structure under the terms of this section, the Zoning Administrator may require
the applicant to mitigate the proximity of the structure to the lot line by
installing landscape plantings and privacy fencing, or limiting or shielding
lighting and sound equipment as appropriate.
(Ord. 04-21, passed 10-6-2004, § 33)
§ 156.074 NON-CONFORMING USES OF BUILDINGS OR OF BUILDINGS AND PREMISES IN
COMBINATION.
   If a lawful use involving buildings with a replacement cost of $1,000 or
more, or involving building and premises in combination, exists on July 3,
2002, or on the effective date of any applicable amendment of this chapter,
that would not be allowed in the district under the terms of this chapter, the
lawful use may be continued, so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to
the following provisions:
   (A)   No existing structure devoted to a use not permitted by this chapter
in the district in which it is located shall be enlarged, extended,
constructed, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered, except in changing
the use of the structure to a use permitted in the district in which it is
located;
   (B)   Any non-conforming use may be extended throughout any parts of a
building which were manifestly arranged or designed for the use on July 3,
2002, or on the effective date of any applicable amendment of this chapter, but
no like use shall be extended to occupy any land outside the building;
   (C)   If no structural alterations are made, any non-conforming structure or
use of a structure may be changed to any conforming use or, with approval of
the Town Council, to any use more in character with uses permitted in the
district. In permitting a change, the Town Council must find that the proposed
use is more appropriate or equally as appropriate to the district as the
existing non-conforming use and shall require appropriate conditions and
safeguards necessary to ensure that the change is in keeping with the
provisions and spirit of this chapter;
   (D)   Any structure, or structure and land in combination, in or on which a
non-conforming use is superseded by a permitted use, shall thereafter conform
to the regulations for the district, and the non-conforming use may not
thereafter be resumed;
   (E)   When a non-conforming use of a structure, or structure and premises in
combination, is discontinued or abandoned for 10 consecutive months, except
when government action impedes access to the premises, the structure, or
structure and premises in combination, shall not thereafter be used, except in
conformity with the regulations of the district in which it is located;
   (F)   Where a non-conforming use status applies to a structure and premises
in combination, removal or destruction of the structure shall eliminate the
non-conforming status of the land. DESTRUCTION, for the purpose of this
section, is defined as damage to an extent of more than 50% of the replacement
cost at the time of destruction;
   (G)   Notwithstanding any other regulation with respect to non-conformity of
previously-approved multi-family uses in residential zoning districts,
condominiums or condominium buildings that are destroyed by documented casualty
loss may be reconstructed subject to the original approved site plan for the
development, provided that the reconstruction shall begin within 1 year and be
completed within 2 years of the casualty loss date. The Planning Director shall
verify the status of a non-conforming structure proposed to be reconstructed
under the terms of this chapter and may require an applicant to verify the
existence, continuity, nature and extent of the use or structure(s) as well as
the circumstances surrounding the casualty loss; and
   (H)   Notwithstanding any other regulation with respect to the non-
conforming use of single-family homes in commercial districts (VC, C-1 and C-
2), single-family dwellings that were existing and occupied as single-family
homes as of November 3, 2004 may be maintained, repaired, reconstructed,
altered, improved, enlarged, extended or moved on an existing parcel subject to
the requirements of the RS-1 Zoning District.
(Ord. 04-21, passed 10-6-2004, § 34)
§ 156.075 REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   In any non-conforming structure or portion of a structure containing a
non-conforming use, work may be done in any period of 12 consecutive months on
ordinary repairs or on repair or replacement of non-bearing walls, fixtures,
wiring or plumbing, to an extent not exceeding 10% of current replacement cost
of the non-conforming structure or non-conforming portion of the structure, as
the case may be; provided, that the gross square footage existing when it
became non-conforming shall not be increased.
   (B)   If a non-conforming structure or portion of a structure containing a
non-conforming use becomes physically unsafe or unlawful due to lack of repairs
and maintenance and is declared by the Building Inspector to be unsafe or
unlawful by reason of physical condition, it shall not thereafter be restored,
repaired or rebuilt, except in conforming with the regulations of the district
in which it is located.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prevent the strengthening
or restoring to a safe condition of any building or part thereof declared to be
unsafe by any official charged with protecting the public safety, upon order of
the official.
(Ord. 04-21, passed 10-6-2004, § 35)
§ 156.076 PERMITTED SPECIAL USES NOT NON-CONFORMING.
    Any use which is permitted as a special use in a district under the terms
of this chapter shall not be deemed a non-conforming use in the district but
shall without further action be considered a conforming use.
(Ord. 04-21, passed 10-6-2004, § 36; Am. Ord. 21-01, passed 6-2-2021)
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING
§ 156.090 OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIRED.
   At the time of erection of any building or structure, or at the time any
building or structure is enlarged or increased in capacity by adding dwelling
units, bedrooms, guest rooms, seats or floor area, or before conversion from
one zoning use or occupancy to another, permanent off-street parking space
shall be provided according to the amounts and specifications provided in this
subchapter.
(Ord. 04-21, passed 10-6-2004, § 37)
§ 156.091 MINIMUM OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The number of off street parking spaces required by this section shall
be provided on the same lot with the principal use, except as provided in this
subchapter, and the required number of off street parking spaces specified for
each use shall be considered as the absolute minimum.
   (B)   Accessory buildings shall be included with principal buildings in
measurement of gross floor area for determining parking requirements for
commercial structures.
   (C)   Gross floor area shall be measured from the outside walls of all
structures
   (D)   Where a fraction of a space is required by this subchapter, the
nearest whole number shall be provided.
   (E)   All space requirements which are based in part or in whole upon
employment shall be computed on the basis of the greatest number of persons
that are on duty at any 1 period during the day or night during the peak
season.
   (F)   For uses not specifically mentioned in this subchapter, off-street
parking requirements shall be applied by the Zoning Administrator based upon
requirements for similar uses established herein.
   (G)   Each off-street parking space required by this subchapter shall have a
minimum length of 18 feet and a minimum width of 9 feet. It shall have
vehicular access to a publicly dedicated street or alley (or private street as
platted), except as may otherwise be authorized by this subchapter.
(Ord. 04-21, passed 10-6-2004, § 38; Am. Ord. 14-02, passed 6-4-2014)
§ 156.092 OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS FOR SINGLE-FAMILY AND 2-FAMILY
(DUPLEX) DWELLINGS.
   Permanent off-street parking spaces shall be provided in accordance with the
following requirements prior to the completion of construction of any building
or structure, or at the time any building or structure is enlarged or increased
in capacity by adding bedrooms or bedroom equivalents, or when modifications to
properly authorized existing parking facilities are requested as part of a
building permit or land disturbance permit, or when increasing septic capacity
to accommodate more individuals in a home than 2 per bedroom, or before
conversion from 1 zoning use or occupancy to another.
   (A)   Required off-street parking spaces and loading spaces are permanent
areas and shall not be used for any other aboveground purpose. Changes to
driveway and parking areas following the initial certificate of occupancy for a
project shall be subject to town review as provided herein, and if to be
performed independently of any project for which a building permit shall be
obtained, shall be subject to issuance of a land disturbance permit.
   (B)   Sufficient maneuvering space, not less than 10 feet by 10 feet, shall
be provided on lots accessed from N.C. Highway 12.
   (C)   Required parking spaces shall be graded and improved with loose stone
surface (gravel), porous pavers, or other similar semi-permeable materials.
Crush and run or similar impervious materials do not comply with these
standards and cannot be used as surface or subsurface materials. Loose stone
surface shall be bordered in a manner which retains the stone in the parking
area. Parking spaces may be improved with asphalt or concrete, subject to
review and approval of the Director of Community Development, if there is a
topographic condition that warrants such improvement.
   (D)   The parking area and driveway, the surface materials, and dimensions
shall be depicted on a survey and presented at the time a building permit for
the subject property is obtained. Installation of the parking improvements
shall be verified by the Zoning Administrator before the release of the
certificate of occupancy. Individual parking spaces do not need to be demarked
in any fashion on the site; however, the required amount of parking area shall
be drawn to scale on a site survey. The parking area may be located within the
front yard setback area of the property but no closer than 5 feet to any
property line and shall conform to all applicable county Health Department
regulations for on-site wastewater treatment. The lot coverage calculations
shall include only the impervious surfaces, as defined in §
156.002, located on the site. No parking areas, pervious or impervious, shall
be altered subsequent to the issuance of an occupancy permit unless otherwise
provided herein.
   (E)   Individual drive aisles shall be a minimum width of 12 feet and a
maximum width of 20 feet, measured at the right-of-way line. Circular or
multiple curb cut driveway access shall be limited to a combined total width of
24 feet measured at the right-of-way line. For circular or multiple curb cut
driveways, each drive aisle shall be separated by a minimum distance of 25 feet
measured at the right-of-way line. Driveways shall be improved with concrete,
asphalt, loose stone surface (gravel), porous pavers, or other similar
semipermeable materials, and shall be located no closer than 5 feet to a side
or rear lot line. Loose stone surface shall be bordered in a manner which
retains the stone in the driveway area. The drive aisle shall be provided to
facilitate emergency vehicle access and vehicle maneuvering and shall provide
access from the street to the front plane of the dwelling unit, unless access
to the driveway is provided from the house by a similarly improved walkway. One
parking space, located at the end of the drive aisle closest to the structure,
may be located in the drive aisle. Parallel or perpendicular parking spaces may
be provided along the length of this drive aisle on either side. Parking spaces
may be provided under the house outside of designated drive aisle areas; such
under-house parking spaces may be stacked and blocked in by no more than 1
parking space located at the end of the drive aisle closest to the structure.
Parking spaces may be stacked in improved areas outside the required 12-foot
drive aisle.
   (F)   Non-rental parking deferral. Installation of all required parking,
except for 2 improved parking spaces for single-family and 4 improved parking
spaces for 2-family uses may be deferred provided:
      (1)   The dwellings are not participating or listed in any commercial
rental and/or leasing program nor are they rented or leased by the property
owners individually; and
      (2)   A valid survey shall be submitted at the time of application for
deferral under this division designating an area on the lot in accordance with
this section indicating the required number of parking spaces as determined by
§
156.094 and approved by the town.
   (G)   On an individual single family lot, driveways and parking areas shall
not exceed a single or combined width of 75% of the lot width.
   (H)   Driveway and parking areas shall be designed to the extent reasonable
to prevent the direct flow of stormwater runoff to streets or adjacent
properties.
   (I)   All legally existing parking areas or parking areas under construction
with an approved building or land disturbance permit as of August 1, 2007, are
grandfathered with respect to the materials used for improvement of the parking
areas. Future development activity on such grandfathered sites with concrete,
asphalt, or pavers in parking areas shall not be required to replace such
materials with gravel. However, all newly installed parking areas will be
required to meet the standards in this section.
(Ord. 04-21, passed 10-6-2004, § 39; Am. Ord. 07-11, passed 9-5-2007; Am. Ord.
08-02, passed 5-7-2008; Am. Ord. 14-02, passed 6-4-2014; Am. Ord. 23-12, passed
10-4-2023)
§ 156.093 PARKING LOT REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL USES OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY AND 2-
FAMILY (DUPLEX) DWELLING UNITS.
   Permanent off-street parking spaces shall be provided in accordance with the
following requirements prior to the completion of construction of any building
or structure, or at the time any building or structure is enlarged or increased
in capacity by adding dwelling units or before conversion from 1 zoning use or
occupancy to another.
   (A)   Yards. No parking lot shall be located closer than 10 feet to a public
right-of-way. The area between the parking lot and street right-of-way shall be
planted and maintained in lawn or other appropriate planting or shall be
improved otherwise as approved in the site plan review.
   (B)   Curb bumpers. The required front and side yards shall be set off from
the parking area by a fixed curb approved by the Zoning Administrator, not less
than 8 inches nor more than 2 feet high. Allowances shall be made for 2 feet of
overhang within the parking space so that no part of any motor vehicle can be
located within the required yard.
   (C)   Lighting. Any lighting shall be so arranged as to direct light and
glare away from streets and adjacent property in accordance with §
156.127 below.
   (D)   Surfacing. All parking lots shall be improved with asphalt, concrete,
pavers, porous pavement or similar dust proof surface. Surfacing shall be
provided in accordance with the guidelines established in §
156.112.
   (E)   Drainage. Parking lots shall be designed so as not to drain onto or
across public roads, streets, or sidewalks or into adjacent property, except
into a natural watercourse or a drainage easement in accordance with state and
federal rules, laws, or regulations. Site plans for parking lots must
demonstrate adequate drainage facilities designed in accordance with §
156.113 below.
   (F)   Markings. Each parking space shall be permanently marked and
maintained so as to be distinguishable.
   (G)   Entrances. No entrance or exit shall exceed 30 feet in width at the
property line or 40 feet at the curb line. On all corner lots, no vehicular
openings shall be located at closer than 15 feet from the point of intersection
of the established street right-of-way lines. There shall be a minimum distance
between 1-way driveways of 25 feet, measured along the curb line.
   (H)   Internal circulation. The internal circulation plan or parking lots
shall be approved by the Zoning Administrator.
   (I)   Solid waste. Sufficient space shall be provided on the premises for
the location of solid waste containers as required by town code. The solid
waste container location may be in a required parking lot; provided, that the
location does not occupy required parking space or maneuvering space; provided,
further, that the solid waste container location shall provide convenient and
safe access to the servicing vehicle.
   (J)   Maneuvering. Sufficient maneuvering space shall be provided so that no
vehicle will be required to back into a public or private right-of-way.
   (K)   Permanent areas. Required off-street parking spaces are permanent
areas and shall not be used for any other above ground purpose.
   (L)   Each application for a building permit or certificate of occupancy
submitted to the Zoning Administrator shall include information as to the
location and dimensions of off-street parking and loading space and the means
of ingress and egress to the space. This information shall be in sufficient
detail to enable the Zoning Administrator to determine whether or not the
requirements of this subchapter are met.
   (M)   The required parking space for any number of separate uses may be
combined in 1 lot, but the required space assigned to 1 use may not be assigned
to another use; except, that ½ of the parking space required for churches,
theaters or assembly halls whose peak attendance will be at night or on Sundays
may be assigned to other uses at non-peak times.
   (N)   If the off-street parking space required by this subchapter in any
district except a residential district cannot be reasonably provided on the
same lot on which the principal use is located, the space may be provided on
any land within 400 feet of the main entrance to the principal use. The land
shall be located on the same side of North Carolina Highway 12 as the principle
use unless there is a pedestrian crosswalk traversing North Carolina 12 within
350 feet of the main entrance to the principal use. The land shall not be used
for other purposes unless adequate provisions for parking have been made for
the principal use thereon, unless otherwise permitted by this subchapter. In
those cases, the applicant for a permit for the principal use shall submit with
his or her application for a building permit an instrument duly executed and
acknowledged, which subjects the land to parking use in connection with the
principal use for which it is made available for a period of 20 years, with an
option for renewal for an additional period of 10 years. The applicant shall
deposit the necessary fee, and upon the issuance of a building permit, the
Zoning Administrator shall cause the instrument to be registered in the office
of the Register of Deeds of the county.
   (O)   Any off-street parking space required by any use permitted in any
residential district shall be provided on the same lot with the use by which it
is required. Off-street parking space in conjunction with commercial and
industrial uses in other districts shall not be permitted in a residential
district.
    (P)   Where off-street parking is provided between the building line and
the street right-of-way line for any business use, a buffer strip of at least
10 feet in width shall be provided adjacent to the street right-of-way line.
Curb cuts through the buffer strips shall be located no closer than 30 feet,
unless otherwise approved during the site plan approval process.
(Ord. 04-21, passed 10-6-2004, § 40; Am. Ord. 14-02, passed 6-4-2014; Am. Ord.
23-11, passed 9-6-2023)
§ 156.094 NUMBER OF OFF-STREET PARKING SPACES REQUIRED.
   (A)   The number of off-street parking spaces required by this section shall
be provided on the same lot with the principal use, except as provided in §
156.093(N) above and the required number of off-street spaces specified for
each use shall be considered as the absolute minimum.
   (B)   Where a fraction of a space is required by this section, the nearest
whole number shall be provided.
   (C)   In addition, a developer shall evaluate his or her needs to determine
if they are greater than the minimum specified by this section.
   (D)   The required number of spaces shall be as follows.
      (1)   Single-family detached and duplex units.
         (a)   For single-family detached and duplex units, parking spaces
shall be based on the following formula: 1 parking space for every 2 occupants
authorized by the septic improvement permit issued by the Dare County
Department of Environmental Health or the appropriate permitting agency.
         (b)   The parking area, the surface materials and dimensions shall be
depicted on a survey and presented at the time a building permit for the
subject property is obtained.
         (c)   Installation of the parking improvements shall be verified by
the Town Zoning Administrator before the release of the certificate of
occupancy.
         (d)   These standards are intended to ensure adequate area to
accommodate vehicles on the same site as the principal use.
         (e)   Individual parking spaces do not need to be demarked in any
fashion on the site; however, the required amount of parking area shall be
drawn to scale on a site survey.
      (2)   Other uses. All other residential and commercial uses shall provide
parking as shown in the table below.
Use Required Parking
Residential-Related Uses
Use                                     Required Parking
Residential-Related Uses
Single-family structure with small      Ability to accommodate 2 additional vehicles on the property beyond the
child care home                         minimum parking requirements for the single-family structure thereon
Single-family structure with large      Ability to accommodate 2 additional vehicles on the property beyond the
child care home                         minimum parking requirements for the single-family structure thereon
Multi-family residences, group housing  2.5 parking spaces on the same lot for each unit
projects and condominiums
Hotel, tourist home, motel, motor       1.5 parking spaces for each room to be rented, plus 1 additional parking
court, rooming or boarding house or bed space for each 3 employees
and breakfast
Doctor’s or dentist’s office in own 3 parking spaces per doctor, in addition to residence requirements
residence
Professional office, other than doctor  2 parking spaces per office or home occupation, in addition to residence
or dentist, in own residence            requirements
Bed and breakfast home                  Ability to accommodate 2 additional vehicles on the property beyond the
                                        minimum parking requirements for the single-family structure thereon
Bed and breakfast inn                   1.5 parking spaces for each room to be rented, plus 1 additional parking
                                        space for each 3 employees
                                        Hotel - 1 parking space for each room to be rented, plus 1 additional parking
                                        space for each 3 employees
Hotel resort with ancillary uses,       Ancillary uses
including but not limited to, eating    Retail, conference center, spa, office, and events pavilion - 1 parking space
establishment, retail, office, spa,     for each 200 square feet of gross floor area x 0.75
conference space and events pavilion    Eating establishment - 1 parking space for each 3 indoor customer seats, plus
                                        1 additional parking space for each 150 square feet of gross floor area of
                                        outdoor dining area(s), plus 1 parking space for each 3 employees of the
                                        eating establishment x 0.75
Public and Institutional Uses
Hospital                                1 parking space for each 2 beds intended for patient use, 1 space for each
                                        resident physician and 1 space for each 2 employees
Clinic                                  10 parking spaces minimum, plus 5 parking spaces for each doctor assigned,
                                        plus 1 parking space for each employee
Nursing home                            1 parking space for each 5 beds intended for patient use and 1 space for each
                                        3 employees
Churches                                1 parking space for each 4 seats in the sanctuary (see §156.093(M) above for
                                        exceptions)
Elementary school and junior high       1 parking space for each classroom and administrative office
school
Senior high school                      1 parking space for each 5 students for which the building was designed, plus
                                        1 parking space for each classroom and administrative office
Stadium                                 1 parking space for each 2 spectator seats
 
Use Required Parking
Use                         Required Parking
Auditorium                  1 parking space for each 2 seats in the largest assembly room
Public or private clubs     1 parking space for each 200 square feet of gross floor space
Public utility buildings    1 parking space for each employee. With custom service facilities, a minimum
                            of 5 additional spaces
Child care centers          1 space for every 3 children and 1 space for each employee
                            Administrative building - 1 parking space for each employee, plus 1 space per
                            each government vehicle to be parked on-site, plus 10 visitor spaces
                            Meeting hall - 1 parking space for every 50 square feet of floor area in the
                            main assembly room
Town park/municipal complex Passive recreation - 2 parking spaces for each 1 acre of passive recreation
                            area
                            Amphitheater - 1 parking space for each 6 fixed seats
                            If the park site has a combination of uses with differing peak parking
                            demands, a shared parking analysis can be prepared
Commercial Uses
General or professional
offices and banks (other    1 parking space for each 200 square feet of gross floor space, plus 1 space
than doctors and dentists)  for each 2 employees
(see clinic requirements)
                            1 parking space for every 3 customer seats, plus 1 additional parking space
                            for each 3 employees; seasonal outdoor dining areas that are appurtenant to
                            restaurants located in contiguous portions of the Village Commercial District
                            shall require no parking in addition to the existing restaurant parking
Restaurant, café or eating provided that the outdoor dining area shall not increase the seating capacity
place                       of the restaurant by more than 25%, or seat more than 18 persons, whichever
                            is less, without providing the requisite parking for all of the additional
                            patrons as specified in this subchapter, and further provided that the total
                            seating capacity of the restaurant including the outdoor seating area is
                            appropriately authorized for wastewater management
Drive-in restaurant or      30 parking spaces, in addition to the requirements for a restaurant, café or
refreshment stand           public eating place
 
Use Required Parking
Use            Required Parking
               Indoor dining areas - 1 parking space shall be provided for each 3 customer
               seats located within the indoor dining area
               Outdoor dining areas - Outdoor dining areas established in accordance with the
               requirements of § 156.129(C) shall require 1 parking space for each 150 square
Eating         feet of gross floor area in the outdoor dining area. However, the first 150
establishments square feet of gross floor area in the outdoor dining area shall be excluded
               from the parking calculation
               There shall be 1 parking space for each 3 employees of the eating establishment
               There shall be a minimum requirement of 5 parking spaces for all eating
               establishments, regardless of the number of customer seats, employees, or the
               square footage of the outdoor dining area
Furniture,
appliance and  1 parking space for each 500 square feet of gross floor area
grocery stores
Fishing piers  A minimum of 25 parking spaces, with 1 additional parking space for each 200
               square feet or gross floor space under cover
Indoor
entertainment
facilities,
including
bowling
alleys, dance  1 parking space for each 100 square feet of gross floor area and 1 additional
halls, skating space for each 2 employees
rinks,
amusement
arcades and
similar
facilities
Outdoor
entertainment
facilities,
including
amusement      1 parking space for each 100 square feet of gross ground area exclusive of the
parks,         area required for parking and 1 additional space for each 2 employees
miniature golf
courses and
similar
facilities
Outdoor        1 parking space per 200 square feet of principal use ground area plus 1 for
recreation     each 2 employees
activity
Theaters       1 parking space for each 3 seats in the auditorium (see §
               156.093(M) above for exceptions)
Funeral home   1 parking space for each 4 seats in the chapel or parlor
Retail uses
not otherwise  1 parking space for each 200 square feet of floor area
listed
Rental
property       1 parking space for each 300 square feet of gross floor area plus 1 parking
management/    space for each 2 employees
maintenance
office
Electronic
gaming         1 parking space per electronic gaming terminal
operations
 
(Ord. 04-21, passed 10-6-2004, § 41; Am. Ord. 09-03, passed 4-8-2009; Am. Ord.
11-08, passed 1-4-2012; Am. Ord. 12-05, passed 8-1-2012; Am. Ord. 12-06, passed
10-3-2012; Am. Ord. 12-08, passed 11-7-2012)
§ 156.095 OFF-STREET LOADING.
   (A)   Where off-street loading is required under the dimensional
requirements of a particular district, 1 or more loading spaces shall be
provided for standing, loading and unloading operations, either inside or
outside a building and on the same or adjoining premises with every building or
structure erected after July 3, 2002 all to be in accordance with the
requirements of the following table.
   (B)   A loading space shall have minimum plan dimensions of 12 by 25 feet
and a 14-foot overhead clearance. In no case shall the use of a loading space
hinder the free movement of vehicles and pedestrians over a street, sidewalk or
alley. Minimum requirements shall be as follows.
 
Use                                     Space Requirements
Retail operations, including restaurant
and dining facilities within hotels and 1 loading space for every 20,000 square
office buildings, with a total usable   feet of floor area
floor area of 20,000 square feet or
more devoted to that purpose
Retail operations, and all first floor
non-residential uses, with gross floor
area of less than 20,000 square feet,   1 loading space
and all wholesale and light industrial
operations with a gross floor area of
less than 10,000 square feet
Office buildings and hotels, with a     1 loading space for every 100,000
total usable area of 100,000 square     square feet of floor area
feet or more devoted to those purposes
 
(Ord. 04-21, passed 10-6-2004, § 42)
§ 156.096 SPECIAL USE PERMIT FOR PARKING OR LOADING SPACE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Town Council may, by special use permit, modify the requirements
contained in this subchapter in accordance with the procedures and limitations
established for special use permits set forth in §
156.155.
   (B)   Special use permits shall be subject to conditions deemed necessary by
Town Council to ensure compatibility with surrounding land uses and conditions.
   (C)   In addition to the requirements of §
156.155, no modification of parking or loading requirements shall be granted
until the applicant has clearly demonstrated that the request:
      (1)   Will not result in increased traffic congestion or otherwise
negatively impact existing traffic flow or pedestrian and vehicular safety;
      (2)   Will not be contrary to the objectives specified in the CAMA
Comprehensive & Land Use Plan;
      (3)   Is necessary to permit the reasonable use of the subject property;
and
      (4)   Will not adversely impact adjacent property or the surrounding
area.
(Ord. 04-21, passed 10-6-2004, § 42.1; Am. Ord. 09-07, passed 8-5-2009; Am.
Ord. 21-01, passed 6-2-2021)
COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT AND DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 156.110 PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY.
   In order to ensure that new development, renovations, and reconstructions
are designed, sized, and sited to complement the area in which they are located
and the character of the town in general; and to minimize traffic hazards and
situations which endanger public safety; and to protect existing development
and property values through the promotion of high standards of design and
compatibility; and to provide for a high quality of life for our citizens, the
following standards and site plan requirements shall apply to all development
in the VC, C-1, and C-2 Zoning Districts unless otherwise noted.
(Ord. 04-21, passed 10-6-2004, § 42.2.1; Am. Ord. 14-02, passed 6-4-2014)
§ 156.111 DESIGN STANDARDS FOR BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Arcades, awnings and canopies. In order to promote the appropriate use
of arcades, awnings and canopies, the following standards shall apply to all
arcades, awnings and canopies on all buildings, unless otherwise noted.
      (1)   Awnings and canopies, where provided, shall be placed at the top of
window and door openings and shall relate to the shape of the top of the window
or doorway.
      (2)   Awnings and canopies shall be made of canvas or similar material.
Vinyl or metal awnings shall not be used unless they are constructed and
designed to successfully mimic the style and appearance of canvas awnings or
unless they are constructed of copper and designed as accent pieces for windows
or doors.
      (3)   No awning on any commercial building which encroaches on a sidewalk
or pedestrian walkway shall extend out from the building more than 2/3 the
width of the sidewalk nor shall it at any point be less than 8 feet above the
sidewalk.
      (4)   Awnings and canopies shall be self-supporting from the wall; no
supports shall rest on or interfere with the use of pedestrian walkways or
streets.
      (5)   In no case shall any awning, canopy or arcade extend beyond the
street curb or interfere with trees or public utilities.
      (6)   Where provided, arcades shall be designed as an integral part of
the building and as so shall relate in design, placement, material, color and
scale to the building façade.
   (B)   Building orientation and presentation. In order to have buildings that
successfully address public streets and public places, the following standards
shall apply to all buildings, unless otherwise noted.
      (1)   Building façades should be substantially parallel to the front
property line along the east side of North Carolina 12 except that corner
buildings may be oriented to address the corner, and buildings interior to a
development site may be arranged to front a common courtyard, parking area,
driveway or private street and provide for safe and efficient pedestrian
access.
      (2)   Buildings should be oriented to preserve views to the maximum
extent possible, particularly along the sound. Narrow deep buildings are
encouraged along the sound front.
      (3)   Appearance of large structures is mitigated when set further from
NC 12. Small structures are traditionally close to the highway.
      (4)   Any side of a commercial building that is not intended to serve the
public shall be screened from public view and the view of adjacent properties
to the extent that all loading, storage, solid waste, maintenance equipment
(brooms, mops, buckets and the like) and similar items are not visible to the
public.
   (C)   Exterior materials. In order to have buildings clad with a type,
texture and color of material that relates to natural material elements found
in the Town of Duck, the following standards shall apply to all building
exteriors, unless otherwise noted.
      (1)   Additions and new construction shall use facing materials that are
compatible in quality, color, texture, finish and dimension to those common in
the village commercial area.
      (2)   Under no circumstances shall metal siding be used on any structure.
This does not prohibit the use of durable metal accent pieces or columns on
surfaces when they are made to mimic traditional detailing (cornices, trim
pieces, moldings and the like).
      (3)   Large modular materials shall be avoided or used only as accent
pieces on street fronting façades.
      (4)   Paint colors shall be of low reflectance, subtle, neutral or earth
tone colors or shall relate to natural material colors found within the town
generally. Contrasting colors of brighter hues, including pastels, may be used
to accent architectural details and entrances.
      (5)   Roof and exterior wall colors shall be low-reflecting.
   (D)   Façades, windows and roofs. In order to have well designed façades
that add to the town’s architectural inventory and that provide visual interest
to the pedestrian, the following standards shall apply to all façades, windows
and roofs.
      (1)   Retail activities within buildings shall be oriented toward
pedestrian ways and have direct access from sidewalks, decks or paths through
storefront entrances.
      (2)   No publicly accessed building front shall remain unbroken
(unpierced) by a window, architectural element, entrance or functional general
access doorway for more than 50 feet.
      (3)   Building entrances shall be emphasized using design (massing),
architectural features and changes in the roofline.
      (4)   No less than 50% of the horizontal distance of any building front
shall be designed with arcades, windows, entrances, awnings, architectural
elements including but not limited to pilasters, wall control joints, building
appendages, screen walls or changes in parapet wall heights.
      (5)   Buildings with uses serving the public shall have recessed or
covered doorways at each building front to shelter customers from the weather.
      (6)   Remodeling of existing buildings shall maintain the prevalent
pattern and spacing of the windows and doorways, or be modified to
appropriately address current commercial design standards.
      (7)   Windows on the street level front of commercial buildings shall
constitute at least 20% and not more than 50% of the front façade.
      (8)   Display windows on commercial buildings shall be clear, transparent
glass and shall not be lower than 12 inches above the sidewalk (including the
lintel). For display windows that are heavily exposed to the sun, glass
materials may be used that appropriately balance transparent views and sun
protection.
      (9)   Frames and sashes for windows shall be of wood, vinyl or pre-
finished metal and may have stone, brick or cast concrete lintels and sills.
      (10)   Architectural embellishments that add visual interest to a façade
or roof such as dormers, chimneys, cupolas, watch and clock towers, shutters
and other similar elements are encouraged.
   (E)   Size, scale and compatibility of design. In order to promote
compatibility of design within the built environment while encouraging
creativity and variety, the following standards shall apply to all buildings,
unless otherwise noted.
      (1)   Building or store entrances serving the public shall occur at least
once every 100 feet along a building façade.
      (2)   Wall articulations (or breaks in the façade or roofline) shall be
designed not less than every 100 feet along the building façade.
(Ord. 04-21, passed 10-6-2004, § 42.2.2)
§ 156.112 PARKING, PAVING AND ACCESS DESIGN STANDARDS FOR LOTS.
   (A)   Access.
      (1)   The intent of these standards is to promote safe, convenient and
sufficient access to all properties by vehicles, pedestrians and bicyclists.
      (2)   The following standards shall apply to all uses, unless otherwise
noted:
         (a)   All vehicular access to a development containing multiple
destinations (e.g. group developments) shall be provided by means of a shared
driveway, side street or frontage road;
         (b)   No new driveway on any development site shall be created less
than 80 feet from an existing driveway except where this prohibition would deny
access to the property or where a safe sight distance cannot be achieved
otherwise;
         (c)   No new driveway on any development site shall be created less
than 80 feet from a street intersection except where this prohibition would
deny access to the property or where a safe sight distance cannot be achieved
otherwise;
         (d)   The approaches to loading and unloading areas in commercial
districts shall be designed to minimize conflict with onsite vehicular,
pedestrian and bicycle traffic and with adjacent residential uses;
         (e)   Buildings with uses requiring public access shall provide the
primary pedestrian access from the street front or from a pedestrian way
designed to facilitate access in group developments or to provide a soundfront
pedestrian amenity and building access; and
         (f)   Shared accesses between adjacent commercial properties are
strongly encouraged. If a shared access is provided between properties on a
shared property line, the required access setback from the side property lines
shall be waived administratively as part of the site plan review process.
   (B)   Parking and loading/unloading areas. In order to have safe, well
designed parking areas that successfully accommodate the pedestrian and are
subordinate in design and appearance to adjacent buildings, the following
standards apply to all accessory and principal use parking lots in all
districts unless otherwise noted.
      (1)   Parking should be located primarily to the rear of the principal
building and may be accessed from the front, side or rear of the property. No
more than 2 rows of parking should be located between a primary façade and the
street. (This standard shall not apply to sound front properties)
      (2)   New parking areas on commercial lots shall be connected unless the
town determines that topography or other natural features prevents it.
      (3)   All off-street parking shall be served by interior circulation
drives. No private off-street parking spaces shall directly connect to public
streets.
      (4)   Parking areas under buildings are strongly encouraged, provided
that adequate provisions are made for pedestrian access to buildings from the
street and all parking spaces.
   (C)   Paving.
      (1)   (a)   The town allows asphalt and concrete parking surfaces but
encourages the use of pervious and semi-pervious materials that improve on-site
stormwater management while providing safe and efficient use of the driveway,
drive aisle, and parking areas.
         (b)   No more than 80% of the surface area of the parking area and
drive aisles may be constructed using an impervious surface material.
         (c)   Loose stone or gravel surfaces for driveways, drive aisles, and
parking spaces are permitted over a base engineered to support the commercial
traffic and deliveries on the site. Such surfaces may be excluded from lot
coverage calculations if the base is also pervious.
         (d)   When stone or gravel paving surfaces are used, a paved apron
extending at least 20 feet into the property is required to minimize rocks and
gravel being tracked onto the adjoining sidewalk, bike path, and roadway.
      (2)   Any non-paved surface used for overflow, special events, and peak
parking that cannot be maintained with healthy, living turf grass or similar
ground cover shall be improved with asphalt, concrete, pervious pavement, or
pavers.
      (3)   Any non-paved surface used for parking spaces shall be improved
with pavers or similar dust-free surfaces.
   (D)   Aisles.
      (1)   (a)   No more than 2 parking aisles (defined as a travel lane and
the parking located on each side) shall abut.
         (b)   Otherwise, parking aisles shall be separated from each other by
planted medians which may include pedestrian walkways. (See §
156.115 below for landscaping requirements.)
         (c)   As an alternative for parking lots designed for any single large
retail store or any shopping center containing 300 or more parking spaces, up
to 4 parking aisles may abut provided the interior landscaping and design
requirements for large parking lots are met within the parking lot excluding
any perimeter, streetyard, internal driveway, required buffer, or other
landscape area required by §
156.115 below.
         (d)   The maximum distance between required landscape medians shall be
no greater than 250 feet.
      (2)   No more than 15 parking spaces shall be contiguous and adjoining in
a single row of parking spaces except as provided for large parking lot
landscaping and design in §
156.115 below.
      (3)   Aisles shall be a minimum of 20 feet in width if serving two-way
traffic and a minimum of 12 feet in width if serving one-way traffic. During
the site plan review process, the Fire Chief or Fire Marshal may require a
drive aisle of up to 24 feet in width in specified locations if it is
determined that this is necessary to accommodate fire service operations.
      (4)   No parking aisle serving the general public that contains more than
10 parking spaces shall deadend. Any parking aisle that deadends shall be
provided a suitable turnaround.
      (5)   For dead end drive aisles containing less than six parking spaces,
the width of the drive aisle may be reduced to no less than 18 feet.
   (E)   Spaces and loading/unloading areas.
      (1)   (a)   Required parking shall be provided on-site or nearby, as
provided in §§
156.090 through
156.096 above.
         (b)   Shared parking areas are encouraged and shall be permitted
whenever the Zoning Administrator determines that the minimum parking
requirements can be met for each use.
      (2)   Parking shall be provided as required by §§
156.090 through
156.096 above.
      (3)   Adequate onsite turnaround area shall be provided for all parking
spaces.
      (4)   Adequate onsite turnaround area shall be provided for all loading
and unloading areas.
(Ord. 04-21, passed 10-6-2004, § 42.2.3; Am. Ord. 14-02, passed 6-4-2014; Am.
Ord. 19-07, passed 12-4-2019)
§ 156.113 DESIGN STANDARDS FOR SERVICES AND UTILITIES.
   In order to subordinate the appearance of services and utilities on
individual sites and throughout the town, the following standards shall apply
to all services and utilities.
   (A)   Mechanical equipment.
      (1)   Mechanical equipment at ground level shall be placed to the extent
practical away from public streets and buildings on adjacent sites. All
mechanical equipment shall be substantially screened from public view.
      (2)   Mechanical equipment and antennas located on rooftops shall be
camouflaged as a normal architectural feature of the building, or hidden by a
decorative cornice or parapet wall, as seen from the ground.
   (B)   Utility lines and equipment.
      (1)   All utility equipment (includes meters, boxes, valves and similar
equipment but does not include overhead power lines, light poles and similar
equipment) shall be designed, located or screened to be as inconspicuous as
possible and shall not be located on the street-side of a principal structure.
      (2)   All utility lines serving new development and significant
redevelopment shall be placed underground whenever practicable.
   (C)   Trash, garbage, and recycling.
      (1)   All trash and recycling receptacles and storage areas shall be
located and substantially screened from public view.
      (2)   All non-vegetative screening used to block public view of trash and
recycling receptacles and storage areas shall be made of materials compatible
in color and type to the principal structure(s) on the property.
   (D)   Drive-through windows and similar accessories.
      (1)   Drive-through windows, freestanding ATMs, fuel pumps, and similar
devices shall only be placed in areas that will not interfere with the safe
movement of pedestrians and vehicles in parking and driveway areas.
      (2)   Drive-through windows, freestanding ATMs, fuel pumps, and similar
devices shall not be placed between the primary façade of a building and the
public street.
      (3)   Drive-through services are discouraged in the Village Commercial
District. If provided, they shall be located to the rear or side of buildings
away from public streets.
   (E)   Engineered stormwater control facilities. Projects shall incorporate
stormwater control facilities to capture and retain stormwater runoff in
accordance with the following criteria:
      (1)   All stormwater runoff from the project's built-upon area must be
directed into an approved stormwater management system designed to accommodate
a minimum volume of runoff generated by a 1.5" design storm. In instances where
it is determined by the Town Engineer that the potential for flooding exists
from a specific development plan that would not be sufficiently managed by the
above requirement, the town may require the applicant to provide additional
stormwater retention on a case-by-case basis.
      (2)   The stormwater management system shall be designed in accordance
with the standards, methodology, and procedures prescribed in the state
Stormwater Best Management Practices Manual (NCDENR BMP Manual).
      (3)   Project designs shall utilize low-impact development principles and
best management practices as the primary method for the treatment of
stormwater, unless it is sufficiently demonstrated to be impractical by the
applicant.
      (4)   Stormwater plans shall be prepared by a state licensed professional
engineer. Prior to the issuance of a certificate of completion for the project,
a state licensed professional engineer shall certify that the proposed
improvements have been constructed in accordance with the project design.
      (5)   All stormwater detention and/or retention ponds and basins shall be
designed as an integral part of the development site and shall be aesthetically
pleasing (for example, neatly landscaped, well-maintained, vegetated slopes,
decorative fencing if fencing is used).
      (6)   For existing developed sites, stormwater control facilities shall
only be required in instances where more than 1,000 square feet of lot coverage
is added to or redeveloped on the site. Stormwater management requirements
shall apply only to new or redeveloped areas and do not require retrofits to
existing improvements which are not part of the development area.
(Ord. 04-21, passed 10-6-2004, § 42.2.4; Am. Ord. 14-02, passed 6-4-2014)
§ 156.114 DESIGN STANDARDS FOR NATURAL AREAS AND FEATURES.
   In order to protect our natural resources while continuing to support
healthy economic growth, the following standards shall apply to all natural
resource areas and features in all zoning districts unless otherwise noted.
   (A)   Natural landscapes and areas of mature trees shall be protected to the
extent practical during development.
   (B)   Open space systems shall be designed to incorporate and protect
significant natural features whenever practicable.
(Ord. 04-21, passed 10-6-2004, § 42.2.5; Am. Ord. 14-02, passed 6-4-2014)
§ 156.115 DESIGN STANDARDS FOR LANDSCAPING AND OPEN SPACE.
   In order to maintain and enhance existing tree coverage, to promote careful
landscaping of outdoor areas, to soften and enhance the humanmade environment
and to promote appropriate landscape design and construction, the following
standards shall apply.
   (A)   Landscaping in general.
      (1)   Commercial outparcels shall be landscaped while vacant to maintain
an attractive appearance. Landscaping shall consist of grasses, shrubs, trees
or any other vegetative cover that will secure the soil and create an
attractive appearance.
      (2)   All required plantings shall be nursery grown stock that is free
from disease or growth problems and shall be installed in a manner that insures
the availability of sufficient soil and water for healthy growth that is not
intrusive to above and below ground utilities.
      (3)   Only landscaping and approved fences and walls shall be permitted
within a required buffer or street yard area, except that sidewalks and other
pedestrian walkways, bicycle paths, aboveground utilities, drainageways and
approved signs shall be permitted where they do not comprise more than 20% of
the total area of the required buffer or street yard. Underground utilities are
encouraged and should not interfere with the ability to provide the required
buffer or street yard area and landscaping.
      (4)   Clustering and/or random spacing of plants and trees is encouraged
to produce a natural appearance in the landscape, except where uniformity is
required for opaque screening.
      (5)   Landscaping, including berms, shall be installed and maintained so
as not to interfere with sight distance requirements or the sight distance
needs of drivers in parking areas and at entrance and exit locations.
      (6)   Native species and related cultivars are encouraged.
      (7)   Whenever shrubs are required for screening, they shall be of a type
that retains their foliage to within 6 inches of the ground on a year-round
basis.
      (8)   Whenever trees are required (buffers, parking lots and the like), a
minimum of 50% shall be canopy trees, and a minimum of 20% shall be evergreen.
      (9)   No more than 30% of all shrubs required shall be deciduous.
      (10)   No required planting area shall contain less than 150 square feet
and no planting area shall be less than 8 feet in diameter around a required
tree.
      (11)   Parked vehicles may overhang a landscaped area no more than 2-1/
2 feet. Curbing or wheel stops shall be installed to ensure no overhang or
penetration of the landscaped area greater than 2-1/2 feet. Landscaping, walls,
fences and any other material shall be so located to prevent its damage and/or
destruction by overhanging vehicles.
      (12)   The Zoning Administrator may approve revisions to a landscaping
plan approved by the Town Council in order to accommodate seasonal planting
problems or a lack of plant availability as long as:
         (a)   There is no reduction in the quantity of plant material;
         (b)   There is no significant change in the size or location of plant
materials; and
         (c)   The new plants are of the same general category and have the
same general design characteristics as the materials being replaced.
      (13)   Plant size shall be as follows.
 
           Minimum   Minimum Crown                Minimum     Minimum
Type       Height at Spread at     Minimum Height Caliper* at Spacing (Feet
           Maturity  Maturity      at Planting    Planting    on Center)
           (Feet)                                 (Inches)
Large tree > 40      < 30 feet**   8 feet         2           35 feet
Small tree > 15      < 30 feet**   5 feet         1.5         15 feet
Shrubs***  3         24 inches     30 inches      -           3 feet
*Caliper shall be measured 6 inches above the ground.
**The minimum crown spread shall only apply to canopy trees.
***Shrubs do not include ground covers.
 
      (14)   All landscape materials, whether used for screening, buffering,
open space or other landscaping areas, shall be properly maintained by the
property owner.
         (a)   Maintenance includes all actions necessary to keep landscaping
materials healthy, neat and orderly in appearance, and free of litter and
debris.
         (b)   Any landscaping lost or diseased shall be removed and replaced
unless, in the opinion of the Zoning Administrator, the maturity of the
remaining vegetation compensates for the loss of an individual shrub or tree,
thereby causing the intent of the landscape standard to still be met without
replacement.
   (B)   Protection of existing trees.
      (1)    Except when necessary to provide access to a site or to ensure the
safety and security of people and property, any existing healthy trees that are
8 inches or greater in caliper, located within a public right-of-way or
undeveloped required yard shall be retained unless approved for removal during
site plan review. In addition, every reasonable effort shall be made to protect
and retain existing trees and shrubs not located in planned roadways,
drainageways, building foundation sites and construction activity areas.
      (2)   Existing trees and shrubs shall count towards meeting landscape
requirements as long as they are:
         (a)   Free from disease or growth problems;
         (b)   Clearly shown on the site plan;
         (c)   Approved by the Zoning Administrator prior to development as
meeting the intent of the landscaping requirements;
         (d)   Are not considered nuisance or noxious plants; and
         (e)   Are adequately protected during grading and development of the
site.
      (3)   Protective measures, as outlined below, shall be taken to minimize
damage to existing trees and other vegetation to be retained.
         (a)   Site plans shall show the location of trees and shrubs to be
retained and the locations of protection fencing.
         (b)   Prior to construction, grading or other land disturbing
activity, protective barriers shall be placed around the root protection area
of all trees and shrubs to be saved.
         (c)   For trees, the root protection area shall not be less than the
drip line.
         (d)   No soil disturbance or compaction, stock piling of soil or other
construction materials, vehicular traffic or storage of heavy equipment are
allowed in the areas designated for protection.
         (e)   Root pruning shall be kept to an absolute minimum. Pruning of
existing trees shall be done according to the National Arborists’ Association
Standards in a manner that preserves the character of the tree.
         (f)   No ropes, signs, wires, electrical device or other material
shall be secured or fastened around or through a tree or shrub designated for
protection.
   (C)   Parking lot landscaping.
      (1)   The following standards apply to all new parking areas with 12 or
more spaces and all expansions to existing parking areas which add 12 or more
spaces, unless otherwise noted.
      (2)   In an expansion, only the area of expansion is required to be
included in the calculation; however, the landscaping may be provided anywhere
within the parking area.
         (a)   Trees and shrubs shall be planted along all internal driveways.
         (b)   No more than 2 parking aisles (defined as a travel lane and the
parking located on each side) shall abut. Otherwise, parking aisles shall be
separated from each other by planted medians which may include pedestrian
walkways.
         (c)   No more than 30 parking spaces shall be contained within 1
parking aisle.
         (d)   All parking aisles, except where they are permitted to abut or
they directly adjoin a building, shall be landscaped around their perimeter,
excluding access points, at the rate of 2 large and 2 small trees plus 30
shrubs per 100 linear feet.
         (e)   One landscape island shall be provided for each 15 parking
spaces.
         (f)   Landscape islands shall contain a minimum of 1 canopy tree and 6
shrubs.
         (g)   The remainder of the landscape island shall be completely filled
in with perennials, annual flowers, ornamental grasses, turf grasses, a minimum
of 3 inches of landscaping mulch or a combination thereof.
         (h)   All parking rows shall contain a landscape island at the end of
the row of parking. Each landscape island shall contain at least 1 canopy tree
and 6 shrubs.
         (i)   The remainder of the landscape island shall be completely filled
in with perennials, annual flowers, ornamental grasses, turf grasses, a minimum
of 3 inches of landscaping mulch or a combination thereof. However, canopy
trees are not required within 75 feet of a building façade.
   (D)   Landscape buffers.
      (1)   The purpose of a landscape buffer is to help provide transition
between different types of land uses, to break up or soften the appearance of
paved surfaces, and to provide the shade and greenery necessary to create a
livable environment.
      (2)   Buffers shall be required as prescribed in the zoning district
regulations and as described in the standards below:
         (a)   Landscape buffers shall measure no less than 10 feet in width
and shall contain a minimum of 1 large tree per 100 linear feet, 5 small trees
per 100 linear feet and 20 shrubs per 100 linear feet;
         (b)   Fractions shall be rounded up to the nearest whole number; and
         (c)   Buffer yard exceptions:
            1.   Fences and walls of uniform design and material shall be
allowed to replace required shrubbery in any landscape buffer when, in the
opinion of the Zoning Administrator, the fence or wall will achieve the same
effect as the shrubbery and will contribute positively to the overall design of
the property;
            2.   Buffer width requirements may be reduced by 50% when a 6-foot
continuous opaque fence, wall or berm is approved and constructed within the
landscape buffer. A minimum of 50% of the required plantings shall be placed on
the exterior side of the fence, wall or berm;
            3.   In the event unusual topography or elevation of a development
site, the size of the parcel to be developed, the soil or sub-surface condition
of the site would make strict adherence to the requirements of this subchapter
serve no meaningful purpose or would make it physically impossible to install
and maintain the required buffer plantings, the Zoning Administrator may alter
the requirements of this part as long as the existing features of the
development site comply with the spirit and intent herein; and
            4.   A like alteration may occur only at the request of the
property owner who shall submit a plan to the Zoning Administrator showing
existing site features that would buffer or screen the proposed use and any
additional buffer materials the property owner will plant or construct to
buffer the proposed use.
(Ord. 04-21, passed 10-6-2004, § 42.2.6; Am. Ord. 21-01, passed 6-2-2021)
§ 156.116 DESIGN STANDARDS FOR LIGHTING.
   In order to reduce light pollution and light trespass, the following
standards shall apply to all lighting in all districts except on single-family
detached residential lots, unless otherwise noted.
   (A)   Projections of light shall be confined to stay within property lines
to prevent light trespass.
   (B)   All exterior lighting shall use cut-off type fixtures to minimize the
component of light above horizontal (glare).
   (C)   All lighting shall conform to all applicable outdoor lighting
standards found elsewhere in the town code.
(Ord. 04-21, passed 10-6-2004, § 42.2.7; Am. Ord. 24-07, passed 1-8-2025)
§ 156.117 SITE PLAN AND PLAN OF DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Required in commercial zoning districts as follows.
      (1)   Site plans shall be required as part of the application process for
any of the following in commercial zoning districts:
         (a)   New structures;
         (b)   Expansions to existing structures;
         (c)   Any new use not contained within an existing building except
temporary or seasonal uses unless the Zoning Administrator can otherwise
determine compliance with parking or screening requirements;
         (d)   Any change in impervious surface area on lots located within a
watershed overlay district; and
         (e)   Any significant change in required landscaping or buffer areas.
      (2)   Use or development of property qualifying for a minor site plan or
plan of development and for which a like plan has been approved in accordance
with the provisions of this section are exempt from standard site plan
requirements.
   (B)   Site plan and plan of development review.
      (1)   Site plans for by-right commercial development shall be reviewed
and approved administratively in accordance with the standards contained in
this chapter.
       (2)   Site plans for all projects that are subject to rezonings and
subdivision actions shall be considered in draft by the Planning Board and Town
Council as part of the review process and approved administratively in final
provided that they are in substantial conformance with the draft site plan
submitted, revised and approved during the review and approval process. Site
plans for all projects that require a special use permit pursuant to §
156.155 shall be considered in draft by the Town Council as part of the special
use permit application process and approved administratively in final provided
that they are in substantial conformance with the draft site plan submitted,
revised, and approved during the special use permit application and approval
process.
      (3)   Plans of development may be reviewed and approved administratively
provided they are in substantial conformance to any previously approved site
plan or special use permit review plat.
   (C)   Required information.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator, during pre-application discussions with
the applicant, shall determine information required for the submittal of a plan
of development.
      (2)   Minor site plans shall include only those types of information
required for a site plan that the reviewing agent deems necessary to review the
request.
      (3)   Site plans should be prepared at a scale no smaller than 1 inch
equals 30 feet and shall be submitted as 24 by 36-inch prints, unless a
modified format is approved by the Zoning Administrator.
      (4)   All site plans shall contain the following information, except that
the information provided for minor changes to existing site plans may be
limited to the locations on the site where new site construction is proposed,
if the Zoning Administrator determines that the limitation allows proper review
of the plan:
         (a)   Location of tract by an inset map at a scale of not less than 1
inch equals 2,000 feet, indicating scaled coordinates and state grid references
and additional information as the names and numbers of adjoining roads, streams
and bodies of water, subdivisions and districts or other landmarks sufficient
to clearly identify the location of the property;
         (b)   Name and address of the owner or developer and contract
purchaser (if any), north arrow, scale of the drawing and date of preparation
and revisions with the name, address and phone number of the preparer;
         (c)   Boundary of the entire tract by courses and distances with
reference to true meridian or state grid system and area of the tract;
         (d)   All horizontal dimensions shown on the site plan shall be in
feet and decimal fractions of a foot to the closest 1/100 of a foot, and all
bearings in degrees, minutes and seconds to the nearest 10 seconds;
         (e)   Certificate signed by the preparer of the plan setting forth the
source of title of the owner of the tract and the place of record of the last
instrument in the chain of title;
         (f)   Certified topographic map of the parcel at a minimum 2-foot
contour interval, showing existing contours and delineating the CAMA areas of
environmental concern and the 100-year floodplain elevation, if applicable;
         (g)   U.S.G.S. datum used for all elevations with location and
elevation of benchmark shown;
         (h)   Locations and dimensions of existing or proposed:
            1.   Structures on the site showing distance to lot lines and
centerlines of adjacent streets;
            2.   Streets and easements on and adjacent to the site with rights-
of-way and pavement widths;
            3.   Driveways and curb cuts on the site and adjacent properties;
            4.   Parking and loading areas; all off-street parking, related
driveways, loading spaces and walkways, indicating type of surfacing, size,
angle of stalls, width of aisles and location, height and intensity of proposed
lighting;
            5.   Sidewalks, trails and open space;
            6.   Median strip openings and their relationship to the site;
            7.   Water and septic tank systems and wells (including dimensions
of each);
            8.   Underground electric, telephone and television cables, both
on-site and in adjacent rights-of-way;
            9.   Street and site lighting, indicating all fixture styles and
heights, types of luminaire, location of fixtures, and illumination levels and
uniformity values; and
            10.   Freestanding signs, including dimensions.
         (i)   Proposed elevations at control points such as driveways, ramps
and any other locations determined by the agent to be necessary for the
adequate evaluation of the plan;
         (j)   The proposed location and general use of each building,
including outside display areas;
          (k)   Sufficient information to show how the physical improvements
associated with the proposed development such as walkways, driving lanes, and
curb and gutter interrelate with existing or proposed development of record on
adjacent properties;
         (l)   A landscaping plan showing the location, number, type and size
of all proposed plant material at the times of planting and ten-year maturity.
The landscaping plan shall also depict all trees larger than 8 inches in
caliper when measured 6 inches above grade;
         (m)   Location, type, materials, size and height of fencing, retaining
walls and other screening including an elevation drawing;
         (n)   Vertical cross-sectional view showing:
            1.   Height of existing or proposed structures;
            2.   Number of stories;
            3.   Location and access to underground parking, if applicable; and
            4.   Proposed grades of each floor, including basements.
         (o)   Natural, historic, and open space features including tree cover,
ponds, fragile environmental areas, open space and recreational areas;
         (p)   Additional information deemed essential by the agent to permit
adequate review of the plan;
         (q)   The following data in tabular form:
            1.   PIN and parcel number(s) assigned by Dare County tax records,
subdivision and lot number(s) as appropriate, and street address(es) of the
property;
            2.   Zoning classification of the subject property and all
immediately adjacent properties;
            3.   Area of parcel in square feet;
            4.   Gross floor area and the area of the above-grade horizontal
surface of any parking structure;
            5.   Lot coverage, broken down into individual components;
            6.   Number and type of dwelling units;
            7.   Number of parking and loading spaces required and installed;
            8.    Special use permits granted by the Town Council, or variances
granted by the Board of Zoning Adjustment; and
            9.   Landscaped open space, if applicable.
         (r)   Provisions for erosion and sediment control and the disposition
of natural and storm water including the proposed location, sizes, types and
grades of ditches, catchbasins and pipes and connections to existing drainage
systems, storm water structures and conveyances, including all engineered storm
water control measures, along with any proposed water quality enhancement
facilities;
         (s)   Provisions for parking for the disabled, if applicable;
         (t)   Locations of all entrances and exits to and from all buildings
on the site;
         (u)   Locations of all roof drains;
         (v)   Phasing plan for projects anticipated to request phased
occupancy; and
         (w)   Utility easements (including water, electric, power, storm
water, telephone, cable).
   (D)   Minor site plan. A minor site plan may be submitted for any of the
following:
      (1)   New or expanded paved areas and associated curb and gutter to
support parking, loading, trash or recycling enclosures, or similar facilities,
provided that the area of the expansion is less than 25% or 2,000 square feet
(whichever is less) of the existing paved area;
      (2)   Minor expansion of a building or buildings, not to exceed the
lesser of 10% of the floor area or 1,000 square feet beyond that which is shown
on the original approved site plan or beyond that which is shown on a
subsequent site plan for an expansion that was approved without utilizing these
minor expansion provisions;
      (3)   Minor expansion of a building or buildings, not to exceed the
lesser of 10% of the floor area or 1,000 square feet beyond that which was
constructed prior to the adoption of these site plan requirements on December
1, 2004. It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to provide the
information necessary to prove to the satisfaction of the Zoning Administrator
that the building existed in the current configuration prior to December 1,
2004; and
      (4)   Items listed under plan of development (division (E) below) may
also be included in a minor site plan submission.
   (E)   Plan of development. A plan of development may be submitted for any of
the following:
      (1)   Restriping of an existing parking lot, including loading areas;
      (2)   Construction of trash enclosures and recycling enclosures, to
include installation of concrete pads over existing pavement as necessary;
      (3)   Change in use of a multiple use property;
      (4)   Addition or modification of site lighting facilities;
      (5)   Modification of screening or landscaping materials or design;
      (6)   Installation of wheel stops and limited curb and gutter and
landscape island; and
      (7)   Other changes to approved site plans or to projects that existed on
December 1, 2004 that, subject to the determination of the Zoning
Administrator, are similar to and carry no more impact than 1 or more of
divisions (E)(1) through (6) above.
   (F)   The “as built” plan. The “as built” site plan may be a copy of the
original approved site plan with an affidavit attached stating that all
construction has been completed in compliance with the approved plan, or shall
show all deviations from the approved plan with an affidavit attached stating
that no deviations exist except those shown. The “as built” plan shall be
certified by an engineer, architect or land surveyor to the limits of his or
her license.
   (G)   Design and landscaping information required. Whenever a proposed
project would be subject to 1 or more of the design standards, landscaping or
fencing/wall requirements, architectural renderings sealed by an architect and
site plans sealed by an engineer, landscape architect or surveyor that are
prepared in sufficient detail at a sufficient scale to determine compliance
with relevant sections of this subchapter shall be required as part of a
complete application, except that the Zoning Administrator may exempt minor
modifications that do not require the renderings or plans to demonstrate an
intent to comply with the regulations.
   (H)   Sign detail required. Whenever a new sign or change in existing sign
would require the issuance of a permit, detailed designs showing all relevant
information required to determine compliance with the sign regulations outlined
in §
156.130 shall be required as part of a complete application.
   (I)   Other requirements. In addition to information required in this
section, other information or documents deemed relevant by the Zoning
Administrator or review board shall be required, such as evidence of approval
of sedimentation and erosion control plans, prior to issuance of a zoning
permit. No building permit or occupancy permit shall be issued for a
development requiring a site plan, minor site plan, or plan of development,
until the plan has been approved.
   (J)   Validity of approved site plans. An approved site plan, minor site
plan, or plan of development shall become null and void if no grading or
construction has commenced on the site within 2 years after approval. The agent
may grant a single 1-year extension upon written request of the applicant
provided that the request is made at least 30 days prior to the expiration date
of the approved site plan.
   (K)   Procedure.
      (1)   All site plans or minor site plans that are appropriately submitted
and that are certified by the Zoning Administrator as conforming to the
standards and requirements set forth in this chapter shall be reviewed for
approval by the plan-approving agent designated by the Town Manager,
hereinafter referred to as the agent.
      (2)   All plans of development that are appropriately submitted and that
conform to the standards and requirements set forth in this chapter shall be
approved by the Zoning Administrator.
      (3)   The property owner or his or her designee shall submit a site plan
or minor site plan to the plan-approving agent or submit a plan of development
to the Zoning Administrator, including a completed application and 12 prints of
the plan.
      (4)   Site plans and minor site plans shall be prepared and certified by
an engineer, architect, land surveyor or landscape architect duly authorized to
practice by the State of North Carolina. No person shall prepare or certify any
portion of a site plan that is outside the limits of his or her professional
expertise and license.
      (5)   With the site plan, minor site plan, or plan of development, the
applicant shall submit applicable fees consistent with the adopted fee
schedule. The applicant shall also submit certified mail receipts from notices
sent to the owners of each property abutting to or across the street from the
subject property. The notices shall inform the owners that the plan has been
submitted and will be considered for approval not less than 10 days after
receipt of the notice for a site plan and not less than 5 days after receipt of
notice for a minor site plan or plan of development. If the adjacent
development is of condominium ownership, then notification sent to the
condominium association shall be sufficient to satisfy this provision.
      (6)   Written comments pertaining to a site plan, minor site plan, or
plan of development may be filed with the agent by any interested party within
the period prescribed in the notice or at any time prior to approval of the
site plan.
      (7)    The reviewing agent shall notify the applicant in writing of the
action to approve or deny the site plan or minor site plan and shall forward a
copy to the Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Administrator shall notify the
applicant in writing of the action to approve or deny the plan of development.
In the event that a plan is denied, the plan-approving agent or Zoning
Administrator shall indicate the reasons for denial. The decision by the Zoning
Administrator or plan-approving agent shall be made within 60 days and denial
may be appealed to the Town Council within 30 days of the date of the written
decision by application in accordance with the special use provisions of §
156.118 below.
(Ord. 04-21, passed 10-6-2004, § 42.2.8; Am. Ord. 17-04, passed 6-7-2017; Am.
Ord. 21-01, passed 6-2-2021; Am. Ord. 23-11, passed 9-6-2023)
§ 156.118 DEVIATION OR VARIANCE FROM COMMERCIAL DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT
STANDARDS AND SITE PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   In order to encourage creative design, to avoid undue hardship, and to
expedite the zoning approval process for developments within the town,
deviation from any of the design and development or site plan requirements
contained within this subchapter may be approved as follows.
   (A)   Minor deviation. The Zoning Administrator is authorized to grant a
minor xdeviation from the standards of this subchapter subject to the
following.
      (1)   Any request for deviation from a standard set forth in this chapter
including, but not necessarily limited to screening or buffer requirements,
planting requirements, spacing requirements, landscaping material, building
design and parking lot layout shall be granted only after the applicant has
demonstrated that:
         (a)   The deviation was a result of unique conditions of the property;
or
         (b)   The deviation will result in a project that is at least equal to
or better than what would be accomplished under the strict application of this
subchapter.
      (2)   Before granting a minor deviation the Zoning Administrator shall
reasonably determine that granting the deviation:
         (a)   Does not and will not violate the spirit and intent of the
ordinance; and
         (b)   Does not and will not adversely affect the rights of other
property owners in any material manner.
      (3)   A minor deviation may not deviate by more than 10% from any of the
measurable standards of this subchapter.
      (4)   The authority given to the Zoning Administrator to grant the
deviation shall be construed to be permissive and not mandatory and the Zoning
Administrator may decline to make the deviation. In the event this occurs, the
applicant shall have the right to request a variance from the Board of
Adjustment.
   (B)   Major deviation. The Town Council may grant a major deviation from the
standards of this subchapter through the issuance of a special use permit.
Issuance of special use permits shall be in accordance with the procedures set
forth in §
156.155 as well as the procedures set forth below.
      (1)   Applications. In addition to the requirements of §
156.155, a complete application shall include all of the following:
         (a)   A complete explanation of the purpose and extent of the request
including sealed site plans and architectural renderings when applicable or
requested by the Zoning Administrator;
         (b)   Documentation containing facts which will be used to support the
petition, including but not limited to deed restrictions, proposed homeowners’
association documents, and statements from adjacent property owners (where
applicable).
      (2)   Town Council review. The Town Council shall review the special use
permit application for a major deviation in the context of the spirit and
intent of the requirements of this subchapter; existing, proposed and planned
development in the immediate area; and all other applicable regulations
affecting the property.
      (3)   Required general findings. No special use permit shall be approved
by the Town Council unless the following general findings of fact are made in
addition to those listed in §
156.155 by the Town Council concerning the proposed special use:
         (a)   The proposed development represents a design in site and/or
architecture which will result in a development that is equivalent to or
superior to that achievable under the applicable regulations;
         (b)   The proposed development will be compatible with and will not
substantially injure the value of adjoining property; and
         (c)   The proposed development is consistent with the intent of this
subchapter.
      (4)   Conditions. Conditions may relate to parking areas and driveways,
pedestrian and vehicular circulation systems, screening and buffer areas,
intensity of site development, the timing of development, and other matters the
Council may find appropriate or the applicant may propose. The applicant will
have a reasonable opportunity during the hearing to consider and respond to any
additional conditions or requirements prior to final action by the Town
Council.
(Ord. 04-21, passed 10-6-2004, § 42.2.9; Am. Ord. 09-07, passed 8-5-2009; Am.
Ord. 21-01, passed 6-2-2021)
MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS
§ 156.124 STRUCTURES WITHIN THE PRIMARY AND FRONTAL DUNES.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this section to develop regulatory
standards which will assist with the preservation of a continuous dune system
within the town, acknowledging the protective and aesthetic values that this
feature provides. Regulations are hereby established to limit structures within
the dune system that are known to weaken its structural integrity. Further,
construction standards are established for dune walkover structures to minimize
their impact on the dune, recognizing that these structures provide a safe and
responsible mechanism to access the ocean beach.
   (B)   Definitions.
      DUNE SYSTEM, FRONTAL DUNE.  The first mound of sand located landward of
the beach having sufficient vegetation, height, continuity, and configuration
to offer protective value.
      DUNE SYSTEM, PRIMARY DUNE. The first mounds of sand located landward of
the beach having an elevation equal to the mean flood level for the area plus 6
feet. The primary dune extends landward to the lowest elevation in the
depression behind the same mound of sand.
      DUNE WALKOVER STRUCTURE.  A raised walkway constructed for the purpose of
providing access to the beach from points landward of the dune system.
      ESCARPMENT. The vertical drop or steep slope in the beach profile
separating 2 comparatively level or more gentle sloping surfaces caused from
high tide or storm tide erosion.
      FIRST LINE OF STABLE NATURAL VEGETATION. This line represents the
boundary between the normal dry sand beach, which is subject to constant flux
due to waves, tides, storms and wind, and the more stable upland areas. The
vegetation line is generally located at or immediately oceanward of the seaward
toe of the frontal dune or erosion escarpment. The Division of Coastal
Management or Local Permit Officer shall determine the location of the stable
and natural vegetation line, based on visual observations of plant composition
and density. If the vegetation has been planted, it may be considered stable
when the majority of the plant stems are from continuous rhizomes, rather than
planted individual rooted sets. The vegetation may be considered natural when
the majority of the plants are mature and additional species native to the
region have been recruited, providing stem and rhizome densities that are
similar to adjacent areas that are naturally occurring. In areas where there is
no stable natural vegetation present, this line may be established by
interpolation between the nearest adjacent stable natural vegetation by on-
ground observations or by aerial photographic interpretation.
      POST-AND-RAIL STRUCTURE. A single top rail mounted on imbedded posts. To
minimize the impact of the structure, a POST-AND-RAIL STRUCTURE shall not
include additional structural or decorative elements such as cross-bracing,
other horizontal railing, or balusters. For structural support, posts must be
embedded at least 4 feet in the ground. The rails shall have a span no less
than 6 feet and no greater than 10 feet.
      POST-AND-ROPE STRUCTURE. A structure consisting of a single strand of
rope strung between imbedded posts typically serving to guide people to a
certain location traversing a dune. The span between posts shall be no less
than 6 feet and no greater than 10 feet.
      STATIC VEGETATION LINE. In areas within boundaries of a large-scale beach
fill project, the first line of stable natural vegetation that existed prior to
the onset of project construction shall be defined as the STATIC VEGETATION
LINE. The "onset of project construction" shall be defined as the date sediment
placement begins. A STATIC VEGETATION LINE shall be established in coordination
with the N.C. Division of Coastal Management using on-ground observation and
surveys of existing conditions for all areas of the oceanfront that undergo a
large-scale beach fill project. Once a static vegetation line is established,
this line shall be used as the reference point for measuring oceanfront
setbacks in all locations where it is landward of the first line of stable
natural vegetation. In all locations where the first line of stable natural
vegetation is landward of the static vegetation line, the first line of stable
natural vegetation shall be used as the reference point for measuring
oceanfront setbacks.
      TOE OF SLOPE.  That point between the beach and the dune system where the
uniform line of slope from the ocean toward the barrier dune begins an abrupt
change upward and becomes the slope of the barrier dune.
   (C)   Regulatory standards.
      (1)   Dune walkover structures. Dune walkover structures shall be
constructed to entail negligible alteration of the dune. The following
construction standards shall apply:
         (a)   Dune walkover structures for residential use shall be no wider
than 4 feet and shall be constructed on raised posts or pilings embedded no
less than 4 feet and no greater than 5 feet below grade. Walkover structures
for commercial or public use may be constructed up to 6 feet in width and shall
utilize piling embedment criteria consistent with the North Carolina Building
Code.
         (b)   The underside of the dune walkover structure across a frontal
dune shall be a minimum of 18 inches and a maximum of 30 inches above grade.
The underside of the dune walkover structure across a primary dune shall be a
maximum of 30 inches above grade.
         (c)   Dune walkover structures shall be located such that the first
step down to the beach is placed no farther seaward than the beginning of the
downward slope of the dune.
         (d)   Dune walkover structures shall be constructed so that the
staircase turns parallel to the dune if there is more than a 12-foot-vertical
rise in the staircase required to provide access to the surface of the beach.
The requirement to turn the stairs shall not apply in instances where it would
preclude the placement of the stairs entirely within the subject property.
         (e)   Within the beach nourishment project area, dune walkover
structures must be constructed to meet the following standards:
            1.   A dune walkover structure on the western side of the dune may
consist of a hardened structure (ramp/stairway), beach access matting, or any
material consistent with the standards of this chapter.
            2.   A dune walkover extending over the top of a dune or on the
eastern side of a dune may include the installation of beach access matting.
            3.   A dune walkover may include the installation of a single post-
and-rail structure over the top and on the eastern side of the dune. A second
post-and-rail structure will be permitted at a common dune walkover owned and
maintained by a neighborhood association or similar entity. The post-and-rail
structure(s) may extend down the eastern side of the dune from the top of the
dune to the toe of the dune.
            4.   A dune walkover may include the installation of post-and-rope
structures over the top and on the eastern side of a dune. The post-and-rope
structures may extend down the eastern side of the dune from the top of the
dune to the toe of the dune.
            5.   If erosion, migration of the dune, or other forces cause any
portion of a post-and rail or post-and-rope structure to extend eastward of the
toe of the dune or expose the supporting posts, that section of the structure
must be removed by the owner.
            6.   Any portion of a post-and-rail or post-and-rope structure
within the area of a beach renourishment or dune maintenance project must be
removed by the owner upon notice from the town prior to initiation of the
project.
         (f)   Where a lawful dune walkover structure exists on July 5, 2017
within the beach nourishment project area that could not be built under the
terms of division (e) above, the structure may be continued so long as it
remains lawful, subject to the following provisions.
            1.   The non-conforming dune walkover structure may not be enlarged
or altered in a way which increases its non-conformity, but any structure or
portion thereof may be altered to decrease its non-conformity.
            2.   Should the non-conforming portion of a dune walkover structure
be destroyed by any means to an extent of more than 50% of its replacement cost
at the time of destruction, it shall not be reconstructed, except in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter.
            3.   If located at an elevation higher than the top of the dune, an
extension of the non-conforming dune walkover structure, not exceeding 5 feet
in length, may be added to lower the walkover structure to the elevation at the
top of the dune.
      (2)   Setbacks established for dune protection.
         (a)   Development shall be regulated in accordance with the setback
criteria established by the Coastal Area Management Act (CAMA) as defined in
15A NCAC 07H .0306.
         (b)   Accessory structures that are exempt from the CAMA setback
criteria shall not be located within 30 feet of the first line of stable
natural vegetation or static vegetation line. This shall include decks,
gazebos, pools and any other structure which meets the exception criteria
establish by the Coastal Area Management Act (CAMA) in 15A NCAC 07H.0309. This
setback shall not apply to dune walkover structures as defined in this section.
Additionally, one dune deck per lot may be allowed no closer than 15 feet to
the first line of stable natural vegetation or static vegetation line provided
that the dune deck does not exceed 8 feet measured in any dimension, including
the area that is combined with or adjacent to any dune walkover structure that
may be present, and also provided that the dune deck is no higher than 30
inches above grade. In cases where the first line of stable natural vegetation
is not evident on the subject property, this line shall be determined by
interpolating a straight line between nearest identifiable first line of stable
natural vegetation on the adjacent properties directly to the north and south
of the subject property (this clause does not apply to properties subject to
the static vegetation line).
         (c)   Existing structures which do not meet the setback criteria
established by this section shall be regulated in accordance with the standards
applicable to nonconforming structures established in §
156.073. For the purposes of determining replacement cost, the value of each
accessory structure shall be considered individually and shall not be combined
with the value of any other structure.
         (d)   Pools within the OCEAN HAZARD SETBACK (as defined by 15A NCAC
07H.0306) shall be constructed such that the top of the pool structure is flush
with the adjacent grade and shall not be supported on a piling foundation. In
addition, pools within the OCEAN ERODIBLE AREA (as defined by CAMA in 15A NCAC
07H.0304) and where the pre-disturbance grade elevation is below the regulatory
flood protection elevation shall be constructed such that the top of the pool
structure is flush with the adjacent grade and shall not be supported on a
piling foundation.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall preclude the removal of any structure
which violates §
156.063, Encroachment of Structures on the Ocean Beach.
(Ord. 13-04, passed 7-17-2013; Am. Ord. 17-05, passed 7-5-2017; Am. Ord. 17-06,
passed 7-5-2017; Am. Ord. 19-10, passed 2-5-2020; Am. Ord. 21-01, passed 6-2-
2021; Am. Ord. 21-03, passed 6-2-2021; Am. Ord. 22-10, passed 1-3-2023)
§ 156.125 WATER SUPPLY AND SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Plans to accompany permit applications; plan approval prerequisite to
excavation or construction. Each application for a building permit, a special
use permit or a certificate of occupancy shall be accompanied with plans of the
proposed methods of water supply and sewage disposal, in a form acceptable to
the appropriate authorizing agency. No excavation or construction for any
building or use of land shall be commenced until subsequent approval is noted
on the plan of the proposed development and a building permit issued.
   (B)   Authorized methods and required approvals. Any application shall
specify the methods to be used and shall describe any special conditions to be
met. These methods and the approvals required include the following:
      (1)   Connection to public sewerage or water systems operated by a
municipality, sanitary district or other governmental agency. Connection
approval by an authorized officer of the systems;
      (2)   Connection to community sewerage or water systems operated by a
responsible person other than a governmental agency. Connection approval by an
authorized officer of the systems; and
      (3)   Installation of other than public or community sewerage systems.
Design approval by the Dare County Health Department.
   (C)   System approval. The sewerage and water systems to which connections
are to be made shall be authorized as follows:
      (1)   Water supply:
         (a)   Individual supply approval by the Dare County Health Department;
         (b)   For 10 to 25 dwelling units, approval by the State Board of
Health; and
         (c)   For 25 or more dwelling units, approval by the State Board of
Health and the State Utilities Commission.
      (2)   Sewage collection and treatment:
         (a)   For a septic tank, approval by the Dare County Health
Department;
         (b)   For a sewerage system serving facilities regulated by the State
Board of Health (i.e. institutions, restaurants, motels and the like), approval
by the County Health Department; and
         (c)   For a sewerage system serving all other uses (i.e., industry,
commerce, communities and the like), approval by the State Department of Water
and Air Resources, when applicable;
         (d)   Additional requirements for certain systems. The person
operating a community water system for 25 or more customers or a sewerage
system for which a rate is charged shall hold a Certificate of Public
Convenience and Necessity from the State Utilities Commission, and there shall
be recorded with a plat of the property the written affidavit of a registered
engineer, engaged in the independent practice of civil engineering, that water
and sewer mains and laterals comply with pertinent standards of the State Board
of Health, and that the mains and laterals are installed according to the
standards and approved in writing by the State Board of Health, and a bond,
trust instrument or other form of written assurance, satisfactory to the Town
Council, assuring the continuous proper maintenance and operation of the
sewerage and water systems.
         (e)   Pump and haul. Notwithstanding §§
156.125(C)(2)(a), (b), (c), and (d) above, pump and haul tank systems are
prohibited except when used as a temporary emergency measure while the existing
sewage collection and treatment system is being repaired, and the repair period
shall not exceed 14 days.
(Ord. 04-21, passed 10-6-2004, § 43.1; Am. Ord. 07-17, passed 12-5-2007; Am.
Ord. 21-01, passed 6-2-2021)
§ 156.126 STANDARDS FOR THE SCALE OF RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Intent. The purpose of establishing this section is to set forth a
comprehensive set of regulations designed to maintain and enhance the scale and
character of residential development in the Town of Duck. These standards are
intended to ensure that future residential development is compatible with
existing developed neighborhoods to protect the interests of both permanent
residents and seasonal visitors occupying these structures in the furtherance
of public safety and welfare.
   (B)   Definitions.
      (1)   Large residence means a single-family or two-family dwelling that
exceeds the maximum total of heated square feet for a standard residence
outlined on the table in §
156.126(C).
      (2)   Heated square feet or heated square footage for large residences
includes any enclosed living space that is present in the principal structure
and accessory structures located on the same lot.
   (C)   Maximum size of residences. The maximum size calculation includes any
enclosed living space that is present in the principal and accessory structures
located on the same property, as shown on the following table:
 
Lot Size (s.f.)   Maximum Size - Maximum Size - Large Septic Capacity (gpd)
                  Standard
9,999 or less     3,500 s.f.     3,500 s.f.           600
10,000 - 14,999   4,000 s.f.     4,000 s.f.           720
15,000 - 19,999   5,000 s.f.     5,000 s.f.           840
20,000 - 24,999   5,500 s.f.     7,000 s.f.           960
25,000 - 29,999   6,500 s.f.     8,000 s.f.           1,080
30,000 or greater 7,000 s.f.     9,000 s.f.           1,080
 
   (D)   Large residences, as defined in §
156.126(B), are subject to the following requirements:
      (1)   Lot area. The minimum lot area for establishment of a large
residence is 20,000 square feet.
      (2)   Building setbacks. 
         (a)   Large residences are subject to minimum building setbacks
greater than the standard setbacks for the zoning district in which the
property is located. The following table summarizes the building setbacks for
large residences.
         (b)   Note. Increased minimum building setbacks apply only to the
principal structure. Accessory structures are subject to the standard minimum
setback requirements for the zoning district in which the property is located.
 
MINIMUM BUILDING SETBACKS FOR LARGE RESIDENCES
Lot Size (s.f.)   Front Yard Rear Yard Side Yard
15,000-19,999     25         25        12
20,000-24,999     30         30        15
25,000 or greater 30         30        20
 
      (3)   Landscaping/canopy coverage requirements. 
         (a)   Properties containing a large residence must preserve and
maintain a minimum of 10% of the lot's total area with existing natural
vegetation. Areas designated for the preservation of existing vegetation shall
contain significant examples of native vegetation.
         (b)   In addition, such property must provide for the planting or
retention of trees on the site to provide minimum vegetative lot coverage of
20% of the lot's total area minus the footprint of the building. Such
vegetation shall be installed or retained according to the standards outlined
in §
156.137(G) of the Town Code.
         (c)   The above landscaping requirements may be altered by the Zoning
Administrator due to unique and unusual physical conditions or characteristics
of the property, including the reduction of landscaping requirements for
oceanfront properties and other lots containing significant dune features that
will be preserved in equal proportion.
         (d)   The property owner shall be responsible for maintaining the
landscaped areas required by this section, including the replacement of dead
and missing vegetation.
      (4)   Building facades. To limit the massive appearance of larger
residences, no section of any building facade shall extend more than 30 feet
without architectural features or significant architectural elements to break
up the massing of the facade.
(Ord. 04-21, passed 10-6-2004, § 43.2; Am. Ord.04-29, passed 12-1-2004; Am.
Ord. 05-08, passed 6-1-2005; Am. Ord. 15-12, passed 9-2-2015; Am. Ord. 18-06,
passed 12-5-2018; Am. Ord. 18-07, passed 1-16-2019; Am. Ord. 21-01, passed 6-2-
2021)
§ 156.127 SAND DUNE PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Sand dunes and their existing contours shall not be damaged,
destroyed, removed or changed except as specifically exempted below:
      (1)   The area required for the construction and installation of septic
or wastewater improvements as authorized by the Dare County Health Department
or North Carolina Department of Environmental Health;
      (2)   Activities in conjunction with a town building permit; and
      (3)   Other land disturbing activities in conjunction with subdivision
development or other residential or commercial development as authorized by the
Town Planning Department, the Town Planning Board or the Town Council.
   (B)   (1)   For activities exempted under divisions (A)(1), (2) and/or (3),
the following standards shall apply:
         (a)   A site plan prepared by a North Carolina licensed engineer or
North Carolina licensed surveyor shall be submitted depicting the existing
grades and proposed grades after the proposed land clearing activity, including
any stabilization plans;
         (b)   A horizontal/vertical slope not to exceed 4 feet to 1 foot shall
be maintained unless the dune-disturbing activity is intended to provide
elevations that are consistent with abutting properties. Graded slopes must be
vegetated or otherwise stabilized within 30 working days of completion of the
work;
         (c)    Other proposals for sand dune disturbing activities not
specifically exempted in division (A) above may be submitted for review as
special uses subject to Planning Board review and Town Council approval; and
         (d)   Unauthorized dune-disturbing activities shall be considered a
violation of this chapter and shall be subject to penalties prescribed in §
156.999. Mitigation plans prepared by a North Carolina licensed engineer or
North Carolina licensed surveyor shall be required for any unauthorized dune-
disturbing activity.
      (2)   These standards do not apply to those sand dunes that are protected
by the North Carolina Coastal Area Management Act and subject to those state
regulations.
(Ord. 04-21, passed 10-6-2004, § 43.3; Am. Ord. 21-01, passed 6-2-2021)
  § 156.128 LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   Mandatory standards for land disturbance activities.
      (1)   The provisions of this section shall apply to any land disturbance
activity regardless of the size of the disturbed area. A land disturbance
permit is required as provided in division (B)(1) below.
      (2)   Land disturbing activities, excluding necessary clearing and
grubbing shall not be permitted within 5 feet from any property line with the
exception of drainage and storm water improvements and underground utilities.
Landscaping and fences located within this area are permitted as long as they
do not impede the flow of storm water. Land disturbances on front (street)
property lines for driveways shall be limited to culvert, drainage, and
driveway improvements and shall comply with all provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   Fill is not allowed within 5 feet of any side or rear property line
except to directly match a higher adjacent grade at the property line. Fill is
not allowed within 5 feet of the front (street) property line except to
directly match the grade at the street and to accommodate driveway improvements
as approved by the Zoning Administrator or Town Council.
      (4)   Except as provided in §
156.128(A)(3) above, a lot shall not be filled/graded higher than the adjacent
grades or nearer than 5 feet to any property line in any of the following
circumstances:
         (a)   When the Dare County Health Department determines that fill is
necessary for a septic system to function properly, the fill area shall be
limited to the septic system and drainfield areas and the maximum fill shall
not exceed 24 inches. Copies of the septic permit, once issued by the Health
Department, shall be submitted to the Planning Department verifying the amount
of fill material needed and the location of the septic improvements as
authorized by the Health Department. Fill material used in conjunction with the
installation of septic improvements shall be graded and sloped to avoid runoff
on adjacent properties, rights-of-way, waterways and easements.
         (b)   An additional 12 inches of fill above the septic system and
drainfield fill (if septic and drainfield fill has been required by the Health
Department) may be allowed for the house pad to ensure adequate flow from the
building to the septic system.
         (c)   When fill is required to raise the lot elevation to the base
flood elevation. If more than 36 inches of fill material is necessary to raise
a lot to base flood elevation, the applicant for a land disturbance permit
shall submit a drainage plan prepared by a North Carolina licensed surveyor,
North Carolina licensed engineer, North Carolina licensed landscape architect,
or North Carolina licensed soil scientist depicting how stormwater on the site
will be managed to avoid runoff on adjoining properties, rights-of-way,
waterways and easements shall also be submitted at the time building permits
are requested. The plan shall depict the existing and proposed elevations at
all property lines around the perimeter of the site and internal to the site
where improvements, including septic improvements, are proposed. The grading
and shaping plan shall depict the areas on the site where fill material will be
placed and the limits of the fill material in relation to the property lines.
The grading and shaping of the fill material shall be completed so that no fill
material is located within 5 feet of any property line. Fill material shall be
graded to avoid runoff on adjoining properties, rights-of-way, waterways and
easements. If drainage improvements and/or stormwater measures such as
infiltration basins, swales or ditches are used to address stormwater runoff,
the improvements may be placed within this 5-foot area. Design details on
guttering and downspout systems, if utilized, shall be provided in the plan.
This grading and shaping plan shall be submitted a minimum of 5 days before
building permits are requested for construction on the site to allow review by
the planning staff. An on-site visit with the planning staff may be requested
as part of the review process. Verification of the completion of the drainage
plans as proposed shall be submitted before the certificate of occupancy is
released by the Duck Building Inspector.
         (d)   When permitted by special use granted by the Town Council in
accordance with the procedures established in §
156.155. For all special use requests to fill lots in excess of 36 inches, the
drainage plan submission requirements described in division (A)(4)(c) above
shall also apply.
         (e)   All fill shall be established at a slope not to exceed 3 feet
horizontal run for every 1-foot vertical rise. The toe of the slope shall meet
the 5-foot setback requirement from all property lines.
         (f)   No fill of any kind shall be allowed within 5 feet of any
property line except as associated with a driveway, bulkhead or other permitted
setback encroachments.
         (g)   Driveways shall taper back to existing grade no less than 5 feet
from the front property line and shall be designed to the extent reasonable to
prevent the direct flow of stormwater runoff to streets or adjacent properties.
         (h)   Stormwater retention areas may be located up to property lines
provided no fill therefor is located within 2 feet of the property lines.
         (i)   Guttering and rooftop rainwater collection systems shall not
flow directly onto driveways, impervious surfaces, or adjacent properties.
      (5)   A permanent ground cover, sufficient to prevent erosion, must be
established on all fill slopes as follows:
         (a)   Prior to issuance of the certificate of occupancy for
construction projects; or
         (b)   For projects where land disturbance activity has ceased for more
than 6 months, whichever occurs first.
      (6)   Bulkheads or retaining walls shall not be allowed as a method to
stabilize or contain fill, except bulkheads established for shoreline
protection and as otherwise permitted by special use permit granted by the Town
Council. Retaining walls used to stabilize or contain existing natural grade
when a driveway or walkway is cut into a lot at an elevation lower than
existing natural grade may be approved by the Planning Director.
      (7)   Any lot requiring a land disturbance permit shall install erosion
and sediment control measures to prevent sediment from leaving the site. The
erosion and sediment control measures shall be implemented on the site prior to
the commencement of land disturbing activities and shall be continuously
maintained during the land disturbance phase of development.
      (8)   In cases of substantial natural grade differences between adjoining
lots of the subject property, the Town Council may grant, by special use
permit, deviations from the standards contained herein. The applicant shall
submit a certified, engineered storm water plan with the applicant’s
application for a special use permit. The storm water plan shall verify that
the proposed development will not create flooding or nuisance conditions on the
lower adjacent lots. In no case shall the rear and side yard no fill zones be
encroached upon with fill.
      (9)   A fill permit issued by the North Carolina Division of Water
Quality shall be required to fill any 401 wetlands.
      (10)   A fill permit issued by the United States Army Corp of Engineers
shall be required to fill any 404 wetlands.
      (11)   Fill materials shall be of substantially similar composition to
the soils present on the lot being filled and shall not include debris or be
finished with soils or materials that will adversely affect the absorption of
storm water.
      (12)   Residential lots may be graded, subject to the requirements of
this section, to create a level area for a single-family detached dwelling and
its accessory structures and driveway/parking areas. Fill material that is
either brought to the lot or re-graded on the lot under the footprint of the
principal dwelling unit is subject to the following limitations. For the
purposes of this subchapter, the building footprint shall be considered the
plan view of the heated area of the principal dwelling unit. Pre-disturbance
elevations shall be taken at the four corners of building footprint. In cases
where the building footprint is irregular and has more than four sides, pre-
disturbance elevations shall be taken using the four building corners closest
to the four corners of the smallest square or rectangle that could be drawn to
encompass the footprint.
         (a)   No ground elevation anywhere on the lot, including beneath the
final house footprint location, may be increased by more than 3 feet or 36
inches above the pre-disturbance ground elevations without submission and
approval by the Town Council of a stormwater management plan, except as
provided in division (b) below.
         (b)   Lot depressions that are interior to the lot a minimum of 5 feet
from all lot lines may be filled, either by grading materials from other
locations on the lot or by bringing in like-kind material, no higher than to
the level of the directly adjacent pre-disturbance grade completely surrounding
the depression. The post-fill condition shall be considered as the pre-
disturbance ground elevations of such depressions in permitting leveling and
calculating building height.
         (c)   Where fill/grading is not necessary to raise a house to base
flood elevation, there shall be a maximum allowance of 3 feet of rise in ground
elevation from the lowest pre-disturbance ground elevation beneath the
footprint of the house as a leveling factor. Any filled/graded rise in ground
elevation greater than 3 feet at any location under the footprint of the
dwelling unit that is not necessary to raise a dwelling to base flood elevation
shall be calculated as part of the height of the dwelling unit, per the
definition of building height.
   (B)   Land disturbance permit required.
      (1)   A land disturbance permit shall be required for filling and/or
grading a lot; any lot clearance, filling or grading activity prior to issuance
of a building permit; any installation of gravel or pavers or accessory
structures and similar site features whether or not subject to building permit
requirements; and any removal or installation of site features such as septic
systems, wells and drainage systems that disturb the land.
      (2)   (a)   The land disturbance permit application shall be filed with
the Planning Director or his or her designee. The following information shall
be submitted as part of the permit application:
            1.   Adjacent property grades;
            2.   Approximate depth of seasonal high water table;
            3.   Existing elevations sufficient to determine the drainage
patterns on site and on adjoining sites;
            4.   Locations and elevations of the adjoining street pavement,
shoulder, ditches, drainage systems, upstream and downstream driveway culverts;
            5.   Proposed elevations of the top of bank and toe of slope and
limits for fill necessary to construct the dwelling, including driveway access;
            6.   For all grading/filling activities up to 36 inches of fill
material, a survey depicting the existing and proposed ground elevations shall
be submitted at the time building permits are requested. The survey shall also
depict the areas on the site where fill material will be placed and the limits
of the fill material in relation to the property lines. Fill material shall be
graded to avoid runoff on adjoining properties, rights-of-way, waterways and
easements. Fill material shall not be located within 5 feet of any property
line;
            7.   A topographic plan (shown in 1-foot intervals) shall be
required for all development where changes in the natural grade of the property
greater than 36 inches in height is proposed or has taken place in the past
year. The plan shall indicate the location and elevation changes above or below
natural grade and contain the following certificate:
   I, _________________, owner/agent do hereby certify that I will develop the
property in accordance with the approved plans which will be constructed or
maintained so that surface waters from the development are not unreasonably
collected and channeled onto lower adjacent properties at locations or at
volumes as to cause substantial damage to the lower adjacent properties. In
addition, the property will be constructed or maintained so that it will not
unreasonably impede the natural flow of water from higher adjacent properties
across the development, thereby unreasonably causing substantial damage to such
higher adjacent properties. On the site plan entitled ___________________,
storm water drainage improvements shall be installed according to these plans
and specifications and approved by the Town of Duck. The Town of Duck assumes
no responsibility for the design, maintenance or the guaranteed performance of
the storm water drainage improvements.
Date: _________
______________________________ Owner/Agent
______________________________ Registered Land Surveyor/Civil Engineer
____________ Date
            8.   Location of existing and proposed improvements including
features such as driveways and gravel parking areas, structures, patios,
walkways and septic systems.
         (b)   Plan copies. Two copies of the land disturbance permit plans
shall be filed with the permit application for administrative review. Seven
copies of plans shall be submitted as part of a special use request.
      (3)   Prior to issuance of the land disturbance permit, an on-site
inspection of the project site may be scheduled by the Planning Director or his
or her designee to evaluate the pre-disturbed conditions of the site and review
and discuss the proposed land disturbance activity.
      (4)   For all grading/filling activities requiring a special use under
the terms of this chapter, the use shall be approved prior to issuance of the
land disturbance permit.
      (5)   After issuance of the land disturbance permit, an on-site
inspection shall be conducted by the Planning Director or his or her designee
to ensure adequate erosion control measures and project activities are in
compliance with this chapter. When the Planning Director or his or her designee
determines that erosion and sedimentation will likely continue, despite
installation and maintenance of protective practices, the person conducting the
land disturbance activity will be required to undertake additional protective
measures as are required to meet permit requirements.
      (6)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         ADJACENT GRADE. The highest grade measured within 30 feet from the
subject property lines into the adjoining lots. For filling activities to match
the grade at the adjacent property line, the grade shall be shown on a recent
survey as described herein at the lot corners and along the lot lines as
necessary to determine the elevation of the directly ADJACENT GRADE.
         FILL. Any material placed or graded on a lot where the material has
the effect of increasing the elevation of any portion of the lot.
      (7)    Any development that requires a CAMA major development permit or a
sedimentation and erosion control plan shall be subject to the state storm
water runoff policies promulgated in 15 N.C.A.C. 2H § .1000, unless exempted by
those regulations. The town may not issue a zoning or special use permit and
may not grant final plat approval for subdivisions with respect to any
development that would cause land disturbing activity requiring prior approval
of an Erosion and Sedimentation Control Plan by the North Carolina
Sedimentation Control Commission under G.S. § 113A-57(4) (Mandatory Standards
for Land Disturbing Activity) unless the Commission has certified to the town,
either that:
         (a)   An erosion and sedimentation control plan has been submitted to
and approved by the Commission; or
         (b)   The Commission has examined the preliminary plans for the
development and it reasonably appears that an erosion and sedimentation control
plan can be approved upon submission by the developer of more detailed
construction or design drawings. However, in this case, construction of the
development may not begin (and no building permits may be issued) until the
Commission approves the erosion and sedimentation control plan.
   (C)   Special uses for fill/grading activities. 
      (1)   All proposals to add fill on a lot in excess of 36 inches shall
require approval of a special use application by the Town Council in accordance
with the procedures established in §
156.155.
      (2)   The Town Council may grant a special use only after determining
that the application meets the following criteria:
         (a)   The site for the proposed fill is otherwise adequate in size,
shape and other characteristics to accommodate the proposed project;
         (b)   The applicant has demonstrated that the requirements of this
chapter are unreasonable or impractical due to the necessity for the fill, lot
shape, topographical features, location of mature vegetation, or location and
characteristics of existing improvements on the lot;
         (c)   The amount of fill proposed is the minimum necessary to
accommodate the proposed project, especially for soundfront properties;
         (d)   The proposed fill will not negatively impact adjacent properties
or the surrounding area, especially for soundfront properties;
         (e)   The special use will be consistent with any applicable goals,
policies and objectives specified in the town’s adopted CAMA Comprehensive &
Land Use Plan and vision statement. This review includes the town’s evaluation
of the proposal’s consistency with its adopted CAMA Comprehensive & Land Use
Plan, which may be more flexible or more stringent than interpretations by
others; and
         (f)   The applicant has submitted a drainage plan consistent with the
requirements described in §
156.128(A)(4)(c).
(Ord. 05-06, passed 5-4-2005; Am. Ord. 07-13, passed 10-3-2007; Am. Ord. 07-18,
passed 12-5-2007; Am. Ord. 08-04, passed 10-1-2008; Am. Ord. 09-07, passed 8-5-
2009; Am. Ord. 14-02, passed 6-4-2014; Am. Ord. 15-03, passed 3-4-2015; Am.
Ord. 17-03, passed 6-7-2017; Am. Ord. 21-01, passed 6-2-2021)
§ 156.129 EATING ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   General standards.
      (1)   Eating establishments must meet the criteria as defined in §
156.002.
      (2)   Eating establishments shall contain a food preparation area that is
at least 20% of the gross square footage of the principal building, or the unit
in which the eating establishment is contained.
      (3)   Eating establishments shall not contain a drive-through window
service whereby patrons are served while seated in a motor vehicle.
      (4)   Eating establishments shall not operate as drive-in establishments
whereby patrons are served by employees while seated in motor vehicles parked
on-premises.
      (5)   No more than 15% of the eating establishment's indoor gross floor
area shall be dedicated to accessory entertainment, including but not limited
to, dance floor, lounges, bars, stages, live performance and disc-jockey areas.
Accessory entertainment uses referenced in this section shall be permitted in a
restaurant establishment, provided these uses are clearly subordinate in area,
extent, hours of operation, and purpose to areas designated for food and/or
beverage preparation, service and consumption.
      (6)   Eating establishments shall comply with the minimum parking
requirements established in §
156.094.
   (B)   Planning and permitting requirements. These requirements shall be in
addition to any applicable provision of §
156.117.
      (1)   Eating establishments shall require a special use permit in
accordance with the standards and procedures specified in §
156.155.
      (2)   Applicants shall provide detailed floor plans of the interior of
the eating establishment, including the kitchen layout, service counters,
utility areas, restrooms, pedestrian accessways, and all customer service and
seating areas. The same shall be provided for any associated outdoor dining
area.
      (3)   All eating establishment applications shall be approved, as
applicable, by the Town Fire Marshal, Building Inspector, Director of Community
Development and the Dare County Health Department. This shall include any
modifications to the floor plan or seat layout of existing indoor or outdoor
seating areas.
      (4)   Any increase in the number of seats or the square footage of the
eating establishment shall require an amendment to the special use permit.
   (C)   Outdoor dining areas. Eating establishments may contain outdoor dining
or seating areas, provided they meet the standards in this section.
      (1)   Covered outdoor dining areas shall not be enclosed with permanent
sidewalls and shall not be air conditioned. Any permanently enclosed space
shall be considered part of the interior portion of the eating establishment.
      (2)   Parking shall be provided for outdoor dining areas in accordance
with the standards in §
156.094. The applicant shall delineate the outdoor dining area on a floor plan,
drawn to scale, and shall provide a calculation of the square footage of this
area.
      (3)   Outdoor dining areas located in the common space of group
developments shall be directly contiguous to the frontage of the unit
containing the eating establishment.
      (4)   The location and use of the outdoor dining area shall not obstruct
the movement of pedestrians, goods or vehicles, and shall not be located in
driveways or parking areas.
      (5)   Outdoor dining areas shall not be located in required front yards
and landscape or buffer areas.
      (6)   Adequate solid waste and recycling containers shall be provided and
shall be serviced and maintained in a neat and clean manner. Outdoor dining
areas shall be kept free of litter, debris and food refuse at all times.
      (7)   Live music and other forms of entertainment conducted in outdoor
dining areas shall not occur after 10:00 p.m.
(Ord. 11-08, passed 1-4-2012; Am. Ord. 15-11, passed 9-2-2015; Am. Ord. 21-01,
passed 6-2-2021)
§ 156.130 SIGNS.
   (A)   Purpose. This subchapter is established to regulate the area, height,
location and structural type of signs in the town to promote the health,
safety, and general welfare of the community by protecting property values;
minimizing visual distractions to motorists; and protecting and enhancing the
image, appearance and economic vitality of the town.
   (B)   Applicability. Signs located within the town shall be erected,
relocated, refaced or altered only in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter and all other applicable laws, ordinances and regulations.
   (C)   General provisions.
      (1)   Location.
         (a)   All signs are deemed to be accessory to the principal use and
shall be located entirely on the same lot as the principal use, except as
provided in division (F)(4) below.
         (b)   Signs and sign structures may not obstruct ingress and egress to
any window, door, fire escape, stairway, ladder or opening intended to provide
light, air, ingress or egress for any room or building as required by law.
         (c)   Signs shall be set back from the right-of-way as specified
herein.
         (d)   Building-mounted signs shall be flush-mounted against the plane
of a building wall and shall not extend beyond the perimeter of any building
edge, canopy border or roof line, except as provided for porch signs in
division (F)(3)(b)6. below.
         (e)   Projecting signs shall not project more than four feet in a
perpendicular fashion from the building face to which they are attached.
         (f)   Wall signs shall not extend more than 12 inches in depth from
the building face to which they are attached.
         (g)   No permanent, freestanding sign shall be located within a public
right-of-way or within 30 feet of the center-line of any public thoroughfare.
         (h)   Any sign that obstructs corner visibility or visibility at a
driveway between a height of 2 feet and 10 feet is prohibited.
      (2)   Sign lighting.
         (a)   All lighting must be oriented or shielded so that light and
glare reflects away from streets and adjacent property.
         (b)   External sign lighting shall be directed toward signs and shall
be shielded in a manner so as to illuminate the sign face only. Signs with
external lighting shall be lit from the top down to avoid the glare and sky
illumination characteristics of spot lighting or up lighting. Internally lit or
back lit signs must be appropriately shielded to keep glare and light from
rising above the top of the sign.
         (c)   No sign regulated by this chapter may utilize a revolving beacon
light, flashing, revolving, changing and/or rotating light.
         (d)   All signs in which electrical wiring and connections are to be
used shall require a permit and shall comply with the North Carolina Electrical
Code and be approved by the Building Inspector.
      (3)   Sign structures. Sign structures shall not be illustrative in
nature. Any portion of a sign structure which is intended to inform, persuade,
advertise or visually attract attention shall be considered part of the sign.
      (4)   Anchoring and construction specification.
         (a)   All freestanding signs shall have self-supporting structures
erected on or permanently attached to concrete foundations, concrete footings
or concrete embedment.
         (b)   All signs and sign structures shall be constructed and designed
according to generally accepted engineering practices, to withstand wind
pressures and load distribution as specified in the North Carolina State
Building Code, as adopted and amended by the town.
         (c)   When a sign or outdoor advertising structure becomes
structurally unsafe, the Building Inspector shall give written notice to the
owner thereof that the same shall be made safe or removed within ten days of
receipt of the notice.
      (5)   Maintenance and removal. Should any sign become in danger of
falling or is deemed unsafe by the Building Inspector, the owner or the person
or firm maintaining the sign, shall upon written notice from the Building
Inspector, secure or remove the sign within 10 business days. In the case of
immediate danger, the sign shall be secured or removed as specified by the
Building Inspector. If the sign is not removed or secured, the Inspector or his
or her designated agent may initiate legal procedures to obtain the necessary
court orders to remove the signs at the expense of the owner or lessee thereof.
      (6)   Abandoned signs. Any freestanding sign relating to any business or
other use shall be removed by the owner of the sign or property owner within 12
months after the business or activity has been vacated or terminated. All other
signs relating to any business or other use shall be removed by the owner of
the sign or property owner within 90 days after the business or activity has
been vacated or terminated. If the sign has not been removed after the removal
time has expired and after proper written notification has been issued, the
town may initiate legal procedures to remove the signs at the expense of the
owner or lessee thereof.
      (7)   Sign measurements. For the purpose of this chapter, the area, in
square feet, of any sign shall be computed by the smallest square, triangle,
rectangle, circle or combination thereof which will encompass the entire sign.
In computing the sign area in square feet, standard mathematical formulae for
known or common shapes will be used. In the case of irregular shapes, straight
lines drawn closest to the extremities of the shape will be used. Where a sign
has 2 or more faces, the area of all faces shall be included in determining the
area of the sign, except that where 2 faces are placed back-to-back and are at
no point more than 2 feet from one another. The area of the sign shall be taken
as the area of the larger face if the 2 faces are of unequal area; if the areas
of the 2 faces are equal, then the area of 1 of the faces shall be taken as the
area of the sign.
   (D)   Exemptions. The following signs are exempt from the requirements of
this division except for applicable provisions contained in division (C) above:
      (1)   Government signs;
      (2)   Product dispensers and point-of-purchase displays;
      (3)   Indoor signs other than window signs;
      (4)   Signs which are less than one square foot in area; and
      (5)   Signs which are not visible from road, rights-of-way, beach, and
waters of the Atlantic Ocean and currituck sound, are exempt from the
requirements of this division except for the applicable provisions contained in
divisions (C)(2), (C)(4), (C)(5), (C)(6), and (E), but not including the
provisions in (E)(2).
      (6)   Signs and notices posted along privately maintained roads or
commonly held properties by a formally established property owners association
for the purpose of traffic direction, public notice or public safety.
   (E)   Prohibited signs. In all zoning districts the erection, construction,
location or the use of any sign described below is prohibited as follows,
unless otherwise permitted in this chapter. Prohibited signs, if deemed to
create a public safety hazard by the Zoning Administrator, may be removed
immediately by the town; otherwise, prohibited signs shall be removed within 10
business days following written notification from the town:
      (1)   No sign shall be permitted on or protrude into a public or private
right-of-way, street or vehicular passageway;
      (2)   No sign shall be posted on any telegraph, telephone, electric or
other utility pole or structure or any tree;
      (3)   No sign shall be permitted whereby its location, nature or type
constitutes a hazard to the safe and efficient operation of vehicles or passage
of pedestrians and cyclists upon any public or private right-of-way, street or
passageway. No sign shall be permitted that obstructs the line of sight of
motorists or pedestrians at intersections, driveways, or along any public or
private right-of-way, street or passageway. No sign shall be permitted that
obstructs or resembles traffic signs or signals, or would tend to be confused
with a flashing light of an emergency vehicle;
      (4)   No sign shall be permitted that contains or consists of banners,
posters, ribbons, balloons, streamers, pennants, spinning parts or other
similarly moving devices or ornamentation, except as specifically provided
herein;
      (5)   No sign shall be permitted which contains or utilizes revolving or
rotating beams of light. No flashing sign shall be erected. Also prohibited are
portable spotlights or beacons used as advertising to draw attention to any
use;
      (6)   No signs or lettering shall be displayed on a vehicle or trailer
that is parked or located within 80 feet of the centerline of N.C. Highway 12
and on the same property as the business for which the sign is advertising,
unless there is no other feasible location to park the vehicle on the property;
      (7)   No sign shall be located in any public or private waterbody, canal,
ditch or other waterway, including the Atlantic Ocean and the surrounding
waters of the town. This prohibition does not apply to government signs;
      (8)   Temporary, portable signs including sandwich board, A-frame or wind
driven signs such as tethered balloons or other inflatable objects, except as
otherwise provided in this chapter. A-frame or sandwich board signage may be
permitted on decks and landings of commercial buildings, except as otherwise
prohibited herein, but may not be ground or roof mounted;
      (9)   All outdoor advertising structures (billboards or off-premises
signage) are prohibited. Any sign or outdoor advertising structure that
violates any provision of any law of the state relative to outdoor advertising
is prohibited;
      (10)   Roof signs that extend above the peak of the roof on which they
are attached or whose area exceeds individually or in aggregate 25% of the roof
area on which they are attached or more than 10% of the total roof area of an
individual building. Roof signs shall not be attached to flat roofs. Roof signs
shall in no case be taller than 10 feet from the lowest point of attachment to
the roof. The height of a roof sign measured from the ground to the top of the
sign cannot exceed the maximum height limit for the zoning district in which
the sign is permitted;
      (11)   Any form of signage on a telecommunications tower;
      (12)   Any form of signage on a wind energy facility or solar energy
system;
      (13)   Signs supported in whole or in part by water, air or gas in the
Ocean and Sound Overlay District;
      (14)   Signs directed toward any public trust area as defined by CAMA;
      (15)   Signs related to a minor home occupation;
      (16)   Signs imitating or closely resembling official traffic or
government signs or signals, excluding actual government signs;
      (17)   Electronic message board signs as defined in §
156.002; and
      (18)   Any other sign not expressly permitted by this section.
   (F)   Administration and permits.
      (1)   Sign permit and building permit. All signs greater than three
square feet except window signs permitted by this chapter and exempt signs
require a sign permit issued by the Zoning Administrator. No sign or outdoor
advertising structure shall be erected or attached to, suspended from or
supported on a building or structure, nor shall any existing sign or outdoor
advertising structure be structurally altered, remodeled or relocated, until a
sign permit has been issued by the Zoning Administrator. The Building Inspector
shall issue a building permit for the erection or construction only for a sign
which meets the requirements of this chapter and the Building Code of the State
of North Carolina. Applications for sign permit to construct, or alter the
structure of a sign shall be submitted to the town Zoning Administrator and
accompanied by a plan showing the following:
         (a)   Area of the sign;
         (b)   Size, character, general layout and designs of signs;
         (c)   The method and type of illumination, if any, and construction
specifications if applicable;
         (d)   The location proposed for the signs in relation to property
lines, zoning district boundaries, right-of-way lines, public waterways and
existing signs;
         (e)   A listing of all building and ground-mounted temporary and
permanent signage on the premises;
         (f)   Additional information that will enable the Zoning Administrator
to determine if the sign is to be erected in conformance with the requirements
of this chapter; and
         (g)   Payment of fee to obtain sign permit and building permit (if one
is required).
      (2)   Exemption from permits. The following types of signs are exempted
from the sign permit requirements, but must comply with all other requirements
of this chapter:
         (a)   Flags and other wind-driven devices, as defined in §
156.002 above, provided the standards of division (F)(4)(a) below are met;
         (b)   Any property for which a special event permit has been approved
may install temporary signs or banners provided such signs do not exceed 48
square feet in sign area and do not encroach on any public or private right-of-
way. These temporary signs or banners may be installed 10 business days before
the event or activity and must be removed within five business days following
the event or activity;
         (c)   Signs prohibiting persons from trespassing, hunting, fishing or
swimming and warning of dangerous animals, not to exceed 2 square feet in area
for each sign;
         (d)   Temporary window signage in conformance with the window signage
requirements in division (F)(3)(b)4. below; and
         (e)   Residential signs. The total number of temporary residential
signs shall not exceed three on any individual property. The following
residential signs shall not require a permit.
            1.   Temporary banners, flags and balloons, limited to 3
consecutive days' duration.
            2.   One non-illuminated sign per street frontage, not to exceed 6
square feet in sign area. Such signs must be mounted within a substantial wood
or metal frame (for example, typical signs used in the real estate industry for
advertising sales).
            3.   Temporary, non-illuminated, lightweight signs, not to exceed 2
square feet in sign area (similar to yard sale or open house signs).
            4.   Non-illuminated signs mounted to the wall of a residence, not
to exceed a total of 14 square feet in sign area.
            5.   Temporary signs less than 8 square feet in area, provided that
these signs shall be limited to 90 days duration and do not encroach on any
public or private right-of-way.
         (f)   Any property on which repair or construction work is actively
occurring may install one additional, non-illuminated sign for each street
frontage, not to exceed 12 square feet in sign area for residential signs or 24
square feet for commercial signs. The right to display this additional sign
ceases when the work is completed.
      (3)   Permanent signs that require a permit.
         (a)   Residential signs. The following residential signs shall require
a permit.
            1.   Residential identification signs. Maximum of two residential
identification signs per entrance, not to exceed 32 square feet each in sign
area.
            2.   Home occupation signs. Major home occupations approved per the
standards of §
156.136 are permitted to install a single, nonilluminated sign not exceeding
one square foot in area.
         (b)   Commercial signs. For each lot, tract or parcel in a commercial
zoning district, 2 square feet of business sign area may be allowed for each
linear foot of building frontage with a bona fide customer entrance. The sign
area may be in a single sign or in a combination of wall-mounted, projecting,
under-canopy, roof, porch or permanent window signs, subject to the following
additional limitations.
            1.   Freestanding signs. One freestanding sign per lot not to
exceed 64 square feet in area and not to exceed 12 feet in height shall be
permitted. A freestanding sign allowance is in addition to the commercial sign
allowance described in division (3)(b) above.
            2.   Wall-mounted signs. Signs placed against the exterior walls of
buildings shall not exceed in area 20% of the exposed finished wall surface
area on which they are attached. For multi-unit structures, the wall signage
standards may be divided among the businesses per agreement of the businesses
and property owner. Wall-mounted signs shall be flush-mounted against the plane
of a building wall and shall not extend beyond the perimeter of any building
edge, canopy border or roof line. Wall signs may be mounted to porch or deck
railings; however, in no instance shall there be more than ten square feet of
signage for each contiguous 12 linear feet section of railing. In cases where
there is less than 12 contiguous linear feet of railing present, signage shall
be limited to 20% of the area of the railing section to which it is attached.
            3.   Under-canopy signs. One under-canopy sign per occupancy, not
to exceed 4 square feet in sign area.
            4.   Permanent window signs. Permanent (permitted) and temporary
(exempt) window signs may be displayed on or adjacent to the interior windows
of business establishments provided that all window signs in aggregate shall
compose no more than 25% of the aggregate area of windows. The total area of
all window signs shall not exceed 50% of the maximum permitted building or
wall-mounted sign area for that business.
            5.   Roof signs. Roof signs shall not exceed individually or in
aggregate 25% of the roof area on which they are attached or more than 10% of
the total roof area of an individual building. Roof signs shall not extend
above the peak of the roof on which they are attached. Roof signs shall not be
attached to flat roofs. Roof signs shall in no case be taller than 10 feet from
the lowest point of attachment to the roof. The height of a roof sign measured
from the ground to the top of the sign cannot exceed the maximum height limit
for the zoning district in which the sign is permitted.
            6.   Porch signs. One porch sign per occupancy, not to exceed 24
inches in height. Porch signs may extend above the edge of the fascia of the
porch roof only and must designed so that the width of the porch sign is at
least four times its height but no greater than 5 times its height.
            7.   Special regulations and allowances for commercial signs.
               a.   Where an occupancy is on a corner or has more than one
street frontage, one additional freestanding sign and wall signs are allowed on
the additional frontage, but the total signage permitted is subject to the
limitations of §
156.124(F)(3)(b);
               b.   All awning, marquee and under-canopy signs shall have a
minimum clearance of 80 inches over any pedestrian use area;
               c.   Awning signs shall be considered wall signs and subject to
the same standards;
               d.   Notwithstanding the limit on sign area based on linear
frontage of the building as described in division (3)(b) above, any independent
retail business may have a minimum of 30 square feet of sign area. Further, in
a group development or multi-tenant building, signage may be distributed among
the tenants according to the aggregate building frontage and agreement for sign
allowance distribution between the tenants and the property owner; and
               e.   For group development projects, additional signs may be
installed within the lot in proximity to major internal pedestrian and
vehicular travelways. No such sign shall exceed 20 square feet in area and 8
feet in height for group development projects less than 5 acres in area or 30
square feet in area and eight feet in height for group development projects 5
acres or more in area, nor be located closer than 50 feet to any street. These
signs shall not be placed within 5 feet of the curb line of a service drive or
travel lane. No more than 1 such sign may be permitted for each 2 buildings in
a group development project. Freestanding signs may be permitted for group
development projects in addition to the single ground-mounted sign permitted
pursuant to division (F)(3)(b)1. The allowance for wall-mounted or freestanding
signs is in addition to the business sign allowance in division (F)(3)(b)
above.
      (4)   Temporary signs. The following non-illuminated temporary signs are
allowed provided that the standards contained herein are met and that permits,
if required, have been obtained.
         (a)   Flags and other wind devices. Ground-mounted and building-
mounted flagpoles are permitted as commercial signs, subject to the following
standards: flagpoles shall not exceed the maximum building height limit of the
applicable zoning district in which they are located. Roof-mounted flagpoles
are permitted only if the top of the pole is no higher than the building height
limit for the district in which it is located and provided all other
limitations of this chapter are met. No premises may display more than three
like signs, each flag and pole shall conform to the height and setback
restrictions of the zoning district in which they are located, and no like flag
shall exceed 24 square feet in area. In addition, for any commercial use on a
parcel, other flags may be permitted according to the following:
            1.   A maximum of 1 flag pole with no more than 2 flags per pole
shall be permitted for each 25 linear feet of road frontage. A nautical
flagpole with a yardarm or gaff shall be permitted to display no more than 5
flags per pole. Permits shall not be required for flags and flag poles;
however, the standards herein must be met;
            2.   Wind-driven devices such as windsocks, decorative banners and
similar devices (not including balloons and pennants) may be mounted to
buildings, decks and porches provided they are not placed above the eave line
of the roof on the building. Permits shall not be required for these devices;
however, the standards herein must be met;
            3.   Sails, sailboards, kites or other similar apparatus mounted on
the ground affixed to or in a similar fashion as flagpoles shall be considered
as flags and subject to these restrictions;
            4.   All flagpoles shall be located outside of any right-of-way or
easement area;
            5.   Flagpoles shall be located a minimum of 10 feet from all
property lines except that this setback shall not apply to property lines
abutting the sound; and
            6.   All flags and flag poles shall be maintained in good repair.
Flags and flag poles that are worn, torn, faded, tattered or in need of repair
shall be removed and repaired or replaced as soon as they reach that condition.
         (b)   Building-mounted banners as commercial signs provided that
banners do not exceed 32 square feet in area, are displayed for no more than
ten days at a time no more than 6 times per year with a minimum of 14 days
between banner display per business during the tourist season from Memorial Day
to Labor Day. These banners may be consecutive displays during the off-season,
not to exceed the maximum allowable days per year. These banners may be mounted
on the building or on deck railing or similar building features, or may be
ground-mounted with posts or affixed to a permitted ground-mounted sign,
subject to the location requirements of §
156.124(C)(1), provided that a permit has been approved by the Zoning
Administrator and applicable fees and deposits as established by the Town
Council to guarantee removal of those signs have been submitted.
      (5)   Nonconforming signs.
         (a)   Loss of non-conforming status. A non-conforming sign may lose
its nonconforming designation if:
            1.   The sign is relocated or replaced; or
            2.   The structure of the sign is altered in any way except towards
compliance with this chapter. This does not refer to change of copy or normal
maintenance but shall include sign re-facing.
         (b)   Maintenance and repair of non-conforming signs. Non-conforming
signs are subject to all requirements of this chapter regarding safety,
maintenance and repair. However, if the sign suffers damage or deterioration
equal to or in excess of 50% of the replacement value of the sign, it must be
removed or brought into conformance with this chapter.
         (c)   Other standards for non-conforming signs.
            1.   No replacement. Another non-conforming sign shall not replace
a nonconforming sign.
            2.   Repair. Minor repairs and maintenance of non-conforming signs
such as repainting the existing graphics, electrical repairs and neon tubing
repairs shall be permitted.
            3.   Alteration, relocation or replacement. Nonconforming signs,
which are structurally altered, relocated or replaced, shall comply in all
respects with the provisions of this chapter, except as specifically excepted
herein.
            4.   Legally established non-conforming uses. New signs related to
legally established non-conforming uses may be erected provided they comply
with the sign requirements of the district in which the use is located.
      (6)   Signs to be removed by Zoning Administrator.
         (a)   Signs unlawfully placed in any street right-of-way or on any
public property, including signs affixed to street signs and posts and traffic
signs and posts, on any public utility pole, or within 30 feet of the
centerline of any public thoroughfare may be removed by the Zoning
Administrator or his or her designee without notice.
         (b)   A sign so removed will be held for a period not to exceed ten
days and retrieval of the sign will incur a fee as prescribed in the adopted
schedule of fees. Removal and disposal of illegally placed signs or posting of
violation notices thereon shall not preclude the prosecution of any person for
illegally placing those signs.
      (7)   Sign special deviations. The Town Council may, by special use
permit, modify the requirements contained in this section in accordance with
the following provisions:
         (a)   Special use permits shall be granted only in accordance with the
procedures and limitations established for special use permits in §
156.155 below.
         (b)   Special use permits shall be granted only if:
            1.   The applicant has clearly demonstrated that requirements
contained in this section will present a unique burden due to unusual
topography, vegetation, building design or orientation, or lot shape; and
            2.   The Town Council has determined that the granting of a special
use permit will not be inconsistent with the CAMA Comprehensive & Land Use Plan
or the purpose of the sign regulations.
(Ord. 04-21, passed 10-6-2004, § 44; Ord. 05-09, passed 6-1-2005; Am. Ord. 08-
03, passed 7-2-2008; Am. Ord. 09-002, passed 4-8-2009; Am. Ord. 10-02, passed
4-7-2010; Am. Ord. 15-03, passed 3-4-2015; Am. Ord. 17-01, passed 4-5-2017; Am.
Ord. 17-04, passed 6-7-2017; Am. Ord. 21-01, passed 6-2-2021)
§ 156.131 OUTDOOR STORAGE, DISPLAY AND SALE OF GOODS.
   Temporary and permanent outdoor display, storage and sale of produce goods,
holiday goods, outdoor-related goods and general merchandise is permitted under
the limited conditions described in divisions (A) through (E) below, provided
that the sale of those goods is a permitted use in the applicable zoning
district. All other outdoor display, storage and sale of goods is prohibited,
except as otherwise permitted by the town code.
   (A)   Operational standards for the temporary outdoor display, storage and
sale of outdoor-related goods not contained within a permanent structure.
      (1)   Outdoor-related goods shall include, but are not limited to, goods
that are customarily used outside, including outdoor furniture, sporting goods
for outdoor sports activities, plants, flowers, fertilizers, mulch, sod,
gardening tools, lawn equipment, storage sheds, grills, snow blowers and
firewood, as determined by the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   Outdoor display, storage and/or sale of outdoor-related goods shall
be sold in connection with an established retail business on the same lot and
shall be permitted without specified duration.
      (3)   The proposed display, storage and/or sale area shall not impede
vehicular or pedestrian traffic and parking.
      (4)   The designated display, storage and/or sale area shall not be
located in required landscape or visual buffer areas.
      (5)   If applicable, building, electrical, fire prevention code and
hazardous use permits shall be obtained.
   (B)   Operational standards for the temporary outdoor display, storage and
sale of general merchandise.
      (1)   General merchandise that is displayed and offered for sale outdoors
shall include goods that are customarily sold in connection with an established
retail business on the same lot. Examples of displays that may be permitted
include sidewalk sales and tent sales.
      (2)   The outdoor display, storage and sale of general merchandise/goods
shall be permitted for a period not to exceed 3 days 4 times per year.
      (3)   The proposed display, storage and sale area shall not impede
vehicular or pedestrian traffic and required parking (unless replaced with
substitute spaces on or off-site, subject to Zoning Administrator approval).
      (4)   The designated display, storage and sale area shall not be located
within required landscape or visual buffer areas.
      (5)   If applicable, building, electrical, fire prevention code and
hazardous use permits shall be obtained.
      (6)   Limited outdoor display of general merchandise on covered porches
and deck areas immediately adjacent to established retail businesses shall be
permitted, subject to other ordinance limitations or any conditions of
development or use approval actions, provided the display does not impede
pedestrian traffic or handicapped access and provided the merchandise is
displayed only when the business is open. After business hours, the merchandise
is to be taken indoors. Any display devices such as tables or crates must be
either taken indoors when the business associated therewith is closed or
appropriately secured to the building or ground.
   (C)   Operational standards for the temporary outdoor display, storage and
sale of produce goods and holiday goods sold at independent stands.
      (1)   Produce goods shall include fruits and vegetables and other similar
goods, subject to approval of the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   Holiday goods shall include, but are not limited to, Christmas
trees and pumpkins, as determined by the Zoning Administrator.
      (3)   The outdoor display, storage and/or sale of produce goods and/or
holiday goods shall be permitted for a period not to exceed 30 consecutive days
4 times per year.
      (4)   A temporary occupancy permit for outdoor storage shall be obtained
prior to the commencement of any outdoor display, storage and/or sale of goods,
except for outdoor storage facilities appurtenant to retail facilities with
approved permanent outdoor storage facilities, governed by division (E) below.
      (5)   Prior to the issuance of any temporary occupancy permit for outdoor
storage, a plan shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator that designates
the display, storage and sale area to be used. The plan shall include the
property owner’s written permission and shall indicate compliance with setbacks
and parking requirements. In addition, the plan shall illustrate the location
of any proposed signage, structures and/or stands.
      (6)   The proposed display, storage and/or sale area shall not impede
vehicular or pedestrian traffic and parking.
      (7)   The designated display, storage and/or sale area shall not be
located within required landscape areas.
      (8)   A refundable cleanup fee in accordance with the adopted fee
schedule of the town shall be deposited prior to the issuance of a temporary
nonresidential use permit for outdoor storage, display or sales. Any
structures, stands and accessory materials shall be removed and the property
cleaned up within 3 days of the temporary occupancy permit termination date in
order for the deposit to be refunded.
      (9)   If applicable, building, electrical, fire prevention code and
hazardous use permits shall be obtained.
      (10)   No temporary occupancy permit shall be issued until the applicant
provides a signed statement indicating his or her knowledge of and intention to
comply with business license and peddlers permit requirements.
      (11)   The requirements for fees and permits are not applicable to
displays that are incidental to the main retail business operating at the site.
   (D)   Operational standards for the temporary outdoor storage of crates,
trailers and similar storage units. Temporary outdoor storage in crates,
trailers and similar storage units for the purpose of storing supplies or
excess inventory to be sold in connection with an established business is not
permitted.
   (E)   Operational standards for the permanent outdoor display, storage and
sale of outdoor-related goods contained within a permanent structure.
      (1)   Outdoor-related goods shall include, but are not limited to, goods
that are customarily used outside, including outdoor furniture, sporting goods
for outdoor sports activities, plants, flowers, fertilizers, mulch, sod,
gardening tools, lawn equipment, storage sheds, grills, snow blowers and
firewood, but do not include the display of motor vehicles.
      (2)   The designated outdoor display, storage and/or sale area shall
comply with parking requirements and setback regulations.
      (3)   The designated outdoor display, storage and/or sale area shall not
be located within required landscape areas.
      (4)   A site layout plan shall be submitted to the Planning Board for
approval prior to construction of any structure designed for permanent outdoor
display, storage and sale of outdoor-related goods.
      (5)   In zoning districts with architectural review standards, all
structures, stands, screening and accessory materials associated with the
permanent outdoor display and storage of outdoor-related goods shall be subject
to architectural review. The requirement for architectural review shall not
apply to display fixtures that are appropriately screened from public view.
      (6)   If applicable, building, electrical, fire prevention code and
hazardous use permits shall be obtained.
   (F)   Exemptions. Town-sponsored events such as outdoor festivals are
subject to review and approval of the Town Manager and are exempt from the
permitting requirements and limitations of this section.
(Ord. 04-21, passed 10-6-2004, § 44.1)
§ 156.132 DISH ANTENNAS.
   (A)   Intent. The intent of this section is to provide for proper location,
height and size of dish antennas so as not to impose unreasonable limitations
on or prevent the reception of satellite delivered signals by receive-only
antennas.
   (B)   General requirements. A building permit is required when installing or
moving a dish antenna greater than 1 meter (39.37 inches) in diameter.
   (C)   Location in yards. A dish antenna greater than 1 meter (39.37 inches)
in diameter shall be installed in the rear and side yards only.
   (D)   Setback requirements. The setback of a dish antenna shall be measured
from the center mounting post supporting the antenna.
      (1)   The minimum required setback for dish antennas from side lot lines
shall be the same as for the principal building, but in no case shall any part
of the antenna be located closer than 5 feet to the property line.
      (2)   The minimum required setback for dish antennas from the rear lot
line shall be 10 feet, but in no case shall any part of the antenna be located
closer than 5 feet to the property line.
   (E)   Maximum height requirements. The following height restrictions shall
apply:
      (1)   In residential districts and in areas zoned S-1, the maximum height
of a dish antenna installed on the ground shall be 15 feet. If installed on the
roof, the dish shall not be greater than 1 meter (39.37 inches) in diameter;
shall not project higher than 5 feet above the actual height of the building;
and shall be set back from the front and sides of the building at least 10
feet; and
      (2)   In commercial districts, the maximum height of dish antennas on the
ground shall be 20 feet. If installed on the roof, the dish shall not be larger
than 12 feet in diameter; shall not project higher than 5 feet above the actual
height of the building; and shall be set back from the sides of the building at
least 15 feet. Dish antennas may be placed on a communications tower and/or
water tower, subject to the regulations contained in §
156.058 above. Commercial dish antennas shall not be used for any advertising
purposes.
   (F)   Other general information. The standards for this section shall apply
to all dish antennas installed after November 21, 1994. All dish antennas
existing prior to November 21, 1994 shall be considered pre-existing and are
exempt from these regulations.
(Ord. 04-21, passed 10-6-2004, § 45)
§ 156.133 OUTDOOR LIGHTING.
   (A)   Intent and purpose.
      (1)   The intent of this section is to set standards for outdoor lighting
at proper intensities so as to adequately serve the intended use and not
unreasonably interfere with the use and enjoyment of neighboring properties. It
is further intended that the standards shall preserve the visual integrity of
the nighttime environment by reducing glare and maintaining the character and
integrity of the coastal village.
      (2)   The purpose is to regulate artificial lighting devices and
encourage lighting that enhances visual performance and safety, particularly
the illumination of buildings and landscaping, lighting of parking areas,
loading zones, open canopies and signs.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      FOOT-CANDLE. The measurement unit indicating quantity of light on a
surface area, particularly intensity of light (see lumen) per square foot area.
The term “maintained foot-candle” is used to denote adjustment for dirt build
up or fixture aging (a depreciation factor).
      FULLY SHIELDED. A light fixture whose housing is horizontal and opaque on
top so that light is spread below and around but not above.
      GLARE. The experience of luminance within a visual field significantly
greater than lighting to which eyes are accustomed causing loss of visual
performance and discomfort.
      LIGHT FIXTURES. Any electrically powered illuminating device, reflective
surface, lamp or any similar device used for illumination or advertisement.
      LUMEN. The unit measuring the quantity and intensity of light emitted by
a light source, especially as it falls on a surface area. The lowest quantity
of light on 1 square foot area is termed 1 foot-candle.
      RECESSED or FLUSH MOUNTED. A fixture mounted above the ceiling with the
opening, lens or cover of the fixture recessed or level with the ceiling
surface whereby all light is emitted below the horizontal plane.
      STRUCTURE OUTLINING.
         (a)   Exposed or channel neon, argon, krypton or similar gas tube
lighting attached to and outlining a structure or building so as to direct
attention to the same.
         (b)   Any light source that illuminates a translucent 2 or 3
dimensional surface, or object, that is not part of a permitted sign and
directs attention to a building or structure.
   (C)   Lighting prohibited:
      (1)   Light fixtures which imitate official highway or traffic control
lights or signs;
      (2)   Light fixtures in the direct line of vision with any traffic
control lights or signs or that interfere with drivers’ vision, subject to the
Zoning Administrator’s determination;
      (3)   Light fixtures with blinking, flashing or intermittent
illumination;
      (4)   Light fixtures that violate any law of the State of North Carolina;
      (5)   Illumination of public beach or estuarine waters from uses which
are not water dependent shall be prohibited;
      (6)   Light fixtures which are a source of glare by their design,
orientation or intensity; and
      (7)   Structure outlining is prohibited. However, temporary holiday
lighting is permitted to outline buildings for a total of no more than 60 days
between November 15 and January 15, provided that individual lamps are 10 watts
or less.
   (D)   General provisions.
      (1)   Lighting fixtures shall be located on the site and designed,
shielded or oriented in a manner so as to minimize light spill across property
lines and prevent glare at any location on or off the property.
      (2)   All wiring to light fixtures not located on a building shall be
placed underground.
      (3)   Principal buildings shall provide security lighting.
      (4)   No light fixtures shall exceed 18 feet in height.
      (5)   Commercial buildings with more than 50% glass on any exterior wall
must have a shield or be oriented in a manner so as to minimize light spill
across property lines and prevent glare at any location on or off the property.
      (6)   Light fixtures and supporting structures shall be designed and
constructed to comply with North Carolina State Building Code requirements.
      (7)    For any special use, an outdoor lighting plan shall be submitted
in conjunction with the submission of a site plan for Town Council review. For
those projects not subject to special use permit review, an outdoor lighting
plan may be required for those projects that feature a total of 10 or more
exterior light fixtures as depicted on the site plans and/or building plans.
   (E)   Application standards. These are based on use and anticipated activity
as follows:
      (1)   High levels of activity including gas stations, convenience stores,
restaurants, drive-through eating places and banks;
      (2)   Medium level after-dark activity includes retail and shopping
centers, hospitality establishments, health clinics and indoor recreational
uses; and
      (3)   Low-level activity includes professional offices, churches and
private clubs.
   (F)   Specific lighting standards.
      (1)   Canopy lighting. Open canopies located over automobile service
stations, gas pumps and drive through banking facilities. Only the area
directly below a canopy may be illuminated and shall have maximum foot-candles
of 10. Parking spaces not located directly beneath the canopy shall be lighted
in accordance with standard parking areas.
      (2)   Security lighting. To be used for protection of people and property
including illumination above doorways and entries. Security lighting shall not
exceed 8 maintained foot-candles. Areas solely for pedestrian circulation,
walkways, shall be provided with security level illumination.
      (3)   Architectural and interior lighting. Light fixtures mounted on a
building shall be recessed, fully shielded or directed to the wall surface.
Floodlights may be utilized to up light opaque wall surfaces from the ground.
The maximum vertical illumination, of an entrance facade shall not exceed 5
average maintained foot-candles. When a single wall surface area of a building
is 50% glass or greater, or when interior light fixtures are visible from the
property line or off-site location, the interior light fixtures shall be fully
shielded to prevent line of sight contact with light source lens or opening.
Further, a canopy or overhang of not less than 4 feet shall deflect any glare.
      (4)   Outdoor recreational uses. Sports floodlight fixtures may be
utilized provided they shall be hooded and directed or shielded that the light
source cannot be viewed directly from adjacent properties and streets.
   (G)   Lighting allowances by foot-candle.
Use Maximum
Use                        Maximum
Service station (canopy)   10
Restaurant                 8
Retail                     8
Parking lots               8
Architectural surface area 5
Walkways                   .5
Security                   8
 
   (H)   Measurements. Measurements are to be made in foot-candles with a
direct reading, portable light meter. Unless otherwise specified, the meter
sensor shall be mounted not more than 6 inches above ground level in a
horizontal position to measure horizontal illumination. Vertical illumination
shall be measured at a height of 5 feet with the sensor mounted not more than 6
inches from the wall surface and the meter sensor in the vertical position.
   (I)   Nonconforming fixtures. Any existing light fixtures that do not
conform with the standards of these lighting regulations shall be non-
conforming fixtures and may continue in operation until May 7, 2006. Any non-
conforming fixtures that are destroyed or removed must be replaced in
conformance with these standards. Outdoor lighting for yards, signs,
advertising structures, parking lots and other areas must be oriented or
shielded so that the light and glare reflects away from streets and adjacent
property.
(Ord. 04-21, passed 10-6-2004, § 46; Am. Ord. 17-04, passed 6-7-2017; Am. Ord.
21-01, passed 6-2-2021)
§ 156.134 PROHIBITED USE OF MAJOR RECREATIONAL EQUIPMENT PARKED OR STORED.
   For the purpose of this chapter, MAJOR RECREATIONAL EQUIPMENT is defined as
including boats and boat trailers, pickup campers or coaches, designed to be
mounted on automotive vehicles, motorized dwellings, tent trailers and the
like, and cases or boxes used for transporting recreational equipment whether
occupied by that equipment or not. Major recreational equipment parked or
stored on residential premises shall not be used on the premises for living,
sleeping or housekeeping purposes.
(Ord. 04-21, passed 10-6-2004, § 47)
§ 156.135 ACCESS TO N.C. HIGHWAY 12.
   Due to the limited amount of land available within the zoned areas of the
town for major thoroughfare rights-of-way and the traffic hazard involved in
frequent entrances and exits from a major thoroughfare, it is the intent of
this chapter to keep driveways and street intersections along N.C. Highway 12
to the minimum possible. In any district established by this chapter where a
lot abutting N.C. Highway 12 also abuts any other dedicated public right-of-way
or platted private street or road in a community of which the lot is a part,
the right-of-way or private street or road shall be used for access rather than
N.C. Highway 12.
(Ord. 04-21, passed 10-6-2004, § 48)
§ 156.136 MAJOR AND MINOR HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   (A)   Major home occupations are subject to the following operational
standards:
      (1)   The use shall be conducted entirely within a dwelling unit which is
the bona fide primary residence of the professional person and in which he or
she does in fact reside during nonbusiness hours;
      (2)   The use shall comprise no more than 25% of the gross floor area of
the principal dwelling, excluding attached garages;
      (3)   The professional person shall engage no more than 2 employees in
the occupation on the premises;
      (4)   There shall be no display of goods, tools, equipment, commercial
vehicles or advertising other than a single sign subject to the standards
outlined in §
156.130; and
      (5)   No person shall conduct a home occupation without obtaining the
appropriate business, service or occupational license required by law. All home
occupations shall comply with applicable state, federal and local regulations.
   (B)   Minor home occupations are subject to the following operational
standards:
      (1)   No person other than a member of the family residing on the
premises shall be engaged in the occupation or business on the premises;
      (2)   There shall be no visible evidence (including signs of any size) of
the minor home occupation in the outside appearance of the premises;
      (3)   The minor home occupation shall generate no greater volume of
traffic than would normally be expected from a single-family residence, subject
to the additional operational standards for home businesses and student
instruction and consistent with the residential character of the neighborhood;
      (4)   The business or commercial use shall not generate any need for off-
street parking spaces;
      (5)   No equipment shall be used other than that normally used for
domestic, hobby, household or small office purposes in a single-family
residence;
      (6)   The street address of a home occupation business shall not be
advertised to the general public in newspaper, radio or television
advertisements. This provision shall not be construed to prohibit address
listing in telephone directories, on business cards, or in communication with
customers, suppliers or professional colleagues, nor shall it prohibit
referrals to individual consultants from corporate internet sites by customer
inquiry;
      (7)   No person shall conduct a home occupation without obtaining any
appropriate business, service or occupational license required by law. All home
occupations shall comply with applicable state, federal and local regulations;
      (8)   The receipt or delivery of merchandise, goods or supplies for use
in a home occupation shall be limited to the United States mail, similar parcel
delivery service, or private vehicles with a gross vehicle weight rating of
10,000 pounds or less;
      (9)   No stock in trade shall be displayed or offered for public retail
sale on the premises; however goods may be stored for sale subject to the
additional limitations for minor home occupations (businesses such as cosmetic
and plasticware or housewares party sales). The storage of hazardous materials
shall be prohibited;
      (10)   It shall be understood that sales and delivery of products are
primarily away from the residence or by mail. Sales of goods on the premises
shall be limited to goods ordered previously by established customers by mail,
telephone, internet or at a sales meeting; and
      (11)   No more than 25% of the floor area of the principal dwelling unit
shall be used to conduct the home occupation and store stock in trade subject
to applicable federal, state and local regulations;
(Ord. 04-21, passed 10-6-2004, § 2; Am. Ord. 17-04, passed 6-7-2017)
§ 156.137 TREE AND VEGETATION PRESERVATION AND PLANNING.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The purpose of this section is to preserve, protect, and replace
trees and vegetation within the town because such plantings:
         (a)   Are an important public resource;
         (b)   Preserve and enhance the town's physical and aesthetic
environment, especially its natural and unique atmosphere;
         (c)   Enhance the air quality by filtering air pollutants;
         (d)   Reduce topsoil erosion by the holding effect of their roots;
         (e)   Reduce storm water runoff;
         (f)   Provide a buffer and screen against noise pollution;
         (g)   Reduce energy consumption by acting as a wind break and
producing shade;
         (h)   Preserve and enhance nesting areas for birds and other wildlife
which, in turn, assist in the control of insects;
         (i)   Protect and enhance property values;
         (j)   Protect and enhance the quality of life and the general welfare
of the town; and
         (k)   Improve the compatibility of uses by providing privacy and
enhancing the aesthetic transition between uses.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, TREE is defined as a self-
supporting, woody plant, together with its root system, having a well-defined
stem or trunk or a multi-stemmed trunk system, a more or less well-defined
crown, and a mature height of at least 8 feet. TREE does not include trees in
containers or nursery stock trees kept or maintained for resale. VEGETATION is
herein defined as perennial bushes and shrubs or ornamental or other grasses
meeting minimum size requirements at planting.
      (3)   Multi-trunk trees.
         (a)   For the purposes of this section, MULTI-TRUNK TREES are defined
as trees that have more than 1 trunk growing from a single root mass or trees
that split into multiple stems below breast height (4 1/2 feet above ground).
         (b)   The diameter at breast height of multi-trunk trees shall be
measured according to the following formula from the U.S. Forest Service
National Core Field Guide: the dbh for a multi-trunk tree is calculated by
taking the square root of the sum of squared dbhs of all trunks. The following
example shows how this formula is intended to be applied:
            Example: multi-trunk tree with four 10-inch trunks
            1.   Find square of each trunk. l0 x 10 = 100
            2.   Add squared numbers together. 100 + 100 + 100 + 100 = 400
            3.   Calculate square root of total. Square root of 400 = 20
            4.   This multi-stem tree would be measured as a 20 inch dbh tree.
         (c)   Preserving some trunks of a multi-trunk tree is preferable to
removal of the entire tree. The Director is authorized to allow the pruning or
removal of an individual trunk to accommodate reasonable development of a
property.
   (B)   Clear cutting. On a vacant, undeveloped parcel, removal of any tree
greater than 6 inches in diameter at breast height is prohibited except after
receiving an approved development site plan and issued building permit, an
approved tree management plan and any required tree removal permit.
   (C)   Tree removal permit.
      (1)   Permit required. No person shall remove or destroy any tree which
is 24 inches or greater diameter at breast height on any lot without first
obtaining a tree removal permit from the Zoning Administrator in accordance
with the procedures set forth in this section. Further, no person shall remove
or destroy any tree located in the common open space of any development without
first obtaining a tree removal permit.
      (2)   Issuance of permit. Tree removal permits shall be issued only after
the Zoning Administrator has received the required tree management plan and a
completed application for such permit which has been signed by the property
owner. In determining whether to grant or deny a permit, the Zoning
Administrator shall consider:
         (a)   The effect of the proposed tree removal upon the stabilization
of soil;
         (b)   The intended use of the property and feasible alternatives which
would preserve existing trees;
         (c)   The existing topography, proposed changes in the topography and
proposed landscaping;
         (d)   The hardship imposed or the reasonable use denied to the
applicant as a result of permit denial;
         (e)   Historical value of the trees;
         (f)   Good horticultural and forestry practices;
         (g)   The effect of the proposed tree removal on the deadening and
absorption of sound;
         (h)   The likelihood that the proposed action will adversely affect
the control of flooding or soil erosion;
         (i)   The impact of such action on surrounding property or persons;
         (j)   The consistency of the proposed action with the purpose of this
section.
      (3)   (a)   A permit shall expire and become null and void if work
authorized is not commenced within 6 months from the date of the permit or if
such work when commenced is suspended or abandoned at any time for a period of
6 months;
         (b)   If work has commenced and the permit becomes null and void or
expires because of lack of progress or abandonment, a new permit for the
proposed tree removal activity shall be obtained before proceeding with further
work.
      (4)   Removal of any size tree where the tree trunk is within 10 feet of
a structure shall be allowed without a permit.
   (D)   Tree emergency exception.
      (1)   A tree emergency shall be deemed to exist when:
         (a)   A tree has become an imminent danger or hazard to persons or
property as a result of fire, motor vehicle accident, or natural occurrence
such as lightning, windstorm, ice storm, flood, or other similar event; or
         (b)   A tree must be removed in order to perform emergency repair or
replacement of public or private water, sewer, electric, gas, or
telecommunications utilities.
      (2)   In the case of a tree emergency, the Director is hereby authorized
to:
         (a)   Issue a tree removal permit without an application;
         (b)   Waive the requirement for a tree removal permit set forth in
this section; or
         (c)   Waive any of the other regulations of this section.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any other regulations, a person otherwise required
to obtain a tree removal permit may take any reasonable action necessary to
avoid or eliminate the immediate danger or hazard, or conduct emergency repair
or replacement of the public or private utility. The person taking such action
shall file an application for a tree removal permit within 72 hours after a
tree is removed in a tree emergency.
      (4)   In these instances, documentation of the need for the emergency
tree removal must be provided. Such documentation can include (as applicable):
         (a)   Documentation from a certified arborist;
         (b)   Police report;
         (c)   Photographs; and/or
         (d)   Other information documenting the condition of the tree and
circumstances surrounding its removal.
   (E)   Vegetation management plan required for new development and
substantial redevelopment. Any addition to the footprint of a structure,
increases in lot coverage, changes to driveway and parking areas, or total
renovation cost greater than or equal to 50% of the assessed value of the
principal structure and for tree removal permits as required in division (C)
(1).
      (1)   Any applicant proposing to remove or destroy existing trees or
vegetation in conjunction with any land development activity, including the
moving of buildings, shall submit a vegetation management plan containing such
of the following information as deemed necessary by the Director:
         (a)   The location, size and species of all trees which are at least 6
inches diameter at breast height, indicating which are to be preserved, which
are to be removed, and a description of the condition of trees or vegetation
that are to be preserved;
         (b)   Specifications for the removal of trees and protection of trees
during construction;
         (c)   Proposed grade changes or other potentially injurious work
adjacent to trees or vegetation designated for preservation with specifications
for maintaining ground drainage and aeration around such trees;
         (d)   The location, size and species of all vegetation to be planted;
         (e)   An estimate of the vegetation canopy coverage to be provided as
required in division (G) via retention or new planting; and
         (f)   Such other information that the Director deems essential.
      (2)   Any applicant proposing to remove or destroy multiple existing
trees or substantial vegetation on a developed lot not in conjunction with a
land development activity shall ensure that the total vegetation cover on the
property is equal to or greater than the minimum requirement through retention
of existing vegetation or planting of new vegetation to meet ordinance
requirements.
      (3)   Although not required, any person or firm subject to the
requirements of this chapter is encouraged to seek professional assistance from
a certified arborist, landscape architect, or similar professional.
   (F)   Acts harmful to trees.
      (1)   No person shall abuse, mutilate or otherwise damage any tree or
vegetation located on public property, or any tree or vegetation protected by
this section, including those located in the public right-of-way along street
frontages within subdivisions. However, nothing in this section shall be
construed to prevent reasonable and proper trimming of trees or vegetation
located on public property by authorized persons in accordance with accepted
horticultural practices.
      (2)   No person shall attach any sign, notice, placard, electrical wire
or other injurious device to any tree, nor shall any person cause any substance
harmful to trees to come in contact with them, or prevent water and oxygen from
reaching their roots.
   (G)   Canopy cover required.
      (1)   New development and substantial redevelopment as defined in §
156.137(E) on any property shall provide for the planting or retention of trees
(or approved substitute vegetation in the "Town of Duck Vegetation Planting
Guidelines") on the site to provide for a minimum vegetative lot coverage as
follows:
         (a)   Ten percent for a lot within any commercial zoning district;
         (b)   Fifteen percent for a residential lot; and
         (c)   Required vegetative lot coverage will be calculated based on the
total lot area minus the footprint of the principal building.
      (2)   To meet the minimum requirements of this division, vegetative lot
coverage shall be calculated using the following methods:
         (a)   Vegetation that is newly planted to meet vegetative lot coverage
requirements shall include only vegetation on an approved list of local
vegetation, as provided in the "Town of Duck Vegetation Planting Guidelines,"
or other trees, bushes, shrubs, or grasses as approved by the Zoning
Administrator upon submission of a landscape plan with assessment of local
hardiness and calculation of canopy. All vegetation planted to meet these
requirements shall be a minimum size as specified in the "Town of Duck
Vegetation Planting Guidelines" and shall be planted as described in the
technical standards included within the guidelines. Palm trees and tropical
vegetation cannot be counted to meet vegetative lot coverage requirements. The
plant list contained in the "Town of Duck Vegetation Planting Guidelines"
defines the plant species that are included within each category. If the canopy
coverage is accomplished by installation, canopy credit shall be provided based
on the categories listed below:
            1.   Large trees, provide a 400 square foot canopy credit.
            2.   Small trees, provide a 200 square foot canopy credit.
            3.   Mulched bushes or shrubs (18-24 inches minimum height at
planting or a 3 gallon size) provide a 40 square foot canopy credit.
            4.   Ornamental grasses (18-24 inches minimum height at planting or
of a 3-gallon size) provide a 20 square foot canopy credit. Credit for smaller
coastal grasses and forbs, such as American Beach Grass, will be provided at
100 sprigs or plants for every 100 square feet of lot area. Credit will not be
provided for retention of existing vegetation in oceanfront areas within the
CAMA small structure setback.
         (b)   Existing vegetation that is retained to meet vegetative lot
coverage requirements may be calculated based on the methods described in
division (a) above based on the allowable square footage as shown for large and
small trees, shrubs, and grasses. Areas of significant, mature vegetation that
will remain undisturbed may also be calculated on a square foot basis by
determining the area within the perimeter surrounding the vegetation to be
retained. Existing vegetation to be retained need not be on the approved list
of local vegetation as provided in the "Town of Duck Vegetation Planting
Guidelines," provided it is a native or locally adaptive plant species.
         (c)   For trees to be eligible for any tree canopy cover credit, the
required amount of open soil surface must be present and protected around the
tree. The area of vegetative canopy cover for which credit is given shall
always remain in vegetative cover and there shall be no other use of the area
other than for vegetation growth or passive recreation except as otherwise
provided herein. Developed properties shall be required to maintain the minimum
vegetative canopy described above and must provide for replacement of or
vegetations that are removed, per division (E)(2).
   (H)   Vegetation protection during and post development.
      (1)   During development or razing activity, the builder shall install
effective dripline protection around all vegetation preservation areas, and
shall further install tree wells, retaining walls, construction fencing, or
other structures necessary to protect individual trees designated for
preservation. The protective measures shall be specified on the vegetation
management plan and shall be designed and installed in a manner consistent with
good horticultural practices and subject to the approval of the site plan
approving agent.
      (2)   If vegetation is not listed for removal on the tree removal permit
but is destroyed or receives major damage due to construction activities, it
must be replaced with vegetation sufficient to reach the required vegetation
canopy, subject to review and approval of the Zoning Administrator.
      (3)   Trees conserved and planted to meet vegetation canopy requirements
shall be actively protected during development activity and passively protected
throughout their life in accordance with requirements for protected trees set
forth below:
         (a)   Prohibited activities. During lot clearing, grading, building,
and all construction activities, the following activities and conditions, and
any other activities and conditions harmful to a tree's roots, trunk, or crown,
within the vegetation protection zone are prohibited:
            1.   Vehicle or equipment traffic, parking, or storage, except as
provided for in limited activities below;
            2.   Materials or supplies storage;
            3.   Placement of temporary or permanent structures;
            4.   Equipment maintenance or washout;
            5.   Wounding of trunk;
            6.   Wounding or breakage of scaffold limbs or branches greater
than 6 inches in diameter; and
            7.   Fires; excessive heat from equipment exhaust pipes.
         (b)   Limited activities. During lot clearing, grading, building, and
all construction activities, the following activities and conditions within the
vegetation protection zone are limited to 1 side of the tree in the outer half
of the dripline, but in no case closer than 2 1/2 feet to the trunk of a
planted tree and 10 feet to the trunk of a conserved tree:
            1.   Site or lot clearing or grubbing;
            2.   Soil excavation;
            3.   Soil cuts;
            4.   Soil fill;
            5.   Grading;
            6.   Trenching;
            7.   Tilling;
            8.   Edging;
            9.   Soil compaction;
            10.   Top dressing with soil greater than 2 inches in depth; and
            11.   Paving.
   (I)   Preservation of special trees.
      (1)   The Town Council may, by ordinance, designate any tree as a
heritage, memorial, or designated specimen tree. A heritage tree means any tree
which the Town Council has designated by ordinance to have notable historic or
cultural interest. A memorial tree means any tree which the Town Council has
designated by ordinance to be a special commemorating memorial. A designated
specimen tree means any tree which the Town Council has designated by ordinance
to be notable by virtue of its outstanding size and quality for its particular
species. No designated tree shall be removed, damaged or disturbed in any way
unless the Town Council finds that:
         (a)   There is an overriding need for public improvements;
         (b)   A severe hardship exists in developing a site; or
         (c)   The tree dies, becomes irreversibly diseased or irreversibly
damaged by natural causes. In permitting such action, the Town Council may
require that the tree be relocated on-site or to another site designated by the
town, or be replaced with a similar tree or trees to approximate the canopy
lost.
      (2)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
         (a)   Work conducted on federal, state, or local government owned
property;
         (b)   Emergency work to protect life, limb or property; and
         (c)   Routine installation, maintenance and repair of utilities.
   (J)   Violations and penalties.
      (1)   It shall be a violation for any person to remove a tree without
having first obtained a tree removal permit, if so required under the
provisions of §§
156.115 and
156.137 of the Town Code. It shall be a violation for a property owner to
employ, authorize or direct any third person or entity to remove a tree without
having first obtained a tree removal permit, if so required under the
provisions of this section.
      (2)   A separate violation shall be deemed to have occurred for each tree
removed without a tree removal permit in violation of the provisions of this
section.
      (3)   Each violation of the tree removal permit requirements of this
section shall subject the offender to a civil penalty in the amount of $1,000.
      (4)   Removal of a tree greater than 6 inches in diameter at breast
height on any vacant, undeveloped parcel without the necessary permits and
approvals as defined above in §
156.137(B), shall subject the offender to a civil penalty according to the
following procedure.
         (a)   If the number and type of removed trees and/or vegetation can be
determined, the civil penalty shall be assessed as follows:
            1.   Unauthorized removal of large trees as defined by the "Town of
Duck Vegetation Planting Guidelines" shall subject the offender to a civil
penalty in the amount of $400 per tree.
            2.   Unauthorized removal of small trees as defined by the "Town of
Duck Vegetation Planting Guidelines" shall subject the offender to a civil
penalty in the amount of $200 per tree.
            3.   Unauthorized removal of shrubs as defined by the "Town of Duck
Vegetation Planting Guidelines" shall subject the offender to a civil penalty
in the amount of $40 per shrub.
         (b)   If the number and type of removed trees and/or vegetation cannot
be determined, a civil penalty can be determined based on the square footage of
disturbed area and/or area of canopy coverage removed. The penalty shall be
equal to $1 for every 1 square foot of canopy coverage removed. In no instance
shall the civil penalty exceed $5,000.
      (5)   Unauthorized removal of trees and vegetation shall also subject the
offender to mitigation requirements as specified herein.
         (a)   When dealing with violations of clear-cutting standards under §
156.137(B) or canopy coverage standards in §
156.137(G), the required canopy coverage of replacement trees shall be no less
than the canopy coverage which has been determined to have been removed for the
assessment of the required civil penalty. The mitigation requirements shall be
calculated using the formula to determine canopy coverage as defined above in §
156.137(G). Replacement trees and vegetation, to the extent that it can be
determined, shall of a similar type to that which has been removed.
         (b)   When dealing with tree removal violations of §
156.137(C), the diameter at breast height measurement of the trunk shall be
used to determine the number of replacement trees. Trees of similar type must
be planted such that the total caliper inches of trees planted is no less than
the dbh of the tree(s) removed. In cases where the size of an individual tree
(s) cannot be determined, the canopy coverage of replacement trees and
vegetation shall be no less than the canopy coverage which has been determined
to have been removed for the assessment of the required civil penalty.
         (c)   The size of such replacement trees at the time of installation
shall be a minimum of 2 inches in caliper. Each tree must be planted at least
30 feet from any other tree.
      (6)   If in the determination of the Zoning Administrator, the site
cannot reasonably accommodate the required numbers of replacement trees, then
only the amount of trees which can be accommodated on the site will be replaced
and the remainder of replacement trees and vegetation shall be mitigated
through a payment in lieu of providing on-site trees. This payment shall be
made to the Town of Duck to be used for tree and vegetation planting and
maintenance in public spaces. The amount of the payment shall be in accordance
with the costs for purchase, delivery, and planting of the required replacement
trees and vegetation.
   (K)   Conflicting provisions.
      (1)   Where provisions of this zoning chapter dictate conflicting
landscaping or screening requirements, the more stringent requirements shall
prevail.
      (2)   Except under the following conditions, no certificate of occupancy
or other final approval shall be issued until the relocation or replacement of
trees and/or vegetation, as required by the tree removal or vegetation
management plan, has been completed and the final approval has been given by
the Zoning Administrator. To address temporary adverse conditions during the
current planting season, at any time prior to the issuance of the certificate
of occupancy the property owner may request to defer installation of vegetation
for a period not to exceed 90 days beyond the date of the certificate of
occupancy. This request will be accompanied by the following:
         (a)   A cash deposit, an irrevocable letter of credit, or other
financial surety shall be provided to the town to be held until the planting is
completed. The amount shall be equal to $1 for every 1 square foot of canopy
coverage required to be installed to satisfy the canopy coverage requirements
as specified in the approved vegetation management plan.
         (b)   A signed memorandum of understanding between the property owner
or authorized agent and the town specifying the timeframe for installation of
all vegetation and the penalties for failing to abide by the terms of the
agreement. This agreement shall also include terms for refunding the cash
deposit upon verification of compliance with terms of the vegetation management
plan or tree removal permit.
   (L)   Special use permits. The Town Council may, upon application of the
property owner, grant special use permits modifying the requirements of this
section in accordance with the procedures and limitations established for
special use permits in §
156.155. Special use permits shall be granted only if the applicant has clearly
demonstrated a situation of extreme topography, unusual lot shape or
extraordinary circumstance. In addition, the requested special use permit shall
only be granted if the Town Council finds that the proposed development will
not be inconsistent with the Comprehensive & Land Use Plan and the purpose of
this section, and otherwise will not result in inadequate on-site amenity or
any condition which will adversely affect nearby property. Requests for special
use permits may be granted in whole, in modified form with conditions or denied
by the Town Council after consideration of the requisites presented in this
section.
   (M)   Irrigation. Vegetation that is well-adapted to the local environment
does not generally require irrigation. Irrigation systems are not required;
however, all irrigation systems installed subsequent to this section must meet
the requirements of this section. If irrigation systems are used, the preferred
source for their water is from individual or community wells rather than from
the county water supply. For irrigation systems which use county water, the
installation shall include rain sensors so that unnecessary watering does not
occur and thereby add to the local high ground water table. No components of an
individually owned private irrigation system shall be installed in any right-
of-way. Water from sprinkler heads of an irrigation system shall be
appropriately directed to retain the flow of water on the site for which it has
been installed and to avoid run-off to adjacent properties and rights-of-way.
(Ord. 07-05, passed 6-6-2007; Am. Ord. 08-01, passed 3-5-2008; Am. Ord. 10-03,
passed 3-3-2010; Am. Ord. 15-06, passed 6-3-2015; Am. Ord. 21-01, passed 6-2-
2021; Am. Ord. 25-01, passed 5-7-2025) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.138 WIND ENERGY FACILITIES.
   (A)   Purpose. To allow for the installation of wind energy facilities that
are appropriate within the Town of Duck as a supplemental means of on-site
electric power generation, while recognizing the public safety as well as the
land use and community compatibility issues that are associated with the
structural components of these facilities. This shall be achieved by
establishing standards to protect community and neighborhood aesthetics, public
safety, and to limit adverse impacts to adjacent property owners.
   (B)   Types of wind energy facilities permitted by zoning district.
Supplementary Wind Energy Facilities, as defined in §
156.002, shall be permitted in all zoning districts within the town. Commercial
Wind Energy Facilities are considered to be incompatible with development in
the Town of Duck and are hereby prohibited.
   (C)   Use guidelines and dimensional requirements.
      (1)   Height. Wind turbine structures shall not exceed the 5 feet above
the maximum height limitation established within each zoning district.
      (2)   Setbacks.
         (a)   Freestanding wind turbines shall be set back a distance of least
1.1 times the total height of the wind energy facility from:
            1.   The lot lines of the lot where the wind energy facility is
located.
            2.   The first line of stable natural vegetation of the Atlantic
Ocean beach. In no instance shall the wind energy facility be located within
the small structure setback established by the North Carolina Coastal Area
Management Authority (CAMA).
            3.   The normal water line of the Currituck Sound. In no instance
shall the wind energy facility be located within 30 feet of the normal water
line of the Currituck Sound.
         (b)   Roof-mounted wind turbines and other accessory components of
wind energy facilities shall be required to adhere to the minimum yard
requirements for principal structures established in each zoning district.
      (3)   Noise.
         (a)   The maximum audible sound resulting from all wind energy
facilities located on the same lot shall be 55 decibels (dBA) or 5 decibels
(dBA) above the existing ambient noise level, whichever is greater, measured at
the closest adjacent property line. The maximum audible sound shall be the
sound pressure level that is exceeded for more than 10% of the measurement
duration. This standard shall not apply to short-term events such as utility
outages and/or severe wind storms.
         (b)   When the town receives a complaint of noise generated from a
wind energy facility, the town shall perform a preliminary test using a decibel
meter to determine if the noise from the wind energy facility exceeds the
established level for maximum audible sound as defined in this section. If the
result of the preliminary test supports that the maximum audible sound level
has been exceeded to a material extent, then the owner of the wind energy
facility shall be required to perform a detailed acoustic sound measurement of
the wind energy facility. This measurement shall be conducted in accordance
with industry standards for performing acoustic testing of small wind energy
facilities which may include, but shall not be limited to, the procedures set
forth in the American Wind Energy Association Publication "AWEA Small Wind
Turbine Performance and Safety Standard, Standard AWEA 9.1 - 2009."
         (c)   If the results of this measurement indicate that a violation
exists and that the violation will persist without corrective action, then the
owner shall discontinue use of the wind energy facility until appropriate
measures can be taken to retrofit the structure or mitigate the noise at the
affected property lines. If the noise from the wind energy facility cannot be
brought into compliance with the noise requirements established by this
section, the owner shall be required to decommission the wind energy facility.
      (4)   Aesthetics.
         (a)   Tower. If a tower is part of a wind energy facility, it shall be
a self-supporting tubular tower (monopole) tower.
         (b)   Exterior finish. Each wind energy facility shall maintain a non-
reflective finish neutral in color to reduce reflection and glare and to
otherwise reduce visual obtrusiveness.
         (c)   Signage and lighting. Signage on a wind energy facility is only
permitted consistent with the standards outlined in §
156.130. No lighting on the wind energy facility shall be permitted unless
required by FAA regulations.
         (d)   Communications antenna. No communications antenna or arrangement
of wires unrelated to the wind energy facility shall be installed or connected
to the wind energy facility.
   (D)   Structural requirements.
      (1)   All wind energy facilities shall be designed and certified by a
North Carolina licensed professional engineer that the wind energy facility
meets the design requirements established by the current North Carolina State
Building Code, including the ability to withstand the force exerted by a 130-
mph, 3-second wind gust.
      (2)   If the lowest point of a rotor blade or other movable part is
located closer than 12 feet to the ground, an adequate barrier shall be placed
around the base of the wind turbine tower to prevent injury.
      (3)   The installation and design of all wind energy facilities shall
comply with any applicable industry standards including standards for
performance and safety as established by the American Wind Energy Association
and the Small Wind Coordinating Council, and all electrical and mechanical
components shall conform to relevant local, state and national codes.
      (4)   Wind energy facilities shall meet all applicable FAA regulations.
      (5)   All wind energy facilities shall be equipped with a disconnection
means compliant with Article 705 of the National Electric Code.
   (E)   Decommissioning.
      (1)   A wind energy facility that is out of service and not functioning
shall be repaired by the owner or removed. If the town determines that a wind
energy facility has not been operational for a continuous 90-day period, the
Zoning Administrator shall give written notice by certified mail to the owner
of the facility. The owner shall be given 45 days from receipt of the notice to
respond in writing and provide information that explains the reason(s) that the
system has been out-of-service and the corrective action that will be taken to
put the system back in service. The response shall also include a timetable for
completion of repairs.
      (2)   If the town determines that the corrective measures and/or the
proposed time for repairs is unreasonable, the Zoning Administrator shall give
written notice by certified mail to the owner or occupant of the property on
which the wind energy facility is located to remove the system within 90 days
of receipt of the notice. The owner or occupant of the property on which the
facility is located shall be solely responsible for safe removal of the
facility, and all costs to remove the facility shall be borne solely by such
owner or occupant.
      (3)   Upon failure to comply with a notice of removal within the time
specified, the town shall cause removal of the wind energy facility, and any
expense incurred shall be paid by the owner of the property upon which the wind
energy facility was erected or maintained.
   (F)   Wind energy permitting requirements.
      (1)   No person shall erect any wind energy facility without first
obtaining a permit from the Department of Community Development in accordance
with the procedures set forth in this section.
      (2)   All permit applications for wind energy facilities shall include
the following:
         (a)   Site plan depicting the proposed location of all components of
the wind energy facility as well as existing structures located on the subject
property with dimensions showing compliance with minimum yard requirements;
         (b)   Construction drawings of the wind energy facility depicting the
design of the turbine structure, tower, base and footings, sealed by a licensed
North Carolina Professional Engineer certifying that the drawings conform to
all structural requirements established by law;
         (c)   Wind energy facility specifications including the total rated
capacity;
         (d)   Measurements of ambient noise conditions of the subject property
taken during daytime and nighttime hours as well as the maximum sound pressure
levels from the proposed wind energy facility;
         (e)   Construction plan;
         (f)   Operation and maintenance plans and specifications;
         (g)   Shutdown procedures;
         (h)   Evidence of at least $500,000 of general liability insurance
coverage;
         (i)   Any county, state and federal permits required by law or
regulation; and
         (j)   Other relevant information as may be reasonably requested to
ensure compliance with the requirements of this section.
(Ord. 10-06, passed 5-5-2010; Am. Ord. 17-04, passed 6-7-2017; Am. Ord. 21-01,
passed 6-2-2021)
§ 156.139 SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Purpose. To allow for the installation within the town of solar energy
systems as defined in §
156.002, while recognizing the public safety as well as the land use and
community compatibility issues that are associated with the structural
components of these facilities. This shall be achieved by establishing
standards to protect community and neighborhood aesthetics, public safety, and
to limit adverse impacts of such systems on adjacent property owners.
   (B)   Types of solar energy systems permitted by zoning district. Solar
energy systems, as defined in §
156.002, shall be permitted in all zoning districts within the town as an
accessory use to any principal use structure.
   (C)   Use guidelines and dimensional requirements.
      (1)   Height.
         (a)   Roof-mounted solar energy systems:
            1.   Solar panels should generally relate to the slope of the roof
surface to which they are attached. However, to account for the seasonal
variation in solar angle and the necessity to tilt solar panels to achieve
maximum efficiency of the solar energy system, the following provisions shall
apply:
               a.   Solar panels mounted to a roof with a pitch of greater than
4 in 12 shall not be raised more than 3 feet above the plane of the finished
roof surface to which they are attached.
               b.   Solar panels mounted to a roof with a pitch of less than 4
in 12 shall not be raised more than 5 feet above the plane of the finished roof
surface to which they are attached.
            2.   Solar panels shall in no instance exceed the height limit of
the zoning district in which they are located.
         (b)   The height of any ground mounted solar energy system including
any mounts shall not exceed 10 feet when oriented at maximum tilt.
      (2)   Location and placement.
         (a)   Ground-mounted solar energy systems shall be located in the rear
and side yards only and in no instance shall be located forward of the front
plane of the principal structure. In the rear and side yards, solar energy
systems must meet the required setbacks for the principal structure. In the
case of a corner lot, solar energy systems shall not be located forward of the
side plane of the principal structure abutting the side street.
         (b)   Ground-mounted solar photovoltaic systems shall be enclosed
within a fence that is reasonably adequate to prevent access to the solar
energy system or any ancillary equipment as required by the National Electrical
Code.
         (c)   Roof-mounted solar energy systems shall in no instance extend
beyond the edge of the roof to which they are attached.
      (3)   Lot coverage. Ground mounted solar energy systems shall not be
counted as lot coverage; however, no more than 5% of total lot area may be
covered with a solar energy system.
   (D)   Structural/installation requirements.
      (1)   All structural components supporting roof mounted solar energy
systems shall be evaluated by a North Carolina Licensed Professional Engineer
to ensure that the loads imposed by the solar energy system meet the design
requirements established by the current North Carolina State Building Code,
including the ability to withstand the force exerted by a 130-mph, 3-second
wind gust.
      (2)   The installation and design of all solar energy systems shall
comply with any applicable industry standards including standards for
performance and safety and all electrical and mechanical components shall
conform to relevant local, state and national codes. All components of a solar
energy system must be listed and labeled by a nationally recognized testing
laboratory.
   (E)   Permitting requirements.
      (1)   No person shall erect any solar energy system without first
obtaining a permit from the Director of Community Development in accordance
with the procedures set forth in this section.
      (2)   All permit applications for solar energy systems shall include the
following:
         (a)   Site plan depicting the proposed location of all components of
the solar energy system as well as existing structures located on the subject
property with dimensions showing compliance with minimum yard requirements;
         (b)   For utility interactive solar photovoltaic systems: a copy of
the approved interconnection agreement with the local utility;
         (c)   Construction drawings of any roof mounted solar energy system
depicting the design of the supporting structure, sealed by a North Carolina
Licensed Professional Engineer certifying that the drawings conform to all
structural requirements established by law;
         (d)   For solar photovoltaic systems, manufacturers specifications for
all system components and an electrical diagram depicting the layout and
interconnectivity of all electrical components;
         (e)   Construction plan;
         (f)   Operation and maintenance plans and specifications;
         (g)   Any county, state and federal permits required by law or
regulation; and
         (h)   Other relevant information as may be reasonably requested to
ensure compliance with the requirements of this section.
(Ord. 10-10, passed 1-5-2011; Am. Ord. 21-01, passed 6-2-2021)
§ 156.140 ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of these provisions for all accessory dwelling
units is to allow the efficient use of existing housing stock, parcels of land,
and community infrastructure, and to increase the number and variety of
residential units while respecting the scale and character of existing
neighborhoods.
   (B)   General provisions. Accessory dwelling units are allowed as permitted
uses in the Single-Family Residential (RS-1), Single-Family Residential (RS-2),
and Medium Density Residential (R-2) zoning districts, subject to the following
standards.
      (1)   An accessory dwelling unit can only be located on a property
containing one single-family detached residence. The property may contain other
accessory structures and uses as permitted in this section.
      (2)   Only one accessory dwelling unit is permitted on a lot.
      (3)   Building code. An accessory dwelling unit must be properly
permitted, inspected, and comply with all applicable standards of the N.C.
Building Code.
      (4)   Septic. The owner must obtain a permit from the Dare County
Environmental Health Department that the existing septic system can accommodate
or be improved to accommodate the establishment of an accessory dwelling unit.
   (C)   Development standards.
      (1)   An accessory dwelling unit will count toward the maximum size of
residential development and septic capacity permitted for a property. The
development of a property cannot exceed the maximum standards for the size of
residential development and septic capacity outlined in §
156.126.
      (2)   Size of unit. The size of an accessory dwelling unit must comply
with all of the applicable following standards.
         (a)   A detached accessory dwelling unit or addition to the principal
dwelling accommodating an accessory dwelling unit cannot be larger than 800
square feet of heated space.
         (b)   An attached accessory dwelling unit cannot be larger than the
square footage of the principal dwelling footprint.
      (3)   Height. A detached accessory dwelling unit cannot exceed 27 feet in
height or the height of the principal dwelling on the property, whichever is
lower. An attached accessory dwelling unit cannot exceed the height of the
principal dwelling on the property.
      (4)   Setbacks. An accessory dwelling unit must comply with all
applicable minimum building setback requirements.
      (5)   Parking. An accessory dwelling unit must comply with the following
parking requirements.
         (a)   If the establishment of an accessory dwelling unit increases the
maximum occupancy permitted on the wastewater permit issued by the Dare County
Health Department, then necessary improvements must be completed for the
property to maintain compliance with minimum parking standards.
         (b)   Parking space(s) serving the accessory dwelling unit must have
access unobstructed by parking spaces for principal dwelling unit.
      (6)   Access. Access and parking for an accessory dwelling unit must
occur via the same driveway as the principal dwelling unit. A separate driveway
is not permitted.
(Ord. 16-07, passed 11-2-2016; Am. Ord. 18-08, passed 2-6-2019; Am. Ord. 21-01,
passed 6-2-2021)
GENERAL ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 156.150 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Zoning Administrator designated by the Town Manager shall administer and
enforce this chapter. He or she may be provided with the assistance of other
persons as the Town Manager may direct. The Zoning Administrator shall have all
necessary authority to administer and enforce this chapter, including the
ordering in writing of the remedying of any condition found in violation of
this chapter and bringing of legal action, with the approval of the Town
Council, to ensure compliance with this chapter, including injunction,
abatement or other appropriate action or proceeding.
(Ord. 04-21, passed 10-6-2004, § 49; Am. Ord. 16-07, passed 11-2-2016)
§ 156.151 BUILDING PERMITS; GENERALLY.
   No building or other structure shall be erected or moved, nor shall any
existing building or structure be altered in any manner, unless and until a
building permit therefor has been approved by the Zoning Administrator, if
applicable. The building permit shall expire by limitation of 6 months from the
date of issuance, if the work authorized by the permit has not commenced. If,
after commencement, the work is discontinued for a period of 12 months, the
permit therefor shall immediately expire. No work authorized by any permit that
has expired shall thereafter be performed until a new permit has been secured.
(Ord. 04-21, passed 10-6-2004, § 50; Am. Ord. 16-07, passed 11-2-2016; Am. Ord.
21-01, passed 6-2-2021)
§ 156.152 EFFECTS OF CHAPTER ON OUTSTANDING BUILDING PERMITS.
   Nothing contained in this chapter shall require any change in plans,
construction, size or designated use of any building, structure or part thereof
for which a building permit has been granted by the Building Inspector prior to
July 3, 2002; provided, that where construction is not begun under an
outstanding permit within a period of 180 days subsequent to July 3, 2002, or
where it has not been prosecuted to completion within 18 months subsequent to
that date, any further construction or use shall be in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 04-21, passed 10-6-2004, § 51; Am. Ord. 16-07, passed 11-2-2016)
§ 156.153 HEALTH DEPARTMENT; PERMITS; APPROVAL.
   The Zoning Administrator shall not approve a building permit for any
building for which the Dare County Health Department approval is required until
approval has been given by the Health Department.
(Ord. 04-21, passed 10-6-2004, § 52; Am. Ord. 16-07, passed 11-2-2016)
§ 156.154 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   All applications for building permits shall be accompanied by plans in
duplicate drawn to scale, showing the actual dimensions and shape of the lot to
be built upon; the exact sizes and locations of buildings already existing, if
any; and the location and dimensions of the proposed building or alteration.
The application shall include other information as lawfully may be required by
the Zoning Administrator, including existing or proposed buildings or
alterations; existing or proposed uses of the building and land; the number of
families, housekeeping units or rental units the building is designed to
accommodate; conditions existing on the lot and on nearby lots; elevations of
finished floors; and other matters as may be necessary to determine conformance
with and provide for the enforcement of this chapter. One copy of the plans
shall be returned to the applicant by the building official after he or she
shall have marked the copy either as approved or disapproved and attested to
the same by his or her signature on the copy. The second copy of the plans,
similarly marked, shall be retained by the Department of Community Development.
(Ord. 04-21, passed 10-6-2004, § 53; Am. Ord. 16-07, passed 11-2-2016; Am. Ord.
21-01, passed 6-2-2021)
§ 156.155 SPECIAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   The Town Council may approve permits for special uses in the zoning
districts where those special uses are specified by this chapter. The Town
Council may also approve special use permits, subject to making the appropriate
findings necessary to grant such permits as specified in each of the sections
referenced herein. The Town Council may impose reasonable and appropriate
conditions and safeguards upon these special use permits as to ensure that the
spirit and intent of this chapter is preserved and that the use or activity
will not adversely affect the public interest.
   (B)   Application procedures.
      (1)   Written application for a special use permit, along with the
appropriate fees, shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator no later than
30 days before the next regular monthly meeting of the Town Council.
      (2)   Written application shall indicate the section of this chapter
under which a permit is being sought and shall contain the information required
by the appropriate section and other information as may be required by the
Zoning Administrator to ensure compliance with this chapter.
      (3)   The applicant shall be the owner of the property in question or an
authorized agent of the property owner. If the application is filed by an agent
of the property owner, an affidavit shall be submitted that is signed by all
property owners giving the applicant the permission to pursue the permit and to
bind the property to the proposal and to conditions which the Town Council
might impose.
      (4)   The Zoning Administrator shall review the application to ensure
completeness and shall return any incomplete applications to the applicant.
      (5)   The Zoning Administrator shall advise the applicant of the correct
number of copies that must be submitted to allow for review by the Town
Council.
      (6)   If applicable, for applications concerning residential properties
located in neighborhoods with homeowners’ association architectural review
processes, the applicant shall submit evidence of approval by the applicable
homeowners’ association of the proposed use contemplated by the applicant’s
request for a special use. For properties without homeowners’ association
architectural review processes, the applicant shall submit a notarized
affidavit stating that such a process does not exist in the subject community.
      (7)   The applicant is strongly encouraged to work closely with staff and
neighboring property owners before and during the application and review
process to minimize delays and address concerns which may arise.
      (8)   The applicant has the burden of producing competent material and
substantial evidence in support of the application.
   (C)   Reserved.
   (D)   The Town Council shall hold an evidentiary public hearing to consider
the requested special use permit. Notice of the public hearing shall be given
at least 10 days but not more than 25 days in advance of the public hearing. In
addition, the town shall post the property with a sign advertising the hearing
no later than 15 days prior to the hearing. The town shall further notify by
mail the owner of the property for which the permit is sought, or his or her
agent. The town shall also mail a notice of the public hearing to owners of
property located adjacent to the subject property including those immediately
across any public or private right-of-way. The town shall mail a notice of the
public hearing to the most recent owner of the subject property listed in the
tax listing abstract as filed in the office of the county tax supervisor. For
special use permits for small child care homes, the town shall mail a notice of
the public hearing to all owners of property located within a radius of 200
feet of the proposed site. Any party may appear at the public hearing, in
person, by agent or by attorney.
   (E)   The Town Council shall make a finding that it is empowered under the
section of this chapter described in the application to grant the special use
permit and that the granting of the special use permit will not adversely
affect the public interest. Additionally, to grant a special use permit, the
Town Council shall find that the applicant has produced substantial evidence
that:
      (1)   The use meets all required conditions and specifications of the
ordinance;
      (2)   The use does not materially endanger the public health or safety;
and
      (3)   The use will not substantially injure the value of adjoining
property, unless the use is a public necessity; and
      (4)   The use will be in harmony with the area in which it is located and
be in general conformity with the comprehensive plan (CAMA Comprehensive & Land
Use Plan).
   (F)   In granting any special use permit, the Town Council may prescribe
appropriate conditions and safeguards to the location, nature and extent of the
proposed use and its relation to surrounding property, for purposes of (1)
ensuring that the conditions of permit approval will be complied with, and (2)
minimizing any potentially injurious effect of the proposed use on adjoining
properties, the character of the neighborhood, or the health, safety and
general welfare of the community. Violation of the conditions and safeguards,
when made a part of the terms under which the special use permit is granted,
may subject the special use permit to revocation as noted in division (K) below
and shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and punishable under §
156.999 below. The Town Council shall prescribe a time limit within which the
action for which the special use permit is required shall be begun or
completed, or both. Failure to begin or complete, or both, the action within
the time set shall void the special use permit. At minimum, the special use
permit shall be valid for 12 months.
   (G)   Subsequent to approval, all special use permits shall be recorded by
property owner in the office of the Dare County Register of Deeds. A copy of
the recorded special use permit document shall be provided to the Zoning
Administrator within 60 days of the approval date by the Town Council.
   (H)   When deciding special use permits, the Town Council shall follow
quasi-judicial procedures. No vote greater than a majority vote shall be
required for the Town Council to issue special use permits. For the purposes of
this section, vacant positions on the Council and members who are disqualified
from voting on a quasi-judicial matter shall not be considered “members of the
Council” for calculation of the requisite majority. Every decision of the Town
Council shall be subject to review of the superior court in the nature of
certiorari in accordance with G.S. § 160D-1402.
   (I)   Per G.S. § 160D-109, a Town Council member shall not vote on any
special use permit in a manner that would violate the affected members
constitutional rights to an impartial decision maker. Impermissible violations
of due process include, but are not limited to, a member having a fixed opinion
prior to hearing the matter that is not susceptible to change, undisclosed ex
parte communications, a close familial, business, or other associational
relationship with an affected person, or a financial interest in the outcome of
the matter.
   (J)   Amendment to an approved special use or special use permit.
      (1)   Any change to a use of property approved by a special use permit
shall require an amendment to the special use permit by the Town Council.
      (2)   The owner of property which is subject to an approved special use
permit may petition for an amendment of the special use permit and accompanying
conditions by following the procedures applicable to initiation of new special
use permits.
      (3)   Evidence presented at the public hearing on the proposed amendment
will be limited to the effect of the proposal on the original permit, any plans
or conditions which were a part of the original permit, and the present
standards and requirements contained in this chapter.
   (K)   A special use permit may be revoked at any time by the Town Council
upon notice to the holder of the permit that the conditions of the permit have
not been met or that failure to comply with any town regulation poses a
nuisance to the surrounding properties. Revocation shall not occur until the
holder of the permit and/or the owner of the property has been notified in
writing by the Zoning Administrator advising them of the violations of the
permits. The town shall mail a letter by certified first class mail to the
address on record with the town, advising the permit holder and/or property
owner of the date and time of an evidentiary public hearing to be held before
the Town Council on the consideration of revocation of the permit. After the
Town Council holds a public hearing on the matter, the Council may, based on
evidence provided and the nature of the violations, revoke the special use
permit.
(Ord. 04-21, passed 10-6-2004, § 54; Am. Ord. 06-06, passed 6-7-2006; Am. Ord.
06-09, passed 9-6-2006; Am. Ord. 09-07, passed 8-5-2009; Am. Ord. 13-02, passed
4-3-2013; Am. Ord. 15-03, passed 3-4-2015; Am. Ord. 16-07, passed 11-2-2016;
Am. Ord. 19-03, passed 6-5-2019; Am. Ord. 21-01, passed 6-2-2021; Am. Ord. 23-
11, passed 9-6-2023; Am. Ord. 24-07, passed 1-8-2025)
§ 156.156 TEMPORARY MORATORIA ON DEVELOPMENT APPROVAL.
   (A)   The Town Council may adopt temporary moratoria on any town development
approval required by law. The duration of any moratorium shall be reasonable in
light of the specific conditions that warrant imposition of the moratorium and
may not exceed the period of time necessary to correct, modify or resolve the
conditions. Except in cases of imminent and substantial threat to public health
or safety, before adopting an ordinance imposing a development moratorium with
a duration of 60 days or any shorter period, the Town Council shall hold a
legislative public hearing and shall publish a notice of the hearing in a
newspaper having general circulation in the area not less than 7 days before
the date set for the hearing. A development moratorium with a duration of 61
days or longer, and any extension of a moratorium so that the total duration is
61 days or longer, is subject to the notice and hearing requirements of G.S. §
160A-364. Absent an imminent threat to public health or safety, a development
moratorium adopted pursuant to this section shall not apply to any project for
which a valid building permit issued pursuant to G.S. § 160D-403 is
outstanding, to any project for which a special use permit application has been
accepted, to development set forth in a site-specific or phased development
plan approved pursuant to G.S. § 160D-190, to development for which substantial
expenditures have already been made in good faith reliance on a prior valid
administrative or quasi-judicial permit or approval, or to preliminary or final
subdivision plats that have been accepted for review by the town prior to the
call for public hearing to adopt the moratorium.
   (B)   Any preliminary subdivision plat accepted for review by the town prior
to the call for public hearing, if subsequently approved, shall be allowed to
proceed to final plat approval without being subject to the moratorium. Any
ordinance establishing a development moratorium must expressly include at the
time of adoption each of the following:
      (1)   A clear statement of the problems or conditions necessitating the
moratorium and what courses of action, alternative to a moratorium, were
considered by the town and why those alternative courses of action were not
deemed adequate;
      (2)   A clear statement of the development approvals subject to the
moratorium and how a moratorium on those approvals will address the problems or
conditions leading to imposition of the moratorium;
      (3)   An express date for termination of the moratorium and a statement
setting forth why that duration is reasonably necessary to address the problems
or conditions leading to imposition of the moratorium; and
      (4)   A clear statement of the actions, and the schedule for those
actions, proposed to be taken by the town during the duration of the moratorium
to address the problems or conditions leading to imposition of the moratorium.
   (C)   No moratorium may be subsequently renewed or extended for any
additional period unless the town shall have taken all reasonable and feasible
steps proposed to be taken by the town in its ordinance establishing the
moratorium to address the problems or conditions leading to imposition of the
moratorium and unless new facts and conditions warrant an extension. Any
ordinance renewing or extending a development moratorium must expressly
include, at the time of adoption, the findings set forth in divisions (B)(1)
through (4) above, including what new facts or conditions warrant the
extension.
   (D)   Any person aggrieved by the imposition of a moratorium on development
approvals required by law may apply to the appropriate division of the General
Court of Justice for an order enjoining the enforcement of the moratorium, and
the court shall have jurisdiction to issue that order. Actions brought pursuant
to this section shall be set down for immediate hearing, and subsequent
proceedings in those actions shall be accorded priority by the trial and
appellate courts. In any like action, the town shall have the burden of showing
compliance with the procedural requirements of this section.
(Ord. 06-09, passed 9-6-2006; Am. Ord. 16-07, passed 11-2-2016; Am. Ord. 21-01,
passed 6-2-2021)
§ 156.157 TEMPORARY USES.
    The Town Council may approve as special uses under the application
provisions of §
156.155 above the following temporary uses, notwithstanding other restrictions
of this chapter but including additional conditions, including design and
appearance standards, and safeguards as may be required by the Town Council as
a provision of the approval:
   (A)   Temporary real estate sales offices may be permitted in any
residential district or on-site sales of land or residences located only with
the subdivisions within which the offices are located. Any like temporary use
must be terminated no more than 30 days from the date that 80% of the lots or
residences within that subdivision are sold;
   (B)   Temporary construction offices may be permitted in any district to
provide on-site quarters for the management and security of construction
projects only. Any like temporary use must be terminated no more than 30 days
from the date that construction is completed;
   (C)   Any permitted use in a commercial area may occupy a modular unit
temporarily while construction of a permanent building on the site is pending,
provided the following conditions are met in addition to any other requirements
of this chapter:
      (1)   The modular unit is placed on a foundation and anchored according
to the State Building Code requirements for a hurricane prone area;
      (2)   Required parking shall be provided; and
      (3)   The modular unit may be occupied for no more than 1 year. If
economic or climatic conditions prevent completion of the permanent building
within that time, the Town Council may grant an extension of not more than 1
additional year.
   (D)    Model homes and builder showcases may be permitted in any district
for a period of time to be determined by the Town Council in its deliberations
on the special use permit, but not to exceed 2 years. In granting the special
use permit, the Council shall consider and provide appropriate conditions to
address issues such as vehicular and pedestrian access, hours of operation,
parking, noise, lighting, signage and limits on business or office uses. A
special use permit shall not be required for homes participating in area-wide
home showcase and tour events less than 5 days in duration; however, such
events must be approved by the Town Manager to ensure appropriate signage and
coordination with public safety offices. A special use permit or Town Manager
approval are not required for an open house event for the purposes of selling
an individual property, provided that the open house shall not exceed 3
consecutive days’ duration and that signage for the event is posted in
accordance with §
156.124(F)(2)(m) above.
(Ord. 04-21, passed 10-6-2004, § 55; Am. Ord. 16-07, passed 11-2-2016; Am. Ord.
21-01, passed 6-2-2021)
§ 156.158 CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   No land shall be used or occupied and no building structurally
altered, erected or moved after July 3, 2002, shall be used or its use changed
until a certificate of occupancy shall have been issued by the Zoning
Administrator, stating that the building or the proposed use thereof complies
with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   A like certificate shall be issued for the purpose of renewing,
changing or extending a non- conforming use. A certificate of occupancy, either
for the whole or a part of a building, shall be applied for coincidental with
the application for a building permit and shall be issued within 10 days after
the erection of structural alterations of the building or part shall have been
completed in conformity with the provisions of this chapter. A record of all
certificates shall be kept on file in the office of the Zoning Administrator.
   (C)   A temporary certificate of occupancy may be issued by the Zoning
Administrator for a period of not exceeding 6 months during alterations or
partial occupancy of a building pending its completion; provided, that
temporary certificate may require conditions and safeguards as will protect the
safety of the occupants and the public.
(Ord. 04-21, passed 10-6-2004, § 56; Am. Ord. 16-07, passed 11-2-2016) Penalty,
see §
156.999
§ 156.159 DUTIES OF ZONING ADMINISTRATOR, BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT, COURTS AND TOWN
COUNCIL AS TO MATTERS OF APPEAL.
   It is the intention of this chapter that all questions arising in connection
with the enforcement of this chapter shall be presented first to the Zoning
Administrator and that those questions shall be presented to the Board of
Adjustment only on appeal from the Zoning Administrator; and that from the
decision of the Board of Adjustment, recourse shall be had to courts as
provided by law. It is further the intention of this chapter that the duties of
the Town Council in connection with this chapter shall not include the hearing
and passing upon disputed questions that may arise in connection with the
enforcement thereof but that the procedure for determining those questions
shall be as set out in this chapter, and that the duties of the Town Council in
connection with this chapter shall be only the duty of considering and passing
upon any proposed amendment or approving any special use permit as provided by
this chapter.
(Ord. 04-21, passed 10-6-2004, § 57; Am. Ord. 16-07, passed 11-2-2016; Am. Ord.
21-01, passed 6-2-2021)
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
§ 156.160 ESTABLISHED; COMPOSITION; TERMS; VACANCIES; REMOVAL OF MEMBERS;
COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The Town of Duck Board of Adjustment is hereby established. The word
BOARD, when used in this subchapter, shall be construed to mean the BOARD OF
ADJUSTMENT.
   (B)   Members and alternates shall be appointed for 3 year terms or until
their successors are appointed. Successors shall be appointed for terms of 3
years; except, that vacancies occurring for reasons other than the expiration
of a term shall be filled for the remaining portion of the unexpired term.
   (C)   Members and alternates may be removed for cause by the Town Council,
upon presentation of written charges and after providing for a hearing.
   (D)   The members of the Board and alternates may be compensated for
expenses incurred in the performance of their duties according to the
reimbursement schedule which may be adopted by the Town Council from time to
time.
(Ord. 04-21, passed 10-6-2004, § 59)
§ 156.161 OFFICERS; RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Board of Adjustment shall elect 1 member as Chairperson and another as
Vice-Chairperson, who shall serve for 1 year or until a successor is
designated. The Board may adopt from time to time rules and regulations as it
may deem necessary to carry into effect the provision of this section.
(Ord. 04-21, passed 10-6-2004, § 60)
§ 156.162 MEETINGS; MINUTES; ALTERNATE MEMBERS; HEARING NOTICES; CONTINUANCES;
RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All meetings of the Board of Adjustment shall be held at a regular
place and shall be open to the public. A quorum of 4 members, including
alternates shall be present at the designated meeting place before a vote is
taken or before a final disposition of any appeal is made upon which the Board
is required to pass. The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, show the
vote of each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to vote, an
indication of the fact; and the final disposition of appeals shall be by
recorded resolutions indicating the reasons of the Board therefor, all of which
shall be public record. In the event a regular member shall be absent or
temporarily disqualified, an alternate member shall be notified to serve in the
place of the regular member.
   (B)   Each alternate member, while attending any regular or special meeting
of the Board and serving in the absence of a regular member, has and may
exercise all the powers and duties of a regular member.
   (C)   Notice of hearing. Notice of hearings conducted pursuant to this
section shall be mailed to the person or entity whose appeal, application, or
request is the subject of the hearing; to the owner of the property that is the
subject of the hearing if the owner did not initiate the hearing; and to the
owners of all parcels of land abutting the parcel of land that is the subject
of the hearing. In the absence of evidence to the contrary, the town may rely
on the county tax listing to determine owners of property entitled to mailed
notice. The notice must be deposited in the mail at least 10 days, but not more
than 25 days, prior to the date of the hearing. Within that same time period,
the town shall also prominently post a notice of the hearing on the site that
is the subject of the hearing or on an adjacent street or highway right-of-way.
   (D)   Continuances. The Board of Adjustment may grant a continuance to any
party for good cause shown or upon the Board’s own motion. Requests for
continuances should be made in writing but may be made orally at a meeting of
the Board. The Board Chair may grant a continuance request prior to a meeting
if the applicant or appellant makes a written request showing good cause. The
Board Chair may always defer ruling on such a request to allow for the decision
to be made by the Board.
      (1)   Good cause. Good cause for a continuance includes, but is not
limited to:
         (a)   The official issuing the decision subject to an appeal is
unavailable;
         (b)   There is insufficient membership of the Board seated and present
to hear a matter; or
         (c)   If any party or the town would be unduly prejudiced by the
presentation of matters not presented in a notice of appeal.
      (2)   Renotification fees. If notices of hearing have already been
issued, the party granted a continuance is responsible for the administrative
costs of noticing an additional hearing if such costs are incurred.
   (E)   Rules of procedure. The Board may adopt from time to time such rules
and regulations as it may deem necessary to carry into effect the provisions of
this section. Where this section and the rules adopted by the Board are in
conflict, the provisions of this section prevail.
(Ord. 04-21, passed 10-6-2004, § 61; Am. Ord. 06-09, passed 9-6-2006; Am. Ord.
13-05, passed 11-6-2013; Am. Ord. 23-09, passed 9-6-2023)
§ 156.163 POWERS GENERALLY.
   (A)   Generally. The Board of Adjustment may reverse any order, requirement,
decision or determination of the Zoning Administrator, or may decide in favor
of the applicant a matter upon which the Board is required to pass under this
chapter, or may grant a variance from the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Voting.
      (1)    The concurring vote of four-fifths of the Board shall be necessary
to grant a variance. A majority of the members shall be required to decide any
other quasi-judicial matter or to determine an appeal made in the nature of
certiorari. For the purposes of this section, vacant positions on the Board and
members who are disqualified from voting on a quasi-judicial matter shall not
be considered members of the Board for calculation of the requisite majority if
there are no qualified alternates available to take the place of such members.
      (2)   A member of the Board or any other body exercising quasi-judicial
functions pursuant to this section shall not participate in or vote on any
quasi-judicial matter in a manner that would violate affected persons'
constitutional rights to an impartial decision maker. Impermissible violations
of due process include, but are not limited to, a member having a fixed opinion
prior to hearing the matter that is not susceptible to change, undisclosed ex
parte communications, a close familial, business, or other associational
relationship with an affected person, or a financial interest in the outcome of
the matter. If an objection is raised to a member's participation and that
member does not recuse himself or herself, the remaining members shall by
majority vote rule on the objection.
      (3)   Quasi-judicial decisions and judicial review.
         (a)   The Board shall determine contested facts and make its decision
within a reasonable time. Every quasi-judicial decision shall be based upon
competent, material, and substantial evidence in the record. Each quasi-
judicial decision shall be reduced to writing and reflect the Board's
determination of contested facts and their application to the applicable
standards. The written decision shall be signed by the Chairperson or other
duly authorized member of the Board. A quasi-judicial decision is effective
upon filing the written decision with the clerk to the Board. The decision of
the Board shall be delivered by personal delivery, electronic mail, or by
first-class mail to the applicant, property owner, and to any person who has
submitted a written request for a copy, prior to the date the decision becomes
effective. The person required to provide notice shall certify that proper
notice has been made.
         (b)   Every quasi-judicial decision shall be subject to review by the
superior court by proceedings in the nature of certiorari pursuant to G.S. §
160D-1402. A petition for review shall be filed with the clerk of superior
court by the later of 30 days after the decision is effective or after a
written copy thereof is given in accordance with division (B)(3)(a) of this
section. When first-class mail is used to deliver notice, three days shall be
added to the time to file the petition.
(Ord. 04-21, passed 10-6-2004, § 62; Am. Ord. 06-09, passed 9-6-2006; Am. Ord.
09-07, passed 8-5-2009; Am. Ord. 13-05, passed 11-6-2013; Am. Ord. 21-01,
passed 6-2-2021)
§ 156.164 ADMINISTRATION OF OATHS.
   (A)   Generally. The Chairperson of the Board of Adjustment or any member
temporarily acting as Chairperson and clerk to the Board are authorized to
administer oaths to witnesses in any matter coming before the Board.
   (B)   Subpoenas. The Board of Adjustment through the Chairperson, or in the
Chairperson's absence anyone acting as the Chairperson, may subpoena witnesses
and compel the production of evidence. To request issuance of a subpoena,
persons with standing under G.S. § 160D-1402 may make a written request to the
Chairperson explaining why it is necessary for certain witnesses or evidence to
be compelled. The Chairperson shall issue requested subpoenas he or she
determines to be relevant, reasonable in nature and scope, and not oppressive.
The Chairperson shall rule on any motion to quash or modify a subpoena.
Decisions regarding subpoenas made by the Chairperson may be appealed to the
full Board of Adjustment. If a person fails or refuses to obey a subpoena
issued pursuant to this section, the Board of Adjustment, or the party seeking
the subpoena, may apply to the General Court of Justice for an order requiring
that its order be obeyed, and the court shall have jurisdiction to issue these
orders after notice to all proper parties.
(Ord. 04-21, passed 10-6-2004, § 63; Am. Ord. 06-09, passed 9-6-2006; Am. Ord.
13-05, passed 11-6-2013; Am. Ord. 19-05, passed 11-6-2019; Am. Ord. 21-01,
passed 6-2-2021)
§ 156.165 APPEALS.
    The Board of Adjustment shall hold an evidentiary public hearing to decide
appeals of decisions of the Zoning Administrator and may hear appeals arising
out of any other ordinance that regulates land use or development, pursuant to
all of the following:
   (A)   Any person who has standing under G.S. § 160D-1402 or the town may
appeal a decision to the Board of Adjustment. An appeal is taken by filing a
notice of appeal with the Town Clerk. The notice of appeal shall state the
grounds for the appeal.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator shall give written notice to the owner of the
property that is the subject of the decision and to the party who sought the
decision, if different from the owner. The written notice shall be delivered by
personal delivery, electronic mail, or by first-class mail.
   (C)   The owner or other party shall have 30 days from receipt of the
written notice within which to file an appeal. Any other person with standing
to appeal shall have 30 days from receipt from any source of actual or
constructive notice of the decision within which to file an appeal.
   (D)   It shall be conclusively presumed that all persons with standing to
appeal have constructive notice of the decision from the date a sign containing
the words “Zoning Decision” or “Subdivision Decision” in letters at least six
inches high and identifying the means to contact an official for information
about the decision is prominently posted on the property that is the subject of
the decision, provided the sign remains on the property for at least 10 days.
Posting of signs is not the only form of constructive notice. Any such posting
shall be the responsibility of the landowner or applicant. Verification of the
posting shall be provided to the Zoning Administrator. Absent an ordinance
provision to the contrary, posting of signs shall not be required.
   (E)   The Zoning Administrator shall transmit to the Board all documents and
exhibits constituting the record upon which the action appealed from is taken.
The Zoning Administrator shall also provide a copy of the record to the
appellant and to the owner of the property that is the subject of the appeal if
the appellant is not the owner.
   (F)   An appeal of a notice of violation or other enforcement order stays
enforcement of the action appealed from unless the Zoning Administrator
certifies to the Board of Adjustment after notice of appeal has been filed that
because of the facts stated in an affidavit, a stay would cause imminent peril
to life or property, or because the violation is transitory in nature, a stay
would seriously interfere with enforcement of the ordinance. In that case,
enforcement proceedings shall not be stayed except by a restraining order,
which may be granted by a court. If enforcement proceedings are not stayed, the
appellant may file with the Zoning Administrator a request for an expedited
hearing of the appeal, and the Board of Adjustment shall meet to hear the
appeal within 15 days after such a request is filed. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, appeals of decisions granting a permit or otherwise affirming that a
proposed use of property is consistent with the ordinance shall not stay the
further review of an application for permits or permissions to use such
property; in these situations the appellant may request and the Board may grant
a stay of a final decision of permit applications or building permits affected
by the issue being appealed.
   (G)    Subject to the provisions of division (F) of this section, the Board
of Adjustment shall hear and decide the appeal within a reasonable time.
   (H)   The Zoning Administrator shall be present at the hearing as a witness.
The appellant shall not be limited at the hearing to matters stated in the
notice of appeal. If any party or the town would be unduly prejudiced by the
presentation of matters not presented in the notice of appeal, the Board shall
continue the hearing. The Board of Adjustment may reverse or affirm, wholly or
partly, or may modify the decision appealed from and shall make any order,
requirement, decision, or determination that ought to be made. The Board shall
have all the powers of the Zoning Administrator in these proceedings.
   (I)    When hearing an appeal pursuant to G.S. § 160D-1402 or any other
appeal in the nature of certiorari, the hearing shall be based on the record
below and the scope of review shall be as provided in G.S. 160D-1402.
   (J)   The parties to an appeal that has been made under this section may
agree to mediation or other forms of alternative dispute resolution. The
ordinance may set standards and procedures to facilitate and manage such
voluntary alternative dispute resolution.
(Ord. 04-21, passed 10-6-2004, § 64; Am. Ord. 06-09, passed 9-6-2006; Am. Ord.
13-05, passed 11-6-2013; Am. Ord. 21-01, passed 6-2-2021)
§ 156.166 INTERPRETATION OF ZONING MAPS, LOT AND DISTRICT BOUNDARY LINES AND
THE LIKE.
   The Board of Adjustment shall interpret zoning maps and pass upon disputed
questions of lot lines or district boundary lines and similar questions that
may arise in the administration of this chapter. The Board shall hear and
decide all matters referred to it or upon which it is required to pass under
this chapter.
(Ord. 04-21, passed 10-6-2004, § 65; Am. Ord. 06-09, passed 9-6-2006)
§ 156.167 VARIANCES.
   (A)   When unnecessary hardships would result from carrying out the strict
letter of this chapter, the Board of Adjustment shall hold an evidentiary
public hearing to grant a variance from any of the provisions of this chapter
relating to the construction or alteration of buildings or structures of the
use of land, so that the requested variance is consistent with the spirit,
purpose and intent of this chapter, such that public safety is secured, and
substantial justice is achieved. This shall be done upon a showing of all of
the following:
      (1)   Unnecessary hardship would result from the strict application of
the ordinance. It shall not be necessary to demonstrate that, in the absence of
the variance, no reasonable use can be made of the property.
      (2)   The hardship results from conditions that are peculiar to the
property, such as location, size, or topography. Hardships resulting from
personal circumstances, as well as hardships resulting from conditions that are
common to the neighborhood or the general public, may not be the basis for
granting a variance. However, a variance may be granted when necessary and
appropriate to make a reasonable accommodation under the Federal Fair Housing
Act for a person with a disability.
      (3)   The hardship did not result from actions taken by the applicant or
the property owner. The act of purchasing property with knowledge that
circumstances exist that may justify the granting of a variance shall not be
regarded as a self-created hardship.
      (4)   The requested variance is consistent with the spirit, purpose, and
intent of the regulation, such that public safety is secured and substantial
justice is achieved. No change in permitted uses may be authorized by variance.
Appropriate conditions may be imposed on any variance, provided that the
conditions are reasonably related to the variance. Any other ordinance that
regulates land use or development may provide for variances consistent with the
provisions of this section.
   (B)   The public hearing shall be held as advertised. Any party may appear
in person or be represented by agent or by attorney;
   (C)   The Board of Adjustment shall make findings that the requirements of
division (A) above have been met by the applicant for a variance;
   (D)   The Board of Adjustment shall further make a finding that the reasons
set forth in the application justify the granting of the variance and that the
variance is the minimum variance that will make possible the reasonable use of
the land, building or structure; and
   (E)   The Board of Adjustment shall further make a finding that the granting
of the variance will be in harmony with the general purpose and intent of this
chapter and will not be injurious to the neighborhood or otherwise detrimental
to the public welfare. Violation of these conditions and safeguards, when made
a part of the terms under which the variance is granted, shall be deemed a
violation of this chapter and punishable under §
156.999.
   (F)   Subsequent to approval, all variance orders shall be recorded by the
property owner in the office of the Dare County Register of Deeds. A copy of
the recorded variance order shall be provided to the Director of Community
Development within 60 days of the approval date by the Board of Adjustment.
(Ord. 04-21, passed 10-6-2004, § 66; Am. Ord. 06-09, passed 9-6-2006; Am. Ord.
13-02, passed 4-3-2013; Am. Ord. 13-05, passed 11-6-2013; Am. Ord. 21-01,
passed 6-2-2021)
CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS
§ 156.180 PROCEDURE GENERALLY.
   (A)   The Town Council may, on its own motion or upon motion or petition by
any person within the planning and development regulation jurisdiction of the
town, after public notice and hearing, amend, supplement, change, modify or
repeal the regulations herein established or the maps which are part of this
chapter, subject to the rules prescribed in this chapter. No regulation or map
shall be amended, supplemented, changed, modified or repealed until after a
public hearing in relation thereto, at which parties in interest and citizens
shall have an opportunity to be heard. A notice of the hearing shall be given
circulation in the town, notice to be published the first time not less than 10
days nor more than 25 days prior to the date fixed for the hearing.
   (B)   Whenever there is a zoning map amendment (rezoning), the owner of that
parcel of land as shown on the county tax listing, and the owners of all
parcels of land abutting that parcel of land as shown on the county tax
listing, shall be mailed a notice of a public hearing on the proposed amendment
by first class mail at the last addresses listed for the owners on the county
tax abstracts. This notice must be deposited in the mail at least 10 but not
more than 25 days prior to the date of the public hearing. The person or
persons mailing the notices shall certify to the Town Council that fact, and
the certificate shall be deemed conclusive in the absence of fraud.
   (C)   The first class mail notice required under division (B) above shall
not be required if the zoning map amendment directly affects more than 50
properties, owned by a total of at least 50 different property owners, and the
town elects to use the expanded published notice provided for in this division.
In this instance, the town may elect to either make the mailed notice provided
for in division (B) above or may as an alternative elect to publish notice of
the hearing as required by G.S. § 160D- 602, but provided that each
advertisement shall not be less than ½ of a newspaper page in size. The
advertisement shall only be effective for property owners who reside in the
area of general circulation of the newspaper which publishes the notice.
Property owners who reside outside of the newspaper circulation area, according
to the address listed on the most recent property tax listing for the affected
property, shall be notified according to the provisions of division (A) above.
   (D)   When a zoning map amendment is proposed, the town shall prominently
post a notice of the public hearing on the site proposed for rezoning or on an
adjacent public street or highway right-of- way. The notice shall be posted
within the same time period specified for mailed notices of the hearing. When
multiple parcels are included within a proposed zoning map amendment, a posting
on each individual parcel is not required, but the town shall post sufficient
notices to provide reasonable notice to interested persons.
   (E)   No member of the Town Council shall vote on, nor shall any member of
an appointed board providing advice to the Town Council vote on, any zoning map
or text amendment where the outcome of the matter being considered is
reasonably likely to have a direct, substantial and readily identifiable
financial impact on the member.
   (F)   A statement analyzing the reasonableness of a proposed rezoning shall
be prepared for each petition for a rezoning.
   (G)   Per G.S. § 160D-605, prior to adopting or rejecting any zoning
amendment, the Town Council shall adopt a brief statement describing whether
its action is consistent with the adopted CAMA Comprehensive & Land Use Plan.
The requirement for a plan consistency statement may also be met by a clear
indication in the minutes of the Town Council that at the time of action on the
amendment the Town Council was aware of and considered the Planning Board's
recommendations and any relevant portions of the adopted Comprehensive & Land
Use Plan, If a zoning map amendment is adopted and the action was deemed
inconsistent with the adopted plan, the zoning amendment shall have the effect
of also amending any future land use map in the approved plan, and no
additional request or application for a plan amendment shall be required. A
plan amendment and a zoning amendment may be considered concurrently. The plan
consistency statement is not subject to judicial review. If a zoning map
amendment qualifies as a "large-scale rezoning" under G.S. 160D-602(b), the
Town Council statement describing plan consistency may address the overall
rezoning and describe how the analysis and policies in the relevant adopted
plans were considered in the action taken.
(Ord. 04-21, passed 10-6-2004, § 67; Am. Ord. 06-06, passed 6-7-2006; Am. Ord.
21-01, passed 6-2-2021)
§ 156.181 PLANNING BOARD ACTION.
   (A)   Every proposed amendment, supplement, change, modification or repeal
to this chapter shall be referred to the Planning Board for its recommendation
and written report. All petitions for a change in the zoning map shall include
a legal description of the property involved and the names and addresses of
current abutting property owners. If no written report is received from the
Planning Board within 30 days of referral of the amendment to that Board, the
Town Council may proceed in its consideration of the amendment without the
Planning Board report.
   (B)   Per G.S. § 160D-604, when conducting a review of proposed zoning text
or map amendments pursuant to this chapter, the Planning Board shall advise and
comment on whether the proposed action is consistent with the adopted
Comprehensive & Land Use Plan and any other officially adopted plan that is
applicable. The Planning Board shall provide a written recommendation to the
Town Council that addresses plan consistency and other matters as deemed
appropriate by the Planning Board, but a comment by the Planning Board that a
proposed amendment is inconsistent with the comprehensive plan shall not
preclude consideration or approval of the proposed amendment by the governing
board. If a zoning map amendment qualifies as a "large-scale rezoning" under
G.S. § 160D-602(b), the Planning Board statement describing plan consistency
may address the overall rezoning and describe how the analysis and policies in
the relevant adopted plans were considered in the recommendation made.
   (C)   A Planning Board member shall not vote on any matter pursuant to this
chapter where the outcome of the matter being considered is reasonably likely
to have a direct, substantial, and readily identifiable financial impact on the
member. A Planning Board member shall not vote on any zoning amendment if the
landowner of the property subject to a rezoning petition or the applicant for a
text amendment is a person with whom the member has a close familial, business,
or other associational relationship.
(Ord. 04-21, passed 10-6-2004, § 69; Am. Ord. 06-06, passed 6-7-2006; Am. Ord.
16-05, passed 10-5-2016; Am. Ord. 21-01, passed 6-2-2021)
§ 156.182 APPLICATION FEE.
   A fee, as established in the adopted fee schedule for the Town of Duck, plus
the cost of the required legal advertisement, shall be paid to the town for
each application for amendment to this chapter, to cover the costs of
advertising and other administrative expenses involved.
(Ord. 04-21, passed 10-6-2004, § 70; Am. Ord. 16-05, passed 10-5-2016)
§ 156.999 PENALTIES.
   (A)   If the Zoning Administrator shall find that any of the provisions of
this chapter are being violated, he or she shall notify in writing the person
responsible for any violation, indicating the nature of the violation and
ordering the action necessary to correct it. He or she shall order
discontinuance of any illegal use of land, buildings or structures, removal of
illegal buildings or structures or of additions, alterations or structural
changes thereto or discontinuance of any illegal work being done, or shall take
any other action authorized by this chapter to ensure compliance with or to
prevent violations of its provisions.
   (B)   If any building or structure is erected, constructed, reconstructed,
altered, repaired, converted or maintained or any building, structure or land
is used in violation of this chapter, the Building Inspector or any appropriate
authority, in addition to other remedies, may institute any appropriate action
or preceding to prevent the unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction,
alteration, repair, conversion, maintenance or use, to restrain, correct or
abate the violation, to prevent the occupancy of the building, structure or
land or to prevent any illegal act, conduct, business or use in or about the
premises.
   (C)   Unless otherwise specifically provided, violation of any provision of
this code or any other town ordinance shall subject the offender to the
remedies hereinafter provided; except, that where the General Statutes of North
Carolina provide specific civil remedies for violations of provisions of this
code adopted pursuant to the statutes, the remedies available to the town for
enforcement of this code shall be in addition to the remedies stated in this
section.
   (D)    Violations of this chapter shall subject the offender to a civil
penalty in accordance with the specific penalty provisions contained within the
respective chapter and section, where applicable. Offenders violating this
chapter shall be subject to civil penalty upon the issuance of a citation for
the violation. The civil penalty, if not paid to the Town Clerk within 15 days
of the issuance of a citation, may be recovered by the town in a civil action
in the nature of debt. Unless otherwise provided by a specific provision of
this chapter, the civil penalties shall be no more than $500 for each
violation, and each day any single violation continues shall be a separate
violation.
(Ord. 04-21, passed 10-6-2004, § 58; Am. Ord. 19-05, passed 11-6-2019) each day
any single violation continues shall be a separate violation.
(Ord. 04-21, passed 10-6-2004, § 58)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
Table
   
I.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
TABLE I: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Rezoning 1261 Duck Road, more particularly known as PIN
03-012   8-6-2003    995020706856, comprising approximately 158.58 acres from
                     RS-1 to C-PR
                     Rezoning 1196, 1200 and 1208 Duck Road, more particularly
05-02    4-6-2005    known as PIN 985916747660, PIN 985916841461, and PIN
                     985916840748 respectively, comprising approximately 10.33
                     acres from V-C to C-PR
                     Rezoning 102, 104, 103, 105 and 107 Duck Ridge Village
                     Court, more particularly known as PIN 985912758507, PIN
05-03    4-6-2005    985912758588, PIN 985912758305, PIN 985912759307, and PIN
                     985912759399 respectively, comprising respectively 17,498,
                     16,014, 15,921, 16,005, and 16,000 square feet, for a
                     total of approximately 1.64 acres as RS-1
                     Rezoning 1202 Duck Road, more particularly known as PIN
07-01    1-3-2007    9859-16-84-0594, comprising 22.999 square feet or
                     approximately .53 acres from V-C to C-PR
07-03    2-7-2007    Rezoning Lots 19 and 20, Station Bay Cove, to be
                     recombined as Lots 19A and 20A
                     Rezoning 1221 Duck Road, more particularly known as PIN
11-01    9-21-2011   985912765233, Lot 1 - Saltaire Subdivision, 0.39 acres or
                     17,058 square feet, from RS-1 to VC
16-06    10-5-2016   Rezoning 1165 Duck Road, more particularly known as PIN
                     985916837171, approximately 0.41 acres, from RS-1 to V-C
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
G.S. Section Code Section
G.S. Section               Code Section
1-593                      10.05
                           70.04,
14-4                       Ch. 72, Sch. I, 91.23,
                           91.99,
                           130.02
Ch. 14, Art. 54B           130.02
14-202.10(1)               156.002
14-202.10(2)               156.002
14-202.10(3)               156.002
14-202.10(4)               156.002
14-202.10(5)               156.002
14-202.10(6)               156.002
14-202.10(9)               156.002
14-202.10(10)              156.002
14-202.10(11)              156.002
14-288                     152.03
14-288.1(2)                32.05
14-288.20A                 32.14
14-409.32(2)            130.02
14-409.39(2)               32.05 ,
                           130.02
14-409.40(f)               130.02
14-415.21(b)               130.02
14-415.23(a)               130.02
15-27.2                    96.03
18B-1001                   112.01
20-4.01                    70.01
20-4.01(7a)                70.01
20-4.01(7b)                93.05
20-4.01(27)                94.06
20-50                      70.01
20-51(14)                  70.01
20-309                     70.01
Ch. 20, Art. 7A            92.10
Ch. 29                     155.01,
                           155.05
39-32.1 et seq.            155.03
Ch. 44A, Art. 1            92.12
47-30                      155.02
58-83.1                    96.07
Ch. 74C                    96.06
Ch. 74D                    96.06
75A-13.3                   70.45
76A-2                      70.45
90-113.21(a)               156.002
90-113.21(b)               156.002
110-86(2)                  156.002
113-291.1                  70.49
Ch. 113A, Art, 4           155.03
113A-52                    155.03
113A-57                    156.128
                           150.05,
                           154.03,
                           154.05,
113A-100 et seq.           154.07,
                           154.08,
                           154.10,
                           155.02,
                           155.03
113A-103(5a)               154.06
113A-115.1                 156.037
113A-120                   154.07
Ch. 121, Art. 3            94.08
121-5                      111.12
Ch. 130, Art. 13C          155.03
Ch. 130A, Art. 9           150.05
130A-290(a)(6)             150.05
136-102.6                  155.02
136-143 et seq.            92.15
Ch. 143, Art. 21, Part 6   150.01
Ch. 143, Art. 33c          30.52
143-139                    96.03,
                           151.25
143-143.15                 150.41
143-145(7)                 156.002
143-215.58                 150.28,
                           150.99
143-318.11(a)(1)           31.07
143-318.11(a)(3)           31.07
143-318.12                 31.42
Ch. 153A, Art. 6           150.01
159-25(b)                  30.04
Ch. 160A                   156.001
Ch. 160A, Art. 8           150.01
160A-174                   152.03
160A-175                   Ch. 72, Sch. I,
                           156.063
160A-175(d)                111.25
160A-176.2                 70.48
160A-189                   130.02
160A-190                   130.02
160A-216 et seq.           153.08
160A-293                   96.07
160A-303                   92.02
160A-303.1                 92.15
160A-303.2                 92.02,
                           92.15
160A-364                   156.156,
                           156.180
160A-381                   156.025
160A-400.52(f)             156.058
160A-400.53(a)(3)          156.058
160A-411                   151.01
160A-434                   96.03
160A-441                   153.01
160A-443(3)                153.05
160A-443(4)                153.05
160A-443(5)                153.07
160A-443(6)                153.08
160A-446(f)                153.05
160A-446(g)                153.05
                           155.05,
Ch. 160D                   156.001,
                           156.002,
                           156.025
Ch. 160D, Art. 7, 9 and 11 150.01
Ch. 160D, Art. 10          156.002
160D-109                   156.155
160D-190                   156.156
160D-202                   156.004
160D-403                   156.156
160D-501                   155.05,
                           156.002
160D-602                   156.180
160D-602(b)                156.180,
                           156.181
160D-604                   156.181
160D-605                   156.180
160D-801                   155.01
                           155.01,
160D-802                   155.02,
                           155.05,
                           156.002
160D-903                   156.002,
                           156.004
                           156.155,
160D-1402                  156.163 -
                           156.165
164-7                      10.14
166A-19.22                 32.01,
                           113.01
166A-19.31                 32.01
                           
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.         Date Passed         Code Section
02-03            5-1-2002            152.01 -
                                     152.04
                                     32.01 -
02-04            5-1-2002            32.08,
                                     32.10 -
                                     32.13
02-07            5-1-2002            153.01 -
                                     153.09
02-10            5-1-2002            90.10
02-12            5-1-2002            91.01 -
                                     91.05
                                     130.01,
02-13            5-1-2002            130.03,
                                     130.04
02-16            6-5-2002            30.50 -
                                     30.54
02-19            7-3-2002            91.20 - 91.23
Subdivision Ord. 8-7-2002            155.01 -
                                     155.05
02-21            10-2-2002           130.02, 130.05,
                                     130.99
                                     30.01,
                                     30.04,
                                     30.05,
03-02            3-5-2003            30.20 -
                                     30.22,
                                     30.35,
                                     30.37,
                                     30.38
03-03            5-7-2003            Ch. 71, Sch. I
                                     151.01 -
                                     151.06,
03-09            7-2-2003            151.20 -
                                     151.32,
                                     151.45 -
                                     151.56
03-012           8-6-2003            T.S.O. I
03-16            11-5-2003           156.031
04-01            1-7-2004            30.02
                                     31.01 -
04-04            4-7-2004            31.15,
                                     31.30 -
                                     31.42
04-05            4-7-2004            30.03,
                                     30.36
04-06            4-7-2004            92.01 -
                                     92.16
                                     70.15 -
04-07            5-5-2004            70.17,
                                     70.99
                                     50.01 -
                                     50.07,
                                     50.09,
04-08            5-5-2004            50.11,
                                     50.13,
                                     50.16,
                                     50.99
                                     91.35 -
04-09            5-5-2004            91.41,
                                     91.99
                                     70.45 -
04-10            5-5-2004            70.51,
                                     70.99
04-18            7-7-2004            90.01 -
                                     90.09
04-21            10-6-2004, § 1     156.001
04-21            10-6-2004, § 2     156.002,
                                     156.136
04-21            10-6-2004, § 3     156.003
04-21            10-6-2004, § 4     156.004
04-21            10-6-2004, § 5     156.005
04-21            10-6-2004, § 6     156.006
04-21            10-6-2004, § 7     156.007
04-21            10-6-2004, § 8     156.008
04-21            10-6-2004, § 9     156.009
04-21            10-6-2004, § 10    156.010
04-21            10-6-2004, § 11    156.011
04-21            10-6-2004, § 12    156.012
04-21            10-6-2004, § 29.1  156.060
04-21            10-6-2004, § 30    156.070
04-21            10-6-2004, § 31    156.071
04-21            10-6-2004, § 32    156.072
04-21            10-6-2004, § 33    156.073
04-21            10-6-2004, § 34    156.074
04-21            10-6-2004, § 35    156.075
04-21            10-6-2004, § 36    156.076
04-21            10-6-2004, § 37    156.090
04-21            10-6-2004, § 38    156.091
04-21            10-6-2004, § 39    156.092
04-21            10-6-2004, § 40    156.093
04-21            10-6-2004, § 41    156.094
04-21            10-6-2004, § 42    156.095
04-21            10-6-2004, § 42.1  156.096
04-21            10-6-2004, § 42.2.1156.110
04-21            10-6-2004, § 42.2.2156.111
04-21            10-6-2004, § 42.2.3156.112
04-21            10-6-2004, § 42.2.4156.113
04-21            10-6-2004, § 42.2.5156.114
04-21            10-6-2004, § 42.2.6156.115
04-21            10-6-2004, § 42.2.7156.116
04-21            10-6-2004, § 42.2.8156.117
04-21            10-6-2004, § 42.2.9156.118
04-21            10-6-2004, § 43.1  156.125
04-21            10-6-2004, § 43.2  156.126
04-21            10-6-2004, § 43.3  156.127
04-21            10-6-2004, § 44    156.130
04-21            10-6-2004, § 44.1  156.131
04-21            10-6-2004, § 45    156.132
04-21            10-6-2004, § 46    156.133
04-21            10-6-2004, § 47    156.134
04-21            10-6-2004, § 48    156.135
04-21            10-6-2004, § 49    156.150
04-21            10-6-2004, § 50    156.151
04-21            10-6-2004, § 51    156.152
04-21            10-6-2004, § 52    156.153
04-21            10-6-2004, § 53    156.154
04-21            10-6-2004, § 54    156.155
04-21            10-6-2004, § 55    156.157
04-21            10-6-2004, § 56    156.158
04-21            10-6-2004, § 57    156.159
04-21            10-6-2004, § 58    156.999
04-21            10-6-2004, § 59    156.160
04-21            10-6-2004, § 60    156.161
04-21            10-6-2004, § 61    156.162
04-21            10-6-2004, § 62    156.163
04-21            10-6-2004, § 63    156.164
04-21            10-6-2004, § 64    156.165
04-21            10-6-2004, § 65    156.166
04-21            10-6-2004, § 66    156.167
04-21            10-6-2004, § 67    156.180
04-21            10-6-2004, § 69    156.181
04-21            10-6-2004, § 70    156.182
04-23            10-6-2004, § 24    156.050 -
                                     156.055
04-23            10-6-2004, § 25    156.056
04-23            10-6-2004, § 26    156.057
04-23            10-6-2004, § 27    156.058
04-23            10-6-2004, § 29    156.059
04-22            11-3-2004, § 13.1  156.025
04-22            11-3-2004, § 13.2  156.026
04-22            11-3-2004, § 14    156.027
04-22            11-3-2004, § 15    156.028
04-22            11-3-2004, § 16    156.029
04-22            11-3-2004, § 17    156.030
04-22            11-3-2004, § 18    156.031
04-22            11-3-2004, § 19    156.032
04-22            11-3-2004, § 20    156.033
04-22            11-3-2004, § 21    156.034
04-22            11-3-2004, § 22    156.035
04-22            11-3-2004, § 23    156.036
04-24            11-3-2004           156.002,
                                     156.060
04-29            12-1-2004           156.126
05-02            4-6-2005            T.S.O. I
05-03            4-6-2005            T.S.O. I
05-04            4-6-2005            156.050 -
                                     156.055
05-06            5-4-2005            156.002,
                                     156.128
05-08            6-1-2005            156.126
05-09            6-1-2005            156.130
06-01            4-5-2006            156.050 -
                                     156.055
06-02            5-3-2006            156.002
                                     154.01 -
06-03            5-3-2006            154.11,
                                     154.99
06-04            5-3-2006            70.01;
                                     Ch. 72, Sch. I
06-05            6-7-2006            156.036
                                     156.155,
06-06            6-7-2006            156.180,
                                     156.181
                                     156.155,
06-09            9-6-2006            156.156,
                                     156.162 -
                                     156.167
07-01            1-3-2007            T.S.O. I
07-02            2-7-2007            33.01
07-03            2-7-2007            T.S.O. I
07-04            2-7-2007            156.061
07-06            5-2-2007            70.01,
                                     70.99
                                     93.01,
07-07            5-2-2007            93.03 -
                                     93.06,
                                     93.99
07-05            6-6-2007            156.137
07-08            6-6-2007            156.037
07-10            7-5-2007            90.05
07-11            9-5-2007            156.092
07-12            9-5-2007            156.002
07-13            10-3-2007           156.128
07-15            10-3-2007           156.002
07-16            10-17-2007          Adopting Ordinance
07-17            12-5-2007           156.125
07-18            12-5-2007           156.128
08-01            3-5-2008            156.137
08-02            5-7-2008            156.092
08-03            7-2-2008            156.002,
                                     156.130
08-04            10-1-2008           156.128
08-05            11-5-2008           156.051
09-01            2-4-2009            93.05
09-002           4-8-2009            156.002,
                                     156.130
09-03            4-8-2009            156.029,
                                     156.094
                                     94.01 -
09-04            4-8-2009            94.08,
                                     94.99
09-05            5-6-2009            156.061
                                     156.054,
                                     156.057,
                                     156.061,
09-07            8-5-2009            156.096,
                                     156.118,
                                     156.128,
                                     156.155,
                                     156.163
09-08            11-4-2009           Ch. 72, Sch. I
10-02            4-7-2010            156.130
10-03            3-3-2010            156.137
10-04            3-3-2010            156.002,
                                     156.036
10-06            5-5-2010            156.002,
                                     156.138
10-07            6-2-2010            Ch. 72, Sch. I
10-08            7-7-2010            Ch. 72, Sch. I
                                     93.01,
10-09            7-7-2010            93.03 -
                                     93.06,
                                     93.99
                                     156.002,
10-10            1-5-2011            156.056,
                                     156.139
                                     70.01,
10-12            12-1-2010           70.02,
                                     70.04,
                                     70.99
10-13            1-5-2011            156.056
10-14            1-5-2011            156.037
11-01            2-2-2011            156.062
11-02            3-2-2011            94.05
                                     93.01 -
11-03            4-6-2011            93.06,
                                     93.99
                                     70.01,
11-05            6-1-2011            70.02,
                                     70.04
11-01            9-21-2011           T.S.O. I
11-04            9-21-2011           156.063
11-07            10-5-2011           156.059
                                     156.002,
                                     156.033,
11-08            1-4-2012            156.034,
                                     156.036,
                                     156.094,
                                     156.129
12-01            6-6-2012            156.002
12-02            6-6-2012            110.01 -
                                     110.04
                                     95.01 -
12-04            7-5-2012            95.09,
                                     95.99
12-05            8-1-2012            156.034,
                                     156.094
                                     156.002,
12-06            10-3-2012           156.036,
                                     156.094
                                     156.002,
12-08            11-7-2012           156.034,
                                     156.094
13-01            1-2-2013            Ch. 72, Sch. I
13-02            4-3-2013            156.155,
                                     156.167
13-03            4-3-2013            94.05
                                     94.04,
13-04            7-17-2013           156.063,
                                     156.124
                                     156.162  -
13-05            11-6-2013           156.165 ,
                                     156.167
13-06            11-6-2013           156.071
14-01            4-2-2014            30.06
                                     156.002,
                                     156.030 -
                                     156.032,
                                     156.091 -
14-02            6-4-2014            156.093,
                                     156.110,
                                     156.112 -
                                     156.114,
                                     156.128
                                     32.01 -
14-03            6-4-2014            32.08,
                                     32.10 -
                                     32.13
                                     93.01,
14-04            9-3-2014            93.02,
                                     93.04,
                                     93.05
14-05            10-1-2014           Ch. 72, Sch. I
15-01            3-4-2015            155.01
                                     156.128,
15-03            3-4-2015            156.130,
                                     156.155
15-04            4-1-2015            156.026
15-05            6-3-2015            151.23
15-06            6-3-2015            156.137
15-07            6-3-2015            156.002
15-10            7-1-2015            156.058
15-11            9-2-2015            156.129
15-12            9-2-2015            156.126
16-01            1-6-2016            156.002
16-02            4-6-2016            156.003,
                                     156.035
16-04            7-6-2016            156.029 -
                                     156.036; 156.040
16-05            10-5-2016           156.181,
                                     156.182
16-06            10-5-2016           T.S.O. I
                                     156.002,
                                     156.030 -
                                     156.032,
16-07            11-2-2016           156.040,
                                     156.140,
                                     156.150 -
                                     156.159
                                     156.030 -
16-08            2-1-2017            156.032,
                                     156.040
17-01            4-5-2017            156.130
17-02            4-5-2017            156.053
17-03            6-7-2017            156.128
                                     91.36,
                                     155.03,
                                     156.002,
                                     156.029,
                                     156.030 -
                                     156.032,
                                     156.034,
17-04            6-7-2017            156.037,
                                     156.058,
                                     156.061,
                                     156.117,
                                     156.130,
                                     156.133,
                                     156.136,
                                     156.138
                                     156.002,
17-05            7-5-2017            156.063,
                                     156.064,
                                     156.124
17-06            7-5-2017            156.124
                                     156.002,
17-07            8-2-2017            156.026,
                                     156.051
17-09            - -                 112.01
17-11            10-4-2017           156.002
17-13            12-6-2017           156.058
17-15            1-3-2018            156.037
17-16            2-7-2018            155.01,
                                     155.02
17-17            2-7-2018            151.33
18-01            1-3-2018            Ch. 72, Sch. I
18-02            1-3-2018            Ch. 72, Sch. I
18-03            3-7-2018            70.01,
                                     70.05
18-04            4-4-2018            70.01,
                                     70.05
18-05            5-2-2018            110.04
18-06            12-5-2018           156.126
18-07            1-16-2019           156.126
18-08            2-6-2019            156.140
19-01            2-6-2019            130.02
19-03            6-5-2019            156.155
19-04            12-4-2019           156.065,
                                     156.036
                                     153.07,
                                     154.99,
19-05            11-6-2019           155.04,
                                     156.164,
                                     156.999
                                     10.99,
                                     30.06,
                                     70.04,
                                     70.99,
                                     91.99,
                                     92.16,
19-06            11-6-2019           93.99,
                                     94.99,
                                     130.01,
                                     130.02,
                                     130.03,
                                     130.04,
                                     130.99
19-07            12-4-2019           156.002,
                                     156.112
19-08            11-6-2019           93.05,
                                     130.02
19-09            1-15-2020           156.034
19-10            2-5-2020            156.124
                                     150.01 -
                                     150.13,
                                     150.25 -
                                     150.29,
20-01            5-20-2020           150.40 -
                                     150.43,
                                     150.55,
                                     150.56,
                                     150.99
20-02            5-20-2020           156.002
20-03            5-20-2020           113.01
                                     96.01 -
20-04            7-1-2020            96.07,
                                     96.99,
                                     130.99
                                     156.001 -
                                     156.004,
                                     156.025,
                                     156.029 -
                                     156.037,
                                     156.040,
                                     156.051,
                                     156.053 -
                                     156.059,
                                     156.061 -
                                     156.065,
                                     156.071,
                                     156.076,
                                     156.096,
                                     156.115,
21-01            6-2-2021            156.117,
                                     156.118,
                                     156.124 -
                                     156.130,
                                     156.133,
                                     156.137 -
                                     156.140,
                                     156.151,
                                     156.154 -
                                     156.157,
                                     156.159,
                                     156.163 -
                                     156.165,
                                     156.167,
                                     156.180,
                                     156.181
21-02            6-2-2021            155.01 -
                                     155.05
21-03            6-2-2021            156.124
21-04            9-1-2021            32.01 -
                                     32.14
22-01            1-19-2022           Ch. 71, Sch. I
22-03            4-6-2022            150.27,
                                     150.28
22-04            7-6-2022            150.26
                                     156.002,
22-05            8-3-2022            156.033,
                                     156.040
22-07            9-7-2022            156.030 -
                                     156.032
22-08            9-7-2022            156.051
22-10            1-3-2023            94.04,
                                     156.124
23-04            3-1-2023            Ch. 71, Sch. I
23-01            5-3-2023            156.002
23-02            5-3-2023            156.030 -
                                     156.032
                                     50.01 -
                                     50.07,
23-03            4-5-2023            50.09,
                                     50.11,
                                     50.99
23-06            5-1-2023            94.06
23-07            9-6-2023            30.35 -
                                     30.40
23-08            8-2-2023            156.002
23-09            9-6-2023            156.162
23-10            9-6-2023            156.040,
                                     156.058
                                     30.40,
23-11            9-6-2023            156.093,
                                     156.117,
                                     156.155
23-12            10-4-2023           156.092
                                     31.06,
23-13            10-4-2023           31.11,
                                     31.13,
                                     31.30
23-14            12-6-2023           156.002
23-15            12-6-2023           94.04,
                                     94.05
23-16            1-3-2024            111.01 -
                                     111.25
24-01            4-3-2024            130.05
24-02            4-3-2024            70.01 -
                                     70.05
24-04            1-8-2025            156.002
24-05            9-4-2024            70.05
24-07            1-8-2025            156.116,
                                     156.155
25-01            5-7-2025            156.137
                                     96.02,
25-02            4-2-2025            96.04,
                                     96.06,
                                     96.99
25-03            6-4-2025            156.053
                                    
 
