TOWN OF EDENTON, NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-7 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through an Ordinance, passed 10-10-2023; and
State legislation current through North Carolina Legislative Service,
2023 Regular Session Laws, Pamphlet No. 6
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
CHARTER
Section
Article I. Incorporation, Corporate Powers and Boundaries
   
1.1.   Incorporation
   
1.2.   Powers
   
1.3.   Corporate limits
Article II. Governing Body
   
2.1.   Mayor and Council
   
2.2.   Council; composition; terms of office
   
2.3.   Mayor; term of office; duties
   
2.4.   Mayor Pro Tempore
   
2.5.   Meetings
   
2.6.   Ordinances and resolutions
   
2.7.   Voting requirements; quorum
   
2.8.   Compensation; qualifications for office; vacancies
Article III. Elections
   
3.1.   Regular municipal elections
   
3.2.   Wards; revision
   
3.3.   Election of Council members
   
3.4.   Election of the Mayor
   
3.5.   Special elections and referendums
Article IV. Organization and Administration
   
4.1.   Form of government
   
4.2.   Town Manager
   
4.3.   Town Clerk
   
4.4.   Tax Collector
   
4.5.   Town Attorney
   
4.6.   Other administrative officers and employees
Article V. Special Assessment Provisions
Part 1. Streets and Sidewalks
   
5.1.   Authority to assess for street improvements
   
5.2.   Authority to assess for sidewalk improvements and repairs
   
5.3.   Assessment procedure
   
5.4.   Effect of assessment
   
5.5.   Exemption of corner lots
Part 2. Water and Sewer
   
5.6.   Authority to levy by alternate methods
   
5.7.   Average costs
   
5.8.   Subdivisions
   
5.9.   Exemption of corner lots
Editor’s note:
   No stylistic or grammatical changes have been made to this document, other
than to systemize and make consistent the format of the charter analysis above
and the section headers below.
Statutory reference:
   The Charter of the Town of Edenton was revised and consolidated in 1986, per
North Carolina House Bill 1461, Chapter 815.
ARTICLE I. INCORPORATION, CORPORATE POWERS AND BOUNDARIES
§ 1.1 INCORPORATION.
   The Town of Edenton, North Carolina, in Chowan County, and the inhabitants
thereof, shall continue to be a municipal body politic and corporate, under the
name of the ‘Town of Edenton’, hereinafter at times referred to as the ‘Town’.
§ 1.2 POWERS.
   The Town shall have and may exercise all of the powers, duties, rights,
privileges and immunities conferred upon the Town of Edenton specifically by
this Charter or upon municipal corporations by general law. The term ‘general
law’ is employed herein as defined in G.S. 160A-1.
§ 1.3 CORPORATE LIMITS.
   The corporate limits shall be those existing at the time of ratification of
this Charter, as set forth on the official map of the Town, and as they may be
altered from time to time in accordance with law. An official map of the Town,
showing the current boundaries, shall be maintained permanently in the office
of the Town Clerk and shall be available for public inspection. Immediately
upon alteration of the corporate limits made pursuant to law, the appropriate
changes to the official map shall be made, and copies shall be filed in the
offices of the Secretary of State, the Chowan County Register of Deeds and the
appropriate board of elections.
ARTICLE II. GOVERNING BODY
§ 2.1 MAYOR AND COUNCIL.
   The Mayor and Council shall be the governing body of the Town.
§ 2.2 COUNCIL; COMPOSITION; TERMS OF OFFICE.
   The Council shall be composed of six members elected for staggered terms of
four years. One Council Member shall be elected by the qualified voters of each
of the four wards. Each person so elected shall have resided in the respective
ward for a period of not less than 30 days next preceding the date of the
election. Two Council members shall be elected by all the qualified voters of
the Town.
§ 2.3 MAYOR; TERM OF OFFICE; DUTIES.
   The Mayor shall be elected by all the qualified voters of the Town for a
term of four years; shall be the official head of the Town government and
preside at meetings of the Council; shall have the right to vote only when
there is an equal division on any question or matter before the Council; and
shall exercise the powers and duties conferred by law or as directed by the
Council.
§ 2.4 MAYOR PRO TEMPORE.
   The Council shall elect one of its members as Mayor Pro Tempore to perform
the duties of the Mayor during his or her absence or disability, in accordance
with general law. The Mayor Pro Tempore shall serve in such capacity at the
pleasure of the other members of the Council.
§ 2.5 MEETINGS.
   In accordance with general law, the Council shall establish a suitable time
and place for its regular meetings. Special and emergency meetings ma y be held
as provided by general law.
§ 2.6 ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
   The adoption, amendment, repeal, pleading and proving of Town ordinances and
resolutions shall be in accordance with general law. All ordinances and
resolutions shall be effective upon adoption unless otherwise provided.
§ 2.7 VOTING REQUIREMENTS; QUORUM.
   Official actions of the Council and all votes shall be taken in accordance
with applicable provisions of general law, particularly G.S. 160A-75. A
majority of the members of the Council, excluding vacancies, shall constitute a
quorum.
§ 2.8 COMPENSATION; QUALIFICATIONS FOR OFFICE; VACANCIES.
   The compensation and qualifications of the Mayor and Council members shall
be in accordance with general law. Vacancies that occur in any elective office
of the Town shall be filled by appointment of the Council for the remainder of
the unexpired term.
ARTICLE III. ELECTIONS
§ 3.1 REGULAR MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS.
   Regular municipal elections shall be held in each odd-numbered year in
accordance with the uniform municipal election laws of North Carolina.
Elections shall be conducted and the results determined on a nonpartisan
plurality basis as provided in G.S. 163-292.
§ 3.2 WARDS; REVISION.
   The four wards established for the purpose of elections and their respective
boundaries shall be those existing at the time of ratification of this Charter
and set forth on the official map of the Town, as required by G.S. 16GA-23. The
Council may revise ward boundaries as provided in G.S. 160A-23 by adoption of
an appropriate ordinance. The Counci1 may make other revisions, including
changing the number of wards, by following the procedure set out in G.S.
Chapter 160A, Article 5, Part 4, and applicable provisions of State and federal
law.
§ 3.3 ELECTION OF COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   The Council members serving on the date of ratification of this Charter
shall serve until the expiration of their terms. In the municipal election in
1987 and every four years thereafter, one Council member shall be elected at
large, one Council member shall be elected by and from the First Ward and one
Council member shall be elected by and from the Second Ward. In the municipal
election in 1989 and every four years thereafter, one Council member shall be
elected at large, one Council member shall be elected by and from the Third
Ward and one Council member shall be elected by and from the Fourth ward.
§ 3.4 ELECTION OF THE MAYOR.
   The Mayor serving on the date of ratification of this Charter shall serve
until the expiration of his or her term. At the municipal election in 1987 and
every four years thereafter, there shall be elected a Mayor to serve as
provided in Article II.
§ 3.5 SPECIAL ELECTIONS AND REFERENDUMS.
   Special elections and referendums may be held only as provided by general
law or applicable local acts of the General Assembly.
ARTICLE IV. ORGANIZATION AND ADMINISTRATION
§ 4.1 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The Town shall operate under the council-manager form of government, in
accordance with G.S. Chapter 160A, Article 7, Part 2.
§ 4.2 TOWN MANAGER.
   The Council shall appoint a Town Manager who shall be responsible for the
administration of all departments of the Town government. The Town Manager
shall have all the powers and duties conferred by general law, except as
expressly limited by the provisions of this Charter.
§ 4.3 TOWN CLERK.
   The Council shall appoint a Town Clerk to keep a journal of the proceedings
of the Council; to maintain official records and documents; to give notice of
meetings; and to perform such other duties required by law or as the Council
may direct.
§ 4.4 TAX COLLECTOR.
   The Council shall appoint a Tax Collector to collect all taxes owed to the
Town, subject to general law, this Charter and Town ordinances.
§ 4.5 TOWN ATTORNEY.
   The Council shall appoint a Town Attorney licensed to practice law in North
Carolina. It shall be the duty of the Town Attorney to represent the Town,
advise Town officials and perform other duties required by law or as the
Council may direct.
§ 4.6 OTHER ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   The Council may provide for appointment of other officers and employees, and
may organize the Town government as deemed appropriate, subject to the
requirements of general law.
ARTICLE V. SPECIAL ASSESSMENT PROVISIONS
Part 1. Streets and Sidewalks
§ 5.1 AUTHORITY TO ASSESS FOR STREET IMPROVEMENTS.
   In addition to the authority granted by general law, the Council is
authorized to order street improvements and to assess fifty percent of the
total costs against abutting property owners in accordance with the provisions
of this Article, without the necessity of a petition of property owners.
§ 5.2 AUTHORITY TO ASSESS FOR SIDEWALK IMPROVEMENTS AND REPAIRS.
   In addition to the authority granted by general law, the Council is
authorized to order sidewalk improvements or repairs according to standards and
specifications of the Town, and to assess fifty percent of the total costs
against abutting property owners, without the necessity of a petition of
property owners.
§ 5.3 ASSESSMENT PROCEDURE.
   In exercising the authority granted by this Article, the Council shall
follow the procedure provided by the General Statutes relating to street and
sidewalk assessments, except those provisions relating to the petition of
property owners.
§ 5.4 EFFECT OF ASSESSMENT.
   The effect of the act of levying assessments under authority of this Article
shall for all purposes be the same as if the assessments were levied under
authority of the General Statutes.
§ 5.5 EXEMPTION OF CORNER LOTS.
   The Council shall have authority to exempt from assessment for street
improvements for corner lots one hundred fifty feet of the frontage of any side
of a corner lot when street improvements are installed along both sides of such
lot, or exemptions may be made as provided in G.S. 160A-219.
Part 2. Water and Sewer
§ 5.6 AUTHORITY TO LEVY BY ALTERNATE METHODS.
   In addition to the authority granted by general law for assessing the costs
of water and sewer lines and laterals, the Council is authorized to levy any
such assessments according to either of the following methods: (1) equally
against each of the lots capable of being served by such line or lines, or (2)
on the basis of the frontage of land upon a public street by an equal rate per
foot of such frontage.
§ 5.7 AVERAGE COSTS.
   In lieu of assessing the total cost of a particular project as herein
provided, the Council annually between the first days of January and July of
each year, may determine the average cost of installing water and sewer mains
or lines and on the basis of such determination may make assessments of such
average cost of any portion thereof during the following fiscal year beginning
July 1. The average cost of such installation shall include the cost of the
particular size and material of lines completed during the preceding calendar
year. It also may include the anticipated increase in labor and materials costs
based upon the average of such increases during the preceding five calendar
years. The assessment of the average cost of such line shall not be made until
after the particular assessment project has been completed. The purpose of this
is to distribute before equitably the cost of the installation of water and
sewer lines throughout the Town; to permit a property owner to know in advance
what the cost of installation of water and sewer lines benefitting his property
will be; and to permit the most expeditious assessment of cost against property
after completion of the installation of such lines. The actual cost of
acquisition of rights-of-way also may be assessed as a part of the cost of an
individual project. If the right-of-way costs have not been determined and
assessed with the assessment of the average installation costs at the time of
the completion of the project, such costs may be assessed separately when they
are determined.
§ 5.8 SUBDIVISIONS.
   If a lot or parcel of land used for a single-family residential purpose is
assessed under this section and the lot or parcel of land is subdivided into
additional lots for single-family occupancy, the Council may assess the
additional lots or parcels of land into which the original parcel of land is
from time to time divided on the basis of the average cost as determined under
the provisions of this Part at the time the owner of the additional lot
requests the utility service. Such assessment shall be made only after the
owner of the newly created lot or lots has requested water or sewer service and
an assessment against his property or has paid the amount of the assessment in
cash. In the absence of such request or payment, the service shall be withheld
from the property. If a lot or parcel of land is used for any purpose other
than for single-family occupancy, the Council may assess the lot or parcel of
land used for such other purpose in an amount equal to the multiple of the
assessment for a single-family lot by the nearest number of times that the area
so used is divisible by twenty thousand feet but in no case shall the
assessment be less than the assessment which would be made against a single-
family dwelling lot.
§ 5.9 EXEMPTION OF CORNER LOTS.
   The Council shall have authority to exempt from assessment for water and
sewer extensions for corner lots one hundred fifty feet of the frontage of any
side of a corner lot when water and sewer extensions are installed along both
sides of such lot, or exemptions may be made as provided in G.S. 160A-219.
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter
         
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of construction
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time; computation of time
   
10.13   Record of ordinances
   
10.14   Ordinances repealed
   
10.15   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.16   Ordinances saved
   
10.17   Amendment of code
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the Town of Edenton, North
Carolina, shall be designated as the Edenton Code and may be so cited.
(Prior Code, § 10.01)
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required,
the same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of the
General Statutes of the state.
   (B)   (1)   Where a section of this code is followed by a reference to the
General Statutes of the state, the reference indicates that the section is
analogous or similar to the cited sections in the General Statutes of the
state.
      (2)   Footnotes, cross-references and other comments are by way of
explanation only and should not be deemed a part of the text of any section.
   (C)   All provisions of this code are limited in application to the
territorial boundaries of the town although the provisions may not be so
limited specifically.
   (D)   Code, title, chapter and section headings do not constitute any part
of the law as contained in the code.
(Prior Code, § 10.02)
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I not incompatible with future legislation shall
apply to ordinances hereafter adopted which amend or supplement this code
unless otherwise specifically provided.
(Prior Code, § 10.03)
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
(Prior Code, § 10.04)
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. However, technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
   (B)   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. The Town Code as modified by amendment,
revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or sections.
      COUNCIL. The Council of Edenton.
      COUNTY. Chowan County, North Carolina.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OWNER. Applied to a building or land, shall include any part-owner, joint
owner, tenant-in-common, tenant by the entireties, tenant in partnership or
joint tenant of the whole or of a part of the building or land.
      PERSON. Includes person, persons, firm, corporation, copartnership,
trustee, lessee or receiver.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      STATE. State of North Carolina.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT. Applied to a building or land, shall include tenants
at sufferance and tenants at will and shall include any person holding a
written or oral lease of, or who occupies the whole or a part of, the building
or land, either alone or with others.
      TOWN. Edenton, North Carolina.
      TOWN COUNCIL. The Council of Edenton.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this town shall be by the following
rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of that ordinance.
   (A)   “AND” or “OR”. Either conjunction shall include the other as if
written “and/or”, if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (C)   General term. A general term following a specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated, unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the town exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express that intent, the spelling shall be corrected and
the word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal law, shall
be the official time for the transaction of all town business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME; COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by this code or
by any ordinance, the day of the act, event or default from which the
designated period of time begins to run shall not be included. The last day of
the period so computed is to be included unless it is a Saturday; a Sunday; a
legal holiday as defined by state statute; or a day the office in which the act
is to be done is closed during regular business hours. In any event, the period
runs until the end of the next day that is not a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal
holiday or a day on which the office is closed. When the period of time allowed
is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, legal holidays and
days on which the office is closed shall be excluded from the computations.
§ 10.13 RECORD OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances hereafter passed and adopted by the Town Council shall be
recorded by the Town Manager in a book of ordinances. The original shall be
filed in the Town Manager’s office and the Town Manager shall obtain and attach
thereto the proof of publication from the publisher for all ordinances
hereafter published.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.15 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.16 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the Town
Council, or a certain town officer or employee, to make additional ordinances
or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
ordinances and regulations of a similar nature serving such purpose effected
prior to the codification and not inconsistent thereto, shall remain in effect
and are saved.
§ 10.17 AMENDMENT OF CODE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to this code may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion herein.
   (B)   Any chapter, section or division repealed by subsequent ordinances may
be excluded from this code by omission from reprinted pages.
   (C)   Subsequent ordinances as printed or omitted shall be prima facie
evidence of the subsequent ordinances until the Town Council adopts a new code
of ordinances.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of any
section of this code, or failing, neglecting or refusing to comply with this
code, shall be, upon conviction, guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to a fine
not to exceed $50 or imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that any of
the provisions of this code are violated shall constitute a separate offense.
Statutory reference:
   Enforcement of ordinances, see G.S. § 160A-175
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter
         
30.   OFFICIALS AND ORGANIZATIONS
         
31.   EMERGENCIES
CHAPTER 30: OFFICIALS AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Attendance requirements
   
30.02   Finance Officer; powers and duties
   
30.03   Auxiliary law enforcement personnel
Northeastern Regional Airport Commission
   
30.40   Commission created
   
30.41   Election of members
   
30.42   Budget
   
30.43   Powers
Statutory references:
   Administration of Council-Manager towns, see G.S. §§ 160A-147 through 160A-
152
   Government generally, see G.S. §§ 160A-59 through 160A-111
   Local government finance, see G.S. §§ 159-1 et seq.
   Public enterprises, see G.S. §§ 160A-311 to 160A-338
   Sale and disposition of property, see G.S. §§ 160A-266 to 160A-276
   Special assessments, see G.S. §§ 160A-216 to 160A-238
   Taxation powers of town, see G.S. §§ 160A-206 through 160A-209, 160A-212 and
160A-213
   Town Attorney, see G.S. § 160A-173
   Town Clerk, see G.S. §§ 160A-171, 160A-172
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 ATTENDANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Town Council may replace any member of any board, commission or
Council-appointed committee for good cause, including, but not limited to, poor
attendance, lack of participation, unfitness, malfeasance and conflict of
interest.
   (B)   The appointment of any member of any board, commission or Council-
appointed committee who fails to attend any three out of the five previous
regular meetings, or who fails to attend any three consecutive regular
meetings, shall be considered expired and may only be extended or renewed by
action of the Town Council. If a board, commission or Council-appointed
committee does not have regularly scheduled meetings, then all meetings shall
be considered special and, for the purpose of computing attendance requirements
pursuant to this section, shall be considered regular meetings.
(Prior Code, § 2-1) (Ord. passed 6-12-1991)
§ 30.02 FINANCE OFFICER; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Finance Officer shall have the following powers and duties.
      (1)   He or she shall keep the accounts of the town in accordance with
generally accepted principles of governmental accounting and the rules and
regulations of the local government commission.
      (2)   He or she shall disburse all funds of the town in strict compliance
with G.S. Ch. 159 and the budget ordinance of the town.
      (3)   As often as may be requested by the Town Manager, he or she shall
prepare and file with him or her for submittal to the Council a statement of
the financial condition of the town.
      (4)   He or she shall receive and deposit all monies accruing to the town
or supervise the receipt and deposit of money by other duly authorized officers
or employees.
      (5)   He or she shall maintain all records concerning the bonded debt of
the town, determine the amount of money that will be required for debt service
during each fiscal year and maintain all sinking funds.
      (6)   He or she shall supervise the investment of idle funds of the town.
      (7)   He or she shall perform such other duties as may be assigned to him
or her by law, by the Manager, the Town Council or by rules and regulations of
the NC Local Government Commission.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided by law, all checks, vouchers or drafts on
an official depository shall be signed by the Finance Officer and the Mayor.
   (C)   He or she shall be responsible for all activities of the town office
staff and as such shall be designated as a department head of the Finance
Department and therefor will be directly responsible to the Town Manager.
(Prior Code, § 2-23)
Statutory reference:
   Finance officer, see G.S. §§ 159-24 et seq.
§ 30.03 AUXILIARY LAW ENFORCEMENT PERSONNEL.
   There is hereby established, within the Town Police Department, an Auxiliary
Police Division. Auxiliary police officers, while undergoing training and while
performing duties on behalf of the town pursuant to orders and instructions of
the Chief or his or her designee, shall be entitled to benefits under the State
Workers Compensation Act.
(Ord. passed 11-24-2003)
NORTHEASTERN REGIONAL AIRPORT COMMISSION
§ 30.40 COMMISSION CREATED.
   (A)   Pursuant to G.S. §§ 63-53 and 63-57, there is hereby created the
Northeastern Regional Airport Commission (the “Commission”). The Commission
shall consist of seven voting members. The Commission membership position shall
be for a term of three years and until his or her successor is appointed. The
Council shall appoint five members, the County Commission two. One of the
Council’s appointments shall be a Councilor. The appointees of the town shall
serve at the pleasure of the Council. The Town Manager and County Manager shall
serve as an ex-officio members of the Commission. The NC Northeast Commission
will be asked to appoint two ex-officio members also.
   (B)   The ex-officio members shall not be entitled to vote on Commission
matters.
(Prior Code, § 3.5-21) (Ord. passed 8-9-1994; Ord. passed 6-10-2014)
§ 30.41 ELECTION OF MEMBERS.
   The members and Vice-Secretary of the Commission shall elect the
Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson and Secretary annually. The current Chair of the
Town Airport Commission shall serve as Chairperson until an election is held.
The Commission may appoint such other officers as it may deem necessary for the
orderly procedure of its business, and adopt by-laws, rules and regulations
covering its procedure, not inconsistent with laws of the state and ordinances
of the town. It shall hold regular monthly meetings. Four voting members of the
Commission shall constitute a quorum. An affirmative action by a majority of
the voting members of the Commission shall be necessary to constitute action by
the Commission. A member of the Commission failing to attend two consecutive
regular meetings without prior excuse shall be automatically relieved and his
or her successor appointed by the entity responsible for the appointment.
(Prior Code, § 3.5-22) (Ord. passed 8-9-1994)
§ 30.42 BUDGET.
   The Commission shall prepare an annual budget request for the operation of
the airport which shall be submitted to the Town Council on or before April 15
of each year. The Commission’s fiscal year will coincide with the town’s. The
airport budget shall be as adopted by the Town Council and the Airport
Commission shall operate the airport within the budget as adopted. The
budgetary funds for the construction, enlargement, improvement, maintenance,
equipment, operation and regulation of the airport shall be a responsibility of
the town. The Town Council reserves the right to inspect the Airport
Commission’s records at any time.
(Prior Code, § 3.5-23) (Ord. passed 8-9-1994)
§ 30.43 POWERS.
   The Commission appointed as herein provided by the town shall act in an
administrative capacity and shall be vested with the following authorities and
powers; and it is hereby authorized and empowered:
   (A)   To adopt, repeal, amend and readopt rules and regulations not
inconsistent with this subchapter for its own government, management and
operation;
   (B)   To adopt, repeal, amend and readopt rules and regulations with respect
to traffic on and use of streets, alleys, driveways, roadways, parking areas,
crosswalks and safety areas (not included in the public road system of the
state) located within the territorial limits of the lands comprising the
airport, including by way of illustration, but not in limitation, of the
authority herein granted, the establishment of routes of traffic, the
regulation of speed, the location of parking areas, the regulation and
prohibition of parking and standing in designated areas of said streets,
driveways, alleys and roadways, the prohibition of obstruction thereof, the
prohibition of vehicles and pedestrians on the aprons, ramps, taxiways, runways
and other designated parts of the airport;
   (C)   To adopt, repeal, amend and readopt rules and regulations with respect
to the use of the airport and its facilities by the public, including the
terminal building, the ramps, aprons, hangars, taxiways and runways, and to
prohibit the use of, occupation of or trespass upon any part thereof as
illustrated on the attached map;
   (D)   Proceedings of the Commission shall be recorded and a true copy of all
rules and regulations adopted by the Commission shall be certified under the
hand of the Secretary of the Commission and filed with the Town Council and
County Commissioners. A monthly report of revenues, expenditures and activities
conducted shall be furnished to the Town Council and the County Commissioners;
   (E)   To post at appropriate places on the airport, notice to the public of
applicable rules and regulations pertaining to the airport;
   (F)   To lease (without the joinder in the lease agreements of the town) for
a term not to exceed one year, and for purposes not inconsistent with the
grants and agreements under which the airport is held by the town, real or
personal property under the supervision of or administered by the Commission
including, but not limited to, the airport. The Commission shall also negotiate
leases for longer periods of time on behalf of the town, but the Board retains
the authority to enter into longer term leases;
   (G)   To negotiate with and enter into contracts with persons, firms or
corporations for terms not to exceed ten years, for the operation of airline-
scheduled passenger and freight flights, nonscheduled flights and any other
airplane activities, not inconsistent with the grant agreements under which the
airport property is held by the town, and to charge and collect reasonable and
adequate fees, charges and rents for the use of the property or for services
rendered in the operation thereof;
   (H)   To negotiate with and enter into contracts and leases with
individuals, corporations or other organizations for the purpose of providing
fixed-base operator services. The services may include, but not be limited to,
the following: aircraft storage, FAA approved domestic aircraft repairs,
student training, demonstration and sale of aircraft, aircraft rental and
charter-air taxi;
   (I)   Within the limits of the appropriate funds, to hire, terminate and fix
the compensation of any personnel necessary for the proper operation and
management of the airport who answer to Airport Commission Chairperson;
   (J)   To operate, own, control, regulate, lease or grant to others the right
to operate, on the airport premises other businesses, amusements or concessions
for a term not exceeding three years as it may appear to the Commission
advantageous or conducive to the development of the airport;
   (K)   To negotiate and deal with the Federal Aviation Administration of the
United States Government, the state or any agency of the governments relating
to the grading, constructing, equipping, improving, maintaining and operating
of airports and landing fields acquired under the authority of this subchapter;
and
   (L)   Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, the Airport
Commission shall be subject to the direction, approval and paramount authority
of the Town Council which may alter, amend, repeal or revoke all or any part of
this subchapter in its sole discretion.
(Prior Code, § 3.5-24) (Ord. passed 8-9-1994)
CHAPTER 31: EMERGENCIES
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Form for proclamation of state of emergency
Proclamations Imposing Prohibitions and Restrictions Generally
   
31.20   Authority of Mayor; to be written; notice; records
   
31.21   Amendment of proclamation
   
31.22   Use of separate and superseding proclamations
   
31.23   Removal of restrictions
   
31.24   Curfews
   
31.25   Possession, consumption or transfer of intoxicating liquor
   
31.26   Possession, transportation or transfer of dangerous weapons or
substances
   
31.27   Access to areas
   
31.28   Forms
Proclamations Prohibiting Assemblies
   
31.40   Authority of Mayor; to be written; notice; records; amendment; removal
   
31.41   Authority of police to order dispersal
   
31.42   Forms
Storage and Display of Firearms and Ammunition
   
31.55   Rules generally
   
31.56   Authority of Council to promulgate regulations
 
   
31.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Police aid to and from other political subdivisions during emergencies, see
G.S. § 160A-288
   Riots and civil disorders, see G.S. §§ 14-288.1 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 FORM FOR PROCLAMATION OF STATE OF EMERGENCY.
   The Mayor of the town, or the person normally acting in his or her place
during his or her absence, shall, when the situation requires that he or she
declare that a state of emergency exists as contemplated by G.S. § 160A-288,
use the following form:
 
PROCLAMATION
WHEREAS, G.S. § 160A-288, authorizes the Mayor of every political subdivision in North Carolina to declare the existence of an emergency
justifying the rendering of law enforcement assistance to that political subdivision as contemplated by G.S. § 160A-288,
NOW THEREFORE I,                                           (Mayor) of the Town of Edenton, North Carolina, do hereby proclaim that a state of
emergency exists within the Town of Edenton, North Carolina.
   IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the sale of the Town of Edenton, North Carolina to be affixed this the
                           day of                                        , in the year                         .
                                                                                                       
   Mayor
 
(Prior Code, § 9-1)
PROCLAMATIONS IMPOSING PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS GENERALLY
§ 31.20 AUTHORITY OF MAYOR; TO BE WRITTEN; NOTICE; RECORDS.
   (A)   The Mayor, by proclamation, may impose the prohibitions and
restrictions specified in §§
31.24 through
31.27 in the manner described in those sections. The Mayor may impose as many
of those specified prohibitions and restrictions as he or she finds are
necessary, because of an emergency, to maintain an acceptable level of public
order and services and to protect lives, safety and property. The Mayor shall
recite his or her findings in the proclamation.
   (B)   The proclamation shall be in writing. The Mayor shall take reasonable
steps to give notice of the terms of the proclamation to those affected by it
and shall post a copy of it in the Town Hall. The Mayor shall retain a text of
the proclamation and furnish upon request certified copies of it for use as
evidence.
(Prior Code, § 9-2)
§ 31.21 AMENDMENT OF PROCLAMATION.
   The Mayor may amend the proclamation from time to time, making the
modifications as he or she would have been authorized to include in the
original proclamation.
(Prior Code, § 9-3)
§ 31.22 USE OF SEPARATE AND SUPERSEDING PROCLAMATIONS.
   The Mayor, in his or her discretion, may invoke the restrictions authorized
by this subchapter in separate proclamations and may amend any proclamation by
means of a superseding proclamation.
(Prior Code, § 9-4)
§ 31.23 REMOVAL OF RESTRICTIONS.
   The Mayor shall, by proclamation, remove the prohibitions and restrictions
as the emergency no longer requires them or when directed to do so by the Town
Council.
(Prior Code, § 9-5)
§ 31.24 CURFEWS.
   (A)   A proclamation imposed by the Mayor pursuant to §
31.01 may impose a curfew prohibiting in certain areas and during certain
periods the appearance in public of anyone who is not a member of an exempted
class. The proclamation shall specify the geographical area or areas and the
period during each 24-hour day to which the curfew applies. The Mayor may
exempt, from some or all of the curfew restrictions, classes of people whose
exemption the Mayor finds necessary for the preservation of the public health,
safety and welfare. The proclamation shall state the exempted classes and the
restrictions from which each is exempted.
   (B)   Unless otherwise specified in the proclamation, the curfew shall apply
during the specified period each day until the Mayor by proclamation removes
the curfew.
(Prior Code, § 9-6)
§ 31.25 POSSESSION, CONSUMPTION OR TRANSFER OF INTOXICATING LIQUOR.
   (A)   A proclamation issued by the Mayor pursuant to §
31.01 may prohibit the possession or consumption of any intoxicating liquor,
including beer and wine, other than on one’s own premises, and may prohibit the
transfer of any intoxicating liquor. The prohibition, if imposed, shall apply
to transfers of intoxicating liquor by employees of alcoholic beverage control
stores as well as by anyone else within the town.
   (B)   If imposed, the restrictions shall apply throughout the town.
(Prior Code, § 9-7)
§ 31.26 POSSESSION, TRANSPORTATION OR TRANSFER OF DANGEROUS WEAPONS OR
SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   (1)   A proclamation issued by the Mayor pursuant to §
31.01 may prohibit the possession of any dangerous weapon or substance unless
it remains in a place of storage within the possessor’s premises or, if the
weapon or substance cannot be readily stored in the possessor’s premises,
unless it remains in a customary place of storage not readily available to the
possessor.
      (2)   The proclamation may also prohibit the sale or other transfer or
the transportation of any dangerous weapon or substance.
      (3)   The Mayor may exempt, from some or all of the restrictions, classes
of people whose possession, transfer or transportation of certain dangerous
weapons or substances is necessary to the preservation of the public health,
safety or welfare.
      (4)   The proclamation shall state the exempted classes and the
restrictions from which each is exempted.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, the term DANGEROUS WEAPON OR
SUBSTANCE means:
      (1)   Any deadly weapon, ammunition, incendiary device or other
instrument or substance designed for a use that carries a threat of serious
bodily injury or destruction of property, as defined in G.S. § 14-288.1;
      (2)   Any other instrument or substance that is capable of being used to
inflict serious bodily injury or destruction of property, when the
circumstances indicate that there is some probability that the instrument or
substance will be so destructively used; and
      (3)   Any part or ingredient in any instrument or substance included
above.
   (C)   If imposed, the restrictions shall apply throughout the jurisdiction
of the town.
(Prior Code, § 9-8)
§ 31.27 ACCESS TO AREAS.
   (A)   A proclamation issued by the Mayor pursuant to §
31.01 may prohibit obtaining access or attempting to obtain access to any area,
designated in the manner described in this section, in violation of any order,
clearly posted notice or barricade indicating that access is denied or
restricted.
   (B)   Areas to which access is denied or restricted shall be designated by
the Chief of Police and his or her subordinates when directed in the
proclamation to do so by the Mayor. When acting under this authority, the Chief
of Police and his or her subordinates may restrict or deny access to any area,
street or location within the town if that restriction or denial of access or
use is reasonably necessary to promote efforts being made to overcome the
emergency or to prevent further aggravation of the emergency.
(Prior Code, § 9-9)
§ 31.28 FORMS.
   Proclamations issued under the terms of this subchapter shall be in
essentially the following forms.
   (A)   Imposition.
PROCLAMATION
WHEREAS , the Edenton Town Council of the Town of Edenton, North Carolina, has duly adopted an ordinance authorizing the Mayor to impose various restrictions after he or she
determines that such restrictions are necessary as a response to an emergency,
NOW THEREFORE I,                                     , Mayor of the Town of Edenton, North Carolina, proclaim that:
I.   An emergency exists, and restrictions set forth in this proclamation are necessary in order to maintain an acceptable level of public order, services and protection of
lives, safety and property during this emergency.
II.   I proclaim the following restrictions:
   A.   Possession, consumption and transfer of intoxicating liquor
      1.    No person shall possess or consume any intoxicating liquor, including beer and wine, other than on his or her premises.
      2.    No person shall sell, purchase, transport or otherwise transfer any intoxicating liquor, including beer and wine.
   B.   Curfew
      1.    No person not exempted by this proclamation shall appear in public in the geographic area described in this proclamation between the hours of       P.M. and
midnight or between the hours of midnight and       A.M. of any day until I remove this curfew by proclamation.
      2.    This curfew shall apply to the area bounded by                                                                   
                                                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                                                             
      3.    I find it necessary to the preservation of the public health, safety and welfare to exempt from these curfew restrictions the following classes of people in the
circumstances indicated:
         (a)   (Those whose appearance is essential in order to obtain or furnish a service or commodity which is immediately necessary to sustain the health of well-being
of themselves or of someone within a curfew area.)
         (b)   (Those whose appearance necessarily occurs in the process of leaving a place at which they were temporarily engaged and from which they could not reasonably
have planned their departure so as to avoid appearing during the period which the curfew was applicable.)
         (c) . . .
         (d) . . .
   C.   Possession and transfer of dangerous weapons or substances
      1.    No person shall possess any dangerous weapons or substances unless they remain in a place of storage on his or her premises or, if they cannot be readily stored
on his or her premises, unless they remain in a customary place of storage not readily available to the possessor. No person may transport or sell or otherwise transfer any
guns, rifles, ammunition, dynamite and any or all dangerous weapons or substances.
      2.    I find it necessary to the preservation of the public health, safety and welfare to exempt from these restrictions the following classes of people in the
circumstances indicated:
                                            may possess                     when                               .
      Anyone may possess gasoline when the gasoline is in the tank of a car in his or her possession.
                                 may transfer                                  when                                              .
   D.   Access to restricted areas
      1.    I direct the Chief of Police and his or her subordinates to restrict or deny access to any area, location or street where such a restriction is necessary in
order to help overcome this emergency or to prevent the emergency from worsening. These restrictions on access shall be indicated by means of barricades, posted notices or
orders to anyone in the area.
      2.    No person shall obtain access or attempt to obtain access to any area, location, or street to which the Chief of Police and his or her subordinates have
restricted access according to the directions I have just given to them.
III.   Anyone violating any restriction imposed by this proclamation or under its authority is guilty of a misdemeanor.
IV.   This proclamation shall take effect immediately.
(hour and date)
(name)
      Mayor
(seal of the city)
 
   (B)   Removal.
 
WHEREAS, the Edentown Town Council of the Town of Edenton, North Carolina, has duly adopted an ordinance requiring the Mayor to remove by proclamation the various restrictions proclaimed because of emergency as the emergency no longer requires them or when directed to do so by the Town
Council,
WHEREAS, the emergency no longer requires the imposition of such restrictions. The Town Council has directed me to remove the restrictions identified in this proclamation.
NOW THEREFORE I,                                                   , Mayor of the Town of Edenton, North Carolina, proclaim that the restrictions on
                                                                                                                                                   established in Part (s) II . . .                                                                   of my proclamation of  (date of proclamation)
, as it may have been amended, are removed.
(hour and date)
(name)
            Mayor
(seal of the city)
 
(Prior Code, § 9-11)
PROCLAMATIONS PROHIBITING ASSEMBLIES
§ 31.40 AUTHORITY OF MAYOR; TO BE WRITTEN; NOTICE; RECORDS; AMENDMENT; REMOVAL.
   (A)   The Mayor, by proclamation, may prohibit assemblies of three or more
persons in specified geographic areas of the town after he or she finds that
any such assemblies constitute a clear and present danger of prolonging or
aggravating an existing emergency which endangers lives, safety and property.
The proclamation shall be in writing and state the Mayor’s findings. The Mayor
shall take reasonable steps to give notice of the terms of the proclamation to
those affected by it and shall post a copy of it in the Town Hall. The Mayor
shall retain a text of the proclamation and upon request shall furnish
certified copies of it for use as evidence.
   (B)   The proclamation shall specify the geographic area or areas in which
the restrictions apply.
   (C)   The Mayor may amend the proclamation from time to time, making
modifications in the geographical area to which it applies as he or she
determines to be necessary to maintain the purposes of the prohibition.
   (D)   The Mayor shall, by proclamation, remove the prohibition when the
emergency no longer requires it or when directed to do so by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 9-12)
§ 31.41 AUTHORITY OF POLICE TO ORDER DISPERSAL.
   Any police officer may order any assembly prohibited by a proclamation
authorized by this subchapter to disperse.
(Prior Code, § 9-13)
§ 31.42 FORMS.
   Proclamations issued under the terms of this subchapter shall be in
essentially the following forms.
   (A)   Imposition.
PROCLAMATION
WHEREAS, the Town Council of the Town of Edenton, North Carolina, has duly adopted an ordinance authorizing the Mayor to prohibit assemblies after he or she finds that the prohibition is necessary as a response to an emergency,
NOW THEREFORE I,                                         , Mayor of the Town of Edenton, North Carolina, proclaim that:
I.   An emergency exists which endangers lives, safety and property and assemblies of three or more persons in the areas identified in this proclamation constitute a clear and present danger of prolonging or aggravating the emergency.
II.   No person shall be a part of any assembly of three or more persons in the area bounded by                            
                                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                   .
III.   This proclamation is effective immediately.
(hour and date)
(name)
      Mayor
(seal of the city)
 
   (B)   Removal.
PROCLAMATION
WHEREAS, the Town Council of the Town of Edenton, North Carolina, has duly adopted an ordinance requiring the Mayor to remove by
proclamation a prohibition on assemblies when the emergency no longer requires it or when directed to do so by the Town Council,
and
WHEREAS, the emergency no longer requires the prohibition of assemblies (The Town Council has directed me to remove the prohibition
on assemblies),
NOW THEREFORE I,                                                          , Mayor of the Town of Edenton, North Carolina proclaim
that the prohibition of assemblies established by my proclamation of  (date of proclamation)  , as it may have been amended is
removed.
(hour and date)
(name)
            Mayor
(seal of the city)
 
(Prior Code, § 9-15)
STORAGE AND DISPLAY OF FIREARMS AND AMMUNITION
§ 31.55 RULES GENERALLY.
   In the event of a state of emergency, every person engaged in the business
of selling firearms and ammunition or both shall comply with the following
rules.
   (A)   No ammunition shall be displayed on an open counter or in any other
place readily accessible to the public.
   (B)   No ammunition or firearms shall be displayed in windows or display
areas when the business is not regularly open.
   (C)   During any period in which firearms or ammunition or both are
unattended, they shall be stored in a place meeting the requirements of
regulations promulgated by the Town Council under authority of this subchapter
or, if no regulations have been promulgated, in a place difficult of access to
unauthorized persons.
(Prior Code, § 9-16)
§ 31.56 AUTHORITY OF COUNCIL TO PROMULGATE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Town Council is authorized to promulgate regulations governing the
construction, location and accessibility of storage places for firearms and
ammunition required to be used by this subchapter. The Town Council may adopt
any regulations under this authority that, in its judgment, will reasonably and
effectively serve to prevent unauthorized persons from obtaining the stored
firearms and ammunition.
   (B)   The Town Council shall take reasonable steps to notify all persons
that it can reasonably identify as being affected by these regulations or their
requirements. The notification shall sufficiently precede the effective date of
the regulations to permit compliance with them. The town shall maintain on file
an official copy of the regulations.
(Prior Code, § 9-17)
§ 31.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any prohibition or restriction imposed by a
proclamation authorized by §§
31.20 through
31.28 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable, upon conviction, by a fine
or imprisonment as provided by G.S. § 14-4.
(Prior Code, § 9-10)
   (B)   Any member of an assembly ordered to disperse by a police officer
acting under authority of §§ 31.40 through 31.42 shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor if he or she fails to comply with the order and shall be
punishable, upon conviction, by a fine or imprisonment as provided in G.S. §§
14-4 and 14-288.5.
(Prior Code, § 9-14)
   (C)   Any person failing to comply with any requirement of §§
31.55 and
31.56 or of any reasonable regulations promulgated under authority of §§
31.55 and
31.56 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable, upon conviction, by a fine
not exceeding $50 or imprisonment not exceeding 30 days, as provided by G.S. §
14-4.
(Prior Code, § 9-18)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      Chapter
         
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
51.   WATER AND SEWERS
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Director; powers and duties generally
   
50.02   Right of entry
§ 50.01 DIRECTOR; POWERS AND DUTIES GENERALLY.
   The Director of Public Works shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   General supervision of the water and sewer system subject to the
supervision of the Town Manager;
   (B)   Power to employ and discharge employees of public works subject to
approval by the Town Manager; and
   (C)   Perform other duties as may be assigned to him or her by the Town
Manager.
(Prior Code, § 24-1)
§ 50.02 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Director of Public Works or his or her authorized representative shall
be authorized to enter and have free access at all reasonable hours to any
premises to ascertain the location or condition of pipes or other fixtures
attached to the water and sewer systems of the town.
(Prior Code, § 24-2)
CHAPTER 51: WATER AND SEWERS
Section
Connections
   
51.001   Sewer connections required
   
51.002   Separate connections required for separate buildings; service lines to
cross only served property
   
51.003   Performance of work; authority to turn water on or off
   
51.004   Applications
   
51.005   Inspection of plumbing fixtures prerequisite to turn-on of water
   
51.006   Fees
Extensions
   
51.020   Applicability of subchapter; determination of benefit to town
   
51.021   Authority to require both water and sewer
   
51.022   Costs; availability of funds
   
51.023   Assessment generally
   
51.024   Notice to owner
   
51.025   Service lines
Water
   
51.040   Selling and the like; use of hydrants and public fountains
   
51.041   Private water supplies
   
51.042   Meters
   
51.043   Rates; establishment
   
51.044   Accounts; billing; termination of service for failure to pay
   
51.045   Permit required to turn on after discontinuance of service
   
51.046   Maintenance of fixtures; waste
   
51.047   Plumbers’ reports
   
51.048   Stop and waste cocks required
   
51.049   Interruption of service
   
51.050   Tampering and the like with system
   
51.051   Water service shut off/on
Sewers
   
51.065   Definitions
   
51.066   Permits
   
51.067   Prohibited discharges into sewers generally
   
51.068   Storm water and the like
   
51.069   Conditional discharges into sewers
   
51.070   Structures required
   
51.071   Connections outside town
   
51.072   Measurement of flow
   
51.073   Determination of character and concentration of wastes
   
51.074   Damaging and the like of testing and examination equipment
   
51.075   Authority of inspector to enter for inspection; authority of inspector
to exclude certain wastes
Fats, Oils and Grease Control
   
51.090   Scope and purpose
   
51.091   Definitions
   
51.092   Grease interceptor maintenance, record keeping and grease removal
Water Shortage Response Plan
   
51.100   Introduction
   
51.101   Responsible authority for enacting the WSRP
   
51.102   Public notification of water use policies and restrictions
   
51.103   Identification of water use classifications
   
51.104   Conservation measures and restrictions
   
51.105   Declaration of phased conservation measures and restrictions
   
51.106   Enforcement
   
51.107   Evaluation and revision
Cross Connection Control
   
51.120   Purpose of policy
   
51.121   Coverage
   
51.122   Policy
   
51.123   Cross connection control program
 
   
51.999   Penalty
CONNECTIONS
§ 51.001 SEWER CONNECTIONS REQUIRED.
   All property owners having occupied property which is located within 300
feet of a sanitary sewer main shall connect all plumbing fixtures to the sewer
main within 90 days after having been notified so to do.
(Prior Code, § 24-7)
§ 51.002 SEPARATE CONNECTIONS REQUIRED FOR SEPARATE BUILDINGS; SERVICE LINES TO
CROSS ONLY SERVED PROPERTY.
   Each separate dwelling or other structure shall have a separate connection.
Service pipes for connections shall be installed so as not to cross any private
property, except that property on which the premises to be connected is
located.
(Prior Code, § 24-8)
§ 51.003 PERFORMANCE OF WORK; AUTHORITY TO TURN WATER ON OR OFF.
   The Department of Public Works will connect all sewer and water mains and
will extend all service pipe to the curbing where a meterbox will be placed
over a stopcock and a meter, all of which shall be under the exclusive control
of the Department of Public Works. No person shall be allowed to turn the water
on or off at this stopcock, except the Director of the Department of Public
Works or his or her authorized agent; provided that, this section shall not
prevent licensed plumbers, authorized to perform plumbing work in the town,
from turning off the water at any premises in order to make necessary repairs.
(Prior Code, § 24-9) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.004 APPLICATIONS.
   All persons desiring connections to the town water or sewer system shall
make application in writing to the Director of the Department of Public Works
stating for what purpose the water is to be used. No connections shall be made
unless the application has been filed and approved.
(Prior Code, § 24-10)
§ 51.005 INSPECTION OF PLUMBING FIXTURES PREREQUISITE TO TURN-ON OF WATER.
   Water shall not be turned on through any connection until the Director of
the Department of Public Works or his or her authorized representative has
inspected the plumbing and fixtures and found them to be properly installed in
accordance with the applicable plumbing regulations.
(Prior Code, § 24-11)
§ 51.006 FEES.
   For the extension of service pipe and tapping of water or sewer mains, the
town shall charge a connection fee as the Town Council may, from time to time,
adopt. Current connection charges shall be kept on file in the office of the
Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 24-12)
EXTENSIONS
§ 51.020 APPLICABILITY OF SUBCHAPTER; DETERMINATION OF BENEFIT TO TOWN.
   (A)   The Department of Public Works shall extend its water and sewer
facilities to serve property only under the conditions of this subchapter.
   (B)   The Town Council have the authority to decide whether or not an
extension is beneficial to the town as a whole and, if not, it may refuse to
extend.
(Prior Code, § 24-13)
§ 51.021 AUTHORITY TO REQUIRE BOTH WATER AND SEWER.
   The Town Council may refuse a request for extension of water lines only or
sewer lines only when, in its judgment, both should be installed at the same
time.
(Prior Code, § 24-14)
§ 51.022 COSTS; AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS.
   The money to cover the cost of installation shall be available in the town
treasury prior to the starting of work.
(Prior Code, § 24-15)
§ 51.023 ASSESSMENT GENERALLY.
   The owners’ part of the cost of extension shall be paid in advance on the
property to be assessed for the owners’ cost. The assessment shall be a lien
upon the property and take precedence over all other liens and be collected by
the Tax Collector in the same manner as taxes.
(Prior Code, § 24-16)
§ 51.024 NOTICE TO OWNER.
   The town shall make an effort to advise the owners of property that will be
affected by the extension of water and sewer mains of the approximate cost per
foot to be assessed prior to beginning construction.
(Prior Code, § 24-17)
§ 51.025 SERVICE LINES.
   (A)   The cost of water and sewer service lines are not to be considered a
part of main construction cost and are not to be assessed.
   (B)   These taps on service lines shall be a separate charge and are to be
paid for at time of installation, at the price set by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 24-18)
WATER
§ 51.040 SELLING AND THE LIKE; USE OF HYDRANTS AND PUBLIC FOUNTAINS.
   No person shall be allowed to supply or sell water to other persons,
families or corporations nor shall any unauthorized person take or carry away
water from any hydrant or public fountain or use the water for any purpose
without written permission from the Director of Public Works.
(Prior Code, § 24-19) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.041 PRIVATE WATER SUPPLIES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to furnish, supply or provide, for gain
or profit, any water from a private well or pumps in or to any dwelling house,
boarding house, inn, hotel, café or other commercial establishment or any room
or rooms of the same when the dwelling house or any room or rooms therein are
rented or offered for rent to the public or when the boardinghouse, inn, hotel,
café or other commercial establishment is open to or used by the public, unless
and until an analysis of the water from the private well or pump shall have
first been submitted to and approved by the Department of Public Works.
(Prior Code, § 24-20) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.042 METERS.
   Each separate building or structure shall be metered separately. In no case
shall two buildings or structures be supplied through one meter, except by
special permission from the Director of Public Works.
(Prior Code, § 24-21) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.043 RATES; ESTABLISHMENT.
   The rates and charges for water shall be those rates and charges as may be
established by the Town Council, from time to time. A current schedule of water
rates shall be kept on file in the office of the Town Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 24-22)
§ 51.044 ACCOUNTS; BILLING; TERMINATION OF SERVICE FOR FAILURE TO PAY.
   All water accounts shall be paid to the collection office of the town at
such time and for a period of consumption as may from time to time be
determined by the Town Council. In the event an account is not paid in full on
or before the last day of the month in which the account is due, the town shall
provide a ten-day grace period. In the event the delinquent account is not paid
within this ten-day period, the water shall be cut off until the account is
paid in full and, in addition, charges shall be made for cutting off and
turning on the water.
(Prior Code, § 24-23)
§ 51.045 PERMIT REQUIRED TO TURN ON AFTER DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   No person shall turn on the supply of water to any premises from which the
supply has been cut off for nonpayment of water rent, or for any other cause,
without having first received a written permit from the Director of Public
Works.
(Prior Code, § 24-24) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.046 MAINTENANCE OF FIXTURES; WASTE.
   Property owners using water shall keep the service pipe and all fixtures
connected therewith in good repair and all property owners shall be responsible
for preventing the unnecessary waste of water.
(Prior Code, § 24-25) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.047 PLUMBERS’ REPORTS.
   Every plumber, within 24 hours after having installed any pipes or other
fixtures or having made any additions or alterations to any pipes or other
fixtures, shall make a correct return to the Director of Public Works on forms
to be supplied at his or her office. The plumber shall provide information as
the Director of Public Works may require.
(Prior Code, § 24-26)
§ 51.048 STOP AND WASTE COCKS REQUIRED.
   All services to any building shall have stop and waste cocks to drain all
pipes when water is cut off and all pipes installed shall drain to the cocks.
(Prior Code, § 24-27)
§ 51.049 INTERRUPTION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The Department of Public Works shall have the right, at any time, to
shut off the water in the mains in case of accident or for the purpose of
making connections, alterations or repairs; and it shall be the duty of the
Director of Public Works to cause notice to be given to all consumers within
the district to be cut off, except in case of accident in which case the water
shall be cut off without notice.
   (B)   The town shall not be liable for any damage that may result to
consumers from the cutting off of water for any cause whatsoever, or for
failure to provide a supply of water.
(Prior Code, § 24-28)
§ 51.050 TAMPERING AND THE LIKE WITH SYSTEM.
   No person shall tamper with or in any manner manipulate or turn the cutoffs
on the water mains forming a part of the water system of the town, nor shall
any person tamper with or harm in any manner whatsoever any water or sewer
line, main or any appurtenance thereto. No person shall throw or deposit any
material or substance in any water or sewer line that will in any manner
obstruct the line.
(Prior Code, § 24-29) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.051 WATER SERVICE SHUT OFF/ON.
   Water cut off/on:
   (A)   During working hours - $0.
   (B)   After hours call - $50.
(Ord. passed 3-8-2022)
SEWERS
§ 51.065 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVING AUTHORITY. The Public Works Director.
   B.O.D. (denoting BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized
in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory
procedure in five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter by weight.
   COLOR. The true color due to the substances in solution, expressed in
milligrams per liter.
   COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any system of condensation, air
conditioning, cooling, refrigeration or other water used to reduce temperature.
   DOMESTIC SEWAGE. Liquid waste from bathrooms, toilet rooms, kitchens and
home laundries.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes, other than domestic sewage, resulting
from processes or operations employed in industrial and commercial
establishments.
   pH. The reciprocal of the logarithm of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution. A STABILIZED PH will be considered as a pH which does
not change beyond the specified limits when the waste is subjected to aeration.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to the degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   RECEIVING STREAM. The body of water, stream or water course receiving the
discharge waters from the sewage treatment plant or formed by the waters
discharged from the sewage treatment plant.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer intended to receive domestic sewage and industrial
waste, except that of the type expressly prohibited by this subchapter, without
the admixture of surface water and storm water.
   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A sewer which carries storm and surface waters
and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   UNPOLLUTED PROCESS WATER. Any water or waste containing no free or
emulsified grease or oil, acid or alkali, phenols or other substances imparting
taste and odor in receiving waters, toxic and poisonous substances in
suspension, colloidal state or solution and noxious or odorous gases or other
polluting materials.
(Prior Code, § 24-30) (Ord. passed 5-13-1975)
§ 51.066 PERMITS.
   (A)   (1)   Any person desiring to deposit or discharge, or who is now so
doing, any industrial waste into the town sanitary sewers shall make
application to the approving authority in the manner prescribed by him or her.
      (2)   The approving authority shall approve the applications only when
evidence is submitted by the applicant that the discharge into the sanitary
sewer will comply with all the regulations of this subchapter.
   (B)   Should any person fail to secure a permit or fail to have his, her or
its application approved, the approving authority shall, upon 24 hours’ notice,
if the person is using town water, disconnect the person’s connection with the
town water system, and the same will only be reconnected at the owner’s
expense; and if the person does not use town water, the person, after 24 hours’
notice, shall have his or her connection with the town sewer system severed,
and the service will only be restored at the person’s expense.
(Prior Code, § 24-31) (Ord. passed 5-13-1975)
§ 51.067 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES INTO SEWERS GENERALLY.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or deposit any of the following waste
materials into any town sewer:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F;
      (2)   Any water or waste which may contain more than 100 milligrams per
liter, by weight, of fat, oil or grease, exclusive of soap;
      (3)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (4)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded;
      (5)   Any ashes, cinders, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, fish scales or fish offal, tar, plastics, wood, paunch manure or any
other solid or viscous substance capable of causing obstruction to the flow of
sewers or other interference with the proper operation of the sewage works;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes having a stabilized pH lower than six or
higher than nine, or having any other corrosive property capable of causing
damage or hazard to structures, equipment and personnel of the sewage works;
      (7)   Any waters or wastes having a biochemical oxygen demand in excess
of 300 milligrams per liter by weight;
      (8)   Any waters or wastes containing more than 500 milligrams per liter
by weight of suspended solids;
      (9)   Any waters or wastes having an objectionable color which is not
removable in the sewage treatment plant processes;
      (10)   Any waters or wastes containing a toxic or poisonous substance or
any other materials in sufficient quantity to injure or interfere with any
sewage treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals or create
any hazard in the receiving stream at the sewage treatment plant;
      (11)   Any water or waste that contains more than ten milligrams per
liter by weight of the following gases: hydrogen sulphide, sulphur dioxide or
nitrous oxide or any gas or substance which, either singly or by interaction
with other waste, is capable of creating a public nuisance or hazard to life or
of preventing entry into sewer for their maintenance and repair;
      (12)   Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids of a character
and quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle the
materials at the sewage treatment plant;
      (13)   Any water or waste which contains grease or oil or other substance
that will solidify or become discernibly viscous at temperatures between 32 and
150°F;
      (14)   Any water or waste containing emulsified oil and grease exceeding
on analysis an average of 100 milligrams per liter (833 pounds per million
gallons) of other soluble matter; and
      (15)   Any radioactive materials in soluble ion form in sufficient
quantities to create a hazard to sewer workers, sewage works personnel or the
biological life in the sewage treatment plant.
   (B)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the town and any person
whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be admitted
into the sanitary sewers by the town after approved pretreatment as provided
for in §
51.069.
(Prior Code, § 24-32) (Ord. passed 5-13-1975) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.068 STORM WATER AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water, surface
water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, cooling water or
unpolluted industrial or commercial process water into any sanitary sewer.
(Prior Code, § 24-33) (Ord. passed 5-13-1975) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.069 CONDITIONAL DISCHARGES INTO SEWERS.
   (A)   Any waters or wastes discharged by any person which have the following
characteristics may be admitted into the sanitary sewers conditionally:
      (1)   A B.O.D. greater than 300 milligrams per liter by weight;
      (2)   Containing suspended solids of more than 500 milligrams per liter
by weight; or
      (3)   Having other characteristics prohibited under §
51.067.
   (B)   Where waste discharges exceed these limits, the person discharging the
wastes shall provide, maintain and operate, at his or her expense, the
preliminary treatment as may be necessary to effect compliance or he or she
shall contract with the town whereby the town will receive the untreated wastes
and shall be compensated by the persons for providing the necessary treatment
at the town’s treatment works. The conditions under which the town may agree to
accept the untreated wastes shall be established by the approving authority as
applying to all persons under the contracts.
   (C)   Notice shall be given the approving authority when normal operations
of the industry will be interrupted for 24 hours or longer and wastes will not
be available for discharge or when a change of process is contemplated.
(Prior Code, § 24-34) (Ord. passed 5-13-1975)
§ 51.070 STRUCTURES REQUIRED.
   (A)   Storage tanks.
      (1)   In order to promote equalization of flows, each person discharging
a waste into the town’s sanitary sewers having the following average daily
volumes over a period of his or her normal work week shall construct and
maintain, at his or her own expense, a suitable storage tank, reservoir or pond
of the corresponding minimum volumes:
 
Volume of Waste Discharged in Average Minimum Volume of Storage Tank in
Gallons per Day                       Percentage of Daily Volume of Waste
                                      Discharged
0 to 50,000                           0
50,001 to 75,000                      50
75,001 to 200,000                     100
200,001 to 200,000                    150
500,001 and above                     200
 
      (2)   The storage tank shall have its outlet to the sewer controlled by
an approved device, the setting of flow rates being as directed by the
approving authority.
      (3)   Storage tank requirements may be waived by the approving authority
in cases where a constant rate of flow is discharged; provided that:
         (a)   The normal operating day extends over a 20- to 24-hour period
and the rate of waste flow and character of load discharged is such that, in
the opinion of the approving authority, the installation of a storage tank
would not improve sewer and treatment plant loading conditions; and
         (b)   All other requirements of this subchapter are fulfilled or where
the character of waste when held for the period of time indicated would be
detrimental to operation of the town sewerage system.
   (B)   Control manholes.
      (1)   Any person discharging industrial wastes into the town’s sanitary
sewers shall construct a suitable control manhole downstream from any
treatment, storage tank or other approved works, to facilitate observations and
provide means for measurements and sampling of all wastes from the industry.
      (2)   The control manhole shall be constructed at a suitable and
satisfactory location and built in a manner approved by the approving
authority. The manhole shall be installed by the person discharging the wastes
at his or her expense and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe,
accessible and in proper operating condition at all times.
      (3)   Control manhole requirements may be waived by the approving
authority:
         (a)   When a person discharging less than 20,000 gallons of waste in a
normal working day elects to be relieved of this requirement; provided that:
            1.   The wastes meet all other requirements of this subchapter, as
determined by the approving authority;
            2.   All such wastes are discharged through a single standard sewer
manhole before entrance into the sanitary sewers; and
            3.   The person agrees to pay a surcharge equal to the sewer
service charge.
         (b)   When a person discharging 20,001 to 50,000 gallons of waste in a
normal working day elects to be relieved of this requirement; provided that:
            1.   The person was operating at his or her present location on or
before the adoption of this subchapter;
            2.   The wastes meet all other requirements of this subchapter, as
determined by the approving authority;
            3.   All such wastes are discharged through a single standard sewer
manhole before entrance into the sanitary sewers; and
            4.   The person agrees to pay a surcharge equal to the sewer
service charge.
   (C)   Interceptors and traps.
      (1)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors or traps shall be provided when,
in the opinion of the approving authority, they are necessary for the proper
handling of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any
flammable wastes, sand and other harmful ingredients; except that, the
interceptors or traps shall not be required for private living quarters or
dwelling units. All interceptors or traps shall be of a type and capacity
approved by the approving authority and shall be located as to be readily and
easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
      (2)   Grease and oil interceptors or traps shall be constructed of
impervious materials capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in
temperature.
      (3)   They shall be of substantial construction, water-tight and equipped
with easily removable covers which, when bolted in place, shall be gas-tight
and water-tight.
      (4)   Where installed, all grease, oil and sand interceptors or traps
shall be maintained by the owner, at his or her expense, in continuously
efficient operation at all times.
   (D)   Plans. Plans for the construction of the storage tank, control
manhole, interceptors and controlling devices shall be approved by the
approving authority prior to the beginning of construction.
(Prior Code, § 24-35) (Ord. passed 5-13-1975)
§ 51.071 CONNECTIONS OUTSIDE TOWN.
   Any person owning or controlling premises located beyond the corporate
limits of the town and desiring to install a plumbing system for the purpose of
discharging domestic sewage and/or industrial waste into the sanitary sewers of
the town may do so by complying with the requirements of this subchapter and by
paying an additional permit fee and a sewer service charge to be fixed by the
Town Council; provided that, the person obtains a permit therefor, as provided
in §
51.066. Should the connections be made without benefit of the permit, the
person’s connections to the town water or sewer system may be severed or
disconnected as provided in §
51.066.
(Prior Code, § 24-36) (Ord. passed 5-13-1975)
§ 51.072 MEASUREMENT OF FLOW.
   (A)   The volume of flow used in computing the industrial waste surcharge
shall be based upon metered water consumption as shown in the records of meter
reading maintained by the town. In the event that a person discharging wastes
into the town sanitary sewer system produces evidence to the approving
authority that more than 10% of the total annual volume of water used for all
purposes does not reach the town sanitary sewer, an estimated percentage of
total water consumption to be used in computing charges may be agreed upon
between the approving authority and the person discharging industrial wastes
into the sewer.
   (B)   Where the person discharging industrial wastes into the sanitary
sewers of the town procures any part or all of his or her water supply from
sources other than the town, all or parts of which is discharged into the
sanitary sewer, the person discharging the waste shall install and maintain, at
his or her expense, water meters of a type approved by the approving authority
for the purpose of determining the proper volume of flow to be charged.
(Prior Code, § 24-37) (Ord. passed 5-13-1975)
§ 51.073 DETERMINATION OF CHARACTER AND CONCENTRATION OF WASTES.
   (A)   The industrial waste of each person discharging the waste into the
town sanitary sewers shall be subject to periodic inspection; and a
determination of character and concentration of the wastes may be made
quarterly, or oftener as may be deemed necessary, by the approving authority or
his or her authorized assistants.
   (B)   Samples shall be collected in a manner as to be representative of the
actual quality of the wastes. The laboratory methods used in the examination of
the wastes shall be those set forth in the current edition of Standard Methods
for the Examination of Water and Sewage, as published by the American Public
Health Association, copies of which are on file at the wastes treatment plant
laboratory for inspection by any interested parties.
   (C)   The determination of the character and concentration of the industrial
wastes by the approving authority or his or her authorized assistants shall be
binding as a basis for charges.
(Prior Code, § 24-38) (Ord. passed 5-13-1975)
§ 51.074 DAMAGING AND THE LIKE OF TESTING AND EXAMINATION EQUIPMENT.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any equipment or materials
belonging to the town used for the purpose of making tests or examinations and
left upon the premises of a person discharging wastes into the sewers. Any
person violating this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest
undercharge of disorderly conduct.
(Prior Code, § 24-39) (Ord. passed 5-13-1975) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.075 AUTHORITY OF INSPECTOR TO ENTER FOR INSPECTION; AUTHORITY OF INSPECTOR
TO EXCLUDE CERTAIN WASTES.
   (A)   The approving authority and other duly authorized employees of the
town, bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to
enter upon all properties for the purpose of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling and testing, in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter.
   (B)   Authority is hereby granted to the approving authority to temporarily
exclude any industrial waste, whether pretreated or not, from the sanitary
sewers whenever, in his or her opinion, the action is necessary for the purpose
of determining the effects of the wastes upon the sewers and sewage treatment
works.
(Prior Code, § 24-40) (Ord. passed 5-13-1975)
FATS, OILS AND GREASE CONTROL
§ 51.090 SCOPE AND PURPOSE.
   To aid in the prevention of sanitary sewer blockages and obstructions from
contribution and accumulation of fats, oils and greases into the sewer system
from industrial or commercial establishments, particularly food preparation and
serving facilities. Clogged pipes must be cleaned out manually by the Public
Works Department resulting in an unnecessary burden on the town as a result of
having to employ the time, manpower and equipment needed to do the cleanout and
restore the sewer system to normal operability.
(Ord. passed 6-14-2005)
§ 51.091 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COOKING ESTABLISHMENTS. Those establishments primarily engaged in activities
of preparing, serving or otherwise making available for consumption foodstuffs
and that use one or more of the following preparation activities: cooking by
frying (all methods), baking (all methods), grilling, sauteing, rotisserie
cooking, broiling (all methods), boiling, blanching, roasting, toasting or
poaching. Also included are infrared heating, searing, barbecuing and any other
food preparation activity that produces a hot, non-drinkable food product in or
on a receptacle that requires washing.
   FATS, OILS AND GREASES. Organic polar compounds derived from animal and/or
plant sources that contain multiple carbon chain triglyceride molecules. These
substances are detectable and measurable using analytical test procedures
established in 40 C.F.R. part 136, as may be amended from time to time. All are
sometimes referred to herein as GREASE or GREASES.
   GREASE TRAP OR INTERCEPTOR. A device for separating and retaining waterborne
greases and grease complexes prior to the wastewater exiting the trap and
entering the sanitary sewer collection and treatment system. These devices also
serve to collect settable solids, generated by and from food preparation
activities, prior to the water exiting the trap and entering the sanitary sewer
collection and treatment system. GREASE TRAPS AND INTERCEPTORS are sometimes
referred to herein as GREASE INTERCEPTORS.
   MINIMUM DESIGN CAPABILITY. The design features of a grease interceptor and
its ability or volume required to effectively intercept and retain greases from
grease-laden wastewaters discharged to the public sanitary sewer.
   NON-COOKING ESTABLISHMENTS. Those establishments primarily engaged in the
preparation of precooked foodstuffs that do not include any form of cooking.
These include cold dairy and frozen foodstuffs preparation and serving
establishments.
   PRETREATMENT STAFF. Consists of town employees or individuals authorized by
the town.
   USER. Any person, including those located outside the jurisdictional limits
of the town, who contributes causes or permits the contribution or discharge of
wastewater into the POTW, including persons who contribute the wastewater from
mobile sources, such as those who discharge hauled wastewater.
(Ord. passed 6-14-2005)
§ 51.092 GREASE INTERCEPTOR MAINTENANCE, RECORD KEEPING AND GREASE REMOVAL.
   (A)   Existing and proposed users shall install grease interceptors as
required by the Director or his or her designee. Grease interceptors shall be
installed at the user’s expense, when the user operates a cooking
establishment. Grease interceptors may also be required in non-cooking, cold
dairy, frozen foodstuffs, industrial, commercial or residential establishments
when they are deemed necessary by the director for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing grease. No user shall allow wastewater discharge
concentration of oil, fats or grease from subject grease interceptor to exceed
100 milligrams per liter. All grease interceptors shall be of a type design,
and capacity approved by the Director or his or her designee and shall be
readily and easily accessible for user cleaning and town inspection. All grease
interceptors shall be serviced and emptied of accumulated waste content as
required in order to maintain minimum design capability or effective volume of
the grease interceptor, but not less often than every 30 days, unless a grease
interceptor variance permit has been issued. Users who are required to pass
water through a grease interceptor shall:
      (1)   Provide a minimum 1,000 gallon tank:
         (a)   The following table shall determine the size of the grease
separation tank;
 
Facility                             Grease Tank Size
Salads only, subs, take-out grilled  1,000 to 1,500 gallons depending on size
food
Take-out deep fried foods            1,500 to 2,000 gallons depending on size
Pasta and pizza                      1,500 to 2,000 gallons depending on size
Sit-down full menu restaurants < 100 1,500 to 2,000 gallons depending on size
seats
Sit-down full menu restaurants > 100 2,000 to 3,000 gallons depending on size
seats
 
         (b)   Grease tank size for facilities other than those mentioned above
shall be determined by the Director or his or her designee. Twenty percent of
the total volume of the grease interceptor shall be allowed for sludge to
settle and accumulate, identified hereafter as a “sludge pocket”.
      (2)   Remove any accumulated grease cap and sludge pocket as required,
but at intervals of not longer than 30 days at the user’s expense. Grease
interceptors shall be kept free of inorganic solid materials such as grit,
rocks, gravel, sand, eating utensils, cigarettes, shells, towels, rags and the
like, which could settle into this pocket and thereby reduce the effective
volume of the grease interceptor;
      (3)   Accept the following conditions: if any skimmed or pumped wastes or
other materials removed from grease interceptor are treated in any fashion
onsite and reintroduced back into the grease interceptor as an activity of and
after the on-site treatment, the user shall be responsible for the attainment
of established grease numerical limit consistent with and contained herein on
all discharges of wastewater from the grease interceptor into the town sanitary
sewer collection and treatment system;
      (4)   Operate the grease interceptor in a manner so as to maintain the
device such that attainment of the grease limit is consistently achieved.
CONSISTENT shall mean any wastewater sample taken from the grease interceptor
shall be subject to terms of numerical limit attainment described herein;
      (5)   With the approval of the Director, an establishment may request an
alternate to an out-of-building grease interceptor due to exterior space
constraints. The request for an alternative location shall contain the
following information:
         (a)   Location of town sewer main and easement in relation to
available exterior space outside building; and
         (b)   Existing plumbing at or in a site that uses common plumbing for
all services at that site.
      (6)   Understand and agree that the use of biological additives as a
grease degradation agent is conditionally permissible, upon prior written
approval by the Director. Any establishment using this method of grease
abatement shall maintain the trap or interceptor in a manner that attainment of
the grease wastewater discharge limit, as measured from the trap’s outlet, is
consistently achieved;
      (7)   Understand and agree that the use of automatic grease removal
systems is conditionally permissible, upon prior written approval by the
Director, the Lead Plumbing Inspector of the town and the County Department of
Health. Any establishment using this equipment shall operate the system in a
manner that attainment of the grease wastewater discharge limit, as measured
from the unit’s outlet, is consistently achieved; and
      (8)   Understand and agree that the Director reserves the right to make
determinations of grease interceptor adequacy and need, based on review of all
relevant information regarding grease interceptor performance, facility site
and building plan review and to require repairs to, or modification or
replacement of the traps.
   (B)   The user shall maintain a written record of trap maintenance for three
years. All records will be available for inspection by the town at all times.
   (C)   No non-grease-laden sources are allowed to be connected to sewer lines
intended for grease interceptor service.
   (D)   (1)   A variance to the scheduled maintenance requirement of this
chapter is to provide specific changes to the scheduling of grease separation
device maintenance and servicing. The variance is intended to give food service
establishments an avenue to provide substantial evidence to reducing
maintenance of grease separation device servicing. All other requirements of
the town’s sewer provisions, this subchapter and any other requirements remain
in effect.
      (2)   Food service establishments shall provide a written explanation for
the need to vary from this subchapter. All establishments requesting a variance
shall agree to conform to the variance study procedures. The town has the right
to discontinue the variance study at any time the grease separation device
discharge adversely affects the sanitary sewer system and treatment works.
      (3)   Fees associated with the request for variance study will include a
variance request fee of $195, which includes estimated reimbursement costs
associated with the study. All fees are non-refundable and shall be paid in
advance. Reimbursement of the town personnel shall be at an hourly rate of $50
per hour, and any additional costs incurred through the analysis of wastewater.
         (a)   If the following occurs anytime after a variance permit is
granted, the facility shall revert back to requirements set forth by this
subchapter:
            1.   Grease separation device FOG concentrations exceeding the
limits set by the town’s FOG Control Ordinance;
            2.   Grease separation device discharge adversely affects the sewer
collection system and treatment works;
            3.   Solids accumulation is greater than 20% of the total water
depth from the grease separation device’s interior floor to the static or
working water level, at any point within the grease separation device;
            4.   FOG accumulation is greater than or equal to three inches at
any point within the grease separation device;
            5.   Facility significantly increases food service production or
seating capacity;
            6.   Facility employs the use of a garbage disposal of food pulp
that is connected to the grease separation control device;
            7.   Facility causes or contributes to a sanitary sewer blockage or
overflow; and
            8.   Change in ownership. Variance is non-transferable.
         (b)   All food service establishments requesting variance to this
subchapter shall conform to the following conditions and schedules.
            1.   The applicant shall provide the town written explanation as to
the need of the variance.
            2.   The applicant agrees that any request for variance is
considered and implemented under the discretion of the town and can be denied
for any reason.
            3.   Variance request fee shall be paid in full by check to the
amount of $195 before variance study is started.
            4.   Applicant shall conform to the pumping requirements set by the
town during the variance study. Failure to follow pumping requirements will
result in variance study discontinuation.
            5.   Applicant agrees to the pumping schedule after variance study
is complete, even in the event the town requires a service schedule greater
than once every 30 days.
            6.   Applicant shall contact the Town Pretreatment Section two
working days prior to the scheduled grease separation device cleaning.
            7.   Facilities that desire the use of biological or chemical
treatment shall provide the town all information supplied by the manufacturer
of type, solution makeup, dosing schedule and service agreements. All
facilities using biological or chemical treatment shall be required to maintain
a separation device service schedule set by this subchapter or Town Variance
Study.
            8.   During the variance study all limits and conditions of this
subchapter apply. All violations of this subchapter will be addressed during
and after the variance study.
            9.   The town will not be responsible for any FOG discharges, odor
or blockages during or after the variance study.
         (c)   Procedure for Variance Study:
            1.   The applicant shall submit to the Town Public Works Department
Pretreatment Section a written explanation as to the needs of the service
schedule variance to this chapter. This letter shall include a copy of a
current menu, total customer seating capacity, previous six months grease pump
out receipts and grease separation device size.
            2.   After submission of request to the town, the pretreatment
section will review all information submitted and will contact the facility by
mail accepting or denying the variance request.
            3.   The facility shall schedule with a service company and the
town a time during normal business hours (Monday - Friday) to have the subject
grease separation device cleaned. It is the responsibility of the food
establishment to have the grease separation device total pumped and
sufficiently cleaned by a servicing company. Variance study cannot be conducted
unless the grease separation device is properly cleaned.
            4.   The applicant shall contact the Town’s Pretreatment Section
two working days prior to the scheduled grease separation device cleaning.
            5.   Once the grease separation device is cleaned properly and
refilled with water from the facility, pretreatment staff will conduct a visual
inspection of the grease separation device and verify that all components of
the grease separation device are in place and are in proper working order. If
the grease separation device is determined to be adequate designed and
installed the staff will collect, within 72 hours of initial pumping, a
baseline FOG sample from the grease separation device’s effluent sampling
point. Baseline grease and solids levels will be measured in all compartments.
            6.   Two weeks after initial sampling, pretreatment staff will
obtain a second effluent FOG sample, and measure grease and solids levels in
all compartments of the subject separation device.
            7.   Two weeks after second sampling, pretreatment staff will
obtain a third effluent FOG sample, and measure grease and solids levels in all
compartments.
            8.   Additional monitoring events may be required if deemed
necessary by the town. Variance studies shall not exceed a period of 90 days.
            9.   After a minimum of three site samples are collected and all
sampling results are obtained, the town will analyze all data. All samples
analyzed by contract laboratories will include the cost of analysis and a 20%
administrative fee. The town will not grant a grease interceptor service
schedule variance until the town receives payment for all wastewater analysis
costs, administrative fees and any costs incurred by the town as a result of
the study. After all data is reviewed by the town, the town will submit in
writing the results of the variance study to the applicant requesting the
study.
         (d)   The town will not be responsible for any FOG discharge, odor or
blockages occurring during or after the variance study. At no time during the
variance study shall the grease separation device be pumped, except by direct
approval of the town.
   (E)   Except as provided herein, for a period of one year following adoption
of this chapter, although installation of grease interceptors will be required
to be installed, no enforcement actions will be taken under this subchapter for
failure to achieve limits on grease discharges from grease interceptors. If,
during or after this one-year period an obstruction of a town sewer main(s)
occurs that causes a sewer overflow to the extent that an impact on the
environment is realized and that the overflow or failure of the sanitary sewer
collection system to convey sewage can be attributed in part or in whole to an
accumulation of grease in the town’s sewer main(s), of the town of edenton will
take appropriate enforcement actions, as stipulated in the town’s industrial
pretreatment enforcement plan and sewer use provisions, against the generator
or contributor of the grease.
   (F)   If, after the one-year grace period, the user fails to achieve limits
on grease discharges, the town will take appropriate enforcement actions, as
stipulated in the town’s industrial pretreatment enforcement plan and sewer use
provisions, against the generator or contributor of the grease.
   (G)   Access manholes, with minimum diameter of 24 inches, shall be provided
over each chamber and sanitary tee. The access manholes shall extend at least
to finished grade and be designed and maintained to prevent water inflow or
infiltration. The manholes shall also have readily removable covers to
facilitate inspection, grease removal and wastewater sampling activities.
(Ord. passed 6-14-2005)
WATER SHORTAGE RESPONSE PLAN
§ 51.100 INTRODUCTION.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide specific information to
those responsible for the declaration of official phases of water supply
shortage situations, and for the implementation of voluntary, mandatory and
emergency water conservation measures and restrictions via the Water Shortage
Response Plan (WSRP).
   (B)   This subchapter should be accessible to all personnel responsible for
water shortage response at all times.
   (C)   In addition, this subchapter should be made available to the North
Carolina Public Water Supply (NCPWS) upon request.
   (D)   In the event that the information below should change or become dated,
this WSRP should be updated immediately.
(Ord. passed 12-14-2010)
§ 51.101 RESPONSIBLE AUTHORITY FOR ENACTING THE WSRP.
   (A)   The Town Manager shall enact the following water shortage response
provisions whenever the trigger conditions outlined below are met. In his or
her absence, the Public Works Director will assume this role.
   (B)   All local governments, water corporations and companies purchasing
water from the town will adopt and enforce the WSRP as a condition of water
sales agreements.
(Ord. passed 12-14-2010)
§ 51.102 PUBLIC NOTIFICATION OF WATER USE POLICIES AND RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Public information regarding voluntary, mandatory and emergency
conservation policies, restrictions and ordinance violation penalties should be
concise, accurate, current and easily accessible to the general public affected
by this WSRP.
      (1)   Press releases should be done in “plain” and “easy to understand”
language.
      (2)   Multiple public outreach options should be used.
      (3)   The same media sources should be used for all phase updates during
a period of water shortage.
      (4)   Options may include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   Newspaper ads;
         (b)   TV ads (local news, interviews);
         (c)   Radio (public service announcements);
         (d)   Independent mailings to major users;
         (e)   Water bill stuffers;
         (f)   School presentations;
         (g)   Flyers/handouts;
         (h)   Signs and posters.
      (5)   See §
51.104 for conservation measures and restrictions.
      (6)   See §
51.105(E) for variances.
      (7)   See §
51.106 for ordinance violation penalties.
   (B)   The WSRP shall be made available to the public for review and comment
30 days prior to adoption by the governing board of the town.
(Ord. passed 12-14-2010)
§ 51.103 IDENTIFICATION OF WATER USE CLASSIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Class 1: Essential water uses. The following drinking water uses have
been determined to be essential water uses of potable water provided by the
town in the event of a water supply shortage.
      (1)   Domestic use. Water necessary to sustain human life and the lives
of domestic pets, and to maintain minimum standards of hygiene and sanitation.
      (2)   Health care facilities, assisted living homes, retirement homes.
Patient care and rehabilitation.
      (3)   Public use.
         (a)   Firefighting, including testing and drills by the Fire
Department if performed in the interest of public safety, and if approved by
the governing body of the town.
         (b)   Flushing of sewers and hydrants as needed to ensure public
health and safety, and if approved by the governing body of the town.
   (B)   Class 2: Socially or economically important uses of water. The
following drinking water uses have been determined to be socially or
economically important uses of water provided by the town in the event of a
water supply shortage.
      (1)   Domestic use: all domestic uses other than those included in
Classes 1 and 3.
         (a)   Home water use, including kitchen, bathroom and laundry use.
         (b)   Minimal watering of vegetable gardens.
         (c)   Watering of trees where necessary to preserve them.
      (2)   Commercial, agricultural, industrial and institutional uses.
         (a)   Outdoor commercial watering (public or private) using
conservation measures, and to the extent that sources of water other than fresh
water are not available to use.
         (b)   Irrigation for commercial vegetable gardens and fruit orchards
or the maintenance of livestock.
         (c)   Watering by commercial nurseries at a minimum level necessary to
maintain stock.
         (d)   Water use by arboretums and public gardens of national, state or
regional significance where necessary to preserve specimens.
         (e)   Use of fresh water at a minimum rate necessary to implement
vegetation following earth-moving, where such vegetation is required by law or
regulation.
         (f)   Watering of golf course greens.
         (g)   Filling and operation of swimming pools.
            1.   Residential pools serving more than 25 dwelling units.
            2.   Pools used by health care facilities for patient care and
rehabilitation.
            3.   Municipal pools.
         (h)   Commercial car and truck washes.
         (i)   Commercial Laundromats.
         (j)   Restaurants, clubs and eating places.
         (k)   Air conditioning.
            1.   Refilling for start up at the beginning of the cooling season.
            2.   Make-up of water during the cooling season.
            3.   Refilling specifically approved by health officials and the
municipal governing body, where the system has been drained for health
protection or repair purposes.
         (l)   Schools, churches, motels/hotels and similar commercial
establishments.
         (m)   Manufacturing/industrial processes critical to operation of
facilities.
   (C)   Class 3: Non-essential uses of water. The following drinking water
uses have been determined to be non-essential uses of water provided by the
town in the event of a water supply shortage.
      (1)   Ornamental purposes. Fountains, reflecting pools, and artificial
waterfalls.
      (2)   Outdoor non-commercial watering (public or private).
         (a)   Gardens (except vegetable gardens), lawns, parks, golf courses
(except greens), playing fields and other recreational areas.
         (b)   Filling and operation of recreational swimming pools serving
fewer than 25 dwellings.
         (c)   Non-commercial washing of motor vehicles.
         (d)   Serving water in restaurants, clubs or eating places except by
specific request.
         (e)   Air conditioning. Refilling cooling towers after draining except
as specified in Class 2.
      (3)   Public use.
         (a)   Fire hydrants. Any purpose, including use of sprinkler caps and
testing fire apparatus and for Fire Department drills, except as listed in
Class 1.
         (b)   Flushing of sewers and hydrants except as listed in Class 1
(Ord. passed 12-14-2010)
§ 51.104 CONSERVATION MEASURES AND RESTRICTIONS.
   The general public should be informed of the following conservation measures
for indoor, outdoor, health care facility, assisted living, retirement home,
institutional and industrial use.
   (A)   Phase 1: Voluntary conservation measures. When the town declares that
voluntary conservation conditions exist, the general public should conserve as
much water, and shall be encouraged to adhere to the following measures.
      (1)   Indoor use.
         (a)   Use dishwashers only when they are full.
         (b)   The use of disposable and biodegradable dishes is encouraged.
         (c)   Use washing machines only when full loads of laundry are to be
washed.
         (d)   Turn off faucets while brushing teeth, shaving, washing dishes,
and the like.
         (e)   Reduce water used per flush by installing toilet tank
displacement inserts.
            1.   A plastic jug may often be used as an alternative.
            2.   Do not use bricks: they disintegrate when soaked, and the
resulting grit hinders closing of the flap valve.
         (f)   Do not use the toilet as a garbage disposal.
         (g)   Use sink and tub stoppers to avoid wasting water.
         (h)   Keep a bottle of chilled water in the refrigerator for drinking,
to avoid running water until it's cold.
         (i)   Fix leaky faucets, toilets and water-using appliances. Faucets
can usually be fixed cheaply and quickly by replacing washers.
         (j)   Take shorter showers and shallow baths. Shorter showers are
recommended over baths.
         (k)   Don't use a garbage disposal.
         (l)   Use non-phosphate detergent and save laundry water for lawns and
plants.
         (m)   Adapt plumbing with flow-restricting or other water-saving
devices. These are usually inexpensive and easy to install.
         (n)   Limit hours of operation of water-cooled air conditioners.
      (2)   Outdoor use.
         (a)   Lawns.
            1.   Limit lawn and garden watering to that which is necessary for
plants to survive.
            2.   Water before 10:00 a.m. to reduce evaporation.
            3.   Water only when lawn shows signs of wilt. Grass that springs
back when stepped on does not need water.
            4.   Water thoroughly, not frequently: long enough to soak roots.
               a.   A light sprinkling evaporates quickly and encourages
shallow root systems.
               b.   Water slowly to avoid runoff.
            5.   Don't let the sprinkler run any longer than necessary. Use an
alarm clock or stove timer to remind you to shut off sprinklers that don't have
timers.
            6.   Allow a maximum of one inch of water per week on your lawn. To
measure, place cake tins outside to collect rain and water from sprinklers.
            7.   Use pistol-grip nozzles on hoses to avoid waste when watering
flowers and shrubs.
            8.   Aerate lawns by punching holes six inches apart. This allows
water to reach roots rather than run off surfaces.
            9.   Position sprinklers to water the lawn, not the pavement.
            10.   Keep sprinkler heads clean to prevent uneven watering.
            11.   Adjust hose to simulate a gentle rain. Sprinklers that
produce a fine mist waste water through evaporation.
            12.   Know how to turn off an automatic sprinkler system in case of
rain.
         (b)   Vegetables and flower gardens.
            1.   Water deeply, slowly and weekly. Most vegetables require
moisture to a depth of six to eight inches.
            2.   Keep soil loose so water can penetrate easily.
            3.   Keep weeds out to reduce competition for water.
            4.   Put the water where you want it and avoid evaporation by using
soil-soakers or slow-running hoses, not sprinklers.
         (c)   Trees and shrubs.
            1.   Water deeply using a soil-soaker or drip irrigation.
            2.   Water only when needed. Check the depth of soil dryness by
digging with a trowel.
            3.   Mulch to reduce evaporation. A two-inch to three-inch layer of
wood chips, pine needles, grass clippings, or straw keeps the soil cool in
summer.
            4.   Dig troughs around plants to catch and retain water.
            5.   Water trees growing in full sun more often than those in
shade.
            6.   Do not use sprinklers. Apply water directly at base.
            7.   Do not fertilize during the summer. Fertilizing increases a
plant's need for water.
            8.   Postpone planting until fall or spring when there is generally
less need for water.
            9.   Install trickle-drip-irrigation systems close to the roots of
your plants.
               a.   By dripping water slowly, the system doesn't spray water in
to the air.
               b.   Use soil probes for large trees.
            10.   Water when cloudy.
      (3)   Other uses.
         a.   Limit car washing to a minimum.
         b.   Do not allow children to play with hose or sprinklers.
         c.   Temporarily delay new landscape work.
         d.   Do not wash outside areas such as sidewalks, patios, parking
lots, and the like.
         e.   Catch rainfall for watering by placing containers under drain
spouts.
         f.   Use leftover household water if available.
         g.   Determine the amount of water being used outdoors by comparing
water bills for summer and winter.
      (4)   Health care facility, assisted living, and retirement home use.
         a.   Reduce laundry usage or services by changing linens, and the like
only when necessary to preserve the health of patients or residents.
         b.   Use disposable food service items.
      (5)   Institutional and industrial use.
         a.   Identify and repair all leaky fixtures and water-using equipment.
Give special attention to equipment connected directly to water lines, such as
processing machines, steam-using machines, washing machines, water-cooled air
conditioners, and furnaces.
         b.   Assure that valves and solenoids that control water flows are
shut off completely when the water-using cycle is not engaged.
         c.   Adjust water-using equipment to use the minimum amount of water
required to achieve its stated purpose.
         d.   Shorten rinse cycles for laundry machines as much as possible;
implement lower water levels wherever possible.
         e.   For processing, cooling and other uses, either re-use water or
use water from sources that would not adversely affect public water supplies.
         f.   Install toilet-tank-displacement inserts; place flow restrictors
in shower heads and faucets; close down automatic flushes overnight.
         g.   Install automatic flushing valves to use as little water as
possible or to cycle at longer intervals.
         h.   Place water-saving posters and literature where employees,
students, patients, customers, and the like will have access to them.
         i.   Check meters on a frequent basis to determine consumption
patterns.
         j.   Review usage patterns to see where other savings can be made.
   (B)   Phase 2: Mandatory conservation measures and restrictions. When the
town declares that mandatory conservation conditions exist, the general public
shall be required to adhere to the following restrictions, in addition to the
voluntary guidelines already in effect.
      (1)   All Class 3 water uses are banned during this phase.
      (2)   No residential washing of cars or any other type of automobiles or
transport equipment.
      (3)   No washing of outside areas such as sidewalks, driveways, patios,
streets, service station aprons, parking lots, office buildings, homes.
      (4)   Watering of lawns will be permitted only once per week per customer
and only from the hours of 5:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m.
      (5)   Vegetable gardens and food trees should be given minimal amounts of
water on an individual basis only.
      (6)   Do not water inedible plants.
      (7)   Do not use sprinklers.
   (C)   Phase 3: Water shortage emergency measures and restrictions. When the
town declares that water shortage emergency conditions exist, the general
public shall be required to adhere to the following restrictions, in addition
to the voluntary and mandatory guidelines already in effect.
      (1)   All Class 2 and Class 3 water uses are banned during this phase.
      (2)   Turn off shower while soaping up.
      (3)   Do not use water outside for any use other than drinking or
emergencies such as a fire.
      (4)   Use of disposable eating utensils and plates is strongly encouraged
for home use and at all eating establishments.
(Ord. passed 12-14-2010)
§ 51.105 DECLARATION OF PHASED CONSERVATION MEASURES AND RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Use of the Drought Monitor. The Town Utility Director will monitor
regional water resources conditions through the North Carolina Drought Monitor
(http://www.ncwater.org/drouqht/). When the Drought Monitor indicates impending
drought conditions, the Utility Director will increase monitoring of water
demand and the available supply of water.
   (B)   Phase 1: Declaration of voluntary conservation.
      (1)   Voluntary conservation shall be initiated when a potential water
supply shortage exists, which is indicated when:
         (a)   Daily use is greater than the 18-hour production of the wells
one day within a 30-day period; or
         (b)   A 20% reduction in the seasonal normal distance between the
static water level in the well and the pump intake; or
         (c)   Consideration will also be given when the US Drought Monitor
indicates abnormally dry or moderate drought in the town.
      (2)   When the governing body of the town finds that a potential water
supply shortage is indicated, it shall be empowered to declare by adoption of
an ordinance (WSRO) that voluntary conservation conditions exist, and that the
Director of Public Works, on a daily basis, monitors the supply and demand upon
that supply.
      (3)   In addition, the governing body is authorized to call upon all
water customers to employ voluntary water conservation measures to limit water
use (especially Class 3 uses) and eliminate the waste of water.
         (a)   This resolution shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation in the area that qualifies under G.S. § 1-597, and may be
publicized through the general news media or any other appropriate method for
making such resolutions public.
         (b)   A water shortage advisory shall be issued.
      (4)   During Phase 1 water use restrictions, the reduction goal for
systemwide daily average use will be 5%.
   (C)   Phase 2: Declaration of mandatory conservation.
      (1)   Mandatory conservation shall be initiated when water supplies are
consistently below seasonal averages, and the continued decline of water
supplies would result in a water supply shortage due to an inadequate water
supply to meet normal needs. This is indicated when:
         (a)   Daily use is greater than the 18-hour production of the wells
for two days or more within a 30-day period; or
         (b)   A 40% reduction in the seasonal normal distance between the
static water level in the well and the pump intake; or
         (c)   Equipment failure, facility failure or contamination in raw
water quality results in discontinued use of one or more groundwater wells,
resulting in pumping times greater than 18 hours for the remaining wells for a
period less than 30 days; or
         (d)   Consideration will also be given when the US Drought Monitor
indicates moderate or severe drought in the town.
      (2)   When the governing body of the town finds raw water supplies to be
consistently below seasonal averages, and if they continue to decline and may
not be adequate to meet normal needs, it shall be empowered to declare by
adoption of an ordinance (WSRO) that mandatory conservation conditions exist.
         (a)   The governing body of the town shall continue to encourage
voluntary water conservation measures defined under the voluntary conservation
declaration, and further shall impose a ban on all Class 3, non-essential water
uses for the duration of the shortage, until it is declared ended by ordinance
of the governing board.
         (b)   Publication of these ordinances shall follow the provisions
declaration in §
51.102.
         (c)   A water shortage alert shall be issued.
      (4)   During Phase 2 water use restrictions, the reduction goal for
systemwide daily average use will be 15%.
   (D)   Phase 3: Declaration of a water shortage emergency.
      (1)   A water shortage emergency shall be initiated when raw water
supplies are below the level necessary to meet normal needs and a serious water
supply shortage exists. This is indicated when:
         (a)   Daily use is greater than the 18-hour production of the wells
for four days or more within a 30-day period; or
         (b)   A 60% reduction in the seasonal normal distance between the
static water level in the well and the pump intake; or
         (c)   Equipment failure, facility failure or contamination in raw
water quality results in discontinued use of one or more groundwater wells,
resulting in pumping times greater than 18 hours for the remaining wells for a
period greater than or equal to 30 days; or
         (d)   Consideration will also be given when the US Drought Monitor
indicates severe or extreme drought in the town.
      (2)   When the governing body of the town finds that raw water supplies
are below the level necessary to meet normal needs and a serious water supply
shortage exists, it shall be empowered to declare by adoption of an ordinance
(WSRO) that a water shortage emergency exists.
         (a)   Specific Class 1, essential water uses shall be identified as
targets for voluntary conservation initiatives.
         (b)   Also, all Class 2, socially or economically important water uses
shall be banned in addition to Class 3, non-essential water uses.
         (c)   These restrictions shall continue until the emergency is
declared ended by ordinance of the governing body.
         (d)   Publication of these ordinances shall follow the provisions in §
51.102.
         (e)   A water shortage emergency shall be issued.
      (3)   During Phase 3 water use restrictions, the reduction goal for
systemwide daily average use will be 25%.
   (E)   Variances.  
      (1)   Customers seeking variance from the conservation requirements in
the WSRP should submit to the town a written request for variance, containing
the following items:
         (a)   Name;
         (b)   Address;
         (c)   Utilities account number;
         (d)   Date of request;
         (e)   Proposed duration for requested variance;
         (f)   Detailed explanation for requested variance; and
         (g)   Justification for approval of the requested variance.
      (2)   Variances shall be evaluated by the Director of Public Works.
      (3)   The Director of Public Works will then make a recommendation to the
governing body of the town.
      (4)   The governing body of the town shall make the final decision within
30 days after receipt of the request.
   (F)   Return to normal.
      (1)   When water shortage conditions have abated and the situation is
returning to normal, water conservation measures employed during each phase
should be decreased in reverse order of implementation.
      (2)   Permanent measures directed toward long-term monitoring and
conservation should be implemented or continued so that the community will be
in a better position to prevent shortages and to respond to recurring water
shortage conditions.
(Ord. passed 12-14-2010)
§ 51.106 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The provision of the Water Shortage Response Plan will be enforced by
the Public Works Department and the Police Department.
   (B)   Violators may be reported by calling any town department phone line.
   (C)   Citations are assessed according to the following schedule, depending
on the number of prior violations and current level of water shortage.
 
Water Shortage Level  First Violation Second Violation   Third Violation
Voluntary Reductions  N/A             N/A                N/A
Mandatory Reductions  Warning         $250               Discontinuation of
(Stages 2 and 3)                                         service
Emergency Reductions  $250            Discontinuation of Discontinuation of
                                      service            service
Water Rationing       $500            Discontinuation of Discontinuation of
                                      service            service
 
   (D)   Drought surcharge rates are effective in Stages 3, 4 and 5.
(Ord. passed 12-14-2010)
§ 51.107 EVALUATION AND REVISION.
   (A)   Evaluation of Plan effectiveness.
      (1)   In order to maintain the effectiveness and sustainability of the
Water Shortage Response Plan, it is imperative to maintain accurate water use
records. Water use records should be collected and monitored prior to, during,
and after implementation of conservation restrictions.
      (2)   In evaluating the effectiveness of the Water Shortage Response
Plan, the Public Works Director will compare historical use data to determine
if the reduction amount is accurate. If reduction amounts are inadequate, the
WSRP should be updated, with further conservation restrictions and triggers
that initiate water conservation requirements earlier.
      (3)   The Public Works Director will monitor the frequency that the WRSP
conservation restrictions are implemented, and recommend revisions to the
governing board to correct for inappropriate water restrictions.
      (4)   The Public Works Director will monitor the water transmission
system and water use records to determine if events outside of the scope of the
WSRP require implementation of the water conservation methods in the WSRP. The
triggers activating water conservation restrictions should be updated to
reflect these observations.
      (5)   The Public Works Director will record citations and violations of
the water conservation requirements. If citations and violation numbers are
excessive, the WSRP may be revised to show additional public announcements, or
to increase enforcement as described in §
51.106.
   (B)   Revisions to the Water Shortage Response Plan.
      (1)   In the event that evaluation of the WSRP indicates a revision is
needed, the Public Works Director shall make recommendation to the governing
body of the town.
      (2)   The governing body of the town will then consider revisions to the
WSRP, based on the observations and data provided by the Public Works Director.
      (3)   Customers will have multiple opportunities to comment on the
provisions of the Water Shortage Response Plan.
         (a)   First, a draft plan will be available at Town Hall for customers
to view.
         (b)   A notice will be included in customer water bills notifying them
of such.
         (c)   The Plan will be posted on the town's website.
         (d)   All subsequent revisions to the draft plan will be published at
least 30 days prior to an adoption vote by the Town Council.
(Ord. passed 12-14-2010)
CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL
§ 51.120 PURPOSE OF POLICY.
   The purpose of this policy statement is to articulate and adopt an official
policy that will establish a cross connection control policy for the town. The
policy will:
   (A)   Ensure that the town's potable public water supply is protected from
the possibility of contamination or pollution by isolating within each
consumer's water system such contaminants, waterborne health hazards and other
significant pollutants, which could backflow into the public water systems.
   (B)   Ensure that existing cross connections, actual or potential, between
the consumer's potable water system(s) and non-potable water system(s),
plumbing fixtures and industrial piping systems are eliminated or controlled.
   (C)   Provide an inspection program of cross connection control, which will
systematically and effectively control all actual or potential cross
connections, which may be installed in the future.
(Ord. passed 3-12-2013)
§ 51.121 COVERAGE.
   This policy, upon adoption by the Town Council, shall be applicable to all
water system customers of the town that are served by the town's public water
distribution system, until such time as the policy statement is altered,
modified, or rescinded by the Town Council.
(Ord. passed 3-12-2013)
§ 51.122 POLICY.
   (A)   This policy defines the Town of Edenton as the water purveyor in the
elimination of all cross connections within its public potable water supply.
   (B)   The cross connection control program, which is based on the cross
connection control ordinance and on this policy, shall ensure that, after the
effective date of the cross connection control ordinance:
      (1)   That all new residential and non-residential water services
requiring water from the town's public water system, shall have an appropriate
backflow prevention device installed prior to water service activation.
      (2)   That all existing non-residential and irrigation water services
which do not have an approved backflow prevention assembly be required to
retrofit the approved backflow prevention assembly within 120 days following
written notification from the town.
      (3)   That all existing non-residential water services and irrigation
which have an approved backflow prevention assembly shall immediately begin,
upon written notification from the town, an annual testing and certification
program for their approved backflow prevention assembly.
      (4)   That all existing single family residential water services
connected to the town's public potable water system, be required to retrofit
the appropriate backflow prevention device as a water meter replacement occurs
for each such water service, beginning approximately six months after the
effective date of this policy.
(Ord. passed 3-12-2013)
§ 51.123 CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL PROGRAM.
   (A)   Application, purpose, authorization. This section applies to all
persons who use, or connect in any way to, the public potable water
distribution system of the town of Edenton (“Public Water System”). The purpose
of this subchapter is to protect the public water system from contaminants and
pollution “backflowing” into the public water system from private water systems
by:
      (1)   Requiring the installation of backflow prevention assemblies which
will minimize the possibility of contamination by confining within the
customer's private water system those contaminants or pollutants, which could,
under adverse conditions, back flow or back siphon through uncontrolled cross
connections into the public water system; and
      (2)   Establishing a backflow prevention program.
   (B)   Definitions. As used in this subchapter, the following definitions
apply:
      (1)   BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY (Sometimes “BPA”). A device used to
prevent backflow into the public water system from a customer's water service
connection. The type of BPA required by this subchapter to be used shall depend
on whether the hazard, which can be an existing hazard or a potential hazard,
presented by backflow from a particular private system is a “pollution” (“non-
health”) hazard or a “contamination” (“
      (2)   CERTIFIED BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY TECHNICIAN (sometimes
"technician"). Any person who has received from the state a certificate to
install, test, repair, overhaul, or maintain approved backflow prevention
assemblies by holding a current NC cross-connection certification (certified
tester).
      (3)   CONSUMER. Any customer of the town's public water system, or any
person, firm, or entity using or receiving water from the town's public water
system or owning or possessing property or facilities that receive water from,
or connecting to the town's public water system.
      (4)   CONTAMINATION HAZARD. The term “contamination hazard” represents
the type of existing or potential hazard presented by a private system and
means an existing or potential impairment of the quality of the water, which
creates a potential or actual hazard to the public health through the
introduction of hazardous or toxic substances or waterborne health hazards in
the form of physical or chemical contaminants or biological organisms and
pathogens.
      (5)   CROSS CONNECTION. Any unprotected actual or potential connection or
structural arrangement between the town's public water system and any other
pipe, conduit, source or system through which it is possible to introduce any
contamination or pollution other than the intended potable water with which the
system is supplied. Bypass arrangements, jumper connections, removable
sections, swivel or changeover devices, and other temporary or permanent
devices or arrangements through which or because of which backflow can or may
occur are considered to be cross connections.
      (6)   DEGREE OF HAZARD. Whether the hazard or potential hazard is a
“pollution” (non-health) hazard, or a “contamination” (health) hazard. The
degree of hazard shall be determined by the town from the evaluation of
conditions within a private water system and the use to which a property
connected to public system is put.
      (7)   HEALTH HAZARD. An actual or potential threat of contamination of a
physical, chemical, biological, pathogenic or toxic nature to the public or
private water system to such a degree or intensity that there would be a danger
to health. Examples of waterborne health hazards include, but are not limited
to:
         (a)   Physical: Radioisotopes/radionuclides;
         (b)   Chemical: Lead, mercury and other heavy metals, organic
compounds, other toxins and hazardous substances;
         (c)   Biological: Microorganisms and pathogens like Cryptosporidium,
typhoid, cholera and E. Coli.
      (8)   IMMINENT HAZARD. The term “imminent hazard” means a health hazard
situation that is likely to cause an immediate threat to human life, an
immediate threat of serious physical injury, an immediate threat of serious
adverse health effects, or a serious risk of irreparable damage to the
environment if no immediate action is taken.
      (9)   POLLUTION OR NON-HEALTH HAZARD. An actual or potential threat to
the quality of water of the town's public system or a private potable water
system. A non-health hazard is one that, if introduced into the public water
supply system, could be a nuisance to water users, but would not adversely
affect human health.
      (10)   PRIVATE WATER SYSTEM. That part of a water service connection to
the town's public water system which is located on the consumer's side of the
town's water meter. A private water system may be a water service line to a
single premise or structure or it may be a privately owned and maintained water
distribution system, which serves more than one structure or premises. For the
purpose of this subchapter, once water from the town's public water system
passes through the meter to the customer's side, that water is considered part
of the private water system.
      (11)   PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM. The town water system and includes all of the
system for the provision to the public of potable water for human consumption
through pipes or other constructed conveyances and includes:
         (a)   Any collection, treatment, storage or distribution facility and
all appurtenance to those facilities under control of the town and used
primarily in connection with the town's water system; and
         (b)   Any collection, treatment, storage or distribution facility and
all appurtenances to those facilities not under the control of the town that is
used primarily in connection with the town's water system.
         (c)   New unprotected cross-connections prohibited, existing cross-
connections to be protected. No contamination or pollution of public water
system. All consumers and any other person or entity receiving water from the
town's public water system shall be in violation of this subchapter if they
fail to comply with any of the following:
            1.   New water service connections. No new residential or
nonresidential water service connections to the public system, on or after the
effective date of this subchapter, shall be made unless equipped with an
approved backflow prevention assembly. The BPA shall be tested and properly
functioning as prescribed herein prior to the issuance of a certificate of
occupancy for any building. All new nonresidential construction plans and
specifications shall be made available to the town for review to determine the
health hazard and level (health or non-health) to the town's public water
system.
            2.   Existing water service connections. An approved backflow
prevention assembly shall be installed on all existing cross connections to the
town's public water system upon notification of the need for installation by
the town. Upon determining that a backflow prevention assembly is required to
be installed on an existing water service connection the town will notify the
consumer in writing of:
               a.   The requirement for installation;
               b.   The health hazard level (“health hazard” or “non-health
hazard”) which has been established for that customer by the town based upon
the use of their premises;
               c.   The type of approved backflow prevention assembly required;
               d.   The date by which it must be installed and tested. The
consumer will have the following time periods within which to install and test
the specified backflow prevention assembly.
 
Health Hazard     Within 14 calendar days of date of notice, unless specified
                  otherwise by the town
Non-health Hazard Within 60 calendar days of date of notice
 
   (C)   Contamination and pollution prohibited. No consumer shall cause or
allow any contamination or pollution of the town's public water system through
uncontrolled backflow or backsiphonage from or through their private water
system.
   (D)   No cross-connections. No private water system may be connected to any
private well, or to any spring, or to any other water source not approved by
the state of North Carolina as a public water supply and commissioned by the
town as a public water supply source, or to any other private source of water,
or to any plumbing located on private property which may be connected to any of
the above. Any such connection must be terminated upon the effective date of
this subchapter. It shall also be unlawful to have plumbing cross-connected or
so installed that water from the town's public water system and water from or
in any private water system may in any way become intermingled.
   (E)   Compliance. No private water system shall be connected in any manner
to the town's public water system nor may any service connection be made or
maintained to the town's public water system unless the requirements of this
subchapter have been satisfied.
   (F)   Approved BPAs and installations required. Only an approved backflow
prevention assembly shall be installed to meet the requirements of this
subchapter. Any backflow prevention assembly that is installed that is not an
approved BP A, or any installation of any backflow prevention assembly, which
is not installed in accordance with the provisions hereof shall be a violation
hereof and must be replaced with an approved backflow prevention assembly, and/
or installed in accordance with the ordinance from which this section is
derived.
   (G)   Notification of change in use ofproperty. The consumer shall notify
the town within ten calendar days of the date the nature of the use of any non-
residential property connected to the town's public water system changes so
that the town can reassess the health hazard level of that property.
   (H)   Certification and testing program.
      (1)   Installation, maintenance, testing and repair of BPAs shall be done
only by a certified backflow prevention assembly technician. Consumers shall
have a technician test the assembly system for proper operation and that
technician shall certify the results in writing to the town.
      (2)   Any consumer or other person who removes or repairs any cross-
connection condition shall notify the town for the purpose of securing an
inspection or re-inspection by the town.
      (3)   All backflow prevention assemblies required by this subchapter
shall be installed in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions.
      (4)   All backflow prevention assemblies required by this subchapter must
be installed and maintained on the consumer's premises as part of the
consumer's water system.
      (5)   Ownership, installation, testing and maintenance of a backflow
prevention assembly and all costs associated therewith shall be the
responsibility of the consumer.
      (6)   Each backflow prevention assembly required under this subchapter
must be accessible by the town.
      (7)   Any bypass around a backflow prevention assembly at any time,
including when the assembly is in need of testing, repair or replacement, is
prohibited. When it is not possible to interrupt water service, the customer
shall provide for the parallel installation of an approved backflow prevention
assembly.
      (8)   Backflow prevention assemblies with test ports or test cocks shall
not be installed below ground.
   (I)   Testing and repair of backflow prevention assemblies.
      (1)   Testing/Certification. A certified backflow prevention assembly
technician shall conduct testing of backflow prevention assemblies at the
consumer's expense. Tests shall be conducted upon installation, and annually
thereafter, with a record of all testing and repairs retained by the consumer.
Each consumer shall send a copy of the report, certified by the certified
backflow prevention assembly technician, for each test or repair to the town
within 30 days after the completion of each test or repair. Such records must
also be maintained by the consumer on forms provided by the town for a period
of three years.
      (2)   Repairs. Any time that repairs to a backflow prevention assembly
are deemed necessary, whether through annual testing or routine inspection by
the consumer or by the town, these repairs must be completed within a time
specified below, in accordance with the health hazard level.
         (a)   Health hazard facilities: Within seven days of discovery.
         (b)   Non-health hazard facilities: Within 21 days of discovery.
      (3)   Equipment. All certified backflow prevention assembly technicians
must obtain and employ backflow prevention assembly test equipment. All test
equipment shall be checked for accuracy annually (at a minimum), calibrated if
necessary, and certified to the town as to such accuracy/calibration, employing
a calibration method acceptable to the town.
      (4)   Records. It is unlawful for any consumer or certified backflow
prevention assembly technician to submit any record to the town, which is false
or fraudulent in any material respect. It is unlawful for any consumer or
certified backflow prevention assembly technician to fail to submit any record,
which is required by this section to the town. Such violations may result in
any of the enforcement actions outlined in division (m) of this section.
   (J)   Protection of the public water system during bulk water sales. No bulk
water may be taken except as a sale from a fire hydrant through a metered
assembly provided by the town which includes a reduced pressure principle
backflow prevention assembly. In addition, any truck, tank, or receiving vessel
which is directly or indirectly connected to any pipe, hose, or outlet from the
town's public water system must be equipped with an approved, permanently
installed, air gap designed to create a minimum of four inches separation
between the receiving tank or vessel and the connection to the town's public
water system.
   (K)   Backflow prevention assembly protection. Any backflow prevention
assembly which might be subjected to pressure surges or abnormally high
pressures shall be protected against possible damage by a device approved by
the town, such as a water hammer arrestor or a pressure reducing valve.
   (L)   Violations. Any consumer or other person who fails to comply with any
provision of this section, or who fails to comply with any notice or order made
hereunder, or who shall install or alter a private water system in violation of
this section or any detailed statement of specifications or plans submitted and
approved hereunder, or any certificate or permit issued hereunder, or who shall
fail to comply with such a notice or order within the time fixed therein, or
who shall submit a false or fraudulent report, or who fails to submit a report
shall be in violation of this section for each such occurrence or noncompliance
and shall be subject to enforcement as provided in this section.
      (1)   A written notice of violation shall be given to any person who is
determined to be in violation of this section. Such notice shall be personally
delivered, or delivered by certified mail, return receipt requested.
      (2)   Such notice shall set forth the violation and the time period
within which the violation must be corrected. The violation must be corrected
within the time period specified in the notice. If the town determines that the
violation is occurring on a consumer's private water system and that such
violation has created or contributed to the existence of an imminent health
hazard, the consumer may be required to correct the violation immediately.
      (3)   Water service may be suspended or terminated to a consumer if the
consumer fails to correct a violation in a timely manner or fails to pay any
civil penalty or expense assessed under this section. Suspension or termination
of water service will be without prejudice to the town's ability to assert any
other remedy available to the town against the consumer or any other person
responsible for the violation.
      (4)   The violation of any provision of this section shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty. Each subsequent day that a violation continues
shall constitute a separate and distinct offense. The offender shall be issued
a written citation by delivery in person or mailed by certified or registered
mail. The civil penalty must be paid within 72 hours of receipt of written
citation by the offender.
         (a)   Unprotected cross connection involving a private water system,
which is a health hazard, shall receive a civil penalty of $1000 per day.
         (b)   Unprotected cross connection involving a private water system,
which is a non-health hazard, shall receive a civil penalty of $500 per day.
         (c)   Falsifying records that are required to be submitted by this
article, per violation, $1,000.
         (d)   Failing to test backflow prevention assemblies as required, per
violation, $500.
         (e)   Failing to maintain backflow prevention assemblies as required,
per violation, $500.
         (f)   Any other violation of this section, per violation, $500.
      (5)   The town may increase any civil penalty assessed by 50 percent of
the maximum civil penalty associated with the violation for a second violation
of the same provision within a two-year period. The town may increase any civil
penalty by doubling the amount of the penalty for a third violation of the same
provision within a two-year period. Water service may be terminated after a
third violation of the same provision within a two-year period.
      (6)   Any person violating any provision of this subchapter shall pay to
the town all expenses incurred by the town in repairing any damage to the
public water system caused in whole or in part by such violation and any
expense incurred by the town in investigating such violation. All such expenses
are deemed to be a part of the civil penalty assessed with the violation.
      (7)   The application of civil penalties shall not be held to prevent the
enforced correction or removal of any prohibited condition.
      (8)   If a certified backflow prevention assembly technician submits
falsified records to the town, the town may report this offence to the North
Carolina Water Treatment Facility Operators Certification Board.
   (M)   Administration of program. The Director of Public Works, or the town's
cross-connection ORC, shall administer this program.
(Ord. passed 3-12-2013)
§ 51.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person found to be violating any provision of §§
51.065 through
51.075, except §
51.074, shall be served by the town with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in the
notice, permanently cease all violations.
      (2)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in division (B)(1) above shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and,
upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in an amount not exceeding an amount as
set by the Town Council for each violation. Each day in which any such
violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
      (3)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
51.065 through
51.075 shall become liable to the town for any expense, loss or damage
occasioned the town by reason of the violation.
(Prior Code, § 24-41)
   (C)   (1)   Administrative remedies.
         (a)   Notification of violation. Whenever the Director of the Public
Works Department of the town (hereafter “Director”) finds that any user has
violated or is violating §§
51.090 through
51.092 or any variance permit issued pursuant to §§
51.090 through
51.092, the Director may serve upon the user a written notice stating the
nature of the violation. Within 30 days from the date of the notice, an
explanation for the violation and a plan for the satisfactory correction
thereof shall be submitted to the town by the user. Submission of the
explanation and plan does not relieve the user of liability for any violations
occurring before or after the receipt of the notice of violation.
         (b)   Consent orders. The Director is hereby empowered to enter into
consent orders, assurances of voluntary compliance or other similar documents
establishing an agreement with the user responsible for the non-compliance. The
orders will include the specific action to be taken by the user to correct the
noncompliance within the time period specified in the order. Consent orders
shall have the same force and effect as an administrative order issued pursuant
hereto.
         (c)   Show cause hearing.
            1.   The Director may order any user who causes or is responsible
for a violation of §§
51.090 through
51.092 or variance permit issued pursuant to §§
51.090 through
51.092 to show cause as to why a proposed enforcement action should not be
taken. In the event that the Director determines that a show cause order should
be issued, a notice shall be served on the user specifying the time and place
for a hearing, the proposed enforcement action to be taken, the reasons for the
action and a request that the user appear and show cause as to why the proposed
enforcement action should not be taken. The notice of hearing shall be served
personally or by certified mail, return receipt requested, at least ten days
prior to the hearing. Service may be made on any agent or officer of a
corporation, or any employee in charge of the location where the violation is
alleged to have occurred.
            2.   The Director shall review the evidence presented at the
hearing and determine whether the proposed enforcement action is appropriate.
            3.   A show cause hearing under this division (C) is not a
prerequisite to the assessment of a civil penalty under division (C)(4) below,
nor is any action or inaction taken by the Director under this section subject
to administrative appeal.
         (d)   Administrative orders. When the Director finds that a user has
violated or continues to violate §§
51.090 through
51.092 or any variance permit issued pursuant to §§
51.090 through
51.092, the Director may issue an order to cease and desist all violations and
direct those persons in noncompliance to do any one or more of the following:
            1.   Immediately comply with all requirements of §§
51.090 through
51.092 or the variance permit;
            2.   Comply in accord with the compliance schedule set forth in the
order;
            3.   Take immediate appropriate remedial or preventative action in
the event of a continuing or threatened violation; and
            4.   Disconnect from the town sewer collection system unless an
adequate grease trap or interceptor is installed and properly operating within
a specified period of time. A user to whom an administrative order is issued
may appeal the administrative order under the procedures set out herein.
         (e)   Emergency suspensions.
            1.   The Director may suspend the sewer connection of a user when
the suspension is necessary to stop an actual or threatened adverse effect on
the sanitary sewer collection and treatment system.
            2.   Any user notified of a suspension of sewer service shall
immediately stop or eliminate any non-conforming discharge into the sewer
system. A hearing will be held within 15 days of the notice of suspension to
determine whether the suspension may be lifted or whether the user’s connection
to the sewer system should be terminated. In the event of a failure to comply
voluntarily with the suspension order, the Director shall take steps as are
deemed necessary, including immediate severance of the sewer connection, to
prevent or minimize damage to the sewer collection and treatment system.
            3.   The Director shall reinstate the sewer service upon proof that
the noncompliance and the potential for noncompliant discharge into the sewer
system has been eliminated. Prior to the above-mentioned hearing, the user
shall submit to the Director a detailed written statement describing the causes
of the non-compliance and the measures taken to prevent any future
noncompliance.
         (f)   Termination of sewer service. Any user who violates the
following conditions of §§
51.090 through
51.092 or applicable state or federal regulations is subject to having its
sewer service connection terminated:
            1.   Failure to maintain accurate grease interceptor maintenance
reports as required hereby;
            2.   Failure to report significant changes in operations which
would affect the size or type of grease interceptor required by §§
51.090 through
51.092;
            3.   Refusal to grant the Director or his or her staff reasonable
access to the user’s premises for purposes of inspection or monitoring.
Noncompliant users will be notified of the proposed termination of their sewer
service connection and will be offered an opportunity to show cause hereunder
why the proposed action should not be taken.
      (2)   Civil penalties.
         (a)   Any user who is found to have failed to comply with any
provision of §§
51.090 through
51.092 or the orders, rules, rulings, regulations or permits issued hereunder
may be fined up to $25,000 per day per violation.
         (b)   In determining the amount of the civil penalty, the Director
shall consider the following:
            1.   The degree and extent of the harm to the sewage collection and
treatment system or to the environment or to public health;
            2.   The duration and gravity of the violation;
            3.   The cost of rectifying the damage;
            4.   The amount of money saved by the user as a result of
noncompliance;
            5.   Whether the violation was committed willfully or
intentionally;
            6.   The prior record of the violator for failure to comply with §§
51.090 through
51.092; and
            7.   The costs of enforcement to the town.
         (c)   Appeals of civil penalties assessed in accordance with this
section shall be as provided herein.
      (3)   Other available remedies. Remedies in addition to those already
mentioned in §§
51.090 through
51.092 are available to the Director, who may use any single remedy or
combination of remedies against a noncompliant user. Additional remedies
include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   Injunctive relief. Whenever a user is in violation of the
provisions of §§
51.090 through
51.092 or an order or permit issued hereunder, the Director, through the Town
Attorney, may petition the District or Superior Court for the issuance of a
restraining order or a preliminary or permanent injunction which restrains or
compels the user to perform or refrain from performing activities connected to
the violation;
         (b)   Water supply severance. Whenever a user is in violation of the
provisions of §§
51.090 through
51.092 or an order or permit issued hereunder, water services to the user may
be severed and service will only recommence, at the user’s expense, after the
user has satisfactorily demonstrated the user’s ability and willingness to
comply; and
         (c)   Public nuisance. Any violation of the limitations on wastewater
discharge concentrations of oil, fats or grease as set forth herein is hereby
declared to be a public nuisance and shall be corrected or abated as directed
by the Director. An user or other person creating a public nuisance shall be
subject to the provisions of the town’s code governing the nuisances, including
reimbursement to the Director for any costs incurred in removing, abating or
remedying the nuisance.
      (4)   Remedies not exclusive. The remedies provided for in §§
51.090 through
51.092 are not exclusive. The Director may take any, all, or any combination of
these actions against a non-complying user, and the Director may simultaneously
take more than one enforcement action against a non-compliant user.
(Ord. passed 5-13-1975; Ord. passed 6-14-2005)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      Chapter
         
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
         
72.   PARKING RULES
         
73.   BICYCLES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Compliance with title
   
70.02   Authority of police to direct traffic
   
70.03   Official traffic maps
   
70.04   Exemptions for authorized emergency vehicles
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.20   Obedience generally
   
70.21   When signs required for enforcement of title
   
70.22   Traffic-control signal legend
   
70.23   Flashing signals
   
70.24   No turn signs; turning markers
   
70.25   Markers of no parking zones and safety zones
Registration of Vehicles
   
70.40   Applicability of subchapter
   
70.41   When required; fee; period of registration
Operation and Registration of Golf Carts
   
70.50   Purpose and definitions
   
70.51   Operation of golf carts allowed; exceptions
   
70.52   Driver’s license required
   
70.53   Registration
   
70.54   Manner of operation
   
70.55   Disclaimer and liability
   
70.56   Violation
Statutory reference:
   Applicability of traffic regulations to drivers of vehicles of the state and
political subdivisions, see G.S. § 20-168
   Authority of town to regulate motor vehicles and traffic generally, see G.S.
§§ 20-169, 160A-296 through 160A-308
   Authority of town to use official traffic maps, see G.S. § 160A-77
   Authority of town to use traffic-control devices, see G.S. § 20-158
   Control of vehicles by signals, see G.S. § 20-158
   Exemption of emergency vehicles from speed limits, see G.S. § 20-145
   Motor vehicles and traffic generally, see G.S. §§ 20-1 et seq.
   Turning at intersections and authority of town to alter turning methods, see
G.S. § 20-153
   Yielding right-of-way to emergency vehicles, see G.S. §§ 20-156, 20-157
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 COMPLIANCE WITH TITLE.
   It shall be a misdemeanor for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to
perform any act required in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 15-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.02 AUTHORITY OF POLICE TO DIRECT TRAFFIC.
   In the event of a fire or other emergency, or when necessary to expedite
traffic or safeguard pedestrians, police officers may direct traffic as
conditions may require, notwithstanding the provisions of this title.
(Prior Code, § 15-2)
§ 70.03 OFFICIAL TRAFFIC MAPS.
   (A)   There shall be kept on file, in the office of the Town Clerk, official
traffic maps on which shall be shown:
      (1)   The location of traffic-control devices;
      (2)   The location of areas or zones where certain regulations,
limitations or restrictions are applicable to the parking of vehicles;
      (3)   The location of stop intersections;
      (4)   The location of yield intersections;
      (5)   The location of one-way streets;
      (6)   The location of loading areas, bus stops and taxicab stands;
      (7)   Speed limits applicable to certain streets;
      (8)   The location of streets where certain regulations are applicable to
trucks or trailers; and
      (9)   The location of intersections where certain regulations are
applicable to the turning of vehicles.
   (B)   The official traffic maps of the town shall constitute the official
codification of the town’s ordinances relative to those areas of traffic
regulations set forth in division (A) of this section.
(Prior Code, § 15-3)
§ 70.04 EXEMPTIONS FOR AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter regulating the operation, parking and
standing of vehicles shall apply to authorized emergency vehicles, as defined
in this chapter, except as follows. A driver, when operating the vehicle in any
emergency, except when otherwise directed by a police officer, may:
      (1)   Park or stand, notwithstanding the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Exceed the prima facie speed limits so long as he or she does not
endanger life or property; and
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement of turning in
specified directions so long as he or she does not endanger life or property.
   (B)   The exemptions in division (A) of this section shall not protect the
driver of any vehicle from the consequences of his or her reckless disregard of
the safety of others.
(Prior Code, § 15-4)
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.20 OBEDIENCE GENERALLY.
   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the directions of any official traffic-
control device applicable thereto and placed in accordance with this chapter,
unless otherwise directed by a police officer, subject to the exceptions
granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle in §
70.04.
(Prior Code, § 15-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.21 WHEN SIGNS REQUIRED FOR ENFORCEMENT OF TITLE.
   No provision of this chapter for which signs are required shall be enforced
against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the alleged violation,
an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently legible to an
ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular section does not state that
signs are required, the section shall be effective without signs being placed
to give notice thereof.
(Prior Code, § 15-6)
§ 70.22 TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND.
   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals exhibiting the
words “go”, “caution” or “stop” or exhibiting differently colored lights
successively, one at a time, the following colors only shall be used and the
terms and lights shall indicate as follows.
   (A)   Green alone or “go”.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed straight through or
turn right or left unless a sign at the place prohibits either turn; provided
that, vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles and to
pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at the time the signal is
exhibited.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway within
any marked or unmarked crosswalk.
   (B)   Yellow alone or “caution”, when shown following the green or “go”
signal.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at the intersection; provided that, if the stop cannot be
made in safety, a vehicle may be driven cautiously through the intersection.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing the signal are hereby advised that there is
insufficient time to cross a roadway and any pedestrian then starting to cross
shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles.
   (C)   Red alone or “stop”.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such other point as may be indicated
by a clearly visible line and shall remain standing until green or “go” is
shown alone; provided that, any vehicle, after coming to a complete stop for a
red light facing the vehicle, may make a right turn after yielding to
pedestrians and other vehicles unless a sign has been erected at the
intersection indicating that the right turn on red is prohibited.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing the signal shall enter the roadway unless he
or she can do safely and without interfering with any vehicular traffic.
   (D)   Red with green arrow.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal may cautiously enter the
intersection only to continue the movement in the direction indicated by the
arrow, but shall not interfere with other traffic.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing the signal shall enter the roadway unless he
or she can do so safely and without interfering with any vehicular traffic.
(Prior Code, § 15-7)
§ 70.23 FLASHING SIGNALS.
   Whenever flashing red or yellow signals are used, they shall require
obedience by vehicular traffic as follows.
   (A)   Flashing red (stop signal). When a red lens is illuminated by rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at a line when marked, and the right to
proceed shall be subject to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop
sign.
   (B)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past the signal only with caution.
(Prior Code, § 15-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.24 NO TURN SIGNS; TURNING MARKERS.
   Whenever authorized signs are placed, erected or installed indicating that
no right, left or “U” turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey
the directions of any such sign and when authorized markers, buttons or other
indications are placed within an intersection indicating the course to be
traveled by vehicles traversing or turning thereat, no driver of a vehicle
shall disobey the directions of the indications.
(Prior Code, § 15-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.25 MARKERS OF NO PARKING ZONES AND SAFETY ZONES.
   Whenever authorized signs or markings are placed, erected or installed
indicating no parking zones or safety zones, no driver of a vehicle shall
disobey the regulations in connection therewith.
(Prior Code, § 15-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
REGISTRATION OF VEHICLES
§ 70.40 APPLICABILITY OF SUBCHAPTER.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, bicycles with motors attached,
motorcycles and scooter cars shall not be deemed motor vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 15-57)
§ 70.41 WHEN REQUIRED; FEE; PERIOD OF REGISTRATION.
   Every resident motor vehicle operated in the town, except motor vehicles
temporarily operated for a period or periods of time not exceeding a total of
30 days during any one year, shall be annually assessed an annual $5
registration fee. The fee will be added to vehicle tax bills. The period of
registration shall include the 12 months from January 1 to December 31.
(Prior Code, § 15-58)
OPERATION AND REGISTRATION OF GOLF CARTS
§ 70.50 PURPOSE AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this subchapter is to provide a means of
travel that is convenient, conserves resources, and protects the environment.
Golf carts, if properly used, may be an effective way to travel for short
distances within the town. However, to help insure the public safety and
welfare, the operation of golf carts must not only comply with normal
regulations regarding vehicles, but should comply with special safety
regulations intended to protect the operator and passengers in a vehicle that
is primarily designed for operation on a golf course or recreational purposes.
This article establishes the basic, minimum standards of care to be used by the
users of golf carts on public roads, streets and highways. Likewise, the public
safety requires that golf carts, used as a means of transportation, must also
meet certain minimum safety standards that can only be assured through a system
of registration and inspection. The registration and inspection of golf carts
is required in order to protect the public health, safety and welfare.
   (B)   Definitions. For purposes of this subchapter, those definitions set
out in G.S. § 20-4.01 shall also apply throughout this subchapter. A “golf
cart” is defined as a vehicle designed and manufactured for operation on a golf
course for sporting or recreational purposes and that is not capable of
exceeding 20 miles per hour. The definition is republished here for convenience
only and the definition set out in G.S. § 20-4.01(12b), as amended from time to
time, is controlling for all purposes.
(Ord. passed 6-12-2012)
§ 70.51 OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS ALLOWED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Allowed. The operation of golf carts on the public streets, roads and
highways within the town and on property owned or leased by the town in
compliance with the provisions of this subchapter shall be permitted; however,
it shall be unlawful to operate any golf cart that is not properly registered
with the town or to operate any golf cart at any place or in any manner not
authorized herein.
   (B)   Exceptions. The operation of golf carts is not subject to the
provisions of this subchapter under the following circumstances:
      (1)   The operation of golf carts at golf courses, private clubs or on
private property, with the consent of the owner of the applicable real
property, or
      (2)   The operation of golf carts within gated or limited access
communities unless the streets of the community are dedicated for public use
and maintained by the town, or
      (3)   The use of a golf cart in connection with a parade, a festival or
other special event provided the consent of the sponsor is obtained and
provided such golf cart is only used during and in connection with such event.
      (4)   The use of golf carts by the Edenton Police Department on official
police business or the use of golf carts by town personnel for official
business on town owned property and town leased property, including cemeteries,
parks and greenways.
(Ord. passed 6-12-2012)
§ 70.52 DRIVER'S LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)    No person may operate a golf cart on any public street, road or
highway within the town or on any property owned or leased by the town unless
that person:
      (1)   Is at least 16 years old and has a valid driver's license issued
under or granted by the laws of North Carolina or some other state; and
      (2)   Has that license on his or her person; and
      (3)   Complies with any restrictions applicable to the license.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, a learner's permit shall not be
considered as a valid driver's license nor shall any license that has been
revoked, temporary or otherwise, or suspended for any reason, be considered as
a valid driver's license, during the period of suspension or revocation.
(Ord. passed 6-12-2012)
§ 70.53 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Required. No golf cart may be operated on any public street, road or
highway within the town or on property owned or leased by the town unless the
golf cart has first been registered with the Edenton Police Department as
required herein. The registration shall be renewed thereafter in accordance
with the provisions of this section. To evidence the registration, the owner
shall be issued a biennial permit which shall be displayed in a prominent,
visible place on the left rear-most portion of the golf cart at all times. The
permit may contain a registration number assigned for the particular golf cart
and may contain an expiration date. Lost or stolen permits are the
responsibility of the owner and must be replaced before the golf cart is
operated on a public street, road or highway within the town or on any property
owned or leased by the town.
   (B)   Registration fee. A registration fee in the amount of $25.00, or such
other amount as may be established and published in the schedule of fees and
charges adopted by the Edenton Town Council from time to time, as amended,
shall be paid to the town at the time the application for registration is filed
with the Edenton Police Department or for any renewal of the application.
   (C)   Application. The application for registration shall be made to the
Police Chief, or to some other person designated by him or her, on forms
provided by the Police Department. The application may, among other things,
require the owner's name, street address, mailing address, a phone number, the
make, model and identification or serial number of the golf cart, proof of
insurance and such other information as may be reasonably required as well as a
release or disclaimer of liability which releases the town from any liability
that may arise as a result of the operation of a golf cart on public streets,
roads and highways within the town and on property owned or leased by the town.
   (D)   Procedures. The Police Chief may establish written procedures,
consistent with this subchapter, setting out the process and the procedure,
including the form of the application, the check list for items to be inspected
and the type of form evidencing the issuance of the registration permit.
   (E)   Inspection. Prior to issuing the initial registration permit or any
renewal thereof, the golf cart shall either be inspected pursuant to such
procedures as the Police Chief may establish, to determine that:
      (1)   The brakes provided by the manufacturer of the golf cart are in
proper working order, and
      (2)   The golf cart has all of the standard safety features provided by
the manufacturer and will not exceed a speed of 20 miles per hour (gas powered
golf carts may require a speed governor to comply with the forgoing speed
limitation) nor otherwise modified in any way that creates a hazard, and
      (3)   The golf cart is equipped with all mechanical systems and safety
equipment required by this subchatper including, but not limited to, the
following:
         (a)   A seat belt installed at each seat; and
         (b)   A mechanical horn and an audible reverse warning device; and
         (c)   A rear vision mirror and at least two red rear reflectors or
rear red lights, which reflectors or lights must be at least three inches in
height and width, and
         (d)   A rear triangle reflector of the same type required by North
Carolina law and an orange flag that is elevated at least six feet above the
road surface, both of which must be installed at the rear of the golf cart.
   (F)   Denial and revocation. The initial registration of a golf cart may be
denied or subsequently revoked if it is determined that:
      (1)   The application contains any material misrepresentation, or
      (2)   Financial responsibility requirements of the State of North
Carolina (liability insurance) have not been met, or
      (3)   The golf cart is not in compliance with the requirements set out
above, or
      (4)   The golf cart has been altered or customized and no longer meets
the definition of a golf cart, or
      (5)   Equipment supplied by the manufacturer, especially safety
equipment, has been removed from the golf cart or the vehicle identification or
serial number removed, or
      (6)   Other good cause shown, including, but not limited to, a violation
of this subchapter.
   (G)   Financial responsibility. The owner of a golf cart required to be
registered with the town for use on the public streets and highways of the town
shall maintain in full force and effect and continuously throughout any period
of registration, liability insurance for all liability associated with
operation of the golf cart in an amount not less than required by North
Carolina law for motor vehicles operated on public highways in North Carolina.
This shall cover the financial responsibility in the minimum amounts and in the
manner defined and described in Article 9A, Chapter 20 of the General Statutes
of North Carolina, as amended, or any other law of the State of North Carolina
requiring financial responsibility for the registration and/or operation of a
motor vehicle.
   (H)   Disqualified vehicles. ATV's, 4-wheel utility vehicles and other
similar utility vehicles which are not manufactured for operation on a golf
course and golf carts which have been modified so that it no longer meets the
definition of a golf cart, may not be registered as a golf cart nor shall such
vehicles be operated on the public roads, streets and highways within the town
unless such vehicles are otherwise registered with and allowed under the motor
vehicle laws of the State of North Carolina.
(Ord. passed 6-12-2012)
§ 70.54 MANNER OF OPERATION.
   Golf carts shall not be operated on the public streets, roads and highways
within the town or on any property owned or leased by the town except in full
compliance with the provisions of this section.
   (A)   Hours of operation. 
      (1)   Daytime operation. Except as otherwise provided by ordinance,
including division (A)(3) below of this section, or applicable law, golf carts
may be driven on approved public roads, streets and highways within the town or
on any property owned or leased by the town from sunrise until sunset; and
      (2)   Nighttime operation. Except as otherwise provided by ordinance,
including division (A)(3) below of this section, or applicable law, a golf cart
may be driven on approved public roads, streets and highways within the town or
on any property owned or leased by the town between sunset and sunrise if the
golf cart is equipped with the following equipment, all of which must be
visible for a distance of not less than 500 feet:
         (a)   Two operating headlights, each having at least a 55 watt
halogen, or equal, bulb, one on either side of the front of the golf cart;
         (b)   Two operating tail lights, one on either side of the rear of the
golf cart; and
         (c)   Four operational mechanical turn signal lights, one on each
corner of the golf cart.
      (3)   No operation if poor visibility. Notwithstanding the provisions of
divisions (A)(1) and (2), above, golf carts may not be operated when fog, smog,
smoke or other conditions reduce visibility so that the golf cart is not
visible for a distance of at least 500 feet.
   (B)   Streets. Golf carts may not be operated on any of the following
streets or sections of any street except for the sole purpose of crossing such
street at a right angle and either at a signalized intersection or at a
perpendicular crossing at a through intersection:
      (1)   Any street where the posted speed limit is more than 35 miles per
hour, or
      (2)   Broad Street, North of Queen St., or
      (3)   Queen Street (NCHwy 17 bus), or
      (4)   East Church Street (NCHwy 32), or
      (5)   Virginia Road.
   (C)   Motor vehicle laws.
      (1)   All laws, regulations, and ordinances, including, but not limited
to, traffic rules and regulations, regarding the use of motor vehicles in the
State of North Carolina and all ordinances regarding the use of motor vehicles
in the town, not inconsistent therewith shall be observed, except that no golf
cart may be operated at a speed in excess of 20 miles per hour or at a speed
greater than is reasonable and prudent for existing conditions.
      (2)   No golf cart containing any open container of alcohol shall be
operated on public street, road or highway within the town or on any property
owned or leased by the town.
   (D)   Travel and right-of-way. Golf carts must be operated at the right edge
of the public street, road or highway within the town and shall yield the
right-of-way to:
      (1)   All vehicular and bicycle traffic, including that of overtaking
vehicles or bicycles, and
      (2)   Pedestrians.
   (E)   Town property and sidewalks. Golf carts shall not be operated on any
sidewalk, pedestrian walkway, jogging path, greenway, park, and trail except
for official police business or by town personnel while on town business.
Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, golf carts shall not be
operated on property owned or leased by the town except with the express
written consent of the Town Administrator and/or the Police Chief and upon the
terms and conditions as may be set forth in such written permission.
   (F)   Golf cart seating and capacity.
      (1)   The manufacturer's seating capacity (normally no more than four
passengers) shall not be exceeded.
      (2)   No person may ride on any part of a golf cart not designed to carry
seated passengers, including, but not limited to, that part of the golf cart
designed to carry golf bags.
      (3)   Each person who is riding on or in a golf cart must be seated in a
seat that is designed to carry a person.
   (G)   No commercial purposes. Golf carts may not be used as a taxicab or bus
or for the commercial carrying of passengers or the hauling of freight.
   (H)   Parking. Golf carts may only be parked in the same manner and at the
same places designated for the parking of motor vehicles. The stopping,
standing or parking of golf carts in an area where parking is not allowed or in
any place that impedes the flow of traffic, pedestrian walkways or a passageway
is prohibited.
   (I)   No towing. Golf carts may not be used for the purpose of towing,
including, but not limited to, towing another golf cart or a trailer, vehicle,
person, skateboard or bicycle.
   (J)   No texting. The driver of a golf cart may not engage in texting unless
the golf cart is in a proper parking spot with its engine is turned off.
   (K)   Signals and protruding body parts. If mechanical turn signals are not
required, then hand turn signals are required in those situations where motor
vehicle drivers would be required to give turn signals. Except when making hand
turn signals, not body part may protrude from a golf cart unless that golf cart
is parked in a proper parking spot and its engine is turned off.
(Ord. passed 6-12-2012)
§ 70.55 DISCLAIMER AND LIABILITY.
   (A)   Disclaimer. Golf carts are not designed for nor manufactured to be
used on public streets, roads and highways and the town neither advocates nor
endorses the golf cart as a safe means of travel on public streets, roads and
highways within the town or on any property owned or leased by the town. The
town, by regulating such operation, is merely trying to address obvious safety
issues, and adoption of this subchapter is not to be relied upon as a
determination that operation on public streets, roads and highways within the
town and on property owned or leased by the town is safe or advisable if done
in accordance with this subchapter. The town in no way shall be liable for
accidents, injuries or death involving the operation of a golf cart.
   (B)   Assumption of risk. Any person, who owns, operates or rides upon a
golf cart on a public street, road or highway within the town or on any
property owned or leased by the town does so at his or her own risk and peril
and assumes all liability resulting from such ownership, operation, or use of
the golf cart.
(Ord. passed 6-12-2012)
§ 70.56 VIOLATION.
   If any person shall violate this subchapter, he shall be guilty of a Class 3
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $100 or such other amount as shall
be set forth in the schedule of fees and charges adopted by the Edenton Town
Council from time to time, except that the owner or operator of a golf cart who
shall violate a provision regulating the parking of vehicles shall be subject
to a civil penalty in the amount set forth in the schedule of fees and charges
adopted by the Edenton Town Council from time to time.
(Ord. passed 6-12-2012)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Quiet zones
   
71.02   Driving on sidewalks
   
71.03   Riding bicycle or motorcycle
   
71.04   Riding coasters, roller skates and the like
   
71.05   Persons riding to stay inside vehicle
   
71.06   Persons to ride only in passenger areas of public conveyances and the
like
   
71.07   Boarding or alighting from vehicles
   
71.08   Riding and the like on vehicle without permission
   
71.09   Spinning tires and the like
   
71.10   Obstructing intersections
   
71.11   Truck routes
   
71.12   Driving through funeral processions
   
71.13   Yield intersections
   
71.14   Stop intersections
   
71.15   One-way streets
   
71.16   Turns and turning
   
71.17   Moving vehicles from parked positions
   
71.18   Limitations on backing movements
   
71.19   Driving on roadways laned for traffic
   
71.20   Speed limits
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to erect stop signs, see G.S. § 20-157
   Authority of town to erect yield signs, see G.S. § 20-158.1
   Authority of town to establish one-way streets, see G.S. § 20-169
   Driving on sidewalks, see G.S. § 20-160
   Driving overcrowded vehicle, see G.S. § 20-140.2
   One-way traffic, see G.S. § 20-165.1
   Operation of motorcycles, see G.S. § 20-146.1
   Overcrowded vehicles, see G.S. § 20-140.2
   Right-of-way generally, see G.S. §§ 20-155, 20-156
   Speed restrictions, see G.S. §§ 20-141, 20-144, 20-145
   Turning at intersections generally, see G.S. § 20-153
§ 71.01 QUIET ZONES.
   Whenever authorized signs are placed, erected or installed indicating a zone
of quiet, no person operating a motor vehicle within any zone shall sound the
horn or other warning device of the vehicle, except in an emergency.
(Prior Code, § 15-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.02 DRIVING ON SIDEWALKS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not drive within any sidewalk area, except
upon a permanent or temporary driveway.
(Prior Code, § 15-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.03 RIDING BICYCLE OR MOTORCYCLE.
   (A)   Passenger on handlebars, tank and the like. No operator of a
motorcycle or bicycle, when upon a street, shall carry any person upon the
handlebar, frame or tank of any vehicle, nor shall any person so ride upon any
vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 15-13)
   (B)   On sidewalk; without hands on handlebars. No person shall ride a
bicycle or motorcycle on any street without having his or her hands upon the
handlebars, nor shall any person ride a bicycle upon any sidewalk or walkway
within the town.
(Prior Code, § 15-14)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.04 RIDING COASTERS, ROLLER SKATES AND THE LIKE.
   No person upon roller skates or riding in or by means of any coaster, toy
vehicle or similar device shall go upon any roadway unless to cross a street at
a crosswalk or intersection, except upon streets set aside as play streets.
(Prior Code, § 15-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.05 PERSONS RIDING TO STAY INSIDE VEHICLE.
   No person when riding shall allow any part of his or her body to protrude
beyond the limits of the vehicle in which he or she is riding, except to give
signals as are by law required.
(Prior Code, § 15-16) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.06 PERSONS TO RIDE ONLY IN PASSENGER AREAS OF PUBLIC CONVEYANCES AND THE
LIKE.
   No person shall ride on any public conveyance or vehicle or any portion
thereof, not designed or intended for the use of passengers. This provision
shall not apply to an employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty or
to persons riding within truck bodies in spaces intended for merchandise.
(Prior Code, § 15-17) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.07 BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM VEHICLES.
   No person shall board or alight from any vehicle while the vehicle is in
motion.
(Prior Code, § 15-18) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.08 RIDING AND THE LIKE ON VEHICLE WITHOUT PERMISSION.
   No person shall enter, jump on or ride any automobile or other vehicle
without the consent of the owner or driver.
(Prior Code, § 15-19) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.09 SPINNING TIRES AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful to operate a motor vehicle in the town limits in a
manner as to cause the wheels thereof to lose traction with the surface on
which they are driven so as to cause the tires to squeal.
(Prior Code, § 15-20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.10 OBSTRUCTING INTERSECTIONS.
   No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle he or she is operating without obstructing the passage
of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic-control signal
indication to proceed.
(Prior Code, § 15-21) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.11 TRUCK ROUTES.
   (A)   All trucks and trailers are prohibited from the parts of streets
designated on the official traffic maps of the town as being closed to trucks;
except that, trucks and trailers may travel on the parts of streets to reach or
to return from a destination upon the streets.
   (B)   All trucks and trailers entering the town, destined to any point
outside the town and not taking on or discharging any goods, wares or
merchandise within the town limits, shall travel exclusively on the truck
routes designated on the official traffic maps of the town and over the part of
the truck routes as shall constitute the shortest and most direct route from
the point of entrance into the town and departure from the town.
   (C)   The Chief of Police shall cause to be erected and maintained at points
where through truck routes enter the town and at all junction points and turns
where necessary and at all approaches to the parts of streets on which trucks
are prohibited, signs of the dimensions and at the locations as shall be
approved by him or her, directing truck traffic in accordance with the
provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 15-22) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.12 DRIVING THROUGH FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   No vehicle shall be driven through a funeral procession, except authorized
emergency vehicles when responding to calls.
(Prior Code, § 15-23) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.13 YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   When signs have been erected at those intersections designated as yield
right-of-way intersections on the official traffic maps of the town as adopted
by the Town Council, the driver of any vehicle shall approach the intersection
with caution and shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle approaching on the
intersected street.
(Prior Code, § 15-24) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.14 STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   When signs have been erected at those intersections designated as stop
intersections on the official traffic maps of the town, no person shall drive a
vehicle into an intersection unless he or she shall have come to a complete
stop and has determined that the movement will not conflict with traffic.
(Prior Code, § 15-25) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.15 ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   When signs have been erected giving notice that certain streets or
portions of streets are limited to traffic in a certain direction as designated
on the official traffic maps of the town, no person shall operate a vehicle on
the streets or portions of streets, except in the direction indicated by the
signs.
   (B)   One-way streets shall be designated on the official traffic maps of
the town as adopted by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 15-26) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.16 TURNS AND TURNING.
   (A)   Left turn indicators at certain intersections. In making left turns at
the street intersections designated on the official traffic maps of the town,
all traffic shall travel to the left of the center of the intersections as may
be indicated by buttons, markers or other directing signs.
(Prior Code, § 15-27)
   (B)   No left turn intersections. When signs have been erected, no vehicle
shall make a left turn at any street intersection designated as a no left turn
intersection on the official traffic maps of the town.
(Prior Code, § 15-28)
   (C)   No right turn intersections. When signs have been erected, no vehicle
shall make a right turn at any street intersection designated as a no right
turn intersection on the official traffic maps of the town.
(Prior Code, § 15-29)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.17 MOVING VEHICLES FROM PARKED POSITIONS.
   (A)   Cars parked shall move out in the direction headed or, if they are
parked at an angle with the curb, they shall back out on that angle until they
have cleared the other cars and shall then proceed in the direction they are
most nearly headed in.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any driver of a motor vehicle to proceed from
a parked position into the path of approaching traffic without seeing the
movement can be made in safety.
(Prior Code, § 15-30) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.18 LIMITATIONS ON BACKING MOVEMENTS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same into any intersection or
over a crosswalk and shall not, in any event or at any place, back a vehicle
unless the movement can be made in safety, in which case he or she shall give
ample warning to those who may be behind, by hand and horn or other signal.
(Prior Code, § 15-31) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.19 DRIVING ON ROADWAYS LANED FOR TRAFFIC.
   All vehicles operated on any roadway which has been marked with lanes for
traffic shall be driven as nearly as practical entirely within a single lane
and shall not be moved from the lane until the driver has first ascertained
that the movement can be made with safety.
(Prior Code, § 15-32) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.20 SPEED LIMITS.
   When signs have been erected, no person shall drive a vehicle in excess of
the speed established for the street or portion of street as shown on the
official traffic maps of the town.
(Prior Code, § 15-33) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 72: PARKING RULES
Section
   
72.01   Prohibited in certain places
   
72.02   Prohibited for certain purposes
   
72.03   Stopping in the street
   
72.04   Obstructing traffic
   
72.05   Stopping with left side to curb
   
72.06   Moving vehicles of other operators
   
72.07   Parking on certain streets
   
72.08   Parking parallel to curb
   
72.09   Parking within lines
   
72.10   Trailers; semi-trailers
   
72.11   Bus, taxi stands and the like
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to regulate parking, see G.S. § 160A-301
   Parking near fire, see G.S. § 20-157
   Parking near fire hydrant, fire station or private driveway, see G.S. § 20-
162
   Stopping on highway, see G.S. § 20-161
§ 72.01 PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN PLACES.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police
officer or traffic-control device in any of the following places:
   (A)   On a sidewalk;
   (B)   In that area in between the firm established curb line and the
sidewalk where the town has established trees and grass in the right of way.
For the purposes of this division (B), the term FIRM ESTABLISHED CURB LINE
shall be defined as that feature of the roadway and street system of the town
made of concrete, cement or similar material which separates the road or street
from the grass, dirt or sidewalk and which rises above the street. This
definition shall include both 90-degree (square) type curbs and roll top type
curbs so long as the curbs rise above the street level. It is the intent of
this division (B) not to prohibit parking between the street and sidewalk in
those areas where the town has not established a firm established curb line as
defined hereinabove;
   (C)   Crosswalk;
   (D)   Within 30 feet of any flashing beacon, stop sign or traffic-control
signal located at the side of a street or roadway;
   (E)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction, when the
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
   (F)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure or within any underpass
structure;
   (G)   Within 15 feet in either direction or the entrance to a hotel,
theater, hospital, sanatorium or fire hydrant; provided that, emergency
vehicles may park, stop or stand a distance of not less than eight feet from a
fire hydrant;
   (H)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped;
   (I)   On either side of any street approaching a railroad underpass or
overhead bridge within 50 feet in any direction of the outer edge of the
underpass or overhead bridge;
   (J)   On either side of any street approaching a grade crossing within 50
feet of the closest rail; provided that, where existing permanent structures
are located along the street and closer that 50 feet, parking may be permitted
in front of the structures, unless otherwise prohibited, if the parking does
not interfere with the view in either direction of any approaching locomotive
or train;
   (K)   Within an intersection;
   (L)   So as to obstruct a driveway.
   (M)   Between the curb or edge of the pavement of a street and the front
building line of a single family detached, duplex triplex, or quadruplex
dwelling unit projected to the side lot other than completely upon an improved
driveway or improved parking pad. For purposes of this subsection, “improved”
means surfaced with concrete, asphalt, gravel, or any other material commonly
used for the parking of vehicles, but not including grass or dirt.
      (1)   Except as further provided, parking areas for single family
dwellings shall not cover more than 30% of any front yard area.
      (2)   Parking areas for two-family attached development or conversion
shall not cover more than 40% of any front yard area.
      (3)   Parking, storage and/or maneuvering of vehicles, boats, trailers,
campers and the like shall not be permitted within any front and/or side yard
area except as provided by this section.
   The prohibitions of this section shall not apply:
      (1)   On lots where parking is not permitted on adjacent streets
surrounding the property and the front building line of the dwelling unit is
less than 20 feet from the back of the curb line or edge of pavement, or the
lot width at the front building line is less than 25 feet; or
      (2)   In conjunction with special events involving family or social
gatherings provided such events do not occur more frequently than once a week.
   Violations and penalties: Any person violating or permitting the violation
of any provision of this section shall be subject to all enforcement remedies
as provided by G.S. § 160A-175 and G.S.§ 14-4. See §
10.99 of this Code for further detail.
(Prior Code, § 15-34) (Ord. passed 10-6-1998; Am. Ord. passed 8-10-2004)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.02 PROHIBITED FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle upon any street for the principal
purposes of:
   (A)   Displaying it for sale;
   (B)   Washing, greasing or repairing the vehicle, except repairs
necessitated by an emergency;
   (C)   Storage thereof by garages, dealers or other persons when the storage
is not incident to the bona fide use and operation of the automobile or other
vehicle;
   (D)   Storage of any detached trailer or van, when the towing unit has been
disconnected, or for the purpose of transferring merchandise or freight from
one vehicle to another;
   (E)   Advertising; and
   (F)   Selling or offering for sale any merchandise, fruits, fish, vegetables
or other goods; provided that, any person wishing to sell fruit, fish,
vegetables or other merchandise from cars or other vehicles may park on town
property set aside by the Town Council for this purpose only.
(Prior Code, § 15-35) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.03 STOPPING IN THE STREET.
   (A)   No vehicle shall stop in any street except for the purpose of parking
as prescribed in this chapter, unless the stop is made necessary by the
approach of fire apparatus, by the approach of a funeral or other procession
which has the right-of-way, by the stopping of a public conveyance, by the
lowering of railway gates, by the giving of traffic signals, by the passing of
some other vehicle or a pedestrian or by some emergency. In any case covered by
these exceptions, the vehicles shall stop so as not to obstruct any driveway,
footway, pedestrian aisle, safety zone, crossing or street intersection.
   (B)   Double parking will be allowed in areas marked on the official traffic
maps upon the following conditions.
      (1)   Delivery trucks may be double parked for a specified period of time
only under the following conditions:
         (a)   When there is not sufficient space to park at the curbing;
         (b)   When it is necessary for loading or unloading goods, wares or
merchandise; and
         (c)   When there is at least one lane of traffic open upon the street
where such delivery truck is parked.
      (2)   Passenger automobiles may double park only for the purpose of
allowing passengers to alight from or enter the automobiles; provided that:
         (a)   No continuous double parking shall exceed 60 seconds;
         (b)   During the double parking, there shall be at all times a
licensed driver in the driver’s seat; and
         (c)   The motor of the vehicle shall be in operation.
(Prior Code, § 15-36) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.04 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   No vehicle shall so stand on any street as to interrupt or interfere with
the passage of public conveyances or other vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 15-37) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.05 STOPPING WITH LEFT SIDE TO CURB.
   No vehicle shall stop with its left side to the curb in the business
district; except that, on one-way streets, vehicles shall stop headed in the
direction of traffic.
(Prior Code, § 15-38) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.06 MOVING VEHICLES OF OTHER OPERATORS.
   No person shall move a vehicle not owned by the person into any prohibited
area or sufficiently away from the curb to make the distance unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 15-39) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.07 PARKING ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   (A)   When signs have been erected giving notice that certain streets or
portions of streets as designated on the official traffic maps of the town are
subject to certain restrictions or limitations on the parking of vehicles, no
person shall park any vehicle on the streets or portions of streets, except in
conformity with the directions of the signs.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police, whenever authorized
and directed by an order of the Town Council, to erect and place, or cause to
be erected or placed, signs indicating that parking in the zones is limited or
limited as provided for in the order of the Town Council.
      (2)   The existence of signs designating that parking is limited to two
hours at any place within the town shall be prima facie evidence that the
parking regulator signs were erected or placed by authority of the Town Council
and in accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (C)   Proof that any automobile has been parked in violation of this section
and proof of the ownership of the vehicle shall be prima facie evidence that
the owner of the vehicle did, in fact, park the vehicle in violation of the
provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 15-40) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.08 PARKING PARALLEL TO CURB.
   Where not otherwise indicated by this chapter and where the street is not
marked to show how vehicles shall park, all vehicles shall park parallel to the
curb and not more than six inches therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 15-41) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.09 PARKING WITHIN LINES.
   On any street which is marked off with lines indicating the parking spaces
for vehicles, the vehicles shall be parked between the lines.
(Prior Code, § 15-42) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.10 TRAILERS; SEMI-TRAILERS.
   No trailer or semi-trailer, attached or unattached to a prime mover shall be
parked on any street in the town unless permission has been granted by the
Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 15-44) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.11 BUS, TAXI STANDS AND THE LIKE.
   Those streets or parts of streets designated on the official traffic maps of
the town shall be reserved as stands for the specific purpose and at the exact
location named therein and no automobile or other vehicle shall park therein
except those for which the space or stand has been designated.
(Prior Code, § 15-45) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 73: BICYCLES
Section
   
73.01   Registration
   
73.02   Operation
   
73.03   Impoundment
Statutory reference:
   Applicability of traffic laws to bicyclists, see G.S. § 20-4.01(49)
§ 73.01 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Required. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or use a
bicycle upon the streets or other public places of the town without first
obtaining a certificate of registration from the Chief of Police of the town
and attaching a license as shall be provided by the Chief of Police.
   (B)   Issuance. The Chief of Police shall provide registration plates or
decals to be numbered in numerical order and it shall be the duty of the Chief
of Police to attach one of the plates or decals to the frame of each bicycle
and to issue a corresponding registration card to the owner of same upon
payment of the fee herein required.
   (C)   Attaching to bicycle. The owner shall keep the license plate or decal
attached to the bicycle to which it was issued whenever same shall be operated
within the town.
   (D)   Registry. The Chief of Police shall maintain a permanent registry in
which shall be entered the name, address and other pertinent information
concerning each registered bicycle. The information shall include such as may
be necessary for the identity of each bicycle.
   (E)   Sale or transfer. It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or
transfer ownership of the bicycle without reporting the sale or transfer to the
Chief of Police within 48 hours from the time of the transfer, giving full and
complete information with reference to the transferee, and the purchaser or
transferee shall apply for a registration of the bicycle within five days from
the time the bicycle is acquired by him or her.
   (F)   Stamping of frame; mutilation of stamp and the like. It shall be
unlawful for any person to willfully destroy, mutilate or alter the serial
number or the number which was stamped into the frame of the bicycle, or
registration card of any bicycle registered pursuant to this section so long as
the registration shall be applicable. The Chief of Police is authorized to
place a number on the frame of each bicycle at a place chosen by him or her by
indenting same into the metal of the bicycle for identification purposes.
   (G)   Fee. The registration fee for each registration shall be an amount as
set by the Town Council per year and same shall cover all charges in connection
with each registration.
(Prior Code, § 6-1) (Ord. passed 1-14-1975) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.02 OPERATION.
   (A)   Lights required for night operation. It shall be unlawful for any
person to operate a bicycle on any street or public place in the town after
dark unless the bicycle shall be equipped with a light attached to the front
and a reflector attached to the rear of same so as to be clearly visible.
   (B)   Use of sidewalks in business area. It shall be unlawful for any person
to operate a bicycle upon any sidewalk in the business area of the town.
   (C)   Clinging to vehicles. It shall be unlawful for any person riding a
bicycle to hold onto a moving automobile or other motor vehicle.
   (D)   Obedience to traffic rules; control generally. Any person operating a
bicycle shall be required to observe traffic regulations or traffic-control
signals in the same manner as required of operators of motor vehicles and shall
be required to maintain the bicycle under complete control at all times.
   (E)   Helmet required for persons under 16. It shall be unlawful for any
parent or legal guardian of a person below the age of 16 to knowingly permit
that person to operate or be a passenger on a bicycle unless at all times when
the person is so engaged he or she wears a protective bicycle helmet of good
fit fastened securely upon the head with the straps of the helmet.
(Prior Code, § 6-2) (Ord. passed 1-14-1975; Ord. passed 12-11-2012) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 73.03 IMPOUNDMENT.
   Any bicycle operated by the owner, or any other person who shall have lawful
custody of a bicycle, in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter,
may be impounded for a period not exceeding 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 6-3) (Ord. passed 1-14-1975)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
90.   ANIMALS
         
91.   PARADES AND PICKETING
         
92.   FIRE PROTECTION
         
93.   CEMETERIES
         
94.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
         
95.   TOWN DOCKS
         
96.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
         
97.   TREES
         
98.   PARKS
         
99.   FOOD TRUCKS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Bird sanctuary
   
90.02   Killing squirrels
   
90.03   Keeping pigeons
   
90.04   [Reserved]
   
90.05   Chickens, ducks or other fowl running at large
   
90.06   Animal or fowl fights
Livestock
   
90.20   Permits for keeping certain types
   
90.21   Hogs
   
90.22   Running at large
Dogs
   
90.35   Definitions
   
90.36   License
   
90.37   Vaccination
   
90.38   Responsibility of owners
   
90.39   Impounding
   
90.40   Suspected rabies
   
90.41   Rabies emergencies
   
90.42   Running at large
   
90.43   Vicious dogs
   
90.44   Barking dogs
   
90.45   Teasing and the like
   
90.46   Running over with vehicle and the like
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to define and prohibit abuse of animals, see G.S. § 160A-
182
   Authority of town to establish or contribute to animal shelters, see G.S. §
160A-493
   Authority of town to regulate domestic animals, see G.S. § 160A-186
   Cruelty to animals generally, see G.S. §§ 14-360 through 14-363 and 14-366
to 14-368
   Dogs generally, see G.S. §§ 67-1 et seq.
   Possession and harboring of wild animals, see G.S. § 160A-187
   Protection of animals generally, see G.S. §§ 19A-1 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 BIRD SANCTUARY.
   (A)   The area embraced within the corporate limits of the town and all
lands owned or leased by the town outside the corporate limits is hereby
designated as a bird sanctuary.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to trap, hunt, shoot or otherwise kill, within
the sanctuary established by this section, any native wild bird; provided that,
it shall be lawful to trap starlings or similar birds or fowl when the birds or
fowl are found to be congregating in a number in a particular locality that
they constitute a nuisance or a menace to health or property.
   (C)   The bird clubs of the town are hereby granted permission to erect the
signs, giving notice of this section, at the places and of the design as may be
approved by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 4-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to establish bird sanctuary, see G.S. § 160A-188
§ 90.02 KILLING SQUIRRELS.
   This issue is now under the jurisdiction of the North Carolina Wildlife
Resources Commission.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Wildlife Resources Commission issuance of depredation permits, see G.S. §
113-274(c)(1a)
§ 90.03 KEEPING PIGEONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep pigeons within the town, if not
confined.
(Prior Code, § 4-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.04 [RESERVED.]
§ 90.05 CHICKENS, DUCKS OR OTHER FOWL RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful to allow chickens, ducks or other fowl to run at large.
(Prior Code, § 4-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.06 ANIMAL OR FOWL FIGHTS.
   No person shall attend, encourage or stage any animal or fowl fight.
(Prior Code, § 4-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
LIVESTOCK
§ 90.20 PERMITS FOR KEEPING CERTAIN TYPES.
   (A)   Required. No person shall stable, tie or otherwise keep any cattle,
horses, mules, sheep or goats within the town nearer than 500 feet to any
dwelling, house, apartment or other residence occupied by any person, without
first obtaining therefor a permit in writing issued pursuant to the provisions
of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-7)
   (B)   Application generally.
      (1)   Any person desiring a permit required by division (A) above shall
apply therefor in writing over his or her signature to the Town Manager.
      (2)   The application shall state the type and number of animals to be
stabled, pastured, tied or otherwise kept; the name of one adult occupant, if
any, of the dwelling house, apartment or residence within 500 feet of the place
or places; and the distance of each dwelling house, apartment or other
residence from the place.
(Prior Code, § 4-8)
   (C)   Fee. Each applicant for a permit required by division (A) above shall
pay to the Tax Collector a fee as set by the Town Council for each separate
application, which fee shall be paid by the Tax Collector into the town’s
General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 4-9)
   (D)   Approval. Upon determination that a proper application has been filed
and that the fee provided for in division (C) above has been paid and upon
finding that the stabling, pasturing, tying or otherwise keeping of the animals
mentioned in the application in the place or places mentioned therein will not
endanger the health of any person occupying a dwelling, house, apartment or
residence within 500 feet of the place or any other citizen or inhabitant of
the town, a permit shall be issued specifying the number and type of animals to
be stabled, pastured, tied or otherwise kept; provided that, there may be
accepted as proof that the stabling, pasturing, tying or otherwise keeping of
the animals in the places will not endanger the health of any person
hereinabove mentioned, the written assent to the issuance of the permit signed
by one adult occupant of each dwelling, apartment or other residence then
occupied by human beings and within 500 feet of the place or places where the
animals are to be stabled, pastured, tied or otherwise kept.
(Prior Code, § 4-10)
   (E)   Term. Each permit required by division (A) above issued shall be and
remain valid until the first day of January next following the issuance of the
permit or until revoked as provided in division (F) below. At any time within
30 days before the expiration of any permit, the holder thereof may apply for
its renewal, which renewal shall be issued upon the same conditions as the
issuance of the original permit and which renewal shall be valid for one year
from the expiration of the former permit.
(Prior Code, § 4-11)
   (F)   Revocation. Any permit issued in accordance with the provisions of
this subchapter shall be revoked by him or her upon his or her finding that the
stabling, pasturing, tying or otherwise keeping of any animals described
therein at the place or places described therein endangers the health or safety
of the inhabitants of the town. The revocation shall be effective ten days
after the mailing by registered mail of a notice thereof to the last known
address of the holder of the permit.
(Prior Code, § 4-12)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.21 HOGS.
   (A)   Except as provided in the Zoning Ordinance of the town, it shall be
unlawful for any person to keep any live hogs or to maintain a hog pen within
the corporate limits of the town.
   (B)   No person shall allow a hog or pig to stray upon the public streets or
sidewalks or other property belonging to the town or upon the property
belonging to any person within the town.
(Prior Code, § 4-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.22 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   No person shall stable, pasture, tie or otherwise keep any animal of any
type enumerated in §
90.20(A) upon the property of any other person or permit any animal to stray
upon the property within the town of any other person, without first obtaining
the permission of the other person. No person shall pasture, tie or otherwise
keep any animal upon the public streets or sidewalks of the town or upon any
other property belonging to the town or permit any animal to stray upon the
public streets or sidewalks or other property of the town.
(Prior Code, § 4-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
DOGS
§ 90.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner and not under the control of the
owner or a member of his or her immediate family or other responsible person,
either by leash, cord or chain, or confined within a motor vehicle owned or
being operated by the owner or a member of his or her immediate family.
   DOG. Both male and female dogs.
   OWNER. Any person owning, keeping or harboring a dog. The head of the
household shall be deemed to be the OWNER in respect to any dog or dogs owned,
kept or harbored by any person residing in the household and kept on the
premises.
   POUND. The place provided and operated by the town for the restraint, care
and disposition of animals.
(Prior Code, § 4-15) (Ord. passed 7-1-1972)
§ 90.36 LICENSE.
   (A)   Required; application; fee. All dogs kept, harbored or maintained by
their owners in the town shall be licensed and registered if over six months of
age. Dog licenses shall be issued by the Town Manager upon payment of a license
tax of an amount as set by the Town Council. The owner shall state, at the time
application is made for the license and upon printed forms provided for the
purpose, his or her name and address and the name, breed, color and sex of each
dog owned or kept by him or her. The provisions of this section shall not be
intended to apply to dogs whose owners are nonresidents temporarily within the
town, nor to dogs brought into the town for the purpose of participating in any
dog show, nor to “seeing-eye” dogs properly trained to assist blind persons
when the dogs are actually being used by blind persons for the purpose of
aiding them in going from place to place. The license tax imposed by this
section shall be an annual charge and shall be payable on or before January 1
of each year. The license tax on any dog over six months of age brought into
the town to be kept in the town or on any dog which becomes six months of age
after January 1 of any year shall become immediately due and payable to the
town. All licenses must be purchased by February 15 or the owner will be
subject to prosecution.
(Prior Code, § 4-16)
   (B)   Certificate; tags. Upon payment of the license fee, the Town Manager
shall issue to the owner a license certificate and a metallic tag for each dog
so licensed. The shape of the tag shall be changed every year and shall have
stamped thereon the year for which it was issued and the number corresponding
with the number on the certificate. Every owner shall be required to provide
each dog with a collar to which the license tax must be affixed and shall see
that the collar and tag are constantly worn. In case a dog tag is lost or
destroyed, a duplicate will be issued by the Town Manager upon the payment of a
fee as set by the Town Council and the presentation of a receipt showing the
payment of the license fee for the current year. Dog tags shall not be
transferable from one dog to another and no refunds shall be made on any dog
license fee because of death of the dog or the owner’s leaving the town before
expiration of the license period.
(Prior Code, § 4-17)
(Ord. passed 7-1-1972; Ord. passed 12-9-1980) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to levy an annual animal license tax, see G.S. § 160A-212
§ 90.37 VACCINATION.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog to keep or maintain it unless
it shall have been vaccinated by a licensed veterinary surgeon with anti-rabies
vaccine as required by G.S. § 106-385. Proof of the inoculation shall be
attached to the dog.
(Prior Code, § 4-18) (Ord. passed 7-1-1972) Penalty, see §
10.99
Editor’s Note:
   G.S. § 106-385 has been repealed
§ 90.38 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNERS.
   Owners are responsible for the acts of their dogs. The owner of any dog who
commits a nuisance upon the property of another person or who damages another
person’s property or person shall be fully responsible and accountable for
those acts. The owners of dogs shall provide humane and sanitary shelter from
heat, cold, rain, wind and snow and shall provide food and water adequate to
keep the animals in good health and comfort. All dogs shall be given
opportunity for vigorous daily exercises and shall be provided by their owners
with veterinary care when needed to prevent suffering. No person shall poison
or maim a dog nor may a dog be abandoned. Unwanted animals may be given to the
Chowan County Animal Control Officer to be sold by the county or destroyed in a
humane manner.
(Prior Code, § 4-19) (Ord. passed 7-1-1972)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to define and prohibit abuse of animals, see G.S. § 160A-
182
   Cruelty to animals generally, see G.S. §§ 14-360 through 14-363 and 14-366
to 14-368
   Protection of animals generally, see G.S. §§ 19A-1 et seq.
§ 90.39 IMPOUNDING.
   No dog of fierce, dangerous or vicious propensities and no female dog in
heat, whether licensed or not, shall be allowed to run at large or upon the
premises of one other than the owner. If any dog is found running at large in
violation of this section, it shall be taken up and impounded and shall not be
released, except upon approval of the poundmaster of the pound after payment of
the fees; provided that, if any dangerous, fierce or vicious dog so found at
large cannot be safely taken up and impounded, the dog may be slain by any
police officer or Animal Control Officer.
(Prior Code, § 4-24)
(Ord. passed 7-1-1972; Ord. passed 12-9-1980) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.40 SUSPECTED RABIES.
   (A)   If a dog is believed to have rabies or has been bitten by a dog
suspected of having rabies, the dog shall be confined in the pound and shall be
placed under the observation of a veterinarian at the expense of the owner for
a period of ten days. The owner shall notify the Chowan Animal Control Officer
of the fact that his or her dog has been exposed to rabies.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person knowing or suspecting a dog has
rabies to allow the dog to be taken off his or her premises or beyond the
limits of the town without the written permission of the poundmaster. Every
owner or other person, upon ascertaining a dog is rabid, shall immediately
notify the Chowan Animal Control Officer or a police officer who shall remove
the dog to the pound.
(Prior Code, § 4-25) (Ord. passed 7-1-1972) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.41 RABIES EMERGENCIES.
   Whenever it becomes necessary to safeguard the public from the dangers of
hydrophobia, the Mayor, if he or she deems it necessary, shall issue a
proclamation ordering every person owning or keeping a dog to confine it
securely on his or her premises unless the dog shall have a muzzle of
sufficient strength to prevent its biting any person. Any unmuzzled dog running
at large during the time of the proclamation shall be seized and impounded,
unless noticeably infected with rabies. All dogs noticeably infected with
rabies and displaying vicious propensities shall be killed by the Dog Warden
without notice to the owner. Dogs impounded during the first two days of the
proclamation shall, if claimed within five days, be released to the owner,
unless infected with rabies, upon payment of the impounding charges. If
unclaimed after that period, the dog may be summarily destroyed.
(Prior Code, § 4-26) (Ord. passed 7-1-1972)
§ 90.42 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   Any dog shall be confined within an enclosed secure area and shall not be
allowed outside the enclosed secure area unless securely leashed with a leash
no longer than four feet in length. No person shall permit any dog to be kept
on a chain, rope or other type of leash outside the enclosed secure area unless
the person is in direct physical control of the leash. No dogs shall be leashed
to any inanimate object such as a tree, post, stake, building, vehicle and the
like.
(Prior Code, § 4-27) (Ord. passed 7-1-1972; Ord. passed 9-14-2004) Penalty, see
§
10.99
§ 90.43 VICIOUS DOGS.
   (A)   Prohibited. No person residing within the corporate limits of the town
for a period of seven or more days shall keep, harbor, own or in any way
possess any of the following dogs:
         (1)   Any unregistered potentially vicious dog. For the purposes of
this section, a POTENTIALLY VICIOUS DOG is defined to mean:
            (a)   The bull terrier breed of dog;
            (b)   The Staffordshire bull terrier breed of dog;
            (c)   The American pit bull terrier breed of dog;
            (d)   The American Staffordshire terrier breed of dog;
            (e)   The Rottweiler breed of dog;
            (f)   The Chow Chow breed of dog;
            (g)   Any dog breed or mixed breed known by a commonly accepted
derivative name of the above listed breeds, including without limitation, pit
bulls, pit bull dogs, and pit bull terriers.
            (h)   Any dog that has the appearance or physical characteristics
of being predominantly one of breeds of dogs listed above; or any combination
thereof.
            (i)   Any owner, keeper, harborer or possessor of a dog, who is
unsure whether it meets the definition of a potentially vicious dog as defined
herein, shall follow provisions set forth in division (B)(10) to the determine
of whether the dog must be registered.
      (2)   Any dog with a known propensity, tendency or disposition to
initiate attack, to cause injury to, or to otherwise endanger the safety of,
humans or other domestic animals; or
      (3)   Any dog that bites (to the extent of severely bruising or
puncturing the skin), attacks, assaults, inflicts injury or otherwise harms, a
human being or a domestic animal without provocation. PROVOCATION shall be
defined to include: a person or domestic animal who, at the time of injury or
damage, was committing a trespass or other tort upon the premises occupied by
the owner, keeper, harborer or possessor of the dog; or a person was teasing,
tormenting, abusing or assaulting the dog. PROVOCATION does not include a dog
protecting or defending the premises occupied by the owner, keeper, harborer or
possessor of the dog; or a dog protecting or defending a person within the
immediate vicinity of the dog from an attack or assault.
   (B)   Keeping of registered potentially vicious dogs. Notwithstanding the
provisions of division (A), no resident of the town shall be prohibited from
keeping, harboring, owning or possessing a potentially vicious dog that has
been registered with the town, subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   Leash.
         (a)   No owner, keeper, harborer or possessor of a registered
potentially vicious dog shall fail to confine such dog in a manner required by
division (B)(2), unless such dog is secured by a leash not more than four feet
in length.
         (b)   No person shall permit a potentially vicious dog to be kept on a
chain, rope or other type of leash outside its kennel or pen unless the person
is in physical control of the leash and the dog is adequately restrained.
         (c)   Any person in control of a leashed and registered potentially
vicious dog must be physically able to control/restrain the dog.
         (d)   No registered potentially vicious dog may be leashed to a
stationary object, including without limitation, any tree, post or building.
      (2)   Confinement. 
         (a)   General requirement. All registered potentially vicious dogs
shall be confined indoors and within the residence or house, or in a securely
enclosed and locked pen or kennel, except as leashed in conformance with the
requirements of division (B)(1).
         (b)   Pen, kennel or structure.
            1.   Any pen, kennel or structure in compliance with this division
shall consist of four secure sides with a height of at least six feet, or if
shorter have an enclosed top.
            2.   All structures used to confine registered potentially vicious
dogs shall be locked with a key or combination lock during any time such
animals are confined within the pen or kennel.
            3.   Such pen or kennel shall have a secure bottom or floor
attached to the sides of the pen or kennel, or in the alternative, each side of
the pen must be embedded in the ground to a depth of no less than two feet.
            4.   All pens or kennels shall adequately contain the dog and
prevent escape.
            5.   All pens or kennels erected to house potentially vicious dogs
shall comply with all zoning and buildings regulations of the town.
            6.   All pens or kennels shall be adequately lighted, ventilated
and kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
         (c)   Confinement indoors.
            1.   A registered potentially vicious dog may be kept indoors, but
may not be kept in a house or structure in which open windows or screen doors
may provide the dog exit from the structure by the dog's own volition.
            2.   No registered potentially vicious dog may be kept in/on any
structure attached to the house, such as a porch or patio, that allows a dog,
by its own volition, an exit, and such structure must be secured by a locked
gate or door suitable to prevent the dog from escaping.
      (3)   Signs.
         (a)   All owners, keepers, harborers or possessors of a registered
potentially vicious dog within the town shall display in a prominent place on
their premises, where anyone seeking to enter the property will see it, a sign
easily readable by the public, displaying the words “Beware of Dog”.
         (b)   The sign shall also be posted on the pen or kennel of such
animal.
      (4)   Identification photographs.
         (a)   All owners, keepers, harborers or possessors of registered
potentially vicious dogs must, upon registration, provide to the Chief of
Police with two color photographs of the registered animal, clearly
demonstrating the animal's color and approximate size.
         (b)   The owner, keeper, harborer or possessor of any potentially
vicious dog shall also provide satisfactory evidence to the Chief of Police
that the dog has been implanted with a microchip identification marking.
      (5)   Reporting requirements. All owners, keepers, harborers or
possessors of registered potentially vicious dogs must report the following
information, in writing, to the Chief of Police within ten days of its
occurrence:
         (a)   The death or removal from the town of a registered potentially
vicious dog;
         (b)   The birth or offspring of a registered potentially vicious dog;
         (c)   The change of address of a registered potentially vicious dog
moved to any location within the town corporate limits;
         (d)   Any attack involving a registered potentially vicious dog upon a
human, which inflicts injury, including but not limited to, bruising, scratches
and bites;
         (e)   Any attack involving the registered potentially vicious dog upon
a domestic animal or pet.
      (6)   Sale or transfer of ownership prohibited. No person shall sell,
barter or in any other way convey a registered potentially vicious dog to any
person within the town, unless the recipient resides permanently in the same
household and on the same premises as the registered owner of the dog; provided
that the registered owner of a potentially vicious dog may sell, barter or
otherwise convey a registered potentially vicious dog, or the offspring of a
registered potentially vicious dog, to persons not residing within the town.
      (7)   Animals born of registered dogs. There shall be an irrebuttable
presumption that any offspring born of a registered potentially vicious dog is,
in fact, a potentially vicious dog that must be registered and kept in
accordance with this section.
      (8)   Spay or neuter requirement.
         (a)   Any registered potentially vicious dog shall be spayed or
neutered at the appropriate age as determined by a licensed veterinarian.
         (b)   The owner, keeper, harborer or possessor shall provide
satisfactory evidence to the Chief of Police that any registered potentially
vicious dog has been spayed or neutered.
         (c)   The Chief of Police or Chowan County Animal control may
authorize the non-spaying or non-neutering of a registered potentially vicious
dog for the purpose of breeding for the American Kennel Club, if such breeding
takes place outside the town.
      (9)   Irrebuttable presumption.
         (a)   There shall be an irrebuttable presumption that any dog
registered with the town as a potentially vicious dog, or capable of
designation as a potentially vicious dog pursuant to division (A), is in fact a
dog subject to the requirements of this section.
         (b)   Any registered potentially vicious dog that has been certified
as a “seeing eye dog” or other human-handicapped-assistance dog, shall be
exempt from the standards of this section, as long as such dog is being used
for the certified assistance purposes.
      (10)   Application of section.
         (a)   If an owner, keeper, harborer or possessor of a dog is unsure if
their dog meets the definition of a potentially vicious dog under division (A),
they may make a formal request in writing to the Chief of Police for a
determination on the classification of their dog.
         (b)   No action shall be taken against the owner, keeper, harborer or
possessor of the dog while a determination is being made as to its
classification.
         (c)   A written response shall be provided no later than three weeks
after the request has been submitted to the Chief of Police.
      (11)   Failure to comply.
         (a)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper, harborer or
possessor of a potentially vicious dog registered with the town to fail to
comply with the requirements and conditions set forth in this section.
         (b)   Any dog so kept may be subject to immediate seizure and
impoundment, at the cost of the owner, keeper, harborer or possessor.
         (c)   Failure to comply with the requirements of this section will
result in the revocation of any registration of such animal(s) and the
immediate removal of the animal from the town.
      (12)   Violations and penalties. Any person violating or permitting the
violating of any provision of this section shall be subject to all enforcement
remedies as provided by G.S. § 160A-175 and G.S. § 14-4.
      (13)   Registration and fee.
         (a)   Registration of potentially vicious dogs will be conducted at
the Police Department.
         (b)   The fee for registering a potentially vicious dog will be $25,
to be paid at the time of registration.
         (c)   All registrations will be kept on file with the Police
Department, with copies sent to the Chowan County Animal Control.
(Prior Code, § 4-28) (Ord. passed 7-1-1972; Ord. passed 9-14-2004; Am. Ord.
passed 7-12-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.44 BARKING DOGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner to keep or have within the town a dog
that habitually or repeatedly barks in a manner or to the extent that it is a
public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 4-29) (Ord. passed 7-1-1972) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.45 TEASING AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to tease, molest, bait or in any way
bother any dog not belonging to him or her or legally under his or her control.
(Prior Code, § 4-30) (Ord. passed 7-1-1972) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to define and prohibit abuse of animals, see G.S. § 160A-
182
   Cruelty to animals generally, see G.S. §§ 14-360 through 14-363 and 14-366
to 14-368
   Protection of animals generally, see G.S. §§ 19A-1 et seq.
§ 90.46 RUNNING OVER WITH VEHICLE AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person injuring a dog, by running over or into
same or coming into contact with same, with an automobile, motorcycle, bicycle
or other vehicle, to fail to notify immediately the owner of the dog or the
Town Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 4-31) (Ord. passed 7-1-1972) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 91: PARADES AND PICKETING
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Certain acts by participants prohibited
   
91.03   Interference
Parades and Group Demonstrations
   
91.15   Exemptions from subchapter
   
91.16   Permit required
   
91.17   Application; issuance
   
91.18   Restrictions
   
91.19   Revocation
   
91.20   Appeal from denial
Picket Lines
   
91.35   Exemptions from subchapter
   
91.36   Permit required
   
91.37   Application; issuance
   
91.38   Restrictions
   
91.39   Revocation
   
91.40   Appeal from denial
   
91.41   Conduct of participants
Cross-reference:
   Health and Sanitation; Nuisances, see
Ch. 94
   Parks, see
Ch. 98
   Streets and Sidewalks, see
Ch. 96
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to establish and control use of streets, sidewalks and the
like, see G.S. § 160A-296
   Authority of town to regulate use of streets by processions or assemblages,
see G.S. § 20-169
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BLOCK. The portion of any street lying between its intersections with other
streets, or that section of a street designated as a block for building
numbering purposes by the town, whichever is the least distance.
   GROUP DEMONSTRATION. Any assembly together or concert of action between or
among two or more persons which takes place on streets, sidewalks, alley ways,
public parking facilities, private parking lots open to the public and other
public grounds for the purpose of protesting any matter or of making known any
position or promotion of the persons, or of or on behalf of any organization or
class of persons, or for the purpose of attracting attention to the assembly.
   PARADE. Any assemblage of two or more persons participating in or operating
any vehicle in any march, ceremony, show, exhibition or procession of any kind
in or upon the public streets, sidewalks, alleys, parks or other public grounds
or places.
   PICKET LINE. Any two or more persons formed together for the purpose of
making known any position or promotion of the persons or of or on behalf of any
organization or class of persons.
(Prior Code, § 17-1) (Ord. passed 8-6-1973; Ord. passed 10-10-2023)
§ 91.02 CERTAIN ACTS BY PARTICIPANTS PROHIBITED.
   The following acts or activities, when performed or undertaken by any
participant in conjunction with or as a part of, any parade, group
demonstration or picket line, are hereby prohibited and declared unlawful:
   (A)   The carrying on or about the person any firearm or any weapon or
article, including, but not limited to, blackjacks, nightsticks or flashlights,
which, by their use, might constitute a deadly weapon; and/or
   (B)   The taking or keeping of any dog or other vicious animal, whether
leashed or unleashed.
(Prior Code, § 17-3) (Ord. passed 8-6-1973; Ord. passed 10-10-2023) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 91.03 INTERFERENCE.
   No person shall hamper, obstruct or interfere with any parade, group
demonstration or picket line being conducted under authority of a permit duly
issued by the issuing authority.
(Prior Code, § 17-3) (Ord. passed 8-6-1973; Ord. passed 10-10-2023) Penalty,
see §
10.99
PARADES AND GROUP DEMONSTRATIONS
§ 91.15 EXEMPTIONS FROM SUBCHAPTER.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   Funeral processions;
   (B)   Students going to and from school classes or participating in
educational activities where the activity is under the immediate supervision
and direction of proper school authorities; and/or
   (C)   Any governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
(Prior Code, § 17-4) (Ord. passed 8-6-1973; Ord. passed 10-10-2023)
§ 91.16 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to organize, conduct or participate in
any parade, or group demonstration in or upon any street, sidewalk, alley or
other public place within the town unless a permit therefor has been issued by
the town in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 17-5) (Ord. passed 8-6-1973; Ord. passed 10-10-2023) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 91.17 APPLICATION; ISSUANCE.
   (A)   The Town Manager or his or her designee shall issue permits between
the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. on Monday through Friday. The issuing
authority may issue permits when they are applied for in connection with
parades taking place on national holidays and in connection with regularly
scheduled athletic events. In addition to the aforesaid permits, the issuing
authority may issue a permit to a person who applies for a permit to conduct a
parade or group demonstration which purports to promote a particular or
singular objective; provided that, he or she may issue only one permit during
any 24-hour period.
   (B)   In the issuance of permits to conduct a parade or group demonstration
which purports to promote a particular or singular objective, the issuing
authority shall:
      (1)   Require a written application for a permit, signed by the
applicant, to be filed not less than 30 days in advance of a parade and 72
hours in advance of a group demonstration, which application shall specify the
time, place, route and duration of any parade or group demonstration. The
applicant shall be an adult 18 years of age or older;
      (2)   Refuse to issue the permits for parades or group demonstrations to
commence before 6:00 a.m. or terminate after 5:00 p.m.;
      (3)   Refuse to issue the permits for parades or group demonstrations to
be held at the same time and place as those designated in a permit issued
pursuant to a written application previously received by the issuing authority;
      (4)   Require that the application for a permit specify whether or not
minors below the age of 16 years will be permitted to participate. No minor
below the age of 16 years will be permitted to participate unless written
permission for the participation, signed by the parent or guardian of the
minor, is presented to the issuing authority, a permit is applied for and the
name of the minor is listed on any the permit issued;
      (5)   Require that the application for a permit shall specify and the
permit shall designate the person or persons in charge of the activity. The
person shall be required to accompany the parade or group demonstration and
shall carry the permit with him or her at that time. The person shall be an
adult 18 years or older. The permit shall not be valid in the possession of any
other person; and
      (6)   Require that the application shall specify, within 50, the number
of persons that will participate and, within five, the number of vehicles that
will participate.
(Prior Code, § 17-6) (Ord. passed 8-6-1973; Ord. passed 10-10-2023)
§ 91.18 RESTRICTIONS.
   Parades and group demonstrations shall be subject to the following
additional regulations.
   (A)   Any group demonstration which takes place in any area normally subject
to heavy pedestrian or heavy vehicular traffic may be limited in the permit
issued to a concentration of not more than six persons participating within any
one block.
   (B)   (1)   The permit may set the starting time and duration of any parade
or group demonstration and may set the speed of its travel, the space between
persons or vehicles, the portions or areas of the streets and sidewalks to be
used, the names of the units participating in the parade, group or line, the
length of the parade, group or line, the route of the parade and other
regulations as the issuing authority may include in the permit for the control
of free movement of traffic upon the streets and sidewalks or for the health,
safety and property rights of the participants and general public.
      (2)   Parades of less than 100 participants shall be limited to a
duration of one hour. Parades of 100 or more participants shall be limited to a
duration of three hours.
      (3)   The issuing authority, in setting requirements of the permit, shall
consider, among other considerations provided, the following:
         (a)   Whether the activity will require excessive diversion of police
from other necessary duties;
         (b)   Whether the activity will interfere with the rights of property
owners in the area to enjoy peaceful occupancy and use of their property;
         (c)   Whether the activity can be conducted without unreasonable
interference with normal vehicular or pedestrian traffic in the area, and with
normal police or fire protection to the public; and
         (d)   Whether the activity will be likely to cause injury to persons
or property, provoke disorderly conduct or create a public nuisance.
   (C)   (1)   Parade or group demonstration participants shall assemble in the
area or areas designated in the permit. The parade or group demonstration shall
commence within 30 minutes after the time stated in the permit.
      (2)   No participant shall be allowed to join in any parade after the
parade unit has left the assembly area.
(Prior Code, § 17-7) (Ord. passed 8-6-1973; Ord. passed 10-10-2023)
§ 91.19 REVOCATION.
   The Chief of Police or his or her designee shall revoke any permit granted
for a parade or group demonstration and order the participants to disperse for
any of the following causes:
   (A)   The violation by any participant of §
91.02 or of any law of the United States or of the state in the course of the
parade or group demonstration; and/or
   (B)   The failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the permit.
(Prior Code, § 17-8) (Ord. passed 8-6-1973; Ord. passed 10-10-2023)
§ 91.20 APPEAL FROM DENIAL.
   Any person aggrieved by the denial of a permit shall have a right of appeal
to the Town Council, but the appeal must be filed with the Town Manager within
five days after the denial. The appeal, upon the notice, will be heard by the
Council at its next regular meeting or at any special meeting called by the
Council for the appeal.
(Prior Code, § 17-9) (Ord. passed 8-6-1973; Ord. passed 10-10-2023)
PICKET LINES
§ 91.35 EXEMPTIONS FROM SUBCHAPTER.
   The following are exempt from the provisions of this subchapter:
   (A)   Funeral processions;
   (B)   Students going to and from school classes or participating in
educational activities under the immediate supervision and direction of proper
school authorities; and
   (C)   Any governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
(Prior Code, § 17-10) (Ord. passed 8-6-1973; Ord. passed 10-10-2023)
§ 91.36 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to organize, conduct or participate in
any picket line in or upon any street, sidewalk, alley or other public place
within the town unless a permit therefor has been issued by the town in
accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 17-11) (Ord. passed 8-6-1973; Ord. passed 10-10-2023) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 91.37 APPLICATION; ISSUANCE.
   (A)   The Town Manager or his or her designee shall issue permits between
the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. on Monday through Friday. The issuing
authority may issue a permit to a person who applies for a permit to conduct a
picket line which purports to promote a particular or singular objective;
provided that, he or she may issue only one permit during each 24-hour period.
   (B)   In the issuance of all permits, the issuing authority shall:
      (1)   Require a written application for permit to be filed not less than
72 hours in advance of the picket line, which application shall specify the
time and place for the commencement and duration of any picket line. The
applicant shall be an adult 18 years of age or older;
      (2)   Refuse to issue the permits for picket lines to commence before 6:
00 a.m. or terminate after 5:00 p.m.;
      (3)   Refuse to issue the permits for picket lines to be held at the same
time and place as those designated in a permit issued pursuant to a written
application previously received by the issuing authority or his or her
designee;
      (4)   Require that the application for a permit specify whether or not
minors below the age of 16 years will be permitted to participate. Picketing,
by its very nature, tends to lead to controversy which may be detrimental to
the health and safety of the minors and therefore participation by minors is of
legitimate concern to their parents and municipal authorities. No minor below
the age of 16 years will be permitted to participate unless written permission
for the participation, signed by the parent or guardian of the minor, is
presented to the issuing authority when a permit is applied for and the name of
the minor is listed on any permit issued; and
      (5)   Require that the application for a permit shall specify and the
permit shall designate the person or persons in charge of the activity. The
person shall be required to accompany the picket line and shall carry the
permit with him or her at that time. The person shall be an adult 18 years of
age or older.
(Prior Code, § 17-12) (Ord. passed 8-6-1973; Ord. passed 10-10-2023)
§ 91.38 RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   A permit issued pursuant to this subchapter may designate the
particular area within the business district within which picketing shall be
permitted on any specified day for which a permit is issued. The permit may set
the starting time and duration of the picketing and other regulations as the
issuing authority may include in the permit for the control of free movement of
traffic upon the streets and sidewalks or for the health, safety and property
rights of the participants and general public. The issuing authority, in
setting requirements of the permit, shall consider, among other considerations
provided, the following:
      (1)   Whether the activity will require excessive diversion of police
from other necessary duties;
      (2)   Whether the activity will interfere with the rights of property
owners in the area to enjoy peaceful occupancy and use of their property;
      (3)   Whether the activity can be conducted without unreasonable
interference with normal vehicular or pedestrian traffic in the area, and with
normal police or fire protection to the public; and
      (4)   Whether the activity will be likely to cause injury to persons or
property, provoke disorderly conduct or create a public nuisance.
   (B)   If pickets promoting different objectives desire to use the same
sidewalk for picketing and the use would result in the presence of more than
six pickets thereon, the issuing authority shall allot time to each group of
pickets for the use of the sidewalk on an equitable basis.
(Prior Code, § 17-13) (Ord. passed 8-6-1973; Ord. passed 10-10-2023)
§ 91.39 REVOCATION.
   The Chief of Police shall revoke any permit granted for a picket line and
direct those participating to disperse for any of the following causes:
   (A)   The violation by any participant of §
91.02 or of any law of the United States or of the state in the course of the
picketing; and/or
   (B)   The failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the permit.
(Prior Code, § 17-14) (Ord. passed 8-6-1973; Ord. passed 10-10-2023)
§ 91.40 APPEAL FROM DENIAL.
   Any person aggrieved by the denial of a permit, as herein provided, shall
have a right of appeal to the Town Council, but the appeal notice must be filed
with the Town Manager within five days after the denial. The appeal, upon the
notice, will be heard by the Council at its next regular meeting or at any
special meeting called by the Council for the appeal.
(Prior Code, § 17-15) (Ord. passed 8-6-1973; Ord. passed 10-10-2023)
§ 91.41 CONDUCT OF PARTICIPANTS.
   Picket lines and picketing shall be subject to the following additional
regulations.
   (A)   Picketing may be conducted only on the sidewalks reserved for
pedestrian movement and may not be conducted on the portion of a street used
primarily for vehicular traffic.
   (B)   Not more than six pickets promoting the same objective shall be
permitted to use either of the two sidewalks within a single block at any one
time.
   (C)   Pickets may carry written or printed placards or signs, not exceeding
two feet in width and two feet in length, promoting the objective for which the
picketing is done; provided that, the words used are not profane, indecent,
abusive or inflammatory in nature.
   (D)   Pickets must march in single file and not abreast, and they must not
march closer together than 15 feet apart, except in passing one another.
Pickets shall not be allowed to walk more than five feet from the curbline, and
shall be in continuous motion.
   (E)   Pickets will not physically interfere with any pedestrian in the use
of the sidewalk, or address profane, indecent, abusive or threatening language
to or at any pedestrian which would tend to provoke the pedestrian or others to
a breach of the peace.
   (F)   Pickets will not block or obstruct entrances or exits to any stores or
businesses so as to hinder or impede the normal ingress or egress of business
customers or invitees.
(Prior Code, § 17-16) (Ord. passed 8-6-1973; Ord. passed 10-10-2023)
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PROTECTION
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Fire Prevention Code adopted
   
92.02   Storage of explosives
   
92.03   Blasting
   
92.04   Storage of combustible containers
   
92.05   Accumulation of rubbish, weeds and the like
   
92.06   Dead overhead wires and the like
   
92.07   Failure to comply with order of Fire Chief to abate hazards
   
92.08   Interfering with firefighters
   
92.09   Interfering with alarm apparatus
   
92.10   False alarms
   
92.11   Loitering in fire station; handling and the like of equipment
   
92.12   Riding on fire apparatus
   
92.13   Damaging fire hydrants and the like
   
92.14   Extinguishers
   
92.15   Open burning
Flammable Liquids
   
92.30   Dispensers
   
92.31   Parking of vehicles used for transporting certain flammable liquids
   
92.32   Oil plants
Fire Department
   
92.45   Organization
   
92.46   Duties of Fire Chief
   
92.47   Officer in command at fires
Smoke Detectors
   
92.60   Definitions
   
92.61   Automatic smoke detectors outlets required in rental residential
dwelling units
   
92.62   Responsible building owner
   
92.63   Permits
   
92.64   Maintenance
   
92.65   Compliance dates
   
92.66   Enforcement and inspectors
   
92.67   Appeals
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to organize, equip and the like Fire Department, see G.S.
§ 160A-291
   Authority of town to regulate the sale, storage, use and the like of
flammable substances, see G.S. § 160A-183
   Authority of town to send firefighters beyond town limits, see G.S. Chapter
58, Article 83 and § 160A-293
   Fire protection authority of town, see G.S. §§ 160A-291 through 160A-294
   Fire protection generally, see G.S. §§ 69-25.1 et seq.
   “Firemen’s Pension Fund”, see G.S. Chapter 58, Articles 84 through 88
   “Firemen’s Relief Fund”, see G.S. Chapter 58
   Interference with firefighters, see G.S. Chapter 58, Article 82
   State Volunteer Fire Departments, see G.S. Chapter 58, Article 80
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 FIRE PREVENTION CODE ADOPTED.
   There is hereby adopted by the Town Council, for the purpose of prescribing
regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property from fire and
explosions, that certain code known as the Fire Prevention Code, recommended by
the American Insurance Association, being particularly the 2009 edition
thereof, and save and except the portions as may be deleted, modified or
amended by the Town Council, of which code not less than one copy has been and
now is filed in the office of the Town Clerk, and the same is hereby adopted
and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein and the provisions
thereof shall be controlling within the town.
(Prior Code, § 11-1) (Ord. passed 2-9-1993)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to adopt technical codes by reference, see G.S. § 160A-76
§ 92.02 STORAGE OF EXPLOSIVES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to store in any place within the town for a
longer period of time than 48 hours, more than 50 pounds of gunpowder or
dynamite or ten gallons of gasoline, except in a container or magazine designed
and built for the safe handling of the articles and approved by the Fire
Inspector.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to store under any stairway or other means of
egress any combustible or explosive material.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to install or turn on any lights in any building
or buildings where combustibles or explosives are stored without first having
secured a permit from the Fire Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 11-2) Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to regulate storage of explosives, see G.S. § 160A-183
§ 92.03 BLASTING.
   It shall be unlawful to do any blasting without first having a permit
secured from the Fire Inspector and approved by the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 11-3) Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to regulate use of explosives, see G.S. § 160A-183
§ 92.04 STORAGE OF COMBUSTIBLE CONTAINERS.
   It shall be unlawful to store or have in charge for storage any combustible
containers without first having secured a permit from the Fire Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 11-4) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 ACCUMULATION OF RUBBISH, WEEDS AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful to permit the accumulation of waste paper, weeds,
litter or rubbish of any kind to remain upon any roof, lots or any other place
where the rubbish and the like is liable to create a fire hazard.
(Prior Code, § 11-5) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 DEAD OVERHEAD WIRES AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any electric, telegraph or telephone company to
permit any of their disconnected, dead or unused wires to hang or remain on any
pole, tree or house where the wires have formerly been connected and in use.
(Prior Code, § 11-6) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.07 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ORDER OF FIRE CHIEF TO ABATE HAZARDS.
   Failure of an owner or tenant of any premises to comply with an order of the
Fire Chief to correct a fire hazard on the premises shall be considered a
misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 11-7) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.08 INTERFERING WITH FIREFIGHTERS.
   (A)   No person shall interfere with a firefighter in the discharge of his
or her duty or hinder him or her in the performance of the duty.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to congregate on any street, alley or square
adjacent to a fire, in a manner as will interfere with the Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 11-8) Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Interference with firefighters, see G.S. § 58-82-1
§ 92.09 INTERFERING WITH ALARM APPARATUS.
   No person shall interfere carelessly or willfully with the fire alarm system
or injure the poles, wires, boxes or other apparatus connected therewith.
(Prior Code, § 11-9) Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Blocking fire-fighting equipment and the like, see G.S. § 20-157
   Interfering with fire alarm system, see G.S. § 14-286
§ 92.10 FALSE ALARMS.
   No person shall give or cause to be given a false alarm of fire; provided
that, alarms may be given by the Fire Chief or any one acting under his or her
direction for the purpose of testing the fire alarm system.
(Prior Code, § 11-10) Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Giving false fire alarms, see G.S. § 14-286
§ 92.11 LOITERING IN FIRE STATION; HANDLING AND THE LIKE OF EQUIPMENT.
   No person other than a member of the Fire Department shall loiter about any
fire station or change, handle or meddle in any manner with any fire engine or
any other fire apparatus.
(Prior Code, § 11-11) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.12 RIDING ON FIRE APPARATUS.
   No person, other than a bona fide member of the Fire Department, shall mount
any fire engine or apparatus before it leaves the station or while on its way
to or from a fire or at any other time, unless by permission of the Fire Chief.
(Prior Code, § 11-12) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.13 DAMAGING FIRE HYDRANTS AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully break, deface, impair or,
in any way, injure any fire hydrant or to in any manner obstruct the free use
of the same in case of fire.
(Prior Code, § 11-13) Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Driving over fire hose, see G.S. § 20-157
   Parking near fire hydrant, see G.S. § 20-162
§ 92.14 EXTINGUISHERS.
   Hand or other portable fire extinguishers shall be installed or maintained
in every store, factory, garage or other public building in sufficient number
and type as shall be required by the Fire Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 11-14) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.15 OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   No person, business or firm shall burn, allow or cause to be burned
any household trash, refuse, paper, litter, natural vegetation, processed wood
or other material of any kind outside any house, on or in any street, sidewalk,
alley, lot or yard within the city limits or any extraterritorial jurisdiction
that would conflict with the North Carolina Fire Prevention Code.
   (B)   A fire can be utilized for recreational purposes in a commercially
purchased “fire pit” that has a screen over the fire or in a professional built
outside fireplace or oven which is used for outdoor cooking and shall not be
within 25 feet of a structure or combustible material. Portable outdoor
fireplaces shall be used in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions and
shall not be operated within 15 feet of a structure or combustible material.
Only small kindling materials shall be burned in the pit. (N.C. Fire Code
307.4.2 and 307.4.3)
   (C)   Any fire that is reported as a nuisance must be extinguished
immediately by the property owner or the Fire Department. All current warnings
regarding burn bans from the North Carolina Forest Service or North Carolina
Department of Air Quality must be adhered to at all times.
   (D)   Fires purposely set to agricultural lands for disease and pest control
and other excepted agricultural or wildlife management practices.
   (E)   The only exception to this section is live fire training being
conducted by the Fire Department, which may include portable fire extinguishing
training at schools, businesses or for civic organizations, and the like,
burning of houses at the owner’s request or if a structure is deemed a public
health or safety problem for the city or neighborhoods. The Fire Department
shall follow all rules and regulations that are set forth by the North Carolina
Department of Air Quality (Department of Environmental Health and Natural
Resources).
(Ord. passed 3-8-2022)
FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS
§ 92.30 DISPENSERS.
   (A)   Service station.
      (1)   Service stations are buildings and premises where gasoline, oil,
grease, batteries, tires and automobile accessories may be supplied and
dispensed at retail and where, in addition, the following services may be
rendered and sales made, and no other:
         (a)   Sale and servicing of spark plugs, batteries and distributors
and distributor parts;
         (b)   Tire servicing and repair, but not recapping or regrooving;
         (c)   Replacement of mufflers and tailpipes, water hoses, fanbelts,
brake fluid, light bulbs, fuses, floor mats, seat covers, windshield wipers and
wiper blades, grease retainers, wheel bearings, mirrors and the like;
         (d)   Radiator cleaning and flushing;
         (e)   Washing and polishing and sale of automotive washing and
polishing materials;
         (f)   Greasing and lubrication;
         (g)   Providing and repairing fuel pumps, oil pumps and lines;
         (h)   Minor servicing and repair of carburetors;
         (i)   Emergency wiring repairs;
         (j)   Adjusting and repairing brakes;
         (k)   Minor motor adjustments not involving removal of the head or
crankcase or racing the motor;
         (l)   Sales of cold drinks, packaged foods, tobacco and similar
convenience goods for filling station customers, as accessory and incidental to
principal operation; and
         (m)   Provision of road maps and other informational material to
customers and provision of restroom facilities.
      (2)   Uses permissible at a service station do not include major
mechanical and body work, straightening of body parts, painting, welding,
storage of automobiles not in operating condition, or other work involving
noise, glare, fumes, smoke or other characteristics to an extent greater than
normally found in service stations. A service station is not a repair garage
nor a body shop.
   (B)   Building requirements. Service stations will strictly meet all setback
and building requirements contained in ordinances of the town.
   (C)   Self-service stations.
      (1)   SELF-SERVICE STATION shall mean that portion of property where
flammable and combustible liquids used as motor fuels are stored and
subsequently dispensed from fixed approved dispensing equipment into the fuel
tanks of motor vehicles by persons other than the service station attendant and
can include facilities available for sale of other retail products.
      (2)   Approved dispensing devices such as, but not limited to, coin-
operated, card-operated and remote controlled types are permitted at self-
service stations.
      (3)   All self-service stations shall have at least one attendant on duty
while the station is open to the public. The attendant’s primary function shall
be to supervise, observe and control the dispensing of Class I liquids while
the liquids are actually being dispensed.
      (4)   It shall be the responsibility of the attendant to:
         (a)   Prevent the dispensing of Class I liquids into portable
containers not in compliance with the provisions of the Fire Prevention Code;
         (b)   Control sources of ignition; and
         (c)   Immediately handle accidental spills and fire extinguishers if
needed.
      (5)   The attendant or supervisor on duty shall be mentally and
physically capable of performing the functions and assuming the responsibility
prescribed in this section.
      (6)   Emergency controls specified in the applicable provisions of the
Fire Prevention Code shall be installed at a location acceptable to the Fire
Chief, but controls shall not be more than 100 feet from dispensers.
      (7)   Operating instructions shall be conspicuously posted in the
dispensing area.
      (8)   The dispensing area shall at all times be in clear view of the
attendant and the placing or allowing of any obstacle to come between the
dispensing area and the attendant control area shall be prohibited. The
attendant shall at all times be able to communicate with persons in the
dispensing area.
      (9)   Hose nozzle valves used at a self-service station for the
dispensing of Class I liquids shall be an approved automatic-closing type.
      (10)   Warning signs shall be conspicuously posted in the dispensing area
incorporating the following or equivalent wording:
         (a)   “Warning—It is Unlawful and Dangerous to Dispense Gasoline into
Unapproved Containers”;
         (b)   “No Smoking”; and
         (c)   “Stop Motor”.
   (D)   Drainage and waste disposal.
      (1)   Provision shall be made in the area where Class I liquids are
dispensed to prevent spilled liquids from flowing into the interior of service
station buildings. The provision can be by grading driveways, raising door
sills or other equally effective means.
      (2)   Crankcase drainings and flammable or combustible liquids shall not
be dumped into sewers, streams or adjoining property, but shall be stored in
tanks or drums outside any building until removed from the premises.
   (E)   Sources of ignition. In addition to the previous restrictions of this
section, the following shall apply. There shall be no smoking or open flames in
the areas used for fueling, servicing fuel systems for internal combustion
engines, receiving or dispensing of Class I and Class II liquids. Conspicuous
and legible signs prohibiting smoking shall be posted within sight of the
customer being served. The motors of all equipment being fueled shall be shut
off during the fueling operation, except for emergency generators, pumps and
the like where continuing operation is essential.
(Prior Code, § 11-15) (Ord. passed 5-10-1972; Ord. passed 4-14-1981)
§ 92.31 PARKING OF VEHICLES USED FOR TRANSPORTING CERTAIN FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or permit to remain standing
upon any street or public parking facility or public alley of the town, or in
any residential area within 100 feet of a dwelling house, any transport truck
or combination of truck and trailer or any other vehicle designed or
constructed or used for the bulk transportation of gasoline, LP gas, naphtha,
kerosene, distillate, oil or other inflammable or explosive oil derivatives,
whether the same may be empty or loaded; provided, this section shall not be so
construed as to prohibit the delivery to residences or businesses, in the
ordinary course of business, of kerosene, fuel oil, LP gas or other products.
(Prior Code, § 11-16) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.32 OIL PLANTS.
   (A)   An OIL PLANT is any place where gasoline or other highly flammable or
explosive petroleum or other products are received in tank cars or other bulk
quantities, stored and delivered by tank wagon or otherwise to dealers,
consumers or places outside the plant.
   (B)   Oil plants shall be kept in proper shape and repair and clean and free
from rubbish, litter and waste oils as may render it unnecessarily hazardous
and a menace to life and property.
   (C)   No oil plant shall be established or located within the business or
fire district or in or near any mercantile or manufacturing sections, nor shall
an oil plant be established or located within any other part of the town unless
its arrangement, construction, equipment and location conform to the following
requirements.
      (1)   Each tank for storage of the products shall be of steel or
reinforced concrete, shall conform to the specifications of the National Board
of Fire Underwriters or U.S. Bureau of Standards and shall rest on
noncombustible supports of ample strength and stability, with factor of safety
not less than five. Shutoff gate valves shall be of a gate type and shall be
equipped with two or more layers of nickel gauze separated one-half inch or
more and not larger than 40 mesh to the inch. All tank supports shall be of
brick or concrete or properly protected steel work and all valves and pumps
shall be of an improved design, make or specification and location as are
approved by the National Board of Fire Underwriters or U.S. Bureau of
Standards, as modern and standard equipment for such purposes.
      (2)   All tanks shall be thoroughly and effectively grounded as
protection against lightning and static electricity. No tank shall be located
nearer than 25 feet to the boundary line of the land occupied by the oil plant,
unless it is the line of a railroad or common carrier, nor nearer than 50 feet
to any building not a part of the plant; provided that, in case of large
storage tanks, 25,000 gallons’ capacity or over, the distance shall not be less
than is prescribed by the rules and regulations of the National Board of Fire
Underwriters.
      (3)   Oil tanks shall not be located on land sloping toward combustible
property or in proximity to streams, drainage, ditches or waterfronts where
escaping oil can reach combustible property. In locations where aboveground
tanks are liable, in case of breakage or overflow, to endanger surrounding
property, each tank shall be protected by an embankment or dike. The protection
shall have a capacity of not less than one and one quarter times the capacity
of the tanks surrounded and shall be at least four feet high, but in no case
higher than one quarter the height of the tank when the height of the tank
exceeds 16 feet.
(Prior Code, § 11-17)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 92.45 ORGANIZATION.
   The Fire Department shall consist of the Chief of the Fire Department and a
sufficient number of firefighters, voluntary, part time or full time, to
maintain and operate the Department. The Town Manager shall appoint the Chief
and approve the appointment to the Department of all members. The Department
may from time to time adopt its own rules and regulations governing the
Department subject to the approval of the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 11-18)
§ 92.46 DUTIES OF FIRE CHIEF.
   The duties of the Fire Chief, subject to supervision of the Town Manager,
shall be as follows.
   (A)   Command. He or she shall:
      (1)   Have general control of the Fire Department, the personnel,
apparatus and fire alarm systems;
      (2)   Command the Department and supervise the fire fighting and
extinguishing of all fires; and
      (3)   Have authority to keep away from the vicinity of all fires any and
all idle, disorderly or suspicious persons.
   (B)   Fire inspector. As Fire Inspector, the Fire Chief shall:
      (1)   Have authority to enter any and all premises at a reasonable time
for purposes of inspection;
      (2)   Make quarterly inspections of all structures located within the
fire districts;
      (3)   Investigate complaints promptly;
      (4)   Investigate the cause of fires and keep records of his or her
findings as to origin, location, owner, extent of damage, injury and amount of
insurance carried. The findings must be reported to the State Insurance
Commissioner and the Town Council at regular intervals;
      (5)   Cause the removal of fire hazards by serving proper order to the
owner or agent of the premises in question, the order to state a reasonable
time limit to correct the fire hazard;
      (6)   Inspect or cause to be inspected all fire hydrants and fire alarm
systems at least once every three months and shall make a report of the
inspection to the Town Council; and
      (7)   Inspect or cause to be inspected all trucks and other equipment of
the Fire Department each and every week to ascertain that the equipment is
being kept in proper condition. He or she shall report annually to the Town
Council the condition of all equipment and report the name, residence and
occupation of all firefighters.
(Prior Code, § 11-19)
Statutory reference:
   Duties of Fire Chief, see G.S. § 160A-292
§ 92.47 OFFICER IN COMMAND AT FIRES.
   (A)   The officer in command at a fire shall have authority to summon aid
and no citizen so summoned may refuse to help in extinguishing the fire or in
protecting exposed property or to do and perform any act that may lawfully be
required of members of the Fire Department.
   (B)   During the continuance of any fire, the officer in command shall have
authority to demolish or destroy any burning structures or other structures
necessary to prevent the spread of the fire. The officer in command shall also
have authority to remove any contents of any structure to prevent their
destruction or to prevent the spread of fire.
   (C)   The officer in command and his or her delegates shall have authority
to disperse any persons unlawfully congregating in the vicinity of a fire, in
violation of §
92.46 and to close streets and alleys to prevent their congregation in areas
adjacent to the fire or in streets and areas needed for fire-fighting
activities.
(Prior Code, § 11-20)
SMOKE DETECTORS
§ 92.60 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      AUTOMATIC SMOKE DETECTOR DEVICE. Battery powered, for the purpose of this
subchapter, a self-acting approved battery powered device, operating by its own
mechanism when actuated by smoke. (Note: May be used in residential dwelling
units constructed prior to 1-1-1975.)
      AUTOMATIC SMOKE DETECTOR DEVICE (120-VOLT PLUG-IN). For the purpose of
this subchapter, a self-acting approved device powered by 120 volts, cord and
plug connected, operating by its own mechanism when actuated by smoke. (Note:
May be used in residential dwelling units constructed prior to 1-1-1975.)
      AUTOMATIC SMOKE DETECTOR OUTLET (120-VOLT). For the purpose of this
subchapter, a self-acting approved outlet (non-plug-in) powered by 120 volts
operating by its own mechanism when actuated by smoke. (Note: Required in all
residential dwelling units constructed after 1-1-1975. As per NEC 210-71, a
state amendment to the State Electrical Code.)
      RENTAL RESIDENTIAL DWELLING UNIT. For the purpose of this subchapter a
structure with one or two dwelling units that is not owner occupied; or a
structure with three or more dwelling units whose units are not required to
have smoke detectors under the State Building Code Vol. 1-B, § 35.
      RESIDENTIAL DWELLING UNIT. For the purpose of this subchapter, single-
family dwellings, two-family dwellings, apartment houses, condominiums and/or
town houses.
   (B)   For the purposes of this subchapter, certain abbreviations, terms,
phrases, words and their derivatives shall be construed as set forth in the
definition sections of the State Building Codes and Town Zoning Ordinance.
   (C)   For the purpose of this subchapter, all other wording shall be defined
as per a dictionary.
(Prior Code, § 11-21) (Ord. 90-1, passed 9-11-1990)
§ 92.61 AUTOMATIC SMOKE DETECTORS OUTLETS REQUIRED IN RENTAL RESIDENTIAL
DWELLING UNITS.
   (A)   A minimum of one 120-volt outlet shall be installed outside each
sleeping area in each dwelling unit within single-family dwellings, two-family
dwellings, apartment houses, condominiums and/or town houses for the connection
of approved fixed automatic smoke detectors (non-plug-in) as required in the
State Building Code Vol. I-B, § 35.
   (B)   Automatic smoke detector outlets required in residential dwelling
units. The outlets shall be located on or near the ceiling in accordance with
the listing and the instructions of the manufacture of the approved automatic
smoke detector.
   (C)   Exception: The 120-volt outlets specified in this section shall not be
required when an approved automatic smoke detecting system is installed which
provides equivalent protection and whose primary source of power is 120-volts.
   (D)   Note: The wording in this section is identical to the wording
contained in § 210-71, state amendment to the 1990 National Electric Code
adopted 4-15-1990.
   (E)   Local Exception No. 1: At least one listed detector either battery
powered or a 120-volt (plug-in-type) shall be installed, in rental residential
dwelling units constructed prior to 1-1-1975. A detector shall be installed
outside each sleeping area. Detectors shall have either a visible light to
indicate operability or an audible trouble signal. Audible trouble signals
shall be designed to operate at least every minute for seven consecutive days.
The alarm signaling device shall emit not less than 85 decibels at ten feet.
Detectors shall be on or near the ceiling installed in accordance with
manufacturer’s instructions.
(Prior Code, § 11-22) (Ord. 90-1, passed 9-11-1990)
§ 92.62 RESPONSIBLE BUILDING OWNER.
   The owner(s) of a building having a rental residential dwelling unit or
dwelling units shall be responsible for installing or having qualified persons
install outlets as required by this subchapter. Installation of 120-volt
automatic smoke detector outlets shall be done by a licensed electrical
contractor.
(Prior Code, § 11-23) (Ord. 90-1, passed 9-11-1990)
§ 92.63 PERMITS.
   Permits will only be required if the type installation is as outlined in
G.S. § 160A-417. This statute explains in detail when permits are required.
(Prior Code, § 11-24) (Ord. 90-1, passed 9-11-1990)
§ 92.64 MAINTENANCE.
   The owner of a rental residential dwelling unit shall be responsible for
maintaining his or her automatic smoke detector and its power source.
(Prior Code, § 11-25) (Ord. 90-1, passed 9-11-1990)
§ 92.65 COMPLIANCE DATES.
   (A)   Compliance dates for rental residential dwelling units not in
compliance with this subchapter on its effective date.
   (B)   All rental residential dwelling units shall be in compliance with this
subchapter not more than 90 days from its effective date.
(Prior Code, § 11-26) (Ord. 90-1, passed 9-11-1990)
§ 92.66 ENFORCEMENT AND INSPECTORS.
   The Planning and Inspections Department and/or the Fire Prevention Office
shall be responsible for enforcing this subchapter. Inspectors shall be
qualified by the Code Officials Qualification Board when inspecting the 120-
volt permanent type units.
(Prior Code, § 11-27) (Ord. 90-1, passed 9-11-1990)
§ 92.67 APPEALS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, appeals from an inspector’s decision
may be taken to the Town Council by filing an appeal with the staff within five
days of an inspector’s written decision.
(Prior Code, § 11-28) (Ord. 90-1, passed 9-11-1990)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who shall be adjudged to have violated §§
92.60 through
92.67 shall be subject to a civil penalty of an amount as set by the Town
Council for each offense. Each 30 days that the violation continues shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense.
      (2)   The Inspector shall make written demand for payment of the penalty
assessed upon the person in violation and shall set forth in a description of
the violation for which the penalty has been imposed. If payment is not
received within 30 days after demand for payment is made, the town may recover
the penalty, and all subsequently accruing penalties, in a civil action.
      (3)   Any person who shall be adjudged to have violated §§
92.60 through
92.67 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be liable to
a fine not to exceed an amount as set by the Town Council for each offense.
Each 30 days that the violation continues shall constitute a separate and
distinct offense.
      (4)   Notwithstanding divisions (B)(1), (2) and (3) above, §§
92.60 through
92.67 may also be enforced by appropriate equitable remedies issuing from a
court of competent jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 11-29) (Ord. 90-1, passed 9-11-1990)
CHAPTER 93: CEMETERIES
Section
   
93.01   Reference to chapter in document granting right of interment
   
93.02   Temporary modifications
   
93.03   Applicability of other ordinances and laws
   
93.04   Sextons
   
93.05   Designation of land for burial; enlargement or alteration of town
cemeteries
   
93.06   Lots
   
93.07   Interments
   
93.08   Opening of casket
   
93.09   Visiting hours
   
93.10   Conduct on premises
   
93.11   Use as thoroughfares; driving over lots and the like
   
93.12   Removal of articles
   
93.13   Litter; maintenance
   
93.14   Damage
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town as to cemeteries generally, see G.S. §§ 160A-341 to 160A-
348
   Cemetery trustees, see G.S. §§ 160A-349.1 to 160A-349.13
   Desecration of cemeteries, see G.S. §§ 14-148 and 14-149
   Disturbing graves, see G.S. §§ 14-148 and 14-149
   Interfering with graveyards, see G.S. § 14-149
   Removing or defacing tombstones, see G.S. § 14-148
§ 93.01 REFERENCE TO CHAPTER IN DOCUMENT GRANTING RIGHT OF INTERMENT.
   Reference to this chapter in the instrument granting right of interment
shall have the same force and effect as if the provisions of this chapter were
set forth in full therein.
(Prior Code, § 8-1) (Ord. passed 5-9-2023)
§ 93.02 TEMPORARY MODIFICATIONS.
   Temporary exceptions, suspensions or modifications in the provisions of this
chapter to avoid imposing unnecessary hardships shall in no way be construed as
affecting the general application of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-2) (Ord. passed 5-9-2023)
§ 93.03 APPLICABILITY OF OTHER ORDINANCES AND LAWS.
   Besides being subject to the provisions of this chapter, all interments,
disinterments and removals are made subject to the orders and laws of the
properly constituted authorities of the town, the county and the state.
(Prior Code, § 8-3) (Ord. passed 5-9-2023)
§ 93.04 SEXTONS.
   (A)   There shall be a sexton for town cemeteries, appointed or designated
by the Town Manager, to whom shall be introduced the supervision of Beaver Hill
and Vine Oak Cemeteries. The compensation of the sexton shall be from time to
time fixed and determined by the Town Manager. The sexton shall be at all times
subject to dismissal by the Town Manager in like manner and to the same extent
as any other municipal employee.
   (B)   The sexton shall be responsible for the sale of lots, issuance and
recording of deeds, and the enforcement of all rules and regulations regarding
the cemetery.
(Prior Code, § 8-4) (Ord. passed 5-9-2023)
§ 93.05 DESIGNATION OF LAND FOR BURIAL; ENLARGEMENT OR ALTERATION OF TOWN
CEMETERIES.
   (A)   No person shall set apart land within the town limits for the burial
of the dead until the same has been submitted to and approved by the Town
Council.
   (B)   The town reserves the right to enlarge, reduce, replace or change the
boundaries or grading of the cemeteries, or sections thereof, from time to time
as it deems advisable or necessary.
(Prior Code, § 8-5) (Ord. passed 5-9-2023)
§ 93.06 LOTS.
   (A)   Prices. The Town Council shall establish a schedule of prices for
cemetery lots from time to time as it deem best. All lots shall be paid for in
advance. A current price schedule shall be on file in the Town Clerk’s office.
   (B)   Description and the like. The town shall have the right to correct any
errors that may be made by it in the description, transfer or conveyance of any
interment property.
   (C)   Inscriptions. The names or inscriptions on monuments, vaults or
markers must correspond with the names and records in the Town Clerk’s office,
and no changes may be made thereon except upon request of the proper parties
and approval of the town.
   (D)   Transfer. No transfer or assignment by any lot owner of any lot or
portion of a lot, or interest therein, shall be valid unless approved by the
town and, in no case, can this be given as long as there is any indebtedness
due on the lot.
   (E)   Supervision. The town retains control and supervision of all lots that
are sold, with the purpose of preventing anything which is objectionable or
injurious to a lot, adjoining lots or the cemeteries in general.
   (F)   Perpetual care. PERPETUAL CARE provided by the town shall be held to
mean only the maintenance of roadways and walks, the cutting of grass upon the
lots at reasonable intervals, and the pruning of shrubs and trees planted by
the town. If found economically necessary at any time, the town may limit
perpetual care to that amount that can be done with the income received from
the sale of cemetery lots and any investment of other funds.
   (G)   Monument foundations. Foundations for all monuments and all markers
shall be constructed by approved dealers at the cost of the lot owner, from
materials specified by the town, but monument foundations shall not be built
until after full purchase price of the lot is paid. Monument foundations shall
extend six inches outside the edges of the monument at all points, and shall be
flush with surrounding ground.
   (H)   Fencing, walks and the like. No coping, curbing, fencing, hedging,
grave mounds, borders, shrubbery, trees or enclosures of any kind shall be
allowed around any lot; and no walks of brick, cinders, tile, stone, marble,
terra-cotta, sand, cement, gravel or wood shall be allowed on any lot.
   (I)   Flowers.
      (1)   Artificial flowers and wreaths will be permitted on graves for a
period of 30 days before until 30 days after the seasonal holidays or
memorials. Once flowers and wreaths become faded or unattractive, they will be
removed immediately by the caretakers.
      (2)   Live flowers and wreaths will be allowed only for a period of seven
days, after which they will be removed by the caretakers.
      (3)   Only permanent containers attached to the monument stone will be
allowed.
      (4)   All items other than flowers, wreaths, and flags, as outlined
below, are prohibited. Such items include, but are not limited to, ornaments,
statues not attached to a permanent monument stone, solar lights, glass,
plastic or wooden objects, commemorative items, benches, chairs, stones, vigil
lights, candles, shepherd hooks, bird feeders, and similar items. Any item(s)
that is prohibited, decayed, worn, detracts or poses a danger or safety hazard
to maintenance equipment, workers, visitors, structures, or interferes with the
overall maintenance of the cemetery, will be discarded without warning.
      (5)   Adornments attached to the monument stone are permitted.
      (6)   Annual cemetery clean sweep days are February 1, May 1, August 1,
and November 1.
   (J)   Emblems, flags and the like. Metal emblems, markers, flags and guidons
are allowed on lots or graves only immediately preceding and after Memorial
Day.
   (K)   Removal of baskets, designs and the like after interment. Upon request
of lot owner or his or her representative, frames, designs or baskets remaining
upon a lot after an interment may be held for five days after interment and, if
not called for in that time, may be disposed of by the town without any
liability on its part whatever.
(Prior Code, § 8-6) (Ord. passed 5-9-2023) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.07 INTERMENTS.
   (A)   The body of any deceased person shall not be interred within the
corporate limits, except in the cemetery owned by the town or in a cemetery
that has been set apart and approved by the Town Council.
   (B)   No interment may be made unless the body is accompanied by a burial
permit.
   (C)   Not more than one body or the remains of more than one body shall be
interred in one grave or vault without written permission from the town. Proper
identification of the interment shall be made on the suitable memorial or
marker.
   (D)   All interments, disinterments and removals shall be made at the time
and in the manner as prescribed by the town.
   (E)   A permanent-type container (vault) is required for each interment.
(Prior Code, § 8-7) (Ord. passed 10-10-1978; Ord. passed 5-9-2023) Penalty, see
§
10.99
§ 93.08 OPENING OF CASKET.
   Consent of the legal representatives of the deceased or a relative in charge
of the funeral or a court order shall be required in order for a casket
containing a body to be opened after it is within the cemetery.
(Prior Code, § 8-8) (Ord. passed 5-9-2023)
§ 93.09 VISITING HOURS.
   The town cemeteries shall be open to visitors from 7:00 a.m. to sunset from
April 1 to October 31; and from 7:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. from November 1 to March
31.
(Prior Code, § 8-9) (Ord. passed 5-9-2023)
§ 93.10 CONDUCT ON PREMISES.
   (A)   No person shall disturb the quiet, repose and good order of the
cemetery. No unauthorized person shall enter the cemetery except during the
normal visiting hours of that cemetery.
   (B)   Trespassing, theft or noisy, boisterous or other improper conduct or
other violations of rules may result in the arrest of the violators.
(Prior Code, § 8-10) (Ord. passed 5-9-2023) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.11 USE AS THOROUGHFARES; DRIVING OVER LOTS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   No person shall use any cemetery, or any part thereof, as a driveway
or walkway; provided that, this prohibition shall not apply to funeral
occasions nor to visiting graves.
   (B)   There shall be no driving over lots or lawns except by town employees
where necessary in the discharge of their duties. Heavy trucking shall be
permitted only in connection with work in the cemeteries. Vehicles shall not be
driven in the cemeteries faster than 15 mph.
(Prior Code, § 8-11) (Ord. passed 5-9-2023) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.12 REMOVAL OF ARTICLES.
   In order to discourage theft and unauthorized entrance upon lots or graves,
nothing may be removed from the cemeteries without the permission of the town.
(Prior Code, § 8-12) (Ord. passed 5-9-2023) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.13 LITTER; MAINTENANCE.
   No person shall deposit any rubbish, filth, waste or other unclean or
unsightly substance in any town cemetery. All materials carried within the
cemeteries and not used in the erection of monuments, markers or other lawful
structures authorized by this chapter shall be promptly removed therefrom by
the owner of the lot upon which the monument, marker or structure shall be
located.
(Prior Code, § 8-13) (Ord. passed 5-9-2023) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.14 DAMAGE.
   (A)   Headstones, vases and the like. The town shall not be liable for
accident or damage to headstones, vases, monuments or mausoleums, resulting
from the ordinary hazards of cemetery work.
   (B)   Acts of God, thieves and the like. The town shall not be liable for
loss or damage from causes beyond its reasonable control, including damage
caused by the elements, an act of God, common enemy, thieves, vandals, strikes,
malicious mischief makers, explosions, unavoidable accidents, invasions,
insurrections, riots or orders of any military or civil authority, whether the
damage is direct or collateral.
   (C)   Fences. No person shall break down, climb over or through, destroy or
otherwise injure any fence surrounding the cemetery.
   (D)   Trees, shrubs and flowers. It shall be unlawful to cut down, pull up
or otherwise injure or destroy or to carry away any trees, shrubs or flowers
growing or placed within the cemetery.
(Prior Code, § 8-14) (Ord. passed 5-9-2023) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 94: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
94.001   Definitions
Solid Wastes, Scrap Materials and Noxious Growth
   
94.020   Accumulation of solid wastes
   
94.021   Dumping or littering on public or private property
   
94.022   Transportation of solid waste within town
   
94.023   Burning or burying solid wastes
   
94.024   Scrap materials
   
94.025   Noxious growth
Storage and Collection of Solid Wastes
   
94.040   Property owners to provide adequate receptacles
   
94.041   Size, number and type of receptacles required
   
94.042   Storage and collection practices
   
94.043   Special collections
   
94.044   Ownership, maintenance, rental fee for dumpsters
   
94.045   Miscellaneous
Abandoned and Junked Motor Vehicles
   
94.060   Administration
   
94.061   Definitions
   
94.062   Abandoned vehicle unlawful; removal authorized
   
94.063   Nuisance vehicle unlawful; removal authorized
   
94.064   Junked motor vehicle regulated; removal authorized
   
94.065   Removal of abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicles; pretowing
notice requirements
   
94.066   Exceptions to prior notice requirement
   
94.067   Removal of vehicles; post-towing notice requirements
   
94.068   Right to probable cause hearing before sale or final disposition of
vehicle
   
94.069   Redemption of vehicle during proceedings
   
94.070   Sale and disposition of unclaimed vehicle
   
94.071   Conditions on removal of vehicles from private property
   
94.072   Protection against criminal or civil liability
   
94.073   Exceptions
   
94.074   Unlawful removal of impounded vehicle
Public Nuisances
   
94.080   Declaration of nuisance
   
94.081   Investigation
   
94.082   Notice
   
94.083   Abatement order
   
94.084   Failure to comply
   
94.085   Cost
   
94.086   “Owner” defined
Enforcement
   
94.100   Summary abatement of conditions dangerous or prejudicial to the public
health
   
94.101   Notice required
   
94.102   Hearing procedures
   
94.103   Order
 
   
94.999   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Abandoned and derelict vehicles generally, see G.S. §§ 20-137.6 et seq.
   Authority of town to abate public health and safety nuisances, see G.S. §
160A-193
   Authority of town to operate solid waste collection and disposal system, see
G.S. § 160A-312
   Authority of town to place containers along state highways, see G.S. § 136-
18.3
   Authority of town to prohibit littering of streets and the like, see G.S. §
160A-303.1
   Authority of town to provide for removal of abandoned or junked vehicles,
see G.S. § 160A-303
   Littering generally, see G.S. § 14-399
   Regulation of placement of garbage and refuse, see G.S. § 160A-303.1
   Removal of unauthorized vehicles from service stations, see G.S. § 20-219.3
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle that:
      (1)   Is left on public grounds or town-owned property in violation of a
law or ordinance prohibiting parking;
      (2)   Is left for longer than 24 hours on property owned or operated by
the town;
      (3)   Is left for longer than two hours on private property without the
consent of the owner, occupant, or lessee of the property; or
      (4)   Is left for longer than seven days on public grounds.
   GARBAGE. All solid wastes capable of being rapidly decomposed by
microorganisms, including, but not limited to, animal and vegetable wastes
resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food, as
well as animal offal and carcasses, but excluding sewage and human wastes.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES. An abandoned motor vehicle that also:
      (1)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked;
      (2)   Cannot be self-propelled or moved in the manner in which it was
originally intended to move;
      (3)   Is more than five years old and appears to be worth less than $100;
or
      (4)   Does not display a current license plate when the motor vehicle is
required by laws of this state to have a license plate to operate on the public
roads.
   MOTOR VEHICLES. Any machine designed or intended to travel over land or
water by self-propulsion or while attached to a self-propelled vehicle.
   PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR. The Public Works Director or any other person
designated by the manager to perform the functions and exercise the
responsibilities assigned by this chapter to the Public Works Director.
   REFUSE. All solid wastes, except:
      (1)   Garbage; and
      (2)   Solids that are dissolved or suspended in domestic, commercial or
industrial wastewater effluent.
   SCRAP MATERIALS.
      (1)   Pieces or fragments of metal, wood, glass, masonry, plastic,
textiles, rope, leather, rubber, paper or any other substance, that formerly
were part of the construction of some useful object or thing or that consist of
the excess resulting from the creation of some useful object or thing;
      (2)   Objects or things, including, but not limited to, machines, tools,
equipment, hardware, furniture, appliances and the like or parts of the same
that are no longer in serviceable condition or are valuable only as raw
material for reprocessing; or
      (3)   Motor vehicles or remnants thereof that:
         (a)   Do not display current license plates;
         (b)   Cannot, without substantial repairs, be made to operate in the
manner originally intended; and
         (c)   Are valuable only as raw materials for reprocessing, but that do
not constitute solid wastes, as herein defined, because they are or may be
useful to or wanted by or have not been discarded by the person in control of
the premises where they have been located.
   SOLID WASTES. Wastes that are nongaseous and non-liquid (except that liquid
wastes resulting from the processing of food are deemed solid wastes for the
purposes of this chapter).
   WASTES. All useless, unwanted or discarded materials resulting from
domestic, industrial, commercial or community activities.
(Prior Code, § 20.5-1) (Ord. passed 3-14-1984)
SOLID WASTES, SCRAP MATERIALS AND NOXIOUS GROWTH
§ 94.020 ACCUMULATION OF SOLID WASTES.
   (A)   Subject to the qualifications contained in division (B) below, no
person may cause, suffer or permit solid wastes to accumulate or remain on
premises under his or her control, except in accordance with the provisions
hereof.
   (B)   Natural solid waste materials resulting from lawn or garden work, such
as bush and tree trimmings, leaves, grass, stumps, dirt and stones may be
allowed to accumulate or remain on premises under a person’s control unless
these materials become or threaten to become a fire hazard or a harboring place
for rats, mice, snakes or other vermin or otherwise pose a danger to the public
health or safety.
(Prior Code, § 20.5-21) (Ord. passed 3-14-1984) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.021 DUMPING OR LITTERING ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No person may place, discard, throw, drop or deposit, or cause to be placed,
discarded, thrown, dropped or deposited any solid wastes on:
   (A)   Any public street or sidewalk within the town or on any property owned
or operated by the town or any other public property, except in properly
designated receptacles; or
   (B)   Any property not owned by him or her without the consent of the owner,
occupant or lessee thereof.
(Prior Code, § 20.5-22) (Ord. passed 3-14-1984) Penalty, see §
94.999
Editor’s note:
   G.S. § 14-399 makes the acts prohibited in this section a misdemeanor,
punishable by a fine as set forth therein (and possible community service).
§ 94.022 TRANSPORTATION OF SOLID WASTE WITHIN TOWN.
   No person may transport or cause to be transported any solid wastes on the
public streets of the town unless the solid wastes are so secured that no solid
wastes escape from the transporting vehicle. In addition, any garbage so
transported shall be carried in closed containers that prevent the escape of
noxious odors or liquids.
(Prior Code, § 20.5-23) (Ord. passed 3-14-1984) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.023 BURNING OR BURYING SOLID WASTES.
   (A)   No person may burn or cause to be burned any garbage for purposes of
disposal and no person may burn or cause to be burned any refuse unless
otherwise specifically authorized by this code.
   (B)   No person may bury or cause to be buried any solid waste for purposes
of disposal.
(Prior Code, § 20.5-24) (Ord. passed 3-14-1984) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.024 SCRAP MATERIALS.
   (A)   Declaration of policy. The Town Council hereby declares that the
uncontrolled accumulation of scrap materials on any premises constitutes a
danger to the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the town in that
the accumulations can furnish shelter and breeding places for vermin, present
physical dangers to the safety and well-being of children and other citizens,
pose a danger of fire and depreciate property values or cause a loss of
business by detracting from the appearance and character of residential and
commercial neighborhoods.
(Prior Code, § 20.5-25)
   (B)   Accumulations. No person may cause, suffer or permit scrap materials
to accumulate or remain on premises under his or her control unless the scrap
materials are:
      (1)   Surrounded by a fence of sufficient height, strength and
construction to deny persons, especially small children, access from and to
shield neighboring properties from the view of them; or
      (2)   Are so stored within a structure or within a container outside of a
structure as to minimize substantially the dangers set forth in division (A)
above.
(Prior Code, § 20.5-26)
(Ord. passed 3-14-1984) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.025 NOXIOUS GROWTH.
   No person may cause, suffer or permit on premises under his or her control
any growth of weeds, grasses or other plants or bushes that becomes or
threatens to become a fire hazard or a harboring place for rats, mice, snakes
or other vermin or otherwise poses a danger to the public health or safety.
(Prior Code, § 20.5-27) (Ord. passed 3-14-1984) Penalty, see §
94.999
STORAGE AND COLLECTION OF SOLID WASTES
§ 94.040 PROPERTY OWNERS TO PROVIDE ADEQUATE RECEPTACLES.
   The owner of every premises shall be responsible for providing adequate
solid waste receptacles in accordance with this section to store the solid
wastes generated by activities taking place on those premises between scheduled
pickups.
(Prior Code, § 20.5-31) (Ord. passed 3-14-1984)
§ 94.041 SIZE, NUMBER AND TYPE OF RECEPTACLES REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every retail, wholesale and commercial establishment generating more
than three 30-gallon trash receptacles full of waste materials twice weekly on
the regularly scheduled collection days shall be required to utilize the bulk
container system. The type and size of the containers shall be subject to the
approval of the Director of Public Works or his or her duly authorized
representative.
   (B)   Every retail, wholesale and commercial establishment not placing
refuse at the curb-side for collection on the regularly scheduled twice weekly
collection days shall likewise use the bulk container system.
   (C)   Stationary bulk refuse containers for townhouses, apartment complexes,
condominiums or group housing will be required of the owners when adequate
garbage container receptacles are not provided for their tenants. Adequate
garbage container receptacles shall be defined as masonry receptacles
constructed high enough to prevent garbage containers from being overturned by
dogs or other animals and large enough for containers having a capacity of not
more than 32 gallons.
   (D)   The owners of residential apartment buildings or of a group of
resident apartment buildings in the same complex where there are four or more
living units, either in a single building or in a complex treated as a unit,
are hereby required to install, for each resident apartment building which
contains four or more living units, and for each resident apartment group or
complex which group or complex contains, in the aggregate, four or more living
units, stationary bulk containers according to the following specifications
when adequate garbage container receptacles are not provided for their tenants.
   (E)   The minimum size stationary bulk container for any residential
apartment building will be four cubic yards. The ratio to be used for units in
excess of eight residents will be one-half cubic yard per unit.
   (F)   Prior to enforcement of the above section, the Town Manager shall give
written notice to the property owner stating the problem and giving same 15
days to provide adequate garbage container receptacles for his or her tenants.
At the expiration of 15 days the Town Manager may request permission from the
Town Council to require the respective property owner to install stationary
bulk containers.
   (G)   The term BULK CONTAINER, for the purposes of this subchapter, shall
mean a metal container of not less than four cubic yards nor more than eight
cubic yards in capacity. The container shall be of right construction with
doors opening on the sides or top and constructed so that it can be serviced by
the town equipment. The term DUMPSTER is used interchangeably with the term
BULK CONTAINER.
   (H)   Unless otherwise determined by the Public Works Director for good
cause shown, the owners of all premises not required to be served by dumpsters
shall provide at least one 30- to 32-gallon container made of galvanized metal,
plastic, rubber or other material resistant to rust, corrosion or rapid
deterioration. Each required container shall be watertight and provided with
handles and a tight fitting cover.
(Prior Code, § 20.5-32) (Ord. passed 3-14-1984) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.042 STORAGE AND COLLECTION PRACTICES.
   (A)   Premises served by dumpsters. With respect to premises served by
dumpsters:
      (1)   The location of dumpsters shall be determined by the Public Works
Director after consultation with the owner of the premises concerned. In making
this determination, the Public Works Director shall consider the needs of the
occupants of the premises, the welfare of the occupants and neighbors, and the
town’s need to facilitate collection and minimize the cost of service.
      (2)   Solid waste shall be collected from the dumpsters by the town where
the dumpsters are located by the Public Works Director.
      (3)   The Public Works Director may require that screening be provided
around dumpsters if he or she determines that the screening is necessary to
prevent solid wastes from being transported onto neighboring properties or if
the location of the dumpsters is such that, in the absence of screening, the
dumpsters would present an offensive appearance or cause offensive odors to be
transmitted to neighboring properties.
      (4)   All solid wastes shall be stored in dumpsters pending collection by
the town. No solid wastes not placed in dumpsters will be collected by the
town, except in accordance with §
94.043.
      (5)   All dumpsters shall be cleaned periodically to minimize offensive
odors and the tops or openings to all dumpsters shall be kept securely fastened
at all times pending collection.
(Prior Code, § 20.5-33)
   (B)   Premises not served by dumpsters. With respect to premises not served
by dumpsters:
      (1)   Garbage may be stored pending collection by the town only in the
receptacles described in §
94.041(H). Refuse may be stored (between scheduled collections only) in any
appropriate and convenient fashion.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, solid wastes may not
be stored between scheduled pickups within 45 feet of the centerline of any
public street unless the solid wastes are stored within a completely enclosed
substantial structure such as a house, garage or shed.
      (3)   Solid wastes shall be placed adjacent to the street for collection
on the scheduled collection day or after dark on the preceding day. After
collection, all solid waste receptacles and all uncollected solid wastes shall
be removed to a storage location that complies with division (B)(2) above by 6:
00 a.m. on the day following the collection day. Solid wastes should only be
placed on the curb of the house that generated the solid waste.
      (4)   If the Public Works Director determines that because of the
physical infirmity of the occupant of any premises, the occupant cannot without
severe hardship transport the solid wastes from the storage location required
by division (B)(2) above to the collection point required by division (B)(3)
above, he or she may do one of the following:
         (a)   Authorize the occupant to store solid wastes at or near the
pickup location between scheduled pickups;
         (b)   Provide solid wastes receptacles mounted on wheels or otherwise
constructed so that the occupant can transport the solid wastes from the point
of storage to the point of pickup; and/or
         (c)   Provide rear yard pickup service.
      (5)   Containers other than those described in §
94.041(H) will be treated as solid wastes and collected by the town.
      (6)   (a)   Grass cutting, hedge clippings, tree trimmings and similar
materials less than four inches in diameter and 60 inches in length will be
collected by the town as part of the regular collection service if properly
bundled to facilitate collection. Yard waste should only be placed on the curb
of the house that generated the yard waste. Yard waste shall be placed adjacent
to the street, not in the street and not blown into street using mechanical
blowers, to prevent waste from entering storm sewer system and making its way
into Edenton Bay.
         (b)   Yard waste collection is a residential service. Landscapers,
tree surgeons, contractors or other technicians hired by residents or property
owners to trim or remove trees on private property are responsible for removing
and properly disposing of tree trimmings and/or limbs, branches, trunks and
stumps.
      (7)   Leaves will be collected by the town between November 15 and April
1 on days specified for the collection if placed adjacent to the street so that
they may easily be handled by the collector. No tree limbs, shrubs or other
material may be mixed with the leaves. At other times during the year, leaves
will be picked up as part of the regular collection if prepared in accordance
with division (B)(6) of this section.
      (8)   Excessive amounts of yard waste items weighing more than 75 pounds
and heavy or bulky items such as tree trunks, tree trimmings or hedge cuttings
more than 60 inches in length or four inches in diameter, furniture and similar
items will be assessed fees and collected only in accordance with §
94.043.
(Prior Code, § 20.5-34)
(Ord. passed 3-14-1984; Ord. passed 7-12-2016; Ord. passed 11-14-2017) Penalty,
see §
94.999
§ 94.043 SPECIAL COLLECTIONS.
   (A)   Solid wastes that are too bulky or too heavy or too cumbersome to be
collected by the town as part of its regular collection service may be
collected by the town pursuant to a request made to the Public Works Director
and payment of a fee for this service. The town reserves the right to refuse
any request made pursuant to this section and the failure of the town to
provide this service shall not relieve any person of any of the obligations
imposed by this chapter.
   (B)   The fee will be determined by the Public Works Director based upon the
nature and amount of the materials to be collected and the estimated time
required to perform the service, but in all cases a fee of an amount as set by
the Town Council shall be charged. This fee must be paid in advance of the
service.
 
White goods        $25 per item
Mattresses         $25 per mattress
Furniture          $25 per item, unless small enough to be picked up by one
                   person
Yard debris        $25-$100, depending on size, quantity of load and equipment
Extra dumpster fee $30 for more than the required dump per week
 
(Prior Code, § 20.5-35) (Ord. passed 3-14-1984; Ord. passed 3-8-2022)
§ 94.044 OWNERSHIP, MAINTENANCE, RENTAL FEE FOR DUMPSTERS.
   (A)   The town shall purchase and maintain all bulk containers.
   (B)   The rental fee may vary from time to time, depending on the cost of
labor and equipment.
(Prior Code, § 20.5-36) (Ord. passed 3-14-1984)
§ 94.045 MISCELLANEOUS.
   (A)   Collection routes and schedules. The Public Works Director shall
establish collection routes and schedules and may alter these routes and
schedules from time to time. A copy of the current routes and schedules shall
be kept on file in the office of the Town Clerk. Notice of any changes in the
routes or schedules shall be published in the local newspaper at least ten days
before the changes are to become effective.
   (B)   Discretionary determinations. Whenever this subchapter authorizes the
Public Works Director to make a discretionary determination, all persons
affected by that determination shall comply with it within 15 calendar days
after receiving written notice of the determination and the reasons for it.
Thereafter, a failure on the part of any person receiving the notice to comply
with the determination shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
   (C)   Damaging, tampering with wastes, receptacles. No person may damage,
displace or otherwise interfere with solid waste receptacles or solid wastes
stored or prepared for collection, except with the consent of the owner, lessee
or occupant of the premises where those receptacles or solid wastes are
located.
(Prior Code, § 20.5-37) (Ord. passed 3-14-1984) Penalty, see §
94.999
ABANDONED AND JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES
§ 94.060 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Police Department and the Town Code Enforcement Officer shall be
responsible for the administration and enforcement of this subchapter. The
Police Department shall be responsible for administering the removal and
disposition of vehicles determined to be abandoned on the public streets and
highways within the town, and on property owned by the town. The Town Code
Enforcement Officer shall be responsible for administering the removal and
disposition of abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicles located on private
property. The town may, on an annual basis, contract with private tow truck
operators or towing businesses to remove, store and dispose of abandoned
vehicles, nuisance vehicles and junked motor vehicles in compliance with this
subchapter and applicable state laws. Nothing in this subchapter shall be
construed to limit the legal authority or powers of officers of the Police
Department and Fire Department in enforcing other laws or in otherwise carrying
out their duties.
(Ord. passed 7-14-2015)
§ 94.061 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. As authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-303, means a
vehicle that is designed or intended to travel over land or water by self-
propulsion or while attached to any self-propelled vehicle and:
      (1)   Is left upon a public street or highway in violation of a law or
ordinance prohibiting parking;
      (2)   Is left on a public street or highway for longer than seven days;
      (3)   Is left on property owned or operated by the town for longer than
24 hours; or
      (4)   Is left on private property without the consent of the owner,
occupant or lessee thereof for longer than two hours.
   AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL. The supervisory employee of the Police Department or
the Town Code Enforcement Officer, respectively, are designated to authorize
the removal of vehicles under the provisions of this subchapter.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE. As authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-303.2, means
a vehicle that does not display a current license plate lawfully upon that
vehicle and that:
      (1)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked;
      (2)   Cannot be self-propelled or moved in the manner in which it
originally was intended to move; or
      (3)   Is more than five years old and appears to be worth less than $100.
   MOTOR VEHICLE or VEHICLE. All machines designed or intended to travel over
land by self-propulsion or while attached to any self-propelled vehicle.
   NUISANCE VEHICLE. A vehicle on public or private property that is determined
and declared to be a health or safety hazard, a public nuisance, and unlawful,
including a vehicle found to be:
      (1)   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes, other insects, rats or
other pests;
      (2)   A point of heavy growth of weeds or other noxious vegetation over
eight inches in height;
      (3)   A point of collection of pools or ponds of water;
      (4)   A point of concentration of quantities of gasoline, oil or other
flammable or explosive materials as evidenced by odor;
      (5)   One which has areas of confinement which cannot be operated from
the inside, such as trunks, hoods, and the like;
      (6)   So situated or located that there is a danger of it falling or
turning over;
      (7)   One which is a point of collection of garbage, food waste, animal
waste or any other rotten or putrescible matter of any kind;
      (8)   One which has sharp parts thereof which are jagged or contain sharp
edges of metal or glass; or
      (9)   Any other vehicle specifically declared a health and safety hazard
and a public nuisance by the Town Council.
(Ord. passed 7-14-2015)
§ 94.062 ABANDONED VEHICLE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a vehicle to cause or allow such vehicle to be abandoned as the
term is defined herein.
   (B)   Upon investigation, proper authorizing officials of the town may
determine that a vehicle is an abandoned vehicle and order the vehicle removed.
(Ord. passed 7-14-2015)
§ 94.063 NUISANCE VEHICLE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee or occupant of the real
property upon which the vehicle is located, to leave or allow the vehicle to
remain on the property after it has been declared a nuisance vehicle.
   (B)   Upon investigation, the Town Code Enforcement Officer may determine
and declare that a vehicle is a health or safety hazard and a nuisance vehicle
as defined in §
94.061 and order the vehicle removed.
(Ord. passed 7-14-2015)
§ 94.064 JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE REGULATED; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
the possession of a junked motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee or occupant
of the real property upon which a junked motor vehicle is located, to leave or
allow the vehicle to remain on the property after the vehicle has been ordered
removed.
   (B)   (1)   Upon investigation, the Town Code Enforcement Officer may order
the removal of a junked motor vehicle, as defined in this subchapter, after
finding in writing that the aesthetic benefits of removing the vehicle outweigh
the burdens imposed on the private property owner. Such finding shall be based
on a balancing of the monetary loss of the apparent owner against the
corresponding gain to the public by promoting or enhancing community,
neighborhood or area appearance. The following, among other relevant factors,
may be considered:
         (a)   Protection of property values;
         (b)   Promotion of tourism and other economic development
opportunities;
         (c)   Indirect protection of public health and safety;
         (d)   Preservation of the character and integrity of the community;
and
         (e)   Promotion of the comfort, happiness and emotional stability of
area residents.
      (2)   No vehicle that is used on a regular basis for business or personal
use or that is substantially covered by a tarp or other vehicle cover in
reasonably good condition shall be removed or disposed of pursuant to this
division (B).
(Ord. passed 7-14-2015)
§ 94.065 REMOVAL OF ABANDONED, NUISANCE OR JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES; PRETOWING
NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as set forth in §
94.066, an abandoned, nuisance or junked vehicle which is to be removed shall
be towed only after notice to the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of the vehicle. In the case of a nuisance vehicle or a junked motor
vehicle, if the names and mailing addresses of the registered owner or person
entitled to the possession of the vehicle or the owner, lessee or occupant of
the real property upon which the vehicle is located can be ascertained in the
exercise of reasonable diligence, the notice shall be given by first-class
mail. The person who mails the notice shall retain a written record to show the
name and address to which mailed and the date mailed. If such names and
addresses cannot be ascertained or if the vehicle to be removed is an abandoned
motor vehicle, notice shall be given by affixing on the windshield or some
other conspicuous place on the vehicle a notice indicating that the vehicle
will be removed by the town on a specific date (no sooner than seven days after
the notice is affixed). The notice shall state that the vehicle will be removed
by the town on a specified date no sooner than seven days after the notice is
affixed or mailed, unless the vehicle is moved by the owner or legal possessor
prior to that time.
   (B)   With respect to abandoned vehicles on private property, nuisance
vehicles and junked motor vehicles to which notice is required to be given, if
the registered owner or person entitled to possession does not remove the
vehicle but chooses to appeal the determination that the vehicle is abandoned,
a nuisance vehicle or in the case of a junked motor vehicle that the aesthetic
benefits of removing the vehicle outweigh the burdens, such appeal shall be
made to the Town Council in writing, heard at the next regularly scheduled
meeting of the Town Council, and further proceedings to remove the vehicle
shall be stayed until the appeal is heard and decided.
(Ord. passed 7-14-2015)
§ 94.066 EXCEPTIONS TO PRIOR NOTICE REQUIREMENT.
   The requirement that notice be given prior to the removal of an abandoned,
nuisance or junked motor vehicle may, as determined by the authorizing
official, be omitted in the situation in which the vehicle is left on private
property without the consent of the owner, occupant or lessee thereof for
longer than two hours and the owner, occupant or lessee has complied with §
94.071, or in those circumstances where there is a special need for prompt
action to eliminate traffic obstructions or to otherwise maintain and protect
the public safety and welfare. Such findings shall, in all cases, be entered by
the authorizing official in the appropriate daily records. Circumstances
justifying the removal of vehicles without prior notice include:
   (A)   Vehicles abandoned on the streets. For vehicles left on the public
streets and highways, the Town Council hereby determines that immediate removal
of such vehicles may be warranted when they are:
      (1)   Obstructing traffic;
      (2)   Parked in violation of an ordinance prohibiting or restricting
parking;
      (3)   Parked in a no-stopping or standing zone;
      (4)   Parked in loading zones;
      (5)   Parked in bus zones; or
      (6)   Parked in violation of temporary parking restrictions imposed under
Code sections.
   (B)   Other abandoned or nuisance vehicles. With respect to other abandoned
or nuisance vehicles, such vehicles may be removed without giving prior notice
in those circumstances where the authorizing official finds a special need for
prompt action to protect and maintain the public health, safety and welfare. By
way of illustration and not of limitation, such circumstances include vehicles
blocking or obstructing ingress or egress to businesses and residences,
vehicles parked in such a location or manner as to pose a traffic hazard, and
vehicles causing damage to public or private property.
   (C)   Vehicles left parked longer than two hours on private property. The
vehicle has been left on private property without the consent of the owner,
occupant or lessee thereof for longer than two hours and the owner, occupant or
lessee has complied with §
94.071.
(Ord. passed 7-14-2015)
§ 94.067 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES; POST-TOWING NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle which has been ordered
removed may, as directed by the town, be removed to a storage garage or area by
the tow truck operator or towing business contracting to perform such services
for the town. Whenever such a vehicle is removed, the authorizing town official
shall immediately notify the last-known registered owner of the vehicle, such
notice to include the following:
      (1)   The description of the removed vehicle;
      (2)   The location where the vehicle is stored;
      (3)   The violation with which the owner is charged, if any;
      (4)   The procedure the owner must follow to redeem the vehicle; and
      (5)   The procedure the owner must follow to request a probable cause
hearing on the removal.
   (B)   The town shall attempt to give notice to the vehicle owner by
telephone; however, whether or not the owner is reached by telephone, written
notice, including the information set forth in divisions (A)(1) through (5) of
this section, shall also be mailed to the registered owner's last-known
address, unless this notice is waived in writing by the vehicle owner or his or
her agent.
   (C)   If the vehicle is registered in the state, notice shall be given
within 24 hours. If the vehicle is not registered in the state, notice shall be
given to the registered owner within 72 hours from the removal of the vehicle.
   (D)   Whenever an abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle is removed and
such vehicle has no valid registration or registration plates, the authorizing
town official shall make reasonable efforts, including checking the vehicle
identification number, to determine the last-known registered owner of the
vehicle and to notify him or her of the information set forth in divisions (A)
(1) through (5) of this section.
(Ord. passed 7-14-2015)
§ 94.068 RIGHT TO PROBABLE CAUSE HEARING BEFORE SALE OR FINAL DISPOSITION OF
VEHICLE.
   After the removal of an abandoned vehicle, nuisance vehicle or junked motor
vehicle, the owner or any other person entitled to possession is entitled to a
hearing for the purpose of determining if probable cause existed for removing
the vehicle. A request for hearing must be filed in writing with the County
Magistrate designated by the Chief District Court Judge to receive such hearing
requests. The magistrate will set the hearing within 72 hours of receipt of the
request, and the hearing will be conducted in accordance with the provisions of
G.S. § 20-219.11, as amended.
(Ord. passed 7-14-2015)
§ 94.069 REDEMPTION OF VEHICLE DURING PROCEEDINGS.
   At any stage in the proceedings, including before the probable cause
hearing, the owner may obtain possession of the removed vehicle by paying the
towing fee, including any storage charges, or by posting a bond for double the
amount of such fees and charges to the tow truck operator or towing business
having custody of the removed vehicle. Upon regaining possession of a vehicle,
the owner or person entitled to the possession of the vehicle shall not allow
or engage in further violations of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 7-14-2015)
§ 94.070 SALE AND DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLE.
   Any abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle which is not claimed by the
owner or other party entitled to possession will be disposed of by the tow
truck operator or towing business having custody of the vehicle. Disposition of
such vehicle shall be carried out in coordination with the town and in
accordance with G.S. Ch. 44A, Art. 1 (G.S. §§ 44A-1 through 44A-6.1).
(Ord. passed 7-14-2015)
§ 94.071 CONDITIONS ON REMOVAL OF VEHICLES FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   Except as provided in §
94.064(B), as a general policy, the town will not remove a vehicle from private
property if the owner, occupant or lessee of such property could have the
vehicle removed under applicable state law procedures. In no case will a
vehicle be removed by the town from private property without a written request
of the owner, occupant or lessee, except in those cases where a vehicle is a
nuisance vehicle or is a junked motor vehicle which has been ordered removed by
the Town Code Enforcement Officer pursuant to §
94.064(B). The town shall require any person requesting the removal of an
abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle from private property to indemnify
the town against any loss, expense or liability incurred because of the
removal, storage or sale thereof.
(Ord. passed 7-14-2015)
§ 94.072 PROTECTION AGAINST CRIMINAL OR CIVIL LIABILITY.
   No person shall be held to answer in any civil or criminal action to any
owner or other person legally entitled to the possession of an abandoned,
nuisance or junked motor vehicle for disposing of such vehicle as provided in
this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 7-14-2015)
§ 94.073 EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall apply to any vehicle:
   (A)   Which is located in a bona fide automobile graveyard or junkyard, as
defined in G.S. § 136-143, in accordance with the Junkyard Control Act, G.S. §§
136-141 et seq.;
   (B)   Which is in an enclosed building;
   (C)   Which is on the premises of a business enterprise being operated in a
lawful place and manner if the vehicle is necessary to the operation of the
enterprise; or
   (D)   Which is in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a
lawful place and manner by the town.
(Ord. passed 7-14-2015)
§ 94.074 UNLAWFUL REMOVAL OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or attempt to remove from any
storage facility designated by the town any vehicle which has been impounded
pursuant to the provisions of this Code unless and until all towing and
impoundment fees which are due, or bond in lieu of such fees, have been paid.
(Ord. passed 7-14-2015)
PUBLIC NUISANCES
§ 94.080 DECLARATION OF NUISANCE.
   The existence of any of the following conditions on any vacant lot or other
parcel of land within the corporate limits is hereby declared to be dangerous
and prejudicial to the public health or safety and to constitute a public
nuisance:
   (A)   The uncontrolled growth of noxious weeds or grass to a height in
excess of ten inches causing or threatening to cause a hazard detrimental to
the public health or safety;
   (B)   Any accumulation of rubbish, trash or junk causing or threatening to
cause a fire hazard, or causing or threatening to cause the accumulation of
stagnant water, or causing or threatening to cause the inhabitation therein of
rats, mice, snakes or vermin of any kind which is or may be dangerous or
prejudicial to the public health;
   (C)   Any accumulation of animal or vegetable matter that is offensive by
virtue of odors or vapors of by the inhabitance therein of rats, mice, snakes
or vermin of any kind which is or may be dangerous or prejudicial to the public
health;
   (D)   The open storage of any abandoned ice box, refrigerator, stove, glass,
furniture, other appliances, building material, building rubbish, other waste
or similar items; and
   (E)   Any condition detrimental to the public health, which violates the
rules and regulations of the County Health Department.
(Ord. passed 9-9-2003)
§ 94.081 INVESTIGATION.
   The Town Code Enforcement Officer, upon notice from any person of the
possible existence of any of the conditions described in §
94.080, shall cause to be made by the appropriate County Health Department
official or town official, the investigation as may be necessary to determine
whether conditions exist which may constitute a public nuisance as declared in
§
94.080.
(Ord. passed 9-9-2003)
§ 94.082 NOTICE.
   (A)   If it appears that the conditions exist, the Town Code Enforcement
Officer shall cause to be delivered or mailed to the owner of the property upon
which the conditions exist, by certified mail return receipt requested, a
notice stating the reasons why the conditions constitute a violation and that
the property owner has the right to a hearing to be held before the Town Code
Enforcement Officer at a place fixed in the notice, not less than five, nor
more than 30, days after the delivery or mailing of the notice.
   (B)   The notice period shall be such as is reasonable given:
      (1)   The nature of condition in question;
      (2)   The likelihood that the condition will become significantly worse
if not addressed promptly; and
      (3)   The action reasonably required to remedy the condition.
   (C)   The owner or any party in interest shall have the right to file an
answer to the notice with the Town Code Enforcement Officer, and to appear and
give evidence at the place and time fixed in the notice. Any person desiring to
do so may attend the hearing and give information relevant to the matter being
heard. The rules of evidence applicable to the courts of law or equity shall
not apply at the hearings. If the notice is not contested either in writing or
in person, then no hearing shall be required.
   (D)   If the condition alleged to exist is a “recurrent” condition, then the
Town Code Enforcement Officer need not comply with the notice requirements of
division (C) above, and the town shall be entitled to proceed under §
94.084 below without further notice. A “recurrent” condition is a condition
which continues or reoccurs after three notices of the condition have been
mailed to or served on the property owner as required by division (C) above.
(Ord. passed 9-9-2003)
§ 94.083 ABATEMENT ORDER.
   If the property owner does not contest the allegations concerning the
condition of the property as set forth in the notice, or if a hearing is held
and a determination is made that the conditions constituting a public nuisance
exist, the Town Code Enforcement Officer shall notify the property owner in
writing of the conditions constituting the public nuisance and shall order the
prompt abatement thereof within five days from the mailing or delivering of the
written notice.
(Ord. passed 9-9-2003)
§ 94.084 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   If the owner, having been ordered to abate a public nuisance, fails,
neglects or refuses to abate or remove the condition constituting the nuisance
within five days from mailing or delivery of the order, the Town Code
Enforcement Officer shall cause the condition to be removed or otherwise
remedied by having employees of the town to go upon the premises and remove or
otherwise abate the nuisance under the supervision of an officer or employee
designated by the Town Code Enforcement Officer. Any person who has been
ordered to abate a public nuisance may within the time allowed by this
subchapter request the town in writing to remove the condition, the cost of
which shall be paid by the person making the request.
(Ord. passed 9-9-2003)
§ 94.085 COST.
   (A)   The actual cost incurred by the town in removing or otherwise
remedying a public nuisance shall he charged to the owner of the lot or parcel
of land, and it shall be the duty of the Town Tax Collector to forward, by
certified mail-return receipt requested, a statement of the charges to the
owner or other person in possession of the premises with instructions that the
charges are due and payable within 30 days from the receipt thereof.
   (B)   In the event charges for the removal or abatement of a public nuisance
are not paid within 30 days after the receipt of a statement of charges as
provided for in division (A) above, the charges shall become a lien upon the
land or premises where the public nuisance existed and shall be collected as
unpaid taxes, as provided in G.S. § 160A-193.
(Ord. passed 9-9-2003)
§ 94.086 “OWNER” DEFINED.
   For purposes of notice to be given pursuant to this subchapter, the owner of
a property shall be the owner most readily ascertainable by the Town Code
Enforcement Officer from the public, records, together with the owner in actual
possession of the property.
(Ord. passed 9-9-2003)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 94.100 SUMMARY ABATEMENT OF CONDITIONS DANGEROUS OR PREJUDICIAL TO THE PUBLIC
HEALTH.
   If the Town Council concludes, after notice and hearing as provided in this
subchapter, that any condition or situation prohibited by this subchapter or
any other condition or situation is dangerous or prejudicial to the public
health or safety, it may order town officials to summarily remove, abate or
remedy everything so found within the town limits or within one mile thereof.
(Prior Code, § 20.5-56) (Ord. passed 9-11-1990)
§ 94.101 NOTICE REQUIRED.
   Before the action authorized by §
94.100 is taken, notice shall be sent to the respondent, informing him or her:
   (A)   What condition or situation is alleged to be dangerous or prejudicial
to the public health or safety;
   (B)   When and where the Town Council will meet to hold a hearing on the
issue of whether the condition cited is dangerous or prejudicial to public
health;
   (C)   If the Town Council determines that the cited condition is dangerous
or prejudicial to public health or safety, it may order town officials to
summarily abate, remedy or correct the offending condition; and
   (D)   The expenses incurred by the town in connection with the actions
described in division (C) of this section, if not paid by the respondent, shall
become a lien upon the land where the offending condition is located, to be
collected as unpaid taxes. If after due diligence, the respondent’s address
cannot be determined, then the notice required by this section shall be posted
conspicuously on the offending property not later than three days before the
scheduled hearing. This notice shall be sent by mail (certified, deliver to
addressee only, return receipt requested) not later than five calendar days
prior to the scheduled hearing or delivered to the respondent by a town officer
or employee, not later than three days prior to the scheduled hearing. For
purposes of this division (D), the RESPONDENT is the person who is responsible
for the offending condition, as well as the owner of the property where the
offending condition is located, if different from the former.
(Prior Code, § 20.5-57) (Ord. passed 9-11-1990)
§ 94.102 HEARING PROCEDURES.
   At the hearing held pursuant to this subchapter, the town administration
shall be responsible for presenting sufficient evidence to the Town Council to
substantiate a finding that a condition exists that is dangerous or prejudicial
to the public health or safety. The Town Council may consider all reliable
evidence and need not be bound by the strict rules of evidence applicable to
courts of law, but all witnesses shall be sworn. The respondent may be
represented by counsel and may present evidence. All parties may cross-examine
adverse witnesses. At the conclusion of the hearing, the Town Council shall
make findings of fact, state its conclusions and enter an appropriate order.
The Town Council’s findings of fact, conclusion and order shall be reduced to
writing and a copy sent by mail or delivered to the respondent within three
days following the hearing.
(Prior Code, § 20.5-58) (Ord. passed 9-11-1990)
§ 94.103 ORDER.
   If the Town Council concludes that a situation or condition exists that is
dangerous or prejudicial to the public health or safety, it may:
   (A)   Order appropriate town officials or employees to summarily remove,
abate or remedy everything so found and to assess the cost of this action
against the respondent in accordance with §
94.999(B)(2); or
   (B)   Order the respondent to correct the situation within a specified time
period and order town officials to abate, correct or remedy the offending
condition if the respondent fails to act within the prescribed time limits.
(Prior Code, § 20.5-59) (Ord. passed 9-11-1990)
§ 94.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   (a) A violation of any of the following provisions of this
chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor, punishable as provided in G.S. § 14-4:
§§
94.020 through
94.025 (except §
94.021) and §§
94.040 through
94.045.
         (b)   A violation of any of the provisions specified in division (B)
(1)(a) above (as well as §
94.021) shall also subject the offender to a civil penalty of an amount as set
by the Town Council. If the offender fails to pay this penalty within 15
calendar days after being cited for a violation, the penalty may be recovered
by the town in a civil action in the nature of debt.
         (c)   Each day that any violation continues after a person has been
notified that the violation exists and that he or she is subject to the
penalties specified in divisions (B)(1)(a) and (b) above shall constitute a
separate offense.
         (d)   This chapter may also be enforced by an appropriate equitable
action, including injunctions or orders of abatement.
         (e)   The town may enforce this chapter by any one or any combination
of the foregoing remedies.
(Prior Code, § 20.5-51)
      (2)   (a)   Whenever a violation of §§
94.020 through
94.025 and §§
94.040 through
94.045 results from a continuing condition rather than a discrete event, a
written notice shall be sent to the last known address of the responsible
person, specifying the nature of the violation and what must be done to correct
it, requiring the responsible person to correct the violation within ten
calendar days after delivery of the notice, and informing the responsible
person of the possible consequences of his or her failure to comply.
         (b)   Whenever a violation of §§
94.020 through
94.025 and §§
94.040 through
94.045 results from a continuing condition rather than a discrete event, the
penalties and remedies provided for in division (B)(1) above may not be invoked
until after the ten-day correction period specified in the section has expired.
(Prior Code, § 20.5-52)
   (C)   The procedure set forth in §§
94.080 through
94.086 shall be in addition to any other remedies that may now or hereafter
exist under law for the abatement of public nuisances and §§
94.080 through
94.086 shall not prevent the town from proceeding in a criminal action against
any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of §§
94.080 through
94.086 as provided in G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. passed 3-14-1984; Ord. passed 9-9-2003)
CHAPTER 95: TOWN DOCKS
Section
   
95.01   Establishment
   
95.02   Statement of policy
   
95.03   Operation
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   All that part of the waterfront between Colonial Park and Edenton Bay
specifically maintained by the town for boat docking facilities shall be known
as the “Edenton Town Docks” and is hereby set apart for the purpose of this
section to be used as a public wharf for recreational boat docking.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2001)
§ 95.02 STATEMENT OF POLICY.
   The town has established the Edenton Town Docks for the primary purpose of
attracting transient recreational boaters to the town for short-term stays. The
Town Docks are not intended to compete with private marina or docking
facilities. All existing local, state and federal ordinances, statutes and
rules shall apply to the use of the Town Docks. Areas adjacent to the Town
Docks and protected by human-made barriers shall be designated “No-Wake” zones.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2001)
§ 95.03 OPERATION.
   (A)   The Town Manager, or the Town Manager’s designee, shall administer the
provisions of this chapter. The Town Manager may establish rules and a fee
schedule for the use and operation of the Town Docks consistent with the
provisions of this chapter. An owner shall remove any vessel from the Town
Docks if the owner or vessel remains in willful violation of any of the use and
operation rules established by the Town Manager or, if in the judgement of the
Town Manager, the continued mooring of a vessel during inclement weather could
damage the docks.
   (B)   The mooring of vessels at or adjacent to the Town Docks shall be in
locations designated by the Town Manager. The Town Manager may also designate
certain docking areas to be available for the short-term daily docking of
vessels in lengths which may be governed by the rules. Anchoring in areas
enclosed by the breakwater surrounding the Town Docks is prohibited.
   (C)   The Edenton Town Docks are reserved for the mooring of recreational
boats only. The Town Manager may, in her or his discretion and as deemed
appropriate, issue a mooring permit for certain commercial vessels engaged in
activities such as passenger transportation (cruise vessels), historical
displays, maritime training, government research, law enforcement and aids to
navigation maintenance. The Town Manager may allow passenger “water taxi”
enterprises to moor on a short-term basis for the purpose of loading and
unloading passengers at the Town Docks.
   (D)   No vessel engaged in private commercial enterprise, including
commercial fishing of any type, shall be allowed to moor, or load and unload
equipment or catch, at the Town Docks. No person shall operate a commercial
enterprise sale of goods from any boat moored at the Town Docks.
   (E)   No person shall swim or dive from the Town Docks or from any vessel
moored at the Town Docks. Fishing shall not be permitted in those areas of the
Town Docks reserved for the mooring of boats.
   (F)   Areas of the Town Docks exclusively maintained as boat-mooring areas
shall be accessible only by boat owners and their guests. No person shall climb
into or upon any vessel moored, docked or anchored at the Town Docks without
the consent of the owners or other person having charge thereof.
   (G)   No person shall willfully or carelessly destroy, damage, disturb,
deface or interfere with any buoy, float, life preserver, navigational marker,
light, sign, lines, bumpers or dock appurtenance, in the jurisdiction of the
town.
   (H)   Mooring at the Town Docks shall be limited to a period of seven days.
The first 48 hours of a stay shall be free of charge. A vessel shall be limited
to a single free of charge period for any stays within a 30-day period. The
Town Manager may issue a special permit for mooring periods beyond seven days
as deemed appropriate due to exigent circumstances.
   (I)   Any vessel moored at the Town Docks which is not seaworthy, or is not
in overall good condition, or which constitutes a fire hazard or a threat to
the environment or public health and safety shall immediately be removed by the
owner. If a vessel shall sink at the Town Docks, the owner thereof shall
immediately remove the submerged vessel at his or her own expense.
   (J)   If a vessel owner remains in willful violation of established rules,
or if a vessel remains beyond a period of seven days without a special permit
from the Town Manager, or is abandoned, or is not removed upon a finding of any
of the conditions herein, or remains submerged after sinking, then the Town
Manager may cause the vessel to be removed and stored. The cost of the removal
and storage and the cost of any damages and cleanup of the Town Docks,
shoreline and waters within the town’s jurisdiction shall be the responsibility
of the boat owner. The costs shall attach as a lien against the vessel as may
be allowed by federal and state law.
   (K)   The Town Manager, in her or his discretion and based on circumstances
benefiting the public, may suspend portions of this chapter and rules governing
the operation of the Edenton Town Docks for the purpose of accommodating
special events, appropriate holidays, emergencies including force majuere or
safe harbor courtesies or other warranting circumstances.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2001) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   A violation of any provision of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor as
provided by G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2001)
CHAPTER 96: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
96.01   Naming streets
   
96.02   Removal of snow and ice
   
96.03   Playing and roller skating
   
96.04   House moving
   
96.05   Deposits on streets generally
   
96.06   Burning trash and the like
   
96.07   Street addresses
Obstructions
   
96.20   Generally
   
96.21   Construction
   
96.22   Hanging gates
   
96.23   Sheds and awnings
   
96.24   Tree limbs
   
96.25   Plantings and the like
   
96.26   Displays; goods generally; animals
Excavations, Repairs and the Like
   
96.40   Permits
   
96.41   Protection of excavations
   
96.42   Restoration
 
   
96.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to establish and control streets, see G.S. § 160A-296
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 96.01 NAMING STREETS.
   (A)   The Town Council shall designate the names of town streets.
   (B)   A record of the designation shall be made in the minutes of the
meeting of the Town Council.
   (C)   The Town Manager shall be responsible for maintaining an official and
up-to-date map of the town showing names of streets as so designated and shall
be responsible for maintaining a file of a copy of the minutes of the Town
Council showing the designation of all names of town streets.
(Prior Code, § 21-1)
§ 96.02 REMOVAL OF SNOW AND ICE.
   Every occupant of a store building in front of which the sidewalk is paved
with stone, brick, asphalt or cement shall remove snow, ice or other
obstruction from the sidewalk at the earliest possible time and as soon as the
weather permits.
(Prior Code, § 21-2) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.03 PLAYING AND ROLLER SKATING.
   (A)   No person shall play on any of the streets or sidewalks of the town.
(Prior Code, § 21-3)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to skate on any of the streets of
the town; provided that, persons may skate on the sidewalks in any place except
the business section.
(Prior Code, § 21-4)
Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.04 HOUSE MOVING.
   No person shall move any house or building upon or across the public streets
or sidewalks without the written consent of the Town Council and the deposit of
a good and sufficient bond in the sum as to cover damages done to the street or
sidewalk or to any property of any person during the move.
(Prior Code, § 21-5) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.05 DEPOSITS ON STREETS GENERALLY.
   (A)   None of the following shall be thrown, swept, dumped or deposited on
any street or sidewalk of the town:
      (1)   Lemon peel, banana peel, watermelon rind, grape skins or orange
peel;
      (2)   Scrap paper, straw, rags, feathers, building material scraps,
liquid wastes, lubricating or fuel oil or any other flammable or combustible
wastes;
      (3)   Bottles, cans or glass;
      (4)   Tree trimmings or shrubbery, except in accordance with regulations
adopted by the town for the collection of the trimmings; and
      (5)   Samples of medicines or drugs.
   (B)   If any person, while transporting or hauling or causing to be
transported or hauled, any rubbish or waste material, earth excavation, coal or
other material, shall throw, drop or deposit or cause to be thrown, dropped or
deposited, the rubbish or material from the body of the vehicle, the person
shall, upon conviction thereof, daily clean up and remove the rubbish or
material in a manner satisfactory to the town. If the persons fails to remove
the rubbish and the like, the town may clean up and remove the rubbish and
material, and the town may collect the cost of the cleaning up and removal from
the person.
(Prior Code, § 21-6) (Ord. passed 4-10-1973) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.06 BURNING TRASH AND THE LIKE.
   No trash, refuse or rubbish shall be burned on any street or sidewalk of the
town.
(Prior Code, § 21-7) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.07 STREET ADDRESSES.
   (A)   Applicability. This section shall apply to the incorporated areas of
the town.
   (B)   Duty of owner to display number. It shall be the duty of each owner of
a residential, institutional, industrial or commercial building to clearly
display the proper street address number on the assigned building so as to be
visible from the nearest public vehicular area, as defined in G.S. § 20-4.01.
   (C)   Display, visibility, size and placement of numbers. Within 60 days of
adoption of this section, the owner or occupant of the building shall display
or cause to be displayed the assigned address. The displayed street number
shall be no less than three inches high on single and duplex buildings, no less
than six inches high on multi-unit buildings, attached to the principle use
structure and clearly legible from the nearest public vehicular area. Should
the structure be too far from the public vehicular area for the numerals to be
seen, the property owner shall also display an additional set of numerals
legible from vehicles traveling at the prevailing speed on the roadway. The
numbers shall be located where the main driveway to the building intersects the
nearest public or private street.
   (D)   Removal and incorrect display prohibited; violation and penalty. It
shall be unlawful for any person or corporation to remove or deface a street
address which is displayed in accordance with division (C) above. It shall also
be unlawful to allow an incorrect street address to remain on a building.
(Prior Code, § 21-7.1) (Ord. passed 11-14-1989) Penalty, see §
96.99
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 96.20 GENERALLY.
   No brick, stone, wood or other substance obstructing the free passage of
persons and vehicles shall be placed or suffered to lie in any of the alley
ways, streets or other routes of the town, nor shall any person place on or in
any of the streets, sidewalks or alley ways of the town any boxes, crates,
casks or barrels of any description or any other obstruction of any kind;
provided that:
   (A)   The owner of any property not having a rear entrance suitable for
loading and unloading merchandise may use the sidewalk immediately in front of
the place of business for the purpose of loading and unloading merchandise, but
the merchandise shall in no instance remain on the sidewalk for a period
exceeding one hour, and at all times during the period of loading and
unloading, a safe and suitable passageway shall be provided for pedestrians
using the sidewalk; and/or
   (B)   Any person erecting a building may, with permission, place building
material for immediate use on the streets in a way as not to interfere with
usual traffic.
(Prior Code, § 21-8) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.21 CONSTRUCTION.
   Before building or remodeling at any place where the same is in close
proximity to the sidewalk, a passageway shall be constructed so as to leave the
sidewalk unobstructed and provide safe and easy passage.
(Prior Code, § 21-9) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.22 HANGING GATES.
   It shall be unlawful to hang any gate to swing across the sidewalk, but all
gates shall be hung so as to swing inside of the lot which they are intended to
enclose.
(Prior Code, § 21-10) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.23 SHEDS AND AWNINGS.
   No person shall erect or repair over any sidewalk any wooden shed or awning
or any wooden shed for the support of an awning or erect upon any street or
sidewalk any post for the support of any awning; provided that, this section
shall not be construed to prevent the erection over the sidewalk of cloth or
metal awnings supported upon metallic frames firmly suspended from the building
and at least seven and one-half feet above the level of the sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 21-11) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.24 TREE LIMBS.
   No person shall permit the limbs from any tree growing on his or her land to
grow or hang as to obstruct or interfere with the free passage of persons along
sidewalks or streets.
(Prior Code, § 21-12) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.25 PLANTINGS AND THE LIKE.
   No plantings or obstruction may be made on the right-of-way between the curb
and sidewalks 50 feet from the corner of the intersections or more than 30
inches high, without town approval.
(Prior Code, § 21-13) (Ord. passed 4-10-1973) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.26 DISPLAYS; GOODS GENERALLY; ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall place for display or sale any goods, wares or
merchandise of any kind upon any of the sidewalks of the town when the display
would extend out on the sidewalk, except as follows.
      (1)   Any person shall be permitted to use two and one-half feet of the
sidewalk in front of his or her place of business, immediately adjoining and
next to the building used as a place of business, for the purpose of exhibiting
goods, wares and merchandise, but for no other purpose.
      (2)   Any goods, wares or merchandise displayed under this section shall
be removed from the sidewalks at the closing hour each night and no portion of
the goods, wares or merchandise shall be left on the sidewalks for a longer
period.
   (B)   The Town Council may allow, by application of encroachment, the
placement of street furniture, canopy support post, sandwich-board type signs
and restaurant encroachments for dining purposes within the right-of-way of the
Downtown Business District. It shall be the responsibility of the property
owners or tenant, as applicable, to remove the same within one weeks notice by
the Public Work Director to facilitate right-of-way repairs. Failure to comply
with the rules on the encroachment application may result in the revocation of
the encroachment permit.
(Prior Code, § 21-14)
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to display or have displayed on
sidewalks or streets any animal.
(Prior Code, § 21-15)
(Ord. passed 11-27-2000) Penalty, see §
96.99
EXCAVATIONS, REPAIRS AND THE LIKE
§ 96.40 PERMITS.
   (A)   Excavations. It shall be unlawful for any person to dig any hole,
ditch or excavation of any kind whatsoever on any street or sidewalk in the
town without first securing a permit therefor from the Town Manager. Permits
for any excavation shall not be issued unless and until the person desiring the
permit demonstrates that signs of the type required by the Police Department
are on hand and will be placed at or near the excavation in accordance with
Police Department instructions.
   (B)   Sidewalk construction. No sidewalk of any description shall be
constructed by any person without a written permit from the Town Manager.
(Prior Code, § 21-16) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.41 PROTECTION OF EXCAVATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person making any excavation for any
purpose whatsoever in any of the streets or sidewalks to fail to securely cover
the excavations with planks or place ropes or other barricades around the
excavation three feet from the ground or fail to place a sufficient number of
lights around the excavation before dark and to keep the light burning all
night every night the excavation shall be open.
   (B)   In addition, it shall be unlawful for any person making any excavation
to fail to place the required signs at or near the excavation as required by
the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 21-17) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.42 RESTORATION.
   It shall be the duty of every person who shall open or dig a ditch, trench
or hole in any street, public alley or sidewalk of the town to put the street,
public alley or sidewalk in as good condition, in all respects, as it was
before the excavation was undertaken.
(Prior Code, § 21-18) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any violation of §
96.07 shall subject the offender to a civil penalty of $50. Violators will be
issued a written citation. Each day’s continuing violation shall be a separate
and distinct offense.
(Prior Code, § 21-7.1) (Ord. passed 11-14-1989)
CHAPTER 97: TREES
Section
   
97.01   Purpose
   
97.02   Definitions
   
97.03   Town Tree Committee
   
97.04   Operation
   
97.05   Acceptable tree species
   
97.06   Location and spacing of street trees
   
97.07   Public tree care
   
97.08   Tree protection during construction
   
97.09   Tree topping
   
97.10   Removal of stumps
   
97.11   License and bond
   
97.12   Review by Town Council
   
97.13   Enforcement and appeal
 
   
97.99   Penalty
§ 97.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the planting, maintenance
and removal of trees on municipally-owned public property and rights-of-way
within the town and on municipally-owned property wherever located. In order to
protect and conserve trees on public property and rights-of-way, this chapter
provides for the pruning, treatment and removal of trees and shrubs as is
deemed necessary by the Town Council or a person acting under the authority of
the Town Council. This chapter is also intended to provide for the trimming or
removal of trees on public or private land when they obscure street light,
interfere with utility lines, constitute a hazard to pedestrian or vehicular
traffic or otherwise endanger the public health, safety or welfare.
   (B)   Another purpose of this chapter is to encourage the protection of
trees and express the town’s intent to use trees to create a more natural and
amendable human environment. This chapter is not intended to be punitive nor to
cause hardship to any person who uses the utmost care and diligence to protect
trees within the town or on town property.
(Ord. passed 8-9-1988)
§ 97.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARK TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation in public
parks having individual names, and all areas owned by the town, or to which the
public has free access as a park. (Note: Industry-owned public parks.)
   STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation on land
lying within rights-of-way on either side of all streets, avenues or ways
within the town.
(Ord. passed 8-9-1988)
§ 97.03 TOWN TREE COMMITTEE.
   (A)   (1)   There is hereby created and established a Town Tree Committee
for the town, which shall consist of seven members, citizens and residents of
the town who shall be recommended by the Mayor and approved by the Town
Council.
      (2)   Residents of the town’s extra territorial jurisdiction (ETJ), who
are not residents of the town, but who can contribute relevant knowledge and
expertise to the Tree Committee may serve in a non-voting, advisory capacity to
the Committee subject to their approval by the Town Council.
      (3)   The Mayor shall designate a member of the Town Council to serve as
liaison to the Tree Committee. The Town Manager and the Landscape Supervisor
shall serve as ex-officio members of the committee. Other ex-officio members
may be designated as necessary.
   (B)   The term of the five persons to be appointed shall be three years,
except that the term of two of the members appointed to the first Committee
shall be for only one year and the term of two members of the first Committee
shall be for two years. At the expiration of a member’s term of office, a
successor shall be recommended to the Mayor by the committee for approval by
the Town Council. A member may succeed himself or herself. In the event that a
vacancy shall occur during the term of any member, the successor shall be
appointed (as specified above) for the unexpired portion of the term.
   (C)   (1)   It shall be the responsibility of the Tree Committee to study,
investigate, counsel, develop and/or update annually, and administer a written
plan for the care, preservation, pruning, planting, replanting, removal or
disposition of trees and shrubs in parks, along streets and in other public
areas. The plan will be presented annually to the Town Council and, upon its
acceptance and approval, shall constitute the official comprehensive tree plan
for the town.
      (2)   The Landscape Supervisor shall present to the Tree Committee by
their March meeting itemized budget requests for plant replacement, maintenance
and repair items and capital expenditures. The Tree Committee shall review
these requests in developing the annual plan according to division (C)(1) above
and forward them to the Town Manager for his or her budget processing.
      (3)   The Tree Committee shall serve in an advisory capacity on all town-
initiated construction projects in an effort to plan for and manage the town’s
vegetative resources.
      (4)   The Tree Committee when requested by the Town Council, snail
consider, investigate, make findings, report and recommend upon any special
matter of question coming within the scope of its work.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere
with the Town Tree Committee or any of its agents, while engaging in and about
the planting, cultivation, mulching, pruning, spraying or removing of any
street trees, park trees or trees on public grounds, as authorized in this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 8-9-1988) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.04 OPERATION.
   The Tree Committee shall choose its own officers, make its own rules and
regulations, and keep a journal of its proceedings. A majority of the members
shall be a quorum for the transaction of business and a majority vote of those
present shall be required to constitute action of the Committee.
(Ord. passed 8-9-1988)
§ 97.05 ACCEPTABLE TREE SPECIES.
   (A)   (1)   An official list of species approved for use as street trees in
the town and a list of those species whose use is prohibited due to their poor
quality and potential hazard as street trees is available in the town office.
      (2)   Trees that are neither included on this list, nor specifically
prohibited by it, may be utilized as street trees only upon the consent of the
Tree Committee.
      (3)   This list may be amended as necessary by the Tree Committee.
   (B)   Landscape plans for municipal parks or other publicly-owned areas, and
the plant species proposed for use therein, shall be approved on a case by case
basis with consideration given to the specific location and proposed use.
(Ord. passed 8-9-1988)
§ 97.06 LOCATION AND SPACING OF STREET TREES.
   (A)   From the date of enactment of this chapter trees on rights-of-way and
other town property shall be planted according to the following specifications
to allow for proper development of the trees, minimize the obstruction of
vehicular and pedestrian traffic and avoid excessive interference with public
utilities. Exceptions to these specifications require approval of the Tree
Committee.
   (B)   Street tree species belonging in the “small” size class (less than 30
feet tall at maturity) shall be spaced a minimum of 25 feet apart, trees in the
“medium” size class (30 feet to 50 feet tall at maturity) shall be spaced a
minimum of 35 feet apart, and trees in the “large” size class (over 50 feet
tall at maturity) shall be spaced a minimum of 50 feet apart. Exceptions to
these spacings may be made for trees with columnar or fastigiate crowns with
the approval of the Tree Committee.
   (C)   The minimum width of tree lawn (curb to sidewalk distance) required
for each size group of trees shall be: four feet for “small” trees; six feet
for “medium” trees, eight feet for “large” trees. Tree lawns of less than four
feet in width are generally unsuitable for long-term plant growth.
   (D)   No street tree shall be sited closer than 25 feet from an intersection
or within ten feet of a driveway, fire hydrant, utility pole or street light or
five feet from a water meter.
   (E)   Street trees shall be planted at least two feet from a sidewalk, curb
or shoulder of the road.
   (F)   The location of street trees relative to overhead and underground
water lines, sewer lines, transmission lines or other utilities shall be
determined jointly by the Tree Committee and appropriate Town Utility
Department to minimize potential hazards and interference. The use of small
trees is recommended in areas of heavy interference from utilities.
   (G)   The location of street trees within paved areas shall require a
planting area with minimal dimensions of four feet square.
(Ord. passed 8-9-1988)
§ 97.07 PUBLIC TREE CARE.
   (A)   The town shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain and remove
trees, plants and shrubs within the lines of all streets, alleys, avenues,
lanes, squares and public grounds, as may be necessary to ensure public safety
or to preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of the public grounds.
   (B)   The Town Tree Committee may remove or cause or order to be removed,
any publicly-owned tree or part thereof which is in an unsafe condition or
which by reason of its nature is injurious to sewers, electric power lines, gas
lines, water lines or other public improvements, or is affected with any
injurious fungus, insect or other pest. No tree on any public property will be
removed, destroyed, pruned or treated with chemicals, including the root system
without the prior approval of the Town Tree Committee. In the event a tree
poses an immediate danger to public safety or welfare or is likely to cause
immediate disruption of public services, and as such requires pruning or
removal without delay, authorization may be given by the Town Manager.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the Town Street Department to
provide for the planting, pruning, maintenance and removal of all street trees
(except as noted below) and for all cemetery plantings coming under the
jurisdiction of this chapter according to the regulations and recommendations
of this chapter and the recommendations of the Tree Committee. It shall be the
responsibility of the Department of Parks and Recreation to plant, prune,
maintain and remove as directed all Park Trees and for those Street Trees
located on Broad Street from Church Street south to the waterfront according to
the regulations and recommendations of this ordinance and the Tree Committee.
   (D)   This section does not prohibit planting of street trees on rights-of-
way by adjacent property owners providing that the selection and location of
the trees is in accordance with §§
97.05 and
97.06, and the property owners accepts the following conditions:
      (1)   The individual shall furnish all plant materials and provide all
services to plant them;
      (2)   The town shall not be responsible for any damage whatsoever to the
plants caused or brought about by any person, firm or natural cause; and
      (3)   The town shall retain the right to remove, relocate or prune the
plants in the future for the needs as street construction, utility maintenance
or safety.
   (E)   Trees, vines, shrubbery or flowers standing in or upon any lot or land
adjacent to any public street or place shall be kept trimmed by the owner or
occupant of the property on which the plants are growing so as not to interfere
with the free and safe passage along the public way by pedestrian and vehicular
traffic.
   (F)   If the owner or occupant of the property does not keep this growth
from interfering with public passage, the town shall have the authority to
order its removal by notice sent by registered mail, return receipt requested,
or hand delivered. If, after 15 days, the owner has not responded or acted to
remove the projecting growth, the town agents shall have the authority to enter
upon the owner’s property to perform the work. The cost of the actions may be
charged against the property owner.
   (G)   Recommended planting, pruning and routine annual maintenance practices
for street trees are outlined in a manual available at the town offices, and at
the Offices of the Street Department and Parks and Recreation Department.
(Ord. passed 8-9-1988) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.08 TREE PROTECTION DURING CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Construction plans for public or private property which pose a hazard
to existing publicly- owned trees or other plantings must comply with the
following protective measures and are subject to approval by the Tree
Committee.
   (B)   Changes in grade, trenching, storage of equipment or spillage of
chemicals are prohibited within the drip-line of plants located on town
property unless specific approval is obtained by the Tree Committee.
   (C)   Location of new driveways across the right-of-way shall be in
compliance with §
97.06(D).
   (D)   Publicly-owned trees and other plantings must be protected from soil
compaction and mechanical injury during construction by a fence or other
similar protective barrier with a dimension of at least 15 feet square with the
tree in the center or by a similar suitably sized barrier for shrub plantings.
It shall be the responsibility of the person in charge of the construction to
provide the protection.
   (E)   If branches are to be pruned from publicly-owned plants to make room
for equipment or structures, the pruning must be approved by the Tree Committee
and shall be performed by agents of the town or other suitably licensed person
or firm (see §
97.11) according to recommended procedures. Cost of approved pruning of
publicly-owned plantings for the purpose of private construction, renewal or
renovation projects shall be borne by the person in charge of the project.
(Ord. passed 8-9-1988) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.09 TREE TOPPING.
   It shall be unlawful as normal practice, except as described below, for any
person, firm or town Department to top any street tree, park tree or other tree
on public property. TOPPING is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to
stubs larger than three inches in diameter within the tree’s crown to a degree
so as to remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees are to be
pruned according to recommended practices (see §
97.07), to maintain the natural form and good health of the tree.
(Ord. passed 8-9-1988) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.10 REMOVAL OF STUMPS.
   All stumps of street and park trees shall be removed below the surface of
the ground so that the top of the stump shall not project above the surface of
the ground.
(Ord. passed 8-9-1988) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.11 LICENSE AND BOND.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or firm to engage in the business or
occupation of pruning, treating, or removing street or park trees within the
town without first applying for and procuring a license. The license fee shall
be an amount as set by the Town Council annually in advance; provided, however,
that no license shall be required of any public service company or town
employee doing the work in the pursuit of his or her public service endeavors.
Before any license shall be issued, each applicant shall first file evidence of
possession of liability insurance in the minimum amounts of $50,000/100,000 for
bodily injury and $10,000 property damage indemnifying the town or any person
injured or damaged resulting from the pursuit of the endeavors as herein
described.
(Ord. passed 8-9-1988) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.12 REVIEW BY TOWN COUNCIL.
   The Town Council shall have the right to review the conduct, acts and
decisions of the Town Tree Committee. Any person may appeal from any ruling or
order of the Town Tree Committee to the Town Council who may hear the matter
and make final decision.
(Ord. passed 8-9-1988)
§ 97.13 ENFORCEMENT AND APPEAL.
   (A)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
notified by the Town Manager of the specific violation by registered mail,
return receipt requested, or by hand delivery. The notice shall set forth the
nature of the violation, the measures required to comply with this chapter, if
compliance is at all practicable, and a reasonable time period within which
compliance must be had.
   (B)   In the event any person is dissatisfied with the decision of the Town
Manager adversely affecting the person involving the application of this
chapter, the person may request a hearing before the Town Council within five
working days of the receipt of the violation. The request must be in writing
and directed to the Town Manager who shall schedule the hearing at the next
Town Council meeting. At least one member of the Tree Committee shall be
present at the hearing. The Council shall either affirm, overrule or modify the
decision of the Town Manager.
(Ord. passed 8-9-1988)
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter, which results
in damage to or loss of town-owned plantings, shall be subject to a civil
penalty assessed by the Town Manager, taking into consideration the amount that
the violator would be required to spend to repair the damage, including
replacement of the planting. Plant value may be determined by a competent
appraiser at the request of the Manager. Notice of the violation shall be in
accordance with §
97.13(A). Upon failure of the violator to appeal as set forth in §
97.13(B) or pay the assessed penalty within 30 days, an action in the nature of
debt in the name of the town in the appropriate division of the general courts
of justice may be instituted by the town for the recovery of the penalty. The
violation subjects the offender to a civil penalty, pursuant to the authority
granted by G.S. § 160A-175, and does not subject the offender to the penalty
provisions of G.S. § 14-4.
   (B)   Violations related to any other provision of this chapter shall
constitute a misdemeanor as provided by G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. passed 8-9-1988)
CHAPTER 98: PARKS
Section
General Provisions
   
98.01   Definitions
   
98.02   Hours of operation
   
98.03   Vehicles in recreation areas
   
98.04   Advertising, billposting and the like
   
98.05   Shows, exhibitions and entertainment
   
98.06   Firearms
   
98.07   Destruction of or damage to property
   
98.08   Animals running at large
   
98.09   Molesting animals
   
98.10   Selling, peddling and the like
   
98.11   Alcoholic beverages, narcotic drugs and the like
   
98.12   Games, sports
   
98.13   Excavations
   
98.14   Fires
   
98.15   Dumping and littering
   
98.16   Revocation of privileges
   
98.17   Concealed handguns
Reservation of Facilities
   
98.30   Parks, playgrounds and open spaces
   
98.31   Application for reservation of indoor and outdoor facilities
   
98.32   Standards for making reservations
   
98.33   Approval or denial of application
   
98.34   Conflict of use; priority
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 98.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARK ACTIVITIES. Those activities which fall within the general
classification areas of: arts and crafts; athletics; sports and games; dances;
hobbies; music; nature and outing; reading; writing and speaking; social
recreation; patriotic and fraternal events and activities; and volunteer
services.
   PARK AREAS.
      (1)   Colonial Park is that property located in the south section of town
of South Broad Street and on West Water Street. The park is located on the
Edenton Bay near the Council chambers and across from the Barker House.
      (2)   Queen Anne Park is that property located on the left off of South
Broad Street on East Water Street. The park is adjacent to the Old Hayes Bridge
with the Edenton Bay directly behind it.
      (3)   Hollowell Park is that property located on West Queen Street
extended. Filbert Creek runs beside it.
      (4)   Paxton Playground is that property located in the northeast section
of town off of Old Hertford Road on Paxton Lane, located six lots down off of
Old Hertford Road.
      (5)   Morgan Park Playground is that property located in the southwest
section of town off of West Queen Street extended, bordered by Douglas Avenue,
Robbin Lane and Barker Street. The playground is adjacent to the Immanuel
Baptist Church and School.
      (6)   West Gale Playground is that property located in the west section
of town off of Twiddy Avenue, left on West Gale extended, and bordered by
Edenton Housing Authority and the town water tower.
      (7)   Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Avenue Playground is that property
located in the west section of town on Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Avenue
across from Valentine Avenue and adjacent to the Albermarle Street Community
Building.
      (8)   Griffin Playground is that property in the northeast section of
town located on East Freemason Street and North Oakum Street and adjacent to
Hicks Football Field.
      (9)   Filberts Creek Park is that property in the west section of town on
Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Avenue.
      (10)   Miscellaneous areas and facilities used by the town for
recreational activities, wherever located.
     RECREATION AREAS AND FACILITIES. The outdoor and indoor properties and/or
facilities on, in or from which people derive their opportunity for the pursuit
of happiness or engage in recreation activities that are owned, controlled,
operated or leased by the town within or without the corporate limits of the
town.
(Prior Code, § 17.5-1) (Ord. passed 2-10-1981)
§ 98.02 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   Town parks and playgrounds shall be open to the public between the
hours of 6:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. on each day, except when activities are
scheduled by the town, at which time the parks will be closed 45 minutes after
the scheduled activity ends. It shall be unlawful for any person to use or go
upon a town park or recreation area or facility at any other time except during
the hours of operation herein presented and when the same is being operated
under the direct supervision of the town, or when the same is being used by
written authorization of the Town Manager.
   (B)   Neighborhood parks shall close at 9:00 p.m.
(Prior Code, § 17.5-3) (Ord. passed 2-10-1981; Ord. passed 11-14-2006) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 98.03 VEHICLES IN RECREATION AREAS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or propel any unlicensed
vehicle or other vehicle in, over or through any recreation area and it shall
be unlawful for any person to drive or propel any motor vehicle or other
vehicle in, or operate over or through any recreation area, except along and
upon designated recreation area drives, parking lots and recreation area
boulevards. It shall be unlawful for any person to park or permit to be parked
any vehicle anywhere in any recreation area except upon designated parking
areas authorized by the Town Manager.
(Prior Code, § 17.5-4) (Ord. passed 2-10-1981) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 98.04 ADVERTISING, BILLPOSTING AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or erect any structure, sign,
bulletin board, post, pole, or advertising device of any kind whatever in any
recreation area or facility, or to attach any notice, bill, poster, sign, wire,
rod, or cord to any tree, shrub, fence, railing, post or structure within any
recreation area or facility, except as authorized by the Town Manager.
(Prior Code, § 17.5-5) (Ord. passed 2-10-1981) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 98.05 SHOWS, EXHIBITIONS AND ENTERTAINMENT.
   No shows, exhibitions or entertainment for which the condition of admission
is the payment of money or any other thing of value, except shows, exhibitions
or entertainment sponsored or cosponsored by the town shall be permitted on or
in any recreation area or facility, except as shall be authorized by the Town
Manager in an area designated by him or her.
(Prior Code, § 17.5-6) (Ord. passed 2-10-1981) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 98.06 FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except duly authorized law enforcement
officers in the course of their official duties, to discharge, shoot, fire or
explode, or cause to be discharged, shot, fired or exploded any firearm,
including, but not limited to, any type of arms, device or toy designed to
forcibly hurl a projectile or missile at any time or under any circumstances
within any recreation area or facility, or to carry any firearms in any
recreation area or facility. Archery equipment, air rifles, slingshots, or
other similar devices may be shot or discharged only on those areas, if any,
within the recreation areas or facilities, which may be specifically set aside
and designated for such purposes and so posted and only then under such rules
and regulations as may be prescribed by the Town Manager.
(Prior Code, § 17.5-7) (Ord. passed 2-10-1981) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross reference:
   Storage and display of firearms and ammunition during emergency conditions,
see §§
31.55 and 
31.56
§ 98.07 DESTRUCTION OF OR DAMAGE TO PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, damage, destroy, mutilate or
deface any structure, monument, statue, planter, sign, fountain, wall, fence,
railing, vehicle, bench, trees, plants or any other property in any recreation
area or facility. It shall be unlawful for any person to dig, cut, bruise,
mutilate or cause to be transplanted, cut, bruised, debarked or mutilated, any
plant material of all and any description within any town recreation area or
facility without permission of the Town Manager.
(Prior Code, § 17.5-8) (Ord. passed 2-10-1981) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross reference:
   Damaging property, generally, §
130.04
§ 98.08 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner thereof to allow or permit any horses,
dogs or other animals to run at large in any park and it shall be unlawful to
ride horses in any park.
(Prior Code, § 17.5-9) (Ord. passed 2-10-1981) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 98.09 MOLESTING ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to trap, catch, wound or kill, or cause
to be injured, treat cruelly, or tease, or attempt to trap, catch, wound, kill,
injure, or tease any bird or animal, or molest or rob any nest of any bird or
any lair, den or burrow of any animal in or upon any park or recreation area
owned by the town.
(Prior Code, § 17.5-10) (Ord. passed 2-10-1981) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 98.10 SELLING, PEDDLING AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in soliciting, peddling,
begging or selling, or ply the vocation of a solicitor, agent, peddler, beggar,
or salesman of any description on or in any recreation area or facility, and it
shall be unlawful for any person to sell, hawk, or vend any type of food or
beverage or any type of merchandise within any recreation areas or facilities
unless written authority be given by the Town Manager.
(Prior Code, § 17.5-11) (Ord. passed 2-10-1981) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 98.11 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES, NARCOTIC DRUGS AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess, consume or display publicly
any alcoholic beverages or narcotic drugs on or in any town recreation area or
facility, and it shall be unlawful for any person under the influence of
intoxicating beverages or narcotic drugs to enter or remain on or in any town
recreation area or facility.
(Prior Code, § 17.5-12) (Ord. passed 2-10-1981) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross reference:
   Consumption, sale and the like of alcoholic beverages in public places, §
130.01
§ 98.12 GAMES, SPORTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to play or practice football, golf,
baseball or other games or activities of like character in any area in any town
recreation area or facility except in areas specifically designed and
designated for such game or activity. At no time and under no circumstances
shall such games or activities be played in such proximity to playground
equipment or park structures as to threaten bodily harm to persons using the
park or cause damage to park structures.
(Prior Code, § 17.5-13) (Ord. passed 2-10-1981) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 98.13 EXCAVATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make an excavated in any recreation
area or facility for any purpose without permission from the Town Manager.
(Prior Code, § 17.5-14) (Ord. passed 2-10-1981) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 98.14 FIRES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make or kindle a fire in any
recreation area or facility, except in a regularly constructed fireplace or
grill. It shall be unlawful for any person to leave any fire unattended, or to
fail to completely extinguish a fire and all the embers thereof before leaving
the fire.
(Prior Code, § 17.5-15) (Ord. passed 2-10-1981)
§ 98.15 DUMPING AND LITTERING.
   Except in containers provided for same, no person shall deposit, dump,
throw, cast, lay or place, or cause to be deposited, dumped, thrown, cast, laid
or placed, any ashes, trash, rubbish, soil, earth, paper, garbage, refuse,
debris, plant clippings or limbs or leaves in or upon any town park area or
facility or in any watercourse, waterfront or slough within any recreation
area.
(Prior Code, § 17.5-16) (Ord. passed 2-10-1981) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 98.16 REVOCATION OF PRIVILEGES.
   The town reserves the right, at any time, to revoke the right to use the
park areas or facilities, to individuals or groups not conforming with the
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 17.5-17) (Ord. passed 2-10-1981)
§ 98.17 CONCEALED HANDGUNS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall carry a concealed handgun on or within any town-
owned building and/or its appurtenant premises or in any town-owned park.
      (2)   An appropriate notice of the prohibition shall be posted in a
conspicuous place in each town-owned building and in each park notifying
persons of the prohibition against carrying a concealed handgun therein.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to law enforcement or other government
personnel acting within the scope of their employment.
(Prior Code, § 17.5-18) (Ord. passed 2-22-1996)
RESERVATION OF FACILITIES
§ 98.30 PARKS, PLAYGROUNDS AND OPEN SPACES.
   These park areas may be used by the public for recreation activities, but
are not rented. They are open to the public on a first-come first-served basis.
Because of the nature of these areas, they are not subject to rental.
(Prior Code, § 17.5-21) (Ord. passed 2-10-1981)
§ 98.31 APPLICATION FOR RESERVATION OF INDOOR AND OUTDOOR FACILITIES.
   (A)   These park facilities will be used by the public for recreation
activities subject to the provisions of this chapter and other applicable
ordinances of the town and under the general supervision, direction and control
of the town. An individual, organization, corporation, association, society,
club, order or group of whatsoever kind or nature desiring to use a portion of
any park facility for a recreation activity or activities may, by application
made to the Supervisor, request a reservation of the park facility or
facilities.
   (B)   The application for reservation shall state:
      (1)   The name and address of the person, persons, corporation or other
body sponsoring the activity. Whether this group is a profit or nonprofit
organization;
      (2)   The day and hours for which the reservation is desired;
      (3)   The area and facilities desired to be reserved;
      (4)   An estimate of the anticipated attendance;
      (5)   The nature, character and scope of the proposed recreation activity
or activities for which the area and facilities are requested to be reserved.
Whether the use is for profit or nonprofit activity; and
      (6)   Any other information which the Supervisor shall find reasonably
necessary to a fair determination as to whether a reservation should be made.
(Prior Code, § 17.5-22) (Ord. passed 2-10-1981)
§ 98.32 STANDARDS FOR MAKING RESERVATIONS.
   The Supervisor shall make the reservation requested if he or she finds:
   (A)   The proposed activity or use of the area and/or facilities desired to
be reserved will not unreasonably interfere with or detract from the general
public enjoyment of the adjacent recreation area and facilities not reserved;
   (B)   The proposed activity and use in a recreation activity as herein
defined and will not unreasonably interfere with or detract from the promotion
of public health, welfare, safety and recreation;
   (C)   The area and facilities desired have not been previously reserved for
other use on the day and hours requested in the application;
   (D)   The area and facilities requested to be reserved are sufficient to
accommodate the activity and the expected attendance;
   (E)   The area and facilities requested to be reserved are not in excess of
those required for the reasonable conduct of the activity or activities for
which the area and facilities are requested to be reserved; and/or
   (F)   The proposed activity or activities will take place during the hours
of operation of the area as herein set forth.
(Prior Code, § 17.5-23) (Ord. passed 2-10-1981)
§ 98.33 APPROVAL OR DENIAL OF APPLICATION.
   If, after consideration of the application for reservation, the Supervisor
determines that the foregoing standards are met, then and in that event, he or
she shall make the requested reservation. If the Supervisor, after
consideration of the application for reservation, determines that the foregoing
standards are not met in one or more particulars, he or she shall inform the
applicant wherein the application is deficient, and the reasons therefor. If
the deficiency is remedied or the application is revised to meet all the
foregoing standards, then and in that event, the Supervisor shall make the
requested reservation; otherwise, the application shall be denied.
(Prior Code, § 17.5-24) (Ord. passed 2-10-1981)
§ 98.34 CONFLICT OF USE; PRIORITY.
   (A)   Use. No person or group of persons shall use any town park area or
facility for a scheduled recreation activity or activities or other use or
activity which will interfere with or detract from any recreation activity or
activities under the general supervision, direction and control of the
Department of Public Works. All scheduled activities of the County’s Recreation
Department shall take precedence over all other requests and use of any
facility.
   (B)   Priority. Priority for use of park facilities, both indoor and
outdoor, parks, playgrounds and open spaces will be as follows:
      (1)   Chowan County Recreation Department sponsored activities;
      (2)   Activities cosponsored by the Public Works Department and other
groups or agencies;
      (3)   Edenton-Chowan School system activities;
      (4)   Public nonprofit community/service organization activities; and
      (5)   All others.
(Prior Code, § 17.5-26) (Ord. passed 2-10-1981)
CHAPTER 99: FOOD TRUCKS
Section
   
99.01   Definition
   
99.02   Intent
   
99.03   Permit
   
99.04   General requirements
   
99.05   Location requirements
   
99.06   Penalties and enforcement
§ 99.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FOOD TRUCK. A readily movable trailer or motorize wheeled vehicle, currently
registered with the N.C. Division of Motor Vehicles, designed and equipped to
serve items that provide nourishment. This shall not include alcoholic
beverages.
(Ord. passed 6-13-2017)
§ 99.02 INTENT.
   (A)   The Town of Edenton finds that allowing food trucks to operate in
Edenton would promote diversification of the town's economy and employment
opportunities and would support the incubation and growth of entrepreneurial/
start-up businesses.
   (B)   G.S. § 160A-174 grants cities the power to define, prohibit, regulate,
acts, omissions, or conditions, detrimental to the health, safety or welfare of
its citizens and the peace and dignity of the city through the creation of
ordinances.
   (C)   Food trucks bring benefits to communities; however, they also bring
unique regulations challenges.
(Ord. passed 6-13-2017)
§ 99.03 PERMIT.
   (A)   A food truck permit shall be required prior to the operation of a food
truck. A $50 fee will be assessed to cover the costs associated with regulation
of food trucks.
   (B)   A food truck permit is valid through December 31 of the year upon
which the permit was issued.
   (C)   A food truck permit allows permittee to operate up to ten different
properties. An applicant may apply for more than one such permit.
   (D)   A food truck permit does not include peddler, solicitor, or transient
vendor as defined by the Town Code.
   (E)   No permit issued shall authorize a food truck to operate on or from a
public street.
(Ord. passed 6-13-2017)
§ 99.04 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Food trucks shall provide documentation of approval from the North
Carolina Department of Health. A valid health permit must be maintained for the
duration of the food truck permit and shall be placed in a conspicuous location
for public inspection.
   (B)   A food truck permit shall be placed in a conspicuous location for
public inspection.
   (C)   Temporary connections to potable water are prohibited. All plumbing
and electrical connections shall be in accordance with the State Building Code.
   (D)   No liquid, grease or solid wastes may be discharged from the food
truck. Absolutely no waste may be disposed of in tree pits, storm drains, the
sanitary sewer system or public streets.
   (E)   All areas within five feet of the food truck must be kept clean.
   (F)   Trash receptacles shall be provided for customers to dispose of all
waste associated with the food truck. The food truck shall be responsible for
removing all trash, litter, and refuse from the site at the end of each 24 hour
period. This includes all waste improperly discarded by customers. Public trash
receptacles shall not be used for compliance with this section.
   (G)   The noise level from the food truck shall comply with the
municipality's noise ordinance (§
130.10).
   (H)   No signage shall be allowed other than signs permanently attached to
the movable trailer or motorized vehicle and a portable menu sign no more than
six square feet in display area on the ground in the customer waiting area.
   (I)   No vendor shall remain on site at one property for more than 48
consecutive hours, with exception of a holiday weekend if the holiday falls on
Friday or Monday.
   (J)   A food truck shall not operate as a drive-through.
   (K)   Food trucks shall not connect to electric receptacles that are owned
by the Town of Edenton.
   (L)   Food trucks must have the following fire extinguisher on board during
hours of operation: minimum Class 2A, 10B, and C rated extinguisher. If food
preparation involves deep frying, a Class K fire extinguisher must also be on
the truck. Fire extinguishers shall be maintained pursuant to National Fire
Protection Association (NFPA) standard 10.
(Ord. passed 6-13-2017)
§ 99.05 LOCATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Food trucks may only conduct business in the following locations:
      (1)   On all privately owned property in the following zoning districts:
Downtown Commercial (CD); Neighborhood Commercial (CN); Highway Commercial
(CH), Shopping Center (SC); Medical Arts (MA); and Industrial Warehouse (IW)
subject to the approval of the property owner.
      (2)   On any zoning lot, when performing a solely catering function for
the owner and not selling food to the general public.
      (3)   On any zoning lot, when authorized by the owner, and when
participating in a special event or specialty market when such activity is
authorized as an accessory use to the property's current use.
      (4)   Location requirements shall not apply in any respect to food
vending at any non-profit fundraising event, a market, festival, or activity,
arts and crafts, exhibit or event sanctioned by the town.
   (B)   A food truck may locate on a vacant lot or on a lot with another
principal use.
   (C)   The food truck shall not block drive aisles, other access to loading/
services areas, or emergency access and fire lanes. Food trucks shall be
positioned at least three feet away from any fire hydrants, any fire department
connection, utility box or vault. The food truck shall not locate within any
area of the lot that impedes, endangers, or interferes with pedestrian or
vehicular traffic. A food truck shall not impede ingress and egress from
driveway entrances, handicapped parking spaces and ramps, building entrances
and exits.
(Ord. passed 6-13-2017)
§ 99.06 PENALTIES AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any violations of §§
99.02—99.05 shall be subject to penalties enumerated in §
10.99.
   (B)   A food truck permit may be denied, suspended, or revoked for fraud or
misrepresentation in the application for the permit or in the conduct of the
business, or constitute a danger to the public health, safety, welfare, or
morals, or for conduct which is contrary to the provision of this division.
Notice of revocation shall be made in writing to the permit holder.
(Ord. passed 6-13-2017)
2018 S-5
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
110.   LICENSES GENERALLY
         
111.   AMUSEMENTS
         
112.   ADVERTISING
         
113.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
         
114.   VEHICLES FOR HIRE
CHAPTER 110: LICENSES GENERALLY
Section
Business Registration
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Construction of this subchapter
   
110.03   Requirements for registration; fee
   
110.04   Period of registration; due date
   
110.05   Separate businesses
   
110.06   Exemptions
   
110.07   Registration application
   
110.08   Reasons for refusal or revocation of a registration
   
110.09   Unqualified agents; right to a conference
   
110.10   Administrator to issue registration; payment of fee a prerequisite
   
110.11   Registration fee
   
110.12   Revocation
   
110.13   Form and contents of registration
   
110.14   Assignments
   
110.15   Changes in the business conducted during the year
   
110.16   Administrator to furnish duplicates
   
110.17   Record of conferences
   
110.18   Providing notice to an agent or person
   
110.19   Duty to determine whether registration is required
   
110.20   Administrator to investigate
   
110.21   Duty to permit inspection
   
110.22   Duty to post registration
   
110.23   Appeal
 
   
110.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to impose license taxes, see G.S. § 160A-194
   Schedule B license taxes, see G.S. §§ 105-33 et seq.
BUSINESS REGISTRATION
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The person designated by the Town Manager to operate the
business registration program required by this subchapter.
   AGENT. An individual acting on behalf of a person, as defined herein.
   BUSINESS. Each trade, occupation, profession, business and franchise subject
to registration under this subchapter.
   PERSON. Any individual, trustee, executor, other fiduciary, corporation,
unincorporated association, partnership, sole proprietorship, limited liability
company, company, firm or other legal entity.
   SEASONAL IN NATURE. When it is conducted for profit six months out of the
year or less.
   TOWN. The Town of Edenton.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2022)
§ 110.02 CONSTRUCTION OF THIS SUBCHAPTER.
   This subchapter is enacted for regulation purposes only. In addition,
issuance of a registration in accordance with this subchapter does not excuse a
person from compliance with any other applicable ordinance or statute. This
subchapter does not prevent the town from requiring registration for additional
businesses.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2022)
§ 110.03 REQUIREMENT FOR REGISTRATION; FEE.
   (A)   Unless exempt as described in §
110.06 of this chapter, each person who conducts a business within the town is
subject to this subchapter. One conducts a business “within the town” if one
maintains a business location within the town; or if, either personally or
through agents, one:
      (1)   Solicits business within the town limits; or
      (2)   Picks up or delivers goods or services within the town limits.
   (B)   The initial annual and seasonal business registration fee shall be in
the amount of $20, and may be amended by the Town Council from time to time.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2022)
§ 110.04 PERIOD OF REGISTRATION; DUE DATE.
   (A)   Annual registrations. Unless the section of this subchapter applicable
to a particular business provides otherwise, a registration issued in
accordance with this subchapter is good for the 12-month period beginning
October 1 and ending September 30.
   (B)   Registrations for periods shorter than one year. If the section of
this subchapter applicable to a particular business so provides, a registration
may be issued for a period of one day, one week or some comparable period of
less than a full registration year. A person may not commence to conduct a
business within the town until the business registration is obtained and may
not continue such a business beyond the period for which the registration is
issued.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2022) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.05 SEPARATE BUSINESSES.
   A separate registration is required for each place of business unless two or
more places of business under common ownership are contiguous to each other,
communicate directly with and open into each other and are operated as a unit.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2022)
§ 110.06 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to all businesses within the
town municipal jurisdiction unless specifically exempted or excluded from
registering by this subchapter, by the laws of the state or by laws of the
United States.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2022)
§ 110.07 REGISTRATION APPLICATION.
   (A)   A person shall apply to the Administrator for each registration
required by this subchapter before commencing business.
   (B)   The application, which shall be submitted on forms provided by the
Town Administrator, shall contain:
      (1)   The name of the owner and, if applicable the agent for the
business, a complete statement as to whether the agent is an individual, a
partnership, a corporation or some other entity;
      (2)   The nature of the business;
      (3)   The physical location of where the business is conducted;
      (4)   An address where notices and statements may be mailed to as
required by this subchapter;
      (5)   Whether the business is regulated by a state occupational licensing
board subject to G.S. Ch. 93B and, if so, the serial number of the state
registration the business or the agent for the business currently holds; and
      (6)   Any other information the Administrator determines to be necessary
to issue the registration or otherwise regulate the business appropriately.
   (C)   The application shall be accompanied by the payment of a registration
fee, which is described in §
110.11 of this chapter. In compliance with state law, this fee shall not exceed
the cost to the town of the administrative process of the production and
issuance of the registration, or to otherwise monitor the business.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2022)
§ 110.008 REASONS FOR REFUSAL OR REVOCATION OF A REGISTRATION.
   The Administrator shall refuse to issue a registration or may revoke a
registration for either of the following reasons:
   (A)   The owner or agent misrepresents a fact relevant to his or her
qualifications for a registration; and
   (B)   The owner or agent refuses to provide necessary information, as
determined by the Administrator in his or her discretion.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2022)
§ 110.09 UNQUALIFIED AGENTS; RIGHT TO A CONFERENCE.
   (A)   After receipt of the completed application, if the Administrator
believes that a reason exists for refusing a registration under §
110.08 of this chapter, the Administrator shall not issue the registration. At
the agent’s request, the Administrator shall in accordance with §
110.18 of this chapter, give the owner or agent a written statement of the
reason for refusing the registration. The owner or agent may, within ten days
after the day the statement is received, request a conference to discuss the
refusal. In the request, the owner or agent shall specify why the application
for a registration should not be refused. The Administrator shall arrange the
conference within three business days of receiving the request.
   (B)   If the Administrator refuses to issue a registration, the owner or
agent may reapply for a registration at any time thereafter. If the reason for
which the application was refused no longer exists, and if no other reason
exists for refusing to issue a registration, the Administrator shall issue the
registration in compliance with §
110.10 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2022)
§ 110.10 ADMINISTRATOR TO ISSUE REGISTRATION; PAYMENT OF FEE A PREREQUISITE.
   After receipt of the completed application and payment of the registration
fee, if the Administrator believes that no reason exists for refusal of a
registration under §
110.08 of this chapter, the Administrator shall issue the registration.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2022)
§ 110.11 REGISTRATION FEE.
   The fee required of every owner or agent for any business conducted or
engaged in within the town as required by this subchapter shall be set forth
and made a part of the schedule of fees and charges adopted by the Town
Council, as amended from time to time. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the fee
shall in no case be more than the maximum permitted by state law for that
particular business or enterprise.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2022)
§ 110.12 REVOCATION.
   (A)   (1)   The Administrator may revoke a registration if a reason exists
to revoke it as set forth in
110.08 of this chapter. Before revoking a registration, the Administrator shall
give the person written notice of the grounds for revocation, in accordance
with §
110.08 of this chapter. The person may, within ten days after the day on which
notice is mailed, request a conference with the Administrator in writing. The
request shall specify the reasons why the registration should not be revoked.
      (2)   The Administrator shall arrange the conference within three
business days of receiving the request.
   (B)   If the person fails to request a conference within ten days after the
day on which notice is mailed, the Administrator shall revoke the registration.
If the person requests a conference, the Administrator may not revoke the
registration until after the conference.
   (C)   If the Administrator revokes a registration, the person whose
registration has been revoked may apply for a new registration at any time
thereafter. If the reason for which the registration was revoked no longer
exists and if no other reason exists for refusing to issue a registration, the
Administrator shall issue the registration in accordance with §
110.10 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2022)
§ 110.13 FORM AND CONTENTS OF REGISTRATION.
   A registration shall show the name of the person, and any agent who may act
on the person’s behalf, the place where the business is conducted (if it is to
be conducted at one place), the nature of the business and the period for which
the registration is issued. The Administrator shall keep an exact copy of each
registration issued.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2022) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.14 ASSIGNMENTS.
   (A)   A registration may be assigned if:
      (1)   A business under this subchapter and carried on at a fixed place is
sold as a unit to any person; and
      (2)   The purchaser is to continue the same business at the same place.
   (B)   Such a change shall be reported to the Administrator in accordance
with §
110.15 of this chapter. Otherwise, each registration issued under this
subchapter is a separate registration and is not assignable.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2022)
§ 110.15 CHANGES IN THE BUSINESS CONDUCTED DURING THE YEAR.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   A person or an assignee shall report any change in the information
contained in the registration application to the Administrator within ten days
after the change occurs.
      (2)   If information shown on the registration itself is affected, the
person or assignee shall surrender the registration to the Administrator when
reporting the change.
   (B)   Fee for change. If the change does not result in a separate
registration fee, the Administrator shall reissue a registration reflecting the
change upon payment of a processing fee of $5.
   (C)   Change requiring refusal of a registration. If the change creates a
reason for revoking the registration under §
110.08 of this chapter, the Administrator shall refuse to reissue a
registration and shall instead begin proceedings to revoke the registration in
accordance with §
110.12 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2022) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.16 ADMINISTRATOR TO FURNISH DUPLICATES.
   Upon satisfactory proof that a registration has been lost or destroyed, the
Administrator shall furnish a duplicate for a processing fee of $5.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2022)
§ 110.17 RECORD OF CONFERENCES.
   The Administrator shall maintain, for three years, a record of each
conference held in accordance with this subchapter. The record shall contain
the agent’s and person’s name, the date of the conference and a brief statement
of the issues discussed and the result reached. After three years, the
Administrator may dispose of the record in accordance with G.S. § 121-5.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2022)
§ 110.18 PROVIDING NOTICE TO AN AGENT OR PERSON.
   Whenever this subchapter requires the Administrator to give a written
statement or notice to an agent or a person, the Administrator may do so in one
of three ways:
   (A)   By personally delivering the statement or notice to the agent or
person;
   (B)   By mailing the statement or notice by first class mail to the address
on the application; or
   (C)   By causing the statement or notice to be served on the agent or person
in accordance with the procedures for service of process under Rule 4, North
Carolina Rules of Civil Procedure.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2022)
§ 110.19 DUTY TO DETERMINE WHETHER REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED.
   Each person or his or her designated agent has the duty to determine whether
the business he or she conducts is required to be registered under this
subchapter and, if so, whether that registration has been obtained.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2022) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.20 ADMINISTRATOR TO INVESTIGATE.
   If the Administrator has reason to believe that a person is conducting a
business in the town in violation of this subchapter, the Administrator shall
conduct an investigation to determine the status of the business.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2022)
§ 110.21 DUTY TO PERMIT INSPECTION.
   Each person who conducts a business, as defined in §
110.03 of this chapter, in the town shall permit the Administrator to inspect
the business premises during normal business hours to determine the nature of
the business conducted there.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2022) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.22 DUTY TO POST REGISTRATION.
   A business shall post the registration or registrations conspicuously in the
place of business registered. If the person has a regular place of business,
the registration must be kept where it may be inspected at all times by the
proper town officials.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2022) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.23 APPEAL.
   (A)   Any agent/person refused or denied a registration under this
subchapter may appeal to the Town Manager for review of such refusal or denial.
   (B)   Such appeal shall be in writing, and shall be delivered to the Town
Clerk within 30 days after notice of such refusal or denial has been sent or
otherwise delivered to the agent/person.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2022)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this subchapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this Code of Ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Criminal remedies. Conducting business within the city without a
valid registration issued in accordance with §§
110.01 through
110.23 of this chapter, or without posting a registration in compliance with §
110.22 of this chapter is a misdemeanor, punishable as provided in G.S. § 14-4.
Each day that a person conducts business in violation of §§
110.01 through
110.23 of this chapter is a separate offense.
      (2)   Equitable remedies. In addition to the criminal remedies set forth
in division (B)(1) above and in compliance with G.S. § 160A-175(d), the city
may seek an injunction against any person who conducts a business in violation
of §§
110.01 through
110.23 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2022)
CHAPTER 111: AMUSEMENTS
Section
Billiard Rooms, Bowling Alleys and the Like
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License required; intent of subchapter
   
111.03   Applications; term
   
111.04   Grounds for denial
   
111.05   Contents; display
   
111.06   Revocation
   
111.07   Conduct on licensed premises
Statutory reference:
   Presence of minors in billiard rooms, see G.S. § 14-317
BILLIARD ROOMS, BOWLING ALLEYS AND THE LIKE
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENT. The person having the agency for the manufacturer, producer or
distributor.
   BUSINESS. Any business, trade, occupation, profession, avocation or calling
of any kind subject by the provisions of this subchapter to a license tax.
   ENGAGED IN THE BUSINESS. Engaged in the business as owner or operator.
   FISCAL YEAR. The period beginning with July 1 and ending with June 30 next
following.
(Prior Code, § 5-11)
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIRED; INTENT OF SUBCHAPTER.
   No person shall maintain or operate any pool or billiard table, bowling
alley or any other table or alley for any game or play for which a charge is
made directly or indirectly without a license therefor issued by the Town
Council. It is the intent of this subchapter that the tables and alleys, except
those in private homes, shall not be operated unless licensed by the Town
Council.
(Prior Code, § 5-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.03 APPLICATIONS; TERM.
   Applications for the license required by §
111.02 shall be made to the Town Council on blank forms prepared and furnished
by the Town Council and shall be filed with the Town Clerk. The forms shall so
prepared as to furnish all the information necessary to enable the Town Council
to act intelligently on the applications. The applications shall be accompanied
by the license tax required by the town. All licenses shall expire on June 30
of each year.
(Prior Code, § 5-13)
§ 111.04 GROUNDS FOR DENIAL.
   The Town Council shall not issue a license required by this subchapter to:
   (A)   Any person who has been convicted of unlawfully selling intoxicating
liquors or narcotic drugs;
   (B)   Any person who is not a citizen and resident of this state; and/or
   (C)   Any person who is of immoral character or who is an habitual user of
intoxicating liquors or narcotic drugs.
(Prior Code, § 5-14)
§ 111.05 CONTENTS; DISPLAY.
   Every license required by this subchapter shall specify the premises where
the business is to be carried on, the number of tables authorized to be
operated thereunder and the day on which the license shall begin and expire.
The license shall be posted on the premises at all times.
(Prior Code, § 5-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.06 REVOCATION.
   A second conviction for a violation of any provision of this subchapter
shall automatically act as a revocation of any license issued to the person
under this subchapter. The Town Council may, at any other time, for cause,
after a hearing of which reasonable notice shall be given the licensee as the
Town Council may direct, revoke any license issued under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-16)
§ 111.07 CONDUCT ON LICENSED PREMISES.
   (A)   The holder of a license issued under this subchapter shall not:
      (1)   Suffer or permit any gambling on any game played on the premises;
      (2)   Suffer or permit the licensed premises to become disorderly;
      (3)   Permit any intoxicating liquors or narcotic drugs to be sold on the
premises;
      (4)   Suffer or permit any person under 18 years of age to enter or
remain on the licensed premises; and/or
      (5)   Employ in the licensed business any person who has been convicted
of unlawfully selling whiskey or narcotic drugs.
   (B)   The acts and conduct of the agents and employees of a licensee under
this subchapter in the conduct of the business shall be deemed the acts and
conduct of the licensee.
(Prior Code, § 5-17) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 112: ADVERTISING
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Posting on public property
   
112.02   Scattering of handbills
Loudspeakers on Vehicles and the Like
   
112.20   Governmental agencies exempted
   
112.21   Permit required
   
112.22   Prerequisites; issuance
   
112.23   Appeal of denial
   
112.24   Revocation
   
112.25   Interference with lawful use
   
112.26   Certain acts prohibited
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to regulate, restrict or prohibit use of loudspeakers and
the like, see G.S. § 160A-184
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 POSTING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to attach, place, paint, write, stamp,
paste, tack or nail or cause to be attached, placed, painted, written, tacked
or nailed any sign, advertisement or other matter upon any lamp post, electric
light, railway, telephone or telegraph pole, shade tree, fire hydrant, bridge,
pavement, portion of any sidewalk or crosswalk, public building or any other
property belonging to the town unless the person is an employee of the town or
of the company owning the telephone pole, railway and the like.
(Prior Code, § 3-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.02 SCATTERING OF HANDBILLS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to, throw, drop or scatter or cause to
be, dropped or scattered in any street or public place in the town any poster,
handbills, advertising cards or other substances used for the purpose of
advertising. No person shall scatter handbills or other advertising matter at
houses, stores or other places of business, other than by putting same inside
the screen doors, under doors or in the jamb of doors. When so scattered, no
bell connected with the houses, stores or places of business shall be rung and
no alarm of any kind shall be sounded.
(Prior Code, § 3-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
LOUDSPEAKERS ON VEHICLES AND THE LIKE
§ 112.20 GOVERNMENTAL AGENCIES EXEMPTED.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to any governmental agency
acting within the scope of its functions.
(Prior Code, § 3-3) (Ord. passed 8-6-1973)
§ 112.21 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use a loudspeaker or amplifier on a
vehicle in or upon the public streets, sidewalks, alleys, parks or other public
grounds or places within the town unless a permit therefor has been issued by
the town in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-4) (Ord. passed 8-6-1973) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.22 PREREQUISITES; ISSUANCE.
   The Town Manager or his or her designee shall issue permits between the
hours of 8:30 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. on Monday through Friday. The issuing
authority may issue a permit to a person who applies for a permit to use a
loudspeaker or amplifier on a vehicle; provided that, he or she may issue only
one permit during each 24-hour period. In the issuance of all permits, the
issuing authority shall:
   (A)   Require a written application for permit, signed by the applicant, to
be filed not less than 24 hours in advance, which application shall specify the
time and place for commencement, the driver of the vehicle, the route by street
names, a brief description of the message to be broadcast and the duration,
which duration shall not exceed one hour for any 24-hour period. The applicant
shall be an adult 18 years of age or older;
   (B)   Refuse to issue permits to commence before 8:30 a.m. or terminate
after 6:00 p.m.; and
   (C)   Require that the application for a permit shall specify and the permit
shall designate the person in charge of the activity. The person shall be an
adult 18 years of age or older. The permit shall not be valid in the possession
of any other person.
(Prior Code, § 3-5) (Ord. passed 8-6-1973)
§ 112.23 APPEAL OF DENIAL.
   Any person aggrieved by the denial of a permit shall have a right of appeal
to the Town Council, but the appeal notice must be filed with the Town
Collector within five days after the denial. The appeal, upon the notice, will
be heard by the Councilors at their next regular meeting or at any special
meeting called by the Councilors for the appeal.
(Prior Code, § 3-6) (Ord. passed 8-6-1973)
§ 112.24 REVOCATION.
   The Chief of Police shall revoke any permit granted for the use of a
loudspeaker or amplifier on a vehicle for any of the following causes:
   (A)   The violation by any participant of §
112.26 or of any law of the United States or of the state in the course of the
use of a loudspeaker or amplifier on a vehicle; and/or
   (B)   The failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the permit.
(Prior Code, § 3-7) (Ord. passed 8-6-1973)
§ 112.25 INTERFERENCE WITH LAWFUL USE.
   No person shall hamper, obstruct or interfere with the use of a loudspeaker
or amplifier on a vehicle when the use is being conducted under authority of a
permit duly issued by the issuing authority.
(Prior Code, § 3-8) (Ord. passed 8-6-1973) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.26 CERTAIN ACTS PROHIBITED.
   The following acts or activities, when performed or undertaken by any
participant in conjunction with or as a part of the use of a loudspeaker or
amplifier on a vehicle, are hereby prohibited and declared unlawful:
   (A)   The carrying on or about the person or vehicle any firearm or any
weapon or article, including, but not limited to, blackjacks, nightsticks or
flashlights, which by their use might constitute a deadly weapon;
   (B)   The taking or keeping of any dog or other vicious animal, whether
leashed or unleashed;
   (C)   The use of any profane, indecent, abusive or inflammatory language;
and
   (D)   The use of the volume on the mechanical loudspeaker or amplifier as
shall make it audible at a distance greater than three city blocks or 1,200
feet, whichever is the least distance.
(Prior Code, § 3-9) (Ord. passed 8-6-1973)
CHAPTER 113: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
113.01   Periodicals
   
113.02   Exemptions from chapter
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to regulate businesses generally, see G.S. § 160A-194
   Authority of town to regulate solicitation campaigns and itinerant
merchants, see G.S. § 160A-178
§ 113.01 PERIODICALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to go in or upon, or permit his or her
representative to go in or upon, any private residence or premises in the town
as solicitor, peddler, hawker, itinerant merchant or transient vendor of
periodicals, not having been requested or invited so to do by the occupants of
the private residence or having secured their permission so to do for the
purpose of soliciting orders for the sale of periodicals, or for the purpose of
distributing, disposing of, peddling or hawking the same. Each day’s violation
of this section shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 18-1) (Ord. passed 10-8-1974) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.02 EXEMPTIONS FROM CHAPTER.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the sale or solicitation
of farm or dairy products by the producer or to organizations or
representatives of organizations organized and operating exclusively for
educational, benevolent, religious, fraternal, charitable or civic purposes and
not operating for profit and where the solicitation or sales are made without
remuneration to the solicitor.
(Prior Code, § 18-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 114: VEHICLES FOR HIRE
Section
Short-Term Lease or Rental of Vehicles
   
114.01   Tax on gross receipts
   
114.02   Administration
   
114.03   Payment of taxes and filing of returns
   
114.04   Effective date
Taxicabs
   
114.20   Rates
   
114.21   Tax on owners or operators
   
114.22   Parking
   
114.23   Certificates of convenience and necessity required
   
114.24   Application; filing; investigation; hearing
   
114.25   Issuance; conditions
   
114.26   Term; renewal
   
114.27   Failure to begin operations
   
114.28   Substitution of vehicles
   
114.29   Transferability of certificate
   
114.30   Revocation of certificate
   
114.31   Driver’s permit required
   
114.32   Application; contents; investigation
   
114.33   Issuance of permit
   
114.34   Display of permit
   
114.35   Suspension of permit
   
114.36   Revocation of permit
 
   
114.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to license and control taxicab drivers, see G.S. § 20-37
   Authority of town to regulate taxicabs, see G.S. § 160A-304
   Financial responsibility of taxicab operators, see G.S. § 20-280
   General taxicabs provisions, see G.S. §§ 20-37, 20-87, 20-97
SHORT-TERM LEASE OR RENTAL OF VEHICLES
§ 114.01 TAX ON GROSS RECEIPTS.
   The town hereby imposes and levies a tax of 1.5% of the gross receipts from
the short-term lease or rental of vehicles at retail to the general public, as
authorized by G.S. § 153A-156.
(Ord. passed 11-10-2008)
§ 114.02 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The town, through its Tax Collector, will administer and collect from
operators of leasing and rental entities the tax levied hereby.
   (B)   The Town Tax Collector may promulgate additional lawful rules and
regulations necessary for implementation and collection of the tax.
(Ord. passed 11-10-2008)
§ 114.03 PAYMENT OF TAXES AND FILING OF RETURNS.
   The taxes levied hereby are due and payable to the town in monthly
installments on or before the fifteenth day of the month following the month in
which the tax accrues. Every entity required to collect the tax shall, on or
before the fifteenth day of each month, prepare and render a return to the
town.
(Ord. passed 11-10-2008)
§ 114.04 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall become effective immediately.
(Ord. passed 11-10-2008)
TAXICABS
§ 114.20 RATES.
   (A)   Rates for taxicabs in the town and within five miles of the town
limits are fixed and shall be established by the Town Council as it may deem
best. A current schedule of taxicab rates shall be kept on file in the office
of the Town Clerk.
   (B)   Every taxicab operated within the corporate limits or within a
distance of five miles thereof shall, at all times, have prominently displayed
and posted in the taxicab so as to be visible to the passengers therein the
rates and fares for the use of the taxicab.
(Prior Code, § 23-1)
§ 114.21 TAX ON OWNERS OR OPERATORS.
   Taxicab owners or operators shall pay to the town the sum of an amount as
set by the Town Council annually for each taxicab operated in the town. The tax
shall be due and payable June 1 of each year.
(Prior Code, § 23-2)
§ 114.22 PARKING.
   Not more than two taxicabs owned by the same company shall be parked in one
block at the same time; except that, taxicabs may be parked in taxi stands as
established and shown on the official traffic maps of the town.
(Prior Code, § 23-3) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.23 CERTIFICATES OF CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a taxicab upon or over the
streets of the town without having first applied for and secured a certificate
of convenience and necessity from the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 23-4) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.24 APPLICATION; FILING; INVESTIGATION; HEARING.
   (A)   Application; filing. Every person desiring to operate a taxicab upon
and over the streets of the town shall file, on forms supplied by the Town
Clerk, an application for a certificate of convenience and necessity.
(Prior Code, § 23-5)
   (B)   Investigation.
      (1)   In determining whether the public convenience and necessity require
the franchising of the taxicab or taxicabs, the Town Council shall, among other
things, take into consideration the following factors:
         (a)   Whether or not the public convenience and necessity requires the
proposed or additional taxicab service within the town;
         (b)   The financial responsibility of the applicant and the likelihood
of the proposed service being permanent, responsible and satisfactory;
         (c)   The amount and condition of equipment;
         (d)   The schedule of proposed rates to be charged;
         (e)   The number of taxicabs already in operation; the demand for
increased service, if any; whether or not the safe use of the streets by the
public, both vehicular and pedestrian, will be preserved; and whether or not
adequate provision has been made for off-street parking of the taxicabs;
         (f)   The experience of the applicant in the taxicab business; and
         (g)   Other relative facts as may be deemed necessary and advisable.
      (2)   Before making any decision with respect to the issuance of a
certificate of convenience and necessity, the Town Council or a committee
thereof shall make a full and complete investigation of all facts and may, if
it so desires, subpoena witnesses and utilize the services of the Chief of
Police or any other officer or employee of the town.
(Prior Code, § 23-6)
   (C)   Hearing.
      (1)   Each application for a certificate of convenience and necessity
shall be scheduled for a hearing not later than 20 days after the application
is filed and the applicant shall be notified by the Town Clerk by mail to the
business address set forth in the application of the date and time of the
hearing, the notification to be sent at least ten days before the date set for
the hearing. The Town Clerk shall also, within the same time, notify all
persons who at that time hold certificates of convenience and necessity for the
operation of taxicabs within the municipality of the date and time of the
hearing and the name of the applicant. In addition, the Town Clerk shall cause
to be published at least once in a newspaper of general circulation at least
ten days before the hearing a notice setting forth the date, time, place and
purpose of the hearing. Publication costs for the notice shall be paid by the
applicant.
      (2)   The burden of proof shall be upon the applicant to establish the
existence of public convenience and necessity for the operation of the taxicab
or taxicabs specified in his or her application and all other facts required
for the granting of a certificate.
(Prior Code, § 23-7)
§ 114.25 ISSUANCE; CONDITIONS.
   The Town Council shall have the power and it shall be its duty to order
certain certificates issued or to refuse to issue certain certificates or to
issue certificates for a partial exercise only of the privileges sought. The
Town Council may attach to the exercise of the rights granted by the
certificate the terms and conditions as, in its judgment, the public
convenience and necessity may require.
(Prior Code, § 23-8)
§ 114.26 TERM; RENEWAL.
   A certificate shall constitute a franchise from the town for the operation
of taxicabs within the town subject to the provisions of this subchapter for
one year, unless a shorter period of time is specified in the certificate.
Applications for renewal shall be filed annually and hearings conducted as
provided in §
114.24.
(Prior Code, § 23-9)
§ 114.27 FAILURE TO BEGIN OPERATIONS.
   If a certificate is granted to an applicant and the applicant shall fail, in
accordance with the provisions of the certificate, to begin operations within
60 days after the date of the certificate, the certificate shall become null
and void.
(Prior Code, § 23-10)
§ 114.28 SUBSTITUTION OF VEHICLES.
   The person to whom a certificate of convenience and necessity has been
issued may, by appropriate endorsement thereon by the Town Clerk, substitute
other vehicles for the vehicles for which the certificate was granted. In such
instance, the liability insurance or bonds shall also be transferred to the
substitute vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 23-11)
§ 114.29 TRANSFERABILITY OF CERTIFICATE.
   A certificate of convenience and necessity is not transferable without the
consent of the Town Council. Applications for a permit to transfer shall be
filed in the same manner as an application for a certificate of convenience and
necessity. The proceedings upon the application for a transfer shall be the
same as those described for the issuance of a certificate; except that, the
question of public convenience and necessity need not be proved.
(Prior Code, § 23-12)
§ 114.30 REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATE.
   The Town Council may, at any time after a public hearing, revoke a
certificate of convenience and necessity for any of the following causes:
   (A)   Conviction of a felony;
   (B)   Violation of any federal or state law relating to the use, possession
or sale of intoxicating liquors or narcotic or barbiturate drugs;
   (C)   Addiction to or habitual use of intoxicating liquors or narcotic or
barbiturate drugs;
   (D)   Violation of any federal or state law relating to prostitution;
   (E)   Noncitizenship in the United States; and/or
   (F)   Habitual violation of traffic laws or ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 23-13)
§ 114.31 DRIVER’S PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall drive any taxicab carrying passengers for hire from place to
place within the town or within a distance of five miles thereof unless the
person shall have first applied to and secured from the Town Council a permit
to operate a taxicab.
(Prior Code, § 23-14) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.32 APPLICATION; CONTENTS; INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   The application required of applicants to drive a taxicab shall be
made upon forms furnished by the town for such purposes and shall, among other
things, state the name, address, physical condition, physical description,
former employer, court record and state chauffeur’s license number of the
applicant. The application shall be signed and sworn to by the applicant. The
applicant shall further appear at the office of the Police Department for the
purpose of having his or her fingerprints taken and shall also furnish a recent
photograph, both of which shall constitute a part of his or her application.
(Prior Code, § 23-15)
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall investigate the facts stated in the
application and shall report his or her findings and recommendations to the
Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 23-16)
§ 114.33 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   If the Town Council finds that the applicant has not been convicted of a
felony, a violation of any federal or state statute relating to the use,
possession or sale of intoxicating liquors, any federal or state statute
relating to prostitution or any federal or state statute relating to the use,
possession or sale of narcotic drugs and that the applicant is a citizen of the
United States and is not a habitual violator of traffic laws, the Town Council
shall issue a permit to the applicant to drive a taxicab.
(Prior Code, § 23-17)
§ 114.34 DISPLAY OF PERMIT.
   The driver of every taxicab shall, at all times while operating the taxicab,
prominently display in the taxicab so as to be visible to the passengers
therein his or her permit to drive a taxicab.
(Prior Code, § 23-18) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.35 SUSPENSION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The Town Council may suspend a taxicab driver’s permit for such time
as it may deem proper for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Any grounds sufficient for a revocation of the permit;
      (2)   The licensee is found to have made a false statement in his or her
application for driver’s permit;
      (3)   The licensee is found to have in his or her possession or custody
any quantity of intoxicating liquor within his or her cab or on his or her
person while on duty as a taxicab driver; or
      (4)   The licensee has violated any provision of this chapter.
   (B)   Before any suspension of any driver’s permit shall be ordered by the
Town Council, the person whose driver’s permit is sought to be suspended shall
be given five days’ written notice by the Mayor of the time and place of
hearing before the Town Council, at which hearing the holder of the driver’s
permit shall be given an opportunity to show cause why the permit should not be
suspended, to present evidence pertinent to the question before the Town
Council and to be represented by counsel.
(Prior Code, § 23-19)
§ 114.36 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   At any time after the issuance of a permit to any person to drive a taxicab,
the Town Council may revoke the permit if the person holding the permit is
convicted of:
   (A)   A felony;
   (B)   A violation of any federal or state statute relating to the use,
possession or sale of intoxicating liquors;
   (C)   A violation of any federal or state statute relating to the use,
possession or sale or narcotic drugs;
   (D)   Repeated violations of traffic laws or ordinances; and/or
   (E)   Habitual use of intoxicating liquors or narcotic drugs.
(Prior Code, § 23-20)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   In case of failure or refusal to file a return or pay the tax,
pursuant to G.S. § 153A-156(f), the penalties and remedies that apply to local
sales and use taxes under G.S. Ch. 105, Art. 5, apply to a tax levied under §§
114.01 through
114.03. The Town Council, for good cause shown, may consider appeals and adjust
any penalty or additional tax imposed hereunder.
      (2)   Any person, firm, corporation or association who willfully attempts
in any manner to evade a tax imposed herein or who willfully fails to pay the
tax shall, in addition to the penalties provided by law and herein, be guilty
of a misdemeanor punishable as provided by law.
(Ord. passed 11-10-2008)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      Chapter
         
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   Public consumption, sale and the like of alcoholic beverages
   
130.02   Begging
   
130.03   Bridges; fishing and the like
   
130.04   Damage to property
   
130.05   Docks
   
130.06   Drainage ditches, creeks and the like; dumping in or obstructing
   
130.07   Firearms; discharging
   
130.08   Flags; desecration and the like
   
130.09   Loitering prohibited
   
130.10   Noises enumerated
   
130.11   Projectiles
   
130.12   Parks and playgrounds; minibikes prohibited
   
130.13   Railroads
   
130.14   Spitting on sidewalks and the like
   
130.15   Weed removal
   
130.16   Swimming from public property
   
130.17   Skateboards
   
130.18   Graffiti
   
130.19   Possession of dangerous weapons
   
130.20   Human waste
Alcoholic Beverages
   
130.35   Definitions
   
130.36   Consumption prohibited
   
130.37   Possession of open containers prohibited
   
130.38   Possession during special events prohibited
   
130.39   Exemptions
   
130.40   Social districts
Curfew
   
130.50   Purpose
   
130.51   Definitions
   
130.52   Offenses
   
130.53   Exceptions
   
130.54   Enforcement
Special Events
   
130.60   Purpose; scope and intent
   
130.61   Definitions
   
130.62   Permit required
   
130.63   Required information
   
130.64   Standards for all special events
   
130.65   Additional standards for television and film events
   
130.66   Permit and other required fees
   
130.67   Exemptions
   
130.68   Permit denial
   
130.69   Revocation of permit
   
130.70   Appeals
   
130.71   Penalties and remedies
 
   
130.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   State criminal law, see G.S. Ch. 14
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.01 PUBLIC CONSUMPTION, SALE AND THE LIKE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   (A)   Prohibition. It shall be unlawful for any person to consume, offer to
consume, give away, display or have in his possession in an open container any
alcoholic beverage as defined by G.S. § 18B-101(4), on any property owned or
controlled by the town, upon any public vehicular area, in any athletic
stadium, parking lot, public park or building in the town; provided, however,
that, this section shall not apply to the premises of those establishments that
have an “on-premises” ABC permit as prescribed under G.S. § 18B-1001.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES. In addition to the definition provided by G.S. §
18B-101(4), include any spirits, wine, beer, ale or other liquid containing
more than 0.5% alcohol by volume which is fit for beverage purposes.
      PUBLIC VEHICULAR AREA. Any drive, driveway, road, roadway, street,
sidewalk, alley, parking area or other space open for the purpose of vehicular
traffic or operation upon the grounds or premises of:
         (a)   Any public or private hospitals, school, orphanage or church or
any institution maintained and supported by the state or the town; and/or
         (b)   Any service station, car wash, supermarket, store, restaurant,
amusement center, lounge, shopping center or office building or any other
business or municipal establishment or groups of the establishments, providing
parking space for customers, patrons, employees or the public.
(Prior Code, § 16-1) (Ord. passed 1-14-1975; Ord. passed 6-10-1980) Penalty,
see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Alcoholic beverages generally, see G.S. Ch. 18B
§ 130.02 BEGGING.
   (A)   lt shall be unlawful for any person to ask, beg, canvass, or solicit
alms or contributions, including money and other items of value, for the
private benefit of the solicitor or any other person, in any place open to the
general public including sidewalks, streets, alley/driveways, plazas, parking
lots, parks, buildings, doorways and entrances to buildings, and the groundways
which enclose buildings.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to ask, beg, canvass or solicit
alms or contributions, including money and other items of value, for the
private benefit of the solicitor or any other person in an aggressive manner,
in any public transportation vehicle, or at any bus stop.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to ask, beg, canvass or solicit
alms or contributions, including money and other items of value, for the
private benefit of the solicitor or any other person, in exchange for cleaning
(including windows), protecting, watching, washing, repairing, painting a motor
vehicle that is in traffic or parked on a public street.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to ask, beg, canvass or solicit
alms, or contributions, including money and other items of value, for the
private benefit of the solicitor or any other person, on private [property].
(Prior Code, § 16-2) (Ord. passed 3-8-2016) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to regulate begging, see G.S. § 160A-179
§ 130.03 BRIDGES; FISHING AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful to fish from any bridge within the corporate limits of
the town. It shall further be unlawful to jump from any bridge or to conduct
oneself in any manner which would be of danger to any pedestrian or vehicle
operator.
(Prior Code, § 16-3) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to regulate fishing from bridges, see G.S. § 160A-302.1
§ 130.04 DAMAGE TO PROPERTY.
   (A)   Generally. No person shall write, draw or carve any letter or letters,
word or words or device or in any way mutilate any church, public building,
private house, fence or wall or write obscene words, letters, characters or
drawings on any wall, fence, house, building or other public place. It shall
also be unlawful to injure, damage, deface or trespass upon any property
belonging to the town.
(Prior Code, § 16-4)
   (B)   Bridges; culverts. No person shall injure or deface any part of a
bridge, culvert, ditch, drain or other property belonging to or used by the
town or shall place any obstruction in any culvert, ditch or drain to prevent
the free flow of water on or over the streets of the town.
(Prior Code, § 16-5)
   (C)   Lights; signs. No person shall injure, tamper with, remove or paint
upon or deface any sign, sign post, street light, traffic signal or bulletin
board or other municipal property upon the streets and sidewalks, except
employees of the town in performance of their duty.
(Prior Code, § 16-6)
   (D)   Shade trees and shrubbery.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to attach or cause to be
attached, or to fasten or cause to be fastened, any wire, cable, rope, band or
any other thing to any shade tree growing on or near the streets and sidewalks,
except employees of the town and the owners of the property on which the trees
are growing.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to climb or throw sticks or
missiles in trees or in any manner damage any tree or shrubbery growing on any
property in the town whether owned by the town or an individual.
(Prior Code, § 16-7)
   (E)   Streets. It shall be unlawful for any person to drag or run or cause
to be dragged or run any harrow or other implement, engine, machine or tool,
which shall be liable in any way to injure or cut the surface thereof, upon any
street or to damage or injure any street in any other manner.
(Prior Code, § 16-8)
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 DOCKS.
   (A)   Commercial boats in certain areas. It shall be unlawful to store,
land, dock, anchor or tie any commercial type boat or vessel exceeding 30 feet
in length within town waters which abut any residential district.
(Prior Code, § 16-9)
   (B)   Use of town docks. It shall be unlawful for any person to dock or moor
any ship, boat, barge, vessel or other water craft, other than water craft of
the “rowboat” class not interfering with navigation or docking facilities, at
or to the dock at the foot of Broad Street and known as the “town dock” for a
period of more than five consecutive days within a period of 30 consecutive
days, or to store or leave on the dock for a period of more than 24 consecutive
hours any goods, wares, merchandise or other property, without first applying
for and obtaining permission from the Town Manager who may, in his or her
discretion for good cause, extend the time upon payment by the person to the
town of the sum of an amount as set by the Town Council per day for each day
the ship, boat, barge, vessel or other water craft may be docked or moored at
or to the dock, or the goods, wares, merchandise or other property may be
stored or left thereon during the extension.
(Prior Code, § 16-10)
Penalty, see §
130.99
Cross-reference:
   Town Docks, see
Ch. 95
§ 130.06 DRAINAGE DITCHES, CREEKS AND THE LIKE; DUMPING IN OR OBSTRUCTING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct or cause to be
obstructed the free flow of water in, over, along, upon or through any drainage
ditch, street gutter, culvert or other drainage way in any public street or
other public way or in any creek, stream or other natural drainage course
within the corporate limits by depositing any trash, refuse, tree or shrubbery
trimmings, building material scraps or other matter therein.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to dump or deposit or cause any
gasoline, fuel oil, naphtha or other flammable liquid or any liquid wastes
containing a toxic or poisonous substance or any lubricating oil, grease or
detergent to drain into any drainage ditch, street gutter, culvert or other
drainage way in any public street or other public way or in any creek, stream
or other natural drainage course within the corporate limits.
(Prior Code, § 16-11) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.07 FIREARMS; DISCHARGING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any gun, pistol or other
firearm within the corporate limits of the town, unless the person is a peace
officer discharging the firearm in the performance of his or her duty, or
unless the discharge is on a firing range or in legally established shooting
galleries or ranges.
(Prior Code, § 16-12) (Ord. passed 3-13-2012) Penalty, see §
130.99
Cross-reference:
   Carrying concealed handgun, see §
130.19
Statutory reference:
   Carrying concealed weapons, see G.S. § 14-269
   Discharging into occupied property, see G.S. § 14-34.1
   Regulation of firearms, see G.S. § 160A-189
§ 130.08 FLAGS; DESECRATION AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person willfully and knowingly to tamper with
any flag placed on display by authority of the Town Council on the municipal
building or immediately in front of the municipal building in that area known
as the Town Square whereon rests the memorial monument to dead soldiers of the
Confederate States of America by public acts of physical contact including, but
not limited to, mutilation, defiling, defacing, trampling, burning or the
unauthorized removal of the flag or flags from the staffs upon which they are
displayed.
(Prior Code, § 16-13) (Ord. passed 5-29-1973; Ord. passed 8-6-1973) Penalty,
see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Desecration of state and U.S. flags, see G.S. § 14-381
§ 130.09 LOITERING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, PUBLIC PLACES means any street,
sidewalk, bridge, alley, or alleyway, plaza, park, driveway, parking lot or
transportation facility or the doorways and entranceways to any building that
fronts on any of these places, or a motor vehicle in or on any of these places,
or any property owned by the town.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for a person to remain or wander about in a
public place and:
      (1)   Repeatedly beckon to, stop or attempt to stop passer-by or
repeatedly attempt to engage passer-by in conversation;
      (2)   Repeatedly stop or attempt to stop motor vehicles;
      (3)   Repeatedly interfere with the free passage of other persons; or
      (4)   Repeatedly pass to or receive from passers-by, whether on foot or
in a vehicle, money or objects for the purpose of violating any provision of
G.S Chapter 90, Article 5.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for a person to remain or wander about in a
public place and:
      (1)   Create or cause to be created a danger of a breach of the peace;
      (2)   Create or cause to be created any disturbance or annoyance to the
comfort and repose of any person, including the making of unsolicited remarks
of an offensive, disgusting or insulting nature or which are circulated to
annoy or disturb the person to whom, or in whose hearing, they are made;
      (3)   Obstruct the free passage of pedestrians or vehicles; or
      (4)   Obstruct, molest or interfere with any person lawfully in any
public place.
   (D)   Whenever any police officer shall, in the exercise of reasonable
judgment, decides that the presence of any person in any public place is
causing or is likely to cause any of the conditions enumerated in divisions (B)
or (C), the police officer is authorized, if deemed necessary for the
preservation of the public peace and safety, to order that person to leave that
public place. Any person who shall refuse to leave after being ordered to do so
by a police officer shall be guilty of a violation of this section prohibiting
loitering.
(Prior Code, § 16-14) (Ord. passed 5-13-2003; Ord. passed 10-12-2010) Penalty,
see §
130.99
§ 130.10 NOISES ENUMERATED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to create or assist in creating any unreasonably
loud, disturbing and unnecessary noise in the town. Noise of a character,
intensity and duration as to be detrimental to the public health, welfare and
peace is hereby prohibited.
   (B)   The following acts, among others, are hereby declared to be loud,
disturbing and unnecessary noises in violation of this section, but the
enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive:
      (1)   The sounding of any horn or signal device on any automobile,
motorcycle, bus or other vehicle, except as a danger signal, so as to create
any unreasonably loud or harsh sound, or the sounding of the device for an
unnecessary and unreasonable period of time, or the use of any gong or siren
upon any vehicle, other than police, fire or other emergency vehicle;
      (2)   Unless permitted by an amplified permit issued by the town, the use
of any electronic devices which project sound that is clearly audible at a
distance of not less than 30 feet.
      (3)   The keeping of any animal or bird which, by causing frequent or
long continuous noise, shall disturb the comfort and repose of any person in
the vicinity;
      (4)   The use of any bicycle, skateboard or similar vehicle which creates
an unreasonably loud, annoying, disturbing or frightening noises. The use of
any motor vehicle, motorcycle or other vehicle (a) equipped with special or
custom muffler, exhaust or other noise control equipment/system; or (b) not
equipped with normal, factory issue muffler, exhaust or other noise control
equipment/system in good repair; or (c) in jackrabbit starts, spinning tires,
racing engines, or other operations so as to create unreasonably loud,
annoying, disturbing or frightening noises.
      (5)   The blasting of any steam whistle attached to any stationary boiler
or engine, except to give notice of the time to begin or stop work or as a
warning of danger;
      (6)   The sounding of any bell, gong or any type horn or siren, attached
to any building or premises which disturbs the quiet or repose of persons in
the vicinity thereof;
      (7)   The conducting, operating or maintaining of any garage or service
station in any residential area so as to cause loud or offensive noises to be
emitted therefrom between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. on weekdays or
on Sundays;
      (8)   The erection of any excessive noise on any street adjacent to any
school or institution of learning while the same is in session which
unreasonably and unnecessarily interferes with the working of the institution,
provided conspicuous signs are displayed in the streets indicating that the
area is in a school area;
      (9)   The erection of any excessive noise on Sundays on any street
adjacent to any church, provided conspicuous signs are displayed in the streets
adjacent to churches indicating that the same is a church street;
      (10)   The erection, including excavation, demolition, alteration or
repair of any building in a residential or business district other than between
the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6;00 p.m. Monday through Saturday and 9:00 a.m.
through 5:00 p.m. on Sunday, except in the case of urgent necessity in the
interest of public safety and then only with the permit from the Building
Inspector, which permit may be renewed for a period of three days or less while
the emergency continues;
      (11)   The use of any mechanical device operated by compressed air unless
the noise created thereby is effectively muffled and reduced;
      (12)   The shouting and crying of peddlers barkers, hawkers and vendors
which disturb the quiet and peace of the neighborhood;
      (13)   The use of any drum, loudspeaker or other instrument or device for
the purpose of attracting attention by creation of noise to any performance,
show or sale or display of merchandise;
      (14)   The use of any mechanical loudspeaker or amplifiers on trucks or
other moving vehicles for advertising purposes or other purposes except where
specific license is received from the city manager; and/or
      (15)   Shouting, fighting or creating noise through loud or boisterous
speech or singing so as to be audible off the premises upon which the
activities and noise occur if so loud as to disturb the peace and tranquility
of persons occupying residences, motel, hotels, rest homes, nursing homes or
hospitals in the vicinity.
   (C)   This section shall not apply during any period directly after the
announcement of any potential, impending disaster.
(Prior Code, § 16-17) (Ord. passed 12-11-1990; Ord. passed 6-10-2014) Penalty,
see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority of city to regulate noise, see G.S. § 160A-184
§ 130.11 PROJECTILES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to shoot or project any stone, rock,
shot or other hard substance by means of a sling shot, bean shooter, air rifle,
pop-gun, bow or other similar contrivance, except on archery ranges, firing
ranges or in legally established shooting galleries or ranges; or to discharge
any fireworks within the city.
(Prior Code, § 16-18) (Ord. passed 3-13-2012; Ord. passed 6-8-2021) Penalty,
see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to regulate pellet guns and the like, see G.S. § 160A-190
§ 130.12 PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS; MINIBIKES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a minibike, moped, motorcycle
or any other type of motorized vehicular equipment within any public park or
playground.
(Prior Code, § 16-18) (Ord. passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.13 RAILROADS.
   (A)   Speed limit for trains. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate
any locomotive engine or train or railroad car within the corporate limits of
the town at any speed in excess of 35 mph.
(Prior Code, § 16-19)
   (B)   Improvement of crossings. Every railroad company or corporation and
every person owning, maintaining, using, leasing or operating any railroad
track across any street shall cause the track for the full width of the street
crossed to be improved, both between the tee-irons and for a suitable distance
outside thereof on each side of the track, so that all crossings shall afford
easy and comfortable passage for vehicles and the persons thereafter shall keep
and maintain the crossings in such condition.
(Prior Code, § 16-20)
   (C)   Blocking crossings. It shall be unlawful for any person to stop any
railroad car or any railroad engine or hand car on any of the streets of the
town for a longer period than five minutes continuously.
(Prior Code, § 16-21)
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.14 SPITTING ON SIDEWALKS AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful to spit on any paved sidewalk or upon any paving or
platform connected with any railroad or bus passenger station or upon the floor
or wall of any public building.
(Prior Code, § 16-22) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.15 WEED REMOVAL.
   (A)   Every person or owner in possession of any lot shall cut down within
four inches of the ground all weeds, grass or other noxious growth from the lot
or lots whenever the growth reaches ten inches.
   (B)   If the weeds, grass or other noxious growth are not cut down whenever
height reaches ten inches, the town may cause the weeds, grass or other noxious
growth to be cut down at the rate of $250, plus the town’s actual costs. These
fees and charges will be collected as in the manner for other town taxes (per
G.S. § 160A-193). The property owners shall be notified prior to cutting of
their respective lots.
   (C)   Costs to repair town equipment that may be damaged as a result of the
town abating noxious growths on private property shall be charged to the
property owner and collected as in the manner for other city taxes.
(Prior Code, § 16-23) (Ord. passed 4-7-1970; Ord. passed 4-10-1973; Ord. passed
6-29-1992; Ord. passed 10- -1999) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.16 SWIMMING FROM PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to swim from any public property of the
town including streets, parks or piers.
(Prior Code, § 16-24) (Ord. passed 4-13-1976) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.17 SKATEBOARDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use a skateboard on sidewalks within
park areas of the town, on sidewalks within the central business district and
on any public streets.
(Prior Code, § 16-25) (Ord. passed 4-13-1976) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.18 GRAFFITI.
   The Town Council hereby declares graffiti, as defined herein, to be a
nuisance by undermining the quality of urban attractiveness and the aesthetic
appearance of the town, the protection of property values, the preservation of
the livability and attractiveness of neighborhoods and the promotion of
opportunities for economic development of the town. In addition, the Town
Council finds that the graffiti is frequently a means of communication by
street gangs engaging in unlawful activity and is thereby injurious to the
public welfare and safety.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      GRAFFITI. Any inscription, word, figure, painting or other defacement
that is written, marked, etched, scratched, sprayed, drawn, painted or engraved
on or otherwise affixed to any surface of public or private property, natural
or human-made and that is exposed to public view, without the prior written
consent of the property owner delivered to the person placing the graffiti on
the property. GRAFFITI does not include temporary, easily removable chalk or
other water-soluble makings on public or private sidewalks, streets, natural
surfaces or other paved or cemented surfaces which are used in connection with
traditional children’s activities such as drawings of bases for stickball,
kickball, handball, hopscotch or similar activities, nor shall it include
similar easily removable markings used in connection with any lawful business
activity or public purpose.
      GRAFFITI IMPLEMENT. Any aerosol paint container, broad tipped marker,
stick on label, paint stick, paint, etching equipment, brush or other device
capable of scarring or leaving a visible mark on any natural or human-made
surface.
      PERPETRATOR OF GRAFFITI. Any person or persons who unlawfully place
graffiti upon any public or private property.
      PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any privately owned real property located within the
town’s jurisdiction, including any fixtures or improvements to the property and
any personal property located on the real property which is exposed to the view
of the public.
      PROPERTY OWNER. The record owner of private or public property, the
owner’s manager or agent, or any other person or entity in lawful control or
possession of the property.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any publicly owned real property located within the
town’s jurisdiction whether owned by the town, the county, the state, the
United States Government or any other public entity, including any fixtures or
improvements to the property and any personal property located on the real
property which is exposed to the view of the public.
      REMOVAL OF GRAFFITI. The use of any method that has the effect of
obscuring, erasing or otherwise removing the graffiti from public view.
   (B)   Placing graffiti unlawful. It shall be unlawful for any person to
place graffiti upon any public or private property.
   (C)   Failure to remove graffiti unlawful. It shall be unlawful for any
property owner or perpetrator of graffiti to fail to remove, or fail to cause
the removal of graffiti in accordance herewith. No property owner shall be
penalized when the property owner meets the time requirements hereof by either
removing the graffiti or authorizing the town to do so.
   (D)   Possession of graffiti implement by minor unlawful. It shall be
unlawful for any person under the age of 18 to possess any graffiti implement
upon any public or private property of which they are not a resident or guest
or customer, unless the person can establish to the reasonable satisfaction of
the police that the possession of the implement was part of a school project,
home project or some other lawful activity.
   (E)   Procedures for removal of graffiti.
      (1)   By the perpetrator. Within 15 days after a perpetrator of graffiti
places graffiti upon public or private property or within five days after the
perpetrator receives written notice from the town by registered or certified
mail, return receipt requested, or by personal service requesting removal of
the graffiti, whichever event occurs earlier, the perpetrator of graffiti shall
remove or cause the graffiti to be removed. The removal shall be at the sole
expense of the perpetrator of graffiti and the graffiti shall be removed to the
extent necessary to restore the area where the graffiti is removed to the
area’s original condition (i.e., exact color, textures and the like). In the
event the town or the property owner remove graffiti from public or private
properly, the perpetrator of graffiti shall be liable in the nature of a debt
to the party removing the graffiti for the actual cost of the removal including
reasonable administrative and labor costs. If the graffiti is applied by a
person under the age of 18, the parents or legal guardians of the minor shall
be responsible for any and all obligations and may receive notice as if they
were the perpetrator of graffiti, except that only the actual perpetrator of
graffiti may be subject to a criminal misdemeanor for failure to comply with
this division.
      (2)   By the property owner. Within 45 days after the property owner
discovers the existence of graffiti on his or her property or within 30 days
after the property owner receives the second of two written notices of the
existence of graffiti on the owner’s property from the town by registered or
certified mail, return receipt requested or by personal service, whichever
event occurs earlier, the properly owner shall either remove the graffiti at
the owner’s sole expense or authorize the town to remove the graffiti at the
town’s expense by signing an authorization of removal on a form prescribed by
the Town Manager.
      (3)   By authorization to the town. In the event the property owner
authorizes the town to remove the graffiti at the town’s expense in accordance
herewith, the town shall not be required to rectify any area defaced by the
graffiti more extensively than where the graffiti itself is located and shall
not be required to restore the area from where the graffiti is removed to the
area’s original condition (i.e., exact color, textures and the like). Execution
of the authorization form required hereby is a representation by the property
owner that it agrees to completely release and hold harmless the town, its
agents and assigns from any liability to the property owner on account of the
town’s removal of the graffiti accordance with the removal method specified in
the authorization of removal and for any unintentional damage caused by the
town, its agents or assigns during their entry upon the property. Additionally,
the execution of the authorization form is a representation by the property
owner that the method specified in the authorization of removal is acceptable
to the owner and that any damage caused to the owner’s property or property
value thereby is expected and agreed to by the owner.
      (4)   On town owned property. Graffiti shall be removed by the town from
all town owned property within 30 days of its discovery. The removal shall be
at the town’s expense and subject to the direction and control of the Town
Manager.
   (F)   Emergency removal. If the town determines that any graffiti is an
imminent danger to the health, safety or welfare of the public, the town may
remove or cause the graffiti to be removed or obscured at its expense either
after providing personal service of a notice describing the danger to the
property owner; or after failing to provide notice by personal service on at
least two occasions, and upon 48 hours following the mailing of the notice by
certified and first class mail or the posting of the notice in a conspicuous
place on the property.
   (G)   Appeals.
      (1)   Any property owner or perpetrator of graffiti who receives a notice
to remove graffiti may appeal the notice within five business days of receipt
of notice to the Town Manager. The appeal shall be in writing and shall state
with specificity the reasons for the appeal (“appeal notice”). The manager or
designee shall set a hearing date within ten days of receipt of the appeal
notice, and shall render a decision within a reasonable time after the hearing
date.
      (2)   If, on appeal, the manager or designee determines that the graffiti
is a public nuisance and must be removed, the manager shall establish a new
date for the removal or obscuring.
(Ord. passed 6-12-2007) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.19 POSSESSION OF DANGEROUS WEAPONS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, it shall be
unlawful for any person to display or willfully or intentionally possess or
have immediate access to any deadly weapon within any park, bus, or building
owned, leased, operated, occupied, managed, or controlled by the town,
including any portion thereof or appurtenant premises. Deadly weapon as used in
this division includes, but is not limited to any bowie knife, dirk, dagger,
slingshot, loaded cane, brass iron or metallic knuckles, razor, shuriken,
pistol, shotgun, rifle, handgun or other weapon of like kind.
   (B)   The provisions of division (A) shall not apply to:
      (1)   Persons authorized under state or federal law to carry deadly
weapons in the performance of their duties;
      (2)   Persons expressly authorized by the Chief of Police to display,
possess, or control such deadly weapons at a town sponsored event, program,
display, or activity involving deadly weapons; or
      (3)   Persons holding a concealed handgun permit under G.S. § 14-415.11.
   (C)   It also shall be unlawful for any person to possess, discharge, or
otherwise use any deadly weapon, as defined in division (A) of this section,
while under the influence of an intoxicating beverage, or controlled substance,
as defined in G.S. § 90-86 et seq. which was not prescribed for that person by
a licensed practitioner.
(Ord. passed 3-13-1996; Ord. passed 9-14-2010) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Concealed weapons, see G.S. § 14-269
   Selling weapons to minors, see G.S. § 14-315
   Permitting children to use firearms, see G.S. § 14-316
   Permit to carry concealed handgun; scope of permit, see G.S. § 14-415.11
§ 130.20 HUMAN WASTE.
   No person shall urinate or deposit any human waste of any kind on any
street, lot or premises except in approved sanitary facilities.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2017)
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
§ 130.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MALT BEVERAGE. Beer, lager, malt liquor, ale, porter and any other brewed or
fermented beverage containing at least 0.5% and not more than 60% alcohol by
volume.
   OPEN CONTAINER. A container whose seal has broken or a container other than
the manufacturer’s unopened original container.
   PUBLIC STREET. Any highway, road, street, avenue, boulevard, alley, bridge
or other way within and/or under the control of the town and open to public
use, including the sidewalks of any street.
   UNFORTIFIED WINE. Wine that has an alcoholic content produced only by
natural fermentation or by the addition of pure cane, beet or dextrose sugar,
and that has an alcoholic content of not more than 17% alcohol by volume.
(Prior Code, § 16-26) (Ord. passed 6-11-1996)
§ 130.36 CONSUMPTION PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who is not an occupant of a motor
vehicle to consume malt beverages and/or unfortified wine on the public
streets. Furthermore, it shall be unlawful for any person to consume malt
beverages and/or unfortified wine on any property, whether located inside or
outside the corporate limits, owned occupied or controlled by the town
including, but not limited to, public buildings and the grounds appurtenant
thereto, municipal parking lots, public parks, playgrounds, recreational areas,
tennis courts and other athletic fields.
(Prior Code, § 16-27) (Ord. passed 6-11-1996) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.37 POSSESSION OF OPEN CONTAINERS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who is not an occupant of a motor
vehicle to possess any open container of malt beverage and/or unfortified wine
on the public streets. Furthermore, it shall be unlawful for any person to
possess any open container of malt beverage and/or unfortified wine on any
property, whether located inside or outside the corporate limits, owned,
occupied or controlled by the town including, but not limited to, public
buildings and the grounds appurtenant thereto, municipal parking lots, public
parks, playgrounds, recreational areas, tennis courts and other athletic
fields.
(Prior Code, § 16-28) (Ord. passed 6-11-1996) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.38 POSSESSION DURING SPECIAL EVENTS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess malt beverages and/or
unfortified wine on public streets, alleys or parking lots which are
temporarily closed to regular traffic for special events, unless the governing
body adopts a resolution making other provisions for the possession of malt
beverages and/or unfortified wine at the special event.
(Prior Code, § 16-29) (Ord. passed 6-11-1996) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.39 EXEMPTIONS.
   Possession and consumption of malt beverages and/or unfortified wine shall
be permitted within a building or premises on town owned property where
appropriate permits have been obtained as required by law for the possession
and consumption of alcoholic beverages for the period of time permitted
thereunder.
(Prior Code, § 16-30) (Ord. passed 6-11-1996)
§ 130.40 SOCIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions, regardless of capitalization, shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. To the extent any of the
definitions are contrary to the provisions of G.S. Ch. 18B or Ch. 20, the
definitions as found in G.S. Ch. 18B and Ch. 20 shall control.
      ABC COMMISSION. The North Carolina Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission
established under G.S. § 18B-200.
      ABC PERMIT OR PERMITS. Any written or printed authorization issued by the
Commission pursuant to the provisions of G.S. Ch. 18B, other than a purchase-
transportation permit. Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, as in the
provisions concerning applications for permits, ABC PERMIT OR PERMITS means a
presently valid permit.
      ALCOHOL CONSUMABLE. Any manufactured and packaged ice cream, ice pop,
gum-based, or gelatin-based food product containing at least 0.5% alcohol by
volume.
      ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Any beverage containing at least 0.5% alcohol by
volume, including malt beverages, unfortified wine, fortified wine, and any
alcohol consumable.
      CHIEF OF POLICE. The Chief of Police of the Edenton Police Department or
designee.
      CUSTOMER. A person who purchases an alcoholic beverage from a permittee
that is in a social district.
      FORTIFIED WINE. Any wine or alcohol consumable containing more than 16%
and no more than 24% alcohol by volume, made by fermentation from grapes,
fruits, berries, rice, or honey; or by the addition of pure cane, beet, or
dextrose sugar; or by the addition of pure brandy from the same type of grape,
fruit, berry, rice, or honey that is contained in the base wine and produced in
accordance with the regulations of the United States.
      INTERSECTION. The area embraced within the prolongation of the lateral
curblines or, if none, then the lateral edge of roadway lines of two or more
highways that join one another at any angle, whether or not one such highway
crosses the other. Where a highway includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart,
then every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an intersecting
highway shall be regarded as a separate INTERSECTION. In the event that such
intersecting highway also includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of two roadways of such highways shall be regarded as a separate
INTERSECTION.
      MALT BEVERAGE. Beer, lager, malt liquor, ale, porter, and any other
brewed or fermented beverage or alcohol consumable, except unfortified or
fortified wine as defined by G.S. Ch. 18B, containing at least 0.5%, and not
more than 15%, alcohol by volume. Any malt beverage containing more than 6%
alcohol by volume shall bear a label clearly indicating the alcohol content of
the malt beverage.
      MANUAL OF FEES. The fee schedule approved and adopted by the Town Council
that is periodically updated and lists sales and services provided by the town.
      NON-PERMITTEE BUSINESS. A business that is located in a social district
and does not hold an ABC permit.
      OPEN CONTAINER. A container whose seal has been broken or a container
other than the manufacturer’s unopened original container.
      PERMITTEE. An establishment holding any of the following permits issued
by the ABC Commission:
         (a)   An on-premises malt beverage permit issued pursuant to G.S.
§18B-1001(1);
         (b)   An on-premises unfortified wine permit issued pursuant to G.S. §
18B-1001(3);
         (c)   An on-premises fortified wine permit issued pursuant to G.S. §
18B-1001(5);
         (d)   A mixed beverages permit issued pursuant to G.S. § 18B-1001(10);
         (e)   A wine shop permit issued pursuant to G.S. § 18B-1001(16);
         (f)   A distillery permit issued pursuant to G.S. § 18B-1100(5).
      PERSON. An individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
limited liability company, other organization or group, or other combination of
persons acting as a unit.
      POLICE DEPARTMENT. The Edenton Police Department.
      POLICE OFFICERS. Sworn law enforcement officers employed by the Edenton
Police Department.
      PREMISES. A fixed permanent establishment, including all areas inside or
outside the licensed establishment, where the permittee has control through a
lease, deed, or other legal process.
      SOCIAL DISTRICT. A defined area in which a person may consume alcoholic
beverages sold by a permittee. A SOCIAL DISTRICT may include both indoor and
outdoor areas of businesses within or contiguous to the defined area during the
days and hours set by the local government by ordinance pursuant to G.S. § 18B-
300.1(d). A SOCIAL DISTRICT may include privately owned property, including
permittees and non-permittee businesses, and multi-tenant establishments, as
defined in G.S. § 18B-1001.5, and public streets, crosswalks, or parking areas,
whether or not the streets or parking areas are closed to vehicle traffic.
      TOWN. The Town of Edenton, North Carolina.
      UNFORTIFIED WINE. Any wine or alcohol consumable containing 16% or less
alcohol by volume made by fermentation from grapes, fruits, berries, rice, or
honey; or by the addition of pure cane, beet, or dextrose sugar; or by the
addition of pure brandy from the same type of grape, fruit, berry, rice, or
honey that is contained in the base wine and produced in accordance with the
regulations of the United States.
   (B)   Possession of open container of unfortified wine or malt beverage
prohibited. Unless otherwise allowed by state law or this section, it shall be
unlawful for any person to possess an open container of unfortified wine or
malt beverage upon either of the following:
      (1)   A public street in the town by a person who is not an occupant of a
motor vehicle; or
      (2)   Any property owned, occupied, or controlled by the town, including,
but not limited to, a sidewalk, alley, building, parcel, lot, park, or parking
lot.
   (C)   Consumption of unfortified wine or malt beverage prohibited. Unless
otherwise allowed by state law or this section, it shall be unlawful for any
person to consume unfortified wine or a malt beverage upon either of the
following:
      (1)   A public street in the town by a person who is not an occupant of a
motor vehicle; or
      (2)   Any property owned, occupied, or controlled by the town, including,
but not limited to, a sidewalk, alley, building, parcel, lot, park, or parking
lot.
   (D)   Exceptions regarding alcoholic beverages. Notwithstanding any other
provision of this section and as otherwise allowed by state law, upon obtaining
all ABC permits as required by law; obtaining all town permits as may be
required; paying all fees as may be required by the fee schedule, entering into
any lease with the city as may be required; obtaining the written approval of
the Town Manager, and subject to any conditions identified by the Town Manager
in the written approval; and complying with the policy and procedures for the
conditional service, sale, and consumption of alcoholic beverages upon town
facilities, the sale, service, possession, and consumption of alcoholic
beverages as provided by the ABC permit is allowed upon designated portions of:
      (1)   Any other property owned, occupied, or controlled by the town,
including, but not limited to, public streets, sidewalks, alleys, or parking
lots temporarily closed to regular traffic for special events. Factors that the
City Manager shall consider when permitting the sale, service, possession, or
consumption of alcoholic beverages as may be allowed by state law and the ABC
Commission at an event or series of events to be conducted at property owned,
occupied, or controlled by the town or public streets, sidewalks, alleys or
parking lots temporarily closed to regular traffic for special events include,
but are not limited to:
         (a)   That an applicable ABC permit for the event has been issued by
the ABC Commission;
         (b)   The town’s previous experience with the event organizer and/or
the event;
         (c)   That the location and time for the event is appropriate;
         (d)   That the event organizer’s plans regarding control of sale,
crowd control, cleanup, and other public safety and welfare matters are
adequate.
      (2)   Social districts in accordance with this section.
   (E)   Social districts.
      (1)   Creation. Pursuant to the provisions of G.S. § 160A-205.4, G.S. §
18B-300.1, and as otherwise allowed by state law, one or more social districts
may be created within the town.
      (2)   Management. Town social districts shall be created, designated, and
managed in accordance with the requirements contained in G.S. § 160A-205.4,
G.S. Ch. 18B, and this section.
      (3)   Designated social district. The town hereby creates and designates
the Edenton Downtown Social District, which shall be designated as follows:
         (a)   Detailed map of the Edenton Downtown Social District. A detailed
map of the Edenton Downtown Social District, with the boundaries of the social
district clearly marked, is attached as Exhibit A to the ordinance upon which
this section is based. The most current version of this map is available at
Town Hall and on the town's website, is fully incorporated by reference herein,
and shall be deemed to have the same force and effect as if attached and set
forth in full herein.
         
         (b)   All sidewalks and crosswalks included. All sidewalks, marked
crosswalks, and unmarked crosswalks at intersections within the boundaries of
the Edenton Downtown Social District are specifically included in the Edenton
Downtown Social District.
         (c)   All streets and parking lots excluded. All streets and parking
lots within or abutting the boundaries of the Edenton Downtown Social District
are specifically excluded from the Edenton Downtown Social District.
      (4)   Social district days and hours. Alcoholic beverages may be consumed
by customers, in accordance with the provisions of G.S. § 18B-300.1 and this
section, in the Edenton Downtown Social District, Thursday and Friday, from 5:
00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m., and Saturday and Sunday, 11:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m.
      (5)   Social district operation. The operation of the Edenton Downtown
Social District, including guidelines regarding the suspension of regular days
and hours of alcohol consumption in all or part of a social district during
events requiring other permits pursuant to G.S. § 18B-300.l(j), shall be
established by and contained in the Edenton Downtown Social District’s
management and maintenance plan.
      (6)   Suspension of the social district. In addition to any other
authority authorized by law, as may be required to protect the health and
safety of the general public, the Town Manager or designee may suspend
operations of any or all social districts.
      (7)   Possession during special events. Section 130.38 of this code shall
not apply to special events held in the social district, as long as a special
event permit and other permits required by state law have been issued to the
organizer of the event.
   (F)   Penalties. A violation of this article is a misdemeanor and may also
be enforced through the issuance of a civil penalty.
(Ord. passed 8-8-2023) Penalty, §
130.99
CURFEW
§ 130.50 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to protect juveniles from
victimization and exposure to criminal activity by establishing a curfew for
juveniles under the age of 18 years in the town.
   (B)   This subchapter is intended to reinforce and promote the health,
safety and welfare of both juveniles and adults by creating an environment
offering better protection and security for all concerned.
(Ord. passed 8- -1997)
§ 130.51 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DIRECT ROUTE. The shortest reasonable path of travel or a commonly used
route to reach a final destination without any detour or stop along the way.
   EMERGENCY. An unforseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to, a
fire, a natural disaster and automobile accident, or any situation requiring
immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or death. This term also
shall include any action that is reasonably necessary in order to respond to
the medical needs of a family member of the juvenile regardless of whether the
juvenile’s action is taken in order to prevent death or serious injury.
   GUARDIAN. A person who is court-appointed to be the guardian of a juvenile.
   JUVENILE. Any person who has not reached his or her eighteenth birthday and
is not married, emancipated or a member of the armed services or1 the United
States.
   PARENT. A person who is a natural parent, adoptive parent, foster parent or
stepparent of another person or a person to whom legal custody has been given
by court order.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any place that is generally open to and used by the public or
a substantial group of the public, whether it be publicly or privately owned,
including, but not limited to, streets, sidewalks, highways, alleys, rights-of-
way, public vehicular areas and parking lots, transportation facilities,
theaters, restaurants, ships, bowling alleys, schools and school grounds,
places of business and amusement, playgrounds, parks, similar areas that are
open to the public, and other common areas open to or accessible to the public.
   REMAIN. To linger or stay in a public place, or to fail to leave the
premises when requested to do so by a police officer, or to fail to leave the
premises of an establishment when requested to do so by the owner/operator or
employee of the premises.
   RESTRICTED HOURS. The time of night referred to herein is based upon the
prevailing standard of time, whether Eastern Standard Time or Eastern Daylight
Savings Time, generally observed at that hour by the public in the town.
RESTRICTED HOURS shall mean:
      (1)   11:00 p.m. on Sunday until 6:00 a.m. on Monday, 11:00 p.m. on
Monday until 6:00 a.m. on Tuesday, 11:00 p.m. on Tuesday until 6:00 a.m. on
Wednesday, 11:00 p.m. on Wednesday until 6:00 a.m. on Thursday, and 11:00 p.m.
on Thursday until 6:00 a.m. on Friday; and
      (2)   12:00 a.m. on Saturday until 6:00 a.m. on Saturday and 12:00 a.m.
on Sunday and 6:00 a.m. on Sunday.
(Ord. passed 8- -1997)
§ 130.52 OFFENSES.
   (A)   A juvenile commits an offense by being present in or remaining in any
public place or on the premises of any establishment within the town during the
restricted hours.
   (B)   A parent or guardian of a juvenile commits an offense if he or she
knowingly permits, or by insufficient control, allows the juvenile to remain in
any public place or on the premises of any establishment within the town during
the restricted hours. The term KNOWINGLY includes knowledge that a parent
should reasonably be expected to have concerning the whereabouts of a juvenile
in that parent’s legal custody. This requirement is intended to hold a
neglectful or careless parent up to a reasonable community standard of parental
responsibility through an objective test. It shall, therefore, be no defense
that a parent was completely indifferent to the activities or conduct or
whereabouts of the juvenile.
   (C)   It shall be a violation of this subchapter for any person 18 years of
age or older to aid or abet a juvenile in the violation of division (A) above.
   (D)   It shall be a violation of this subchapter for a parent or guardian to
refuse to take custody during the restricted hours of a juvenile for whom the
parent or guardian is responsible, within a reasonable period of time.
(Ord. passed 8- -1997) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.53 EXCEPTIONS.
   A juvenile who is in a public place or establishment during the restricted
hours shall not be in violation of this subchapter if:
   (A)   The juvenile is accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or other
adult person 21 years of age or older authorized by the parent or guardian of
the juvenile and having the lawful care and custody of the minor;
   (B)   The juvenile is upon an emergency errand directed by his or her
parent, guardian or other adult person 21 years of age or older having the
lawful care and custody of the minor, or is reacting to or responding to an
emergency;
   (C)   The juvenile is engaged in a lawful employment activity or using a
direct route to or from a place of employment;
   (D)   The juvenile is attending or traveling directly to or from an activity
involving the exercise of the First Amendment rights of free speech, freedom of
assembly or free exercise of religion;
   (E)   The juvenile is in a motor vehicle with parental consent for normal
travel with interstate and intrastate travel through the town being excepted in
all cases from this subchapter;
   (F)   The juvenile is attending or traveling to or from, by direct route, an
official school, religious or recreational activity that is supervised by
adults and sponsored by a public or private school, the town or other
governmental entity, a civic organization or another similar entity that
accepts responsibility for the juvenile; and
   (G)   The juvenile is married or emancipated or is a member of the armed
services of the United States.
(Ord. passed 8- -1997)
§ 130.54 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Before taking any enforcement action under this subchapter, a police
officer shall ask the apparent offender’s name, age and reason for being in the
public place or establishment during the restricted hours.
   (B)   The officer shall not prepare a juvenile arrest report, issue a
citation, or make an arrest under this ordinance unless the officer reasonably
believes that an offense has occurred and that, based on any response and other
circumstances, no exception or defense in §
130.53 is present.
(Ord. passed 8- -1997)
SPECIAL EVENTS
§ 130.60 PURPOSE; SCOPE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish a structured process
for permitting the staging of special planned public events, and/or television
and film activities, to ensure proper planning and adequate allocation of town
resources, and to protect the health and safety of the public attending such
events, while balancing the interests of property owners and neighbors.
   (B)   This subchapter will not apply to events sponsored by local, state or
federal government agencies, or schools, colleges or universities located in
the county, as planning for events and allocation of necessary resources is
already coordinated. This subchapter shall not apply to regular church or
worship activities or events. This subchapter shall not apply to businesses
holding events in venues designated to hold large numbers of people, where
there is already a safety and emergency plan approved by the town.
   (C)   When it is determined that an event does not meet the threshold of
requiring a permit, but notification of emergency first responders is
recommended, the Town Manager’s office will forward the information to the
appropriate agencies.
   (D)   This subchapter shall not be used or interpreted to overrule,
override, or circumvent any other local, state, or federal laws or regulations.
(Ord. passed 11-8-2022)
§ 130.61 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICATION. The special event permit application as set forth by the town.
   BUSINESS DAY. Any day of the week except Saturday, Sunday, and public
holidays. The term BUSINESS DAY includes the term WORKING DAY.
   CROWD CONTROL PLAN. A plan that helps visitors move efficiently throughout
an event, minimizing confusion and congestion.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL. Material or liquids that pose a present or future threat
to the environment or general public, whether in use, storage, or transit.
   MAJOR SPECIAL EVENT. A special event, as defined below, where 500 or more
participants are expected in attendance.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Land or buildings belonging to or restricted for the use
or enjoyment of particular persons.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Land or buildings owned or operated by a governmental or
other public agency.
   SANCTIONING AUTHORITY. The official administering body that sanctions
specific events of the type being requested by the applicant, such as, but not
limited to, racing authorities, public sports bodies and event associations.
   SPECIAL EVENT. A planned event, happening, or social activity on public or
private property where at least 50 individuals are expected to be in
attendance, and which is not otherwise under the jurisdiction of another
governing authority.
      (1)   A SPECIAL EVENT may, but is not required to, include any of the
following:
         (a)   The use, sale or display of fireworks;
         (b)   The sale, purchase, provision or consumption of alcoholic
beverages;
         (c)   The provision of live entertainment;
         (d)   The provision of overnight activities (e.g., camping);
         (e)   Motorized or non-motorized vehicular racing or riding;
         (f)   Activities located wholly or partially on public rights-of-way;
         (g)   Sports that involve physical contact between participants as
part of normal play; and
         (h)   A film or television production event.
      (2)   Examples of SPECIAL EVENTS include, but are not limited to, the
following:
         (a)   Filming;
         (b)   Concerts;
         (c)   Parades;
         (d)   Fairs;
         (e)   Festivals;
         (f)   Block parties;
         (g)   Community events;
         (h)   Mass participation; and
         (i)   Sporting competitions, such as marathons, running events, and
bicycle races.
      (3)   Activities contained in §
130.67 are specifically excluded from this definition of a SPECIAL EVENT.
   SPONSOR. A property owner, person or other entity that undertakes certain
responsibilities in connection with some other person or some group or
activity, as in being an organizer, promoter, endorser, advisor, underwriter,
surety, and the like.
   STANDBY SERVICE FEES. Fees charged for standby services provided by police
officers, EMS, or the Fire Department station at specific locations, including,
but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Standby emergency medical services (EMS);
      (2)   Standby security/police support, including crowd control and street
closure; and
      (3)   Standby fire services.
(Ord. passed 11-8-2022)
§ 130.62 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall have, hold, sponsor, or cause to be had, held, or
sponsored, or allow to be had, held or sponsored, any special event without
having first applied for and received a permit from the town, except as
provided in §
130.63.
   (B)   All applications for special event permits must be made through Town
Manager’s office. A completed application must be submitted for each event
proposed. No application shall be considered submitted until all information
required on the application form has been provided.
   (C)   Applications for special event permits shall be submitted no less than
30 business days prior to the date of the special event. The Town Manager or
his/her designee shall have the authority to reduce this time period for good
cause shown. The appropriate fee in certified funds must accompany the
application for it to be considered submitted.
   (D)   The Town Manager’s office will forward special event applications for
review by the Police Department, Fire Department, County Emergency Medical
Services and/or other departments and agencies as needed based on the event
parameters.
   (E)   Review comments on the application are due within seven days. If no
comments are received within seven days, the application may be approved and
the permit may be issued.
   (F)   For informational purposes, the following organizations may also be
notified and/or require their own permits:
      (1)   North Carolina Department of Transportation (NCDOT);
      (2)   North Carolina Highway Patrol;
      (3)   County Health Department;
      (4)   County Inspections.
   (G)   The town may set conditions for permit approval. The applicant may be
required to pay for fire/medical standby and security/law enforcement for a
permit to be approved. The applicant may be required to pay additional fees if
town facilities/services are being used. The town may also require the rental
of portable bathrooms, lighting, trash receptacles, and/or other facilities
based on the size and scope of the event.
   (H)   All special events must comply with any other local, state, or federal
laws or regulations, including, but not limited to, the North Carolina Building
Code, the National Electric Code, and ADA requirements.
   (I)   Any person or business that routinely has 1,000 or more persons in
attendance must have a permanent special event permit issued for general
operating conditions, as well as an emergency operations plan filed with the
Town Manager’s office, except as provided in §
130.63. Any additional event that more than doubles the attendance shall
require a new special event permit for that specific event or date, except as
provided in §
130.67.
(Ord. passed 11-8-2022)
§ 130.63 REQUIRED INFORMATION.
   All applications shall be submitted according to the special event permit
application (Appendix A). This document is subject to change at any time. The
application will be critical in evaluating the citizen impact and public safety
related to the event. Every representative shall submit a completed
application, which shall contain the following information:
   (A)   The name of the event;
   (B)   The type of the event (concert, charity event, county fair, and the
like);
   (C)   A general event description (what is being offered, who is the target
audience, and the like);
   (D)   Contact information for the manager and the sponsoring agency;
   (E)   Contact information for the onsite manager(s) during the event;
   (F)   Documentation confirming the sponsoring organization's status (formal/
informal; profit/not-for-profit);
   (G)   The expected attendance;
   (H)   A crowd control plan;
   (I)   The location, site layout, and parking areas;
   (J)   Planned structures (temporary or permanent);
   (K)   Whether vendors will be serving or cooking food;
   (L)   Any planned voice amplification or music;
   (M)   Planned electrical power sources
   (N)   Any planned hazardous materials;
   (O)   Alcohol sales information (subject to ABC Board approval);
   (P)   All dates that the special event will operate at the given site. Dates
not initially specified shall be subject to the acquisition of an additional
permit;
   (Q)   A traffic control plan, including any proposed street closure or
traffic flow;
   (R)   Any other specific services requested;
   (S)   Information on county and fire support services that may be required
from:
      (1)   Security/law enforcement;
      (2)   Fire/rescue;
      (3)   Standby emergency medical services;
      (4)   Waste cleanup; and
      (5)   Any other services deemed necessary by the town, such as Public
Works and the County Health Department.
   (T)   A first aid plan;
   (U)   A weather contingency plan;
   (V)   Pedestrian access and flow;
   (W)   The number of comfort facilities (restrooms) that will be accessible.
Restroom capacity must meet or exceed the requirements of the North Carolina
State Building Code;
   (X)   Trash and recycling facilities/provisions;
   (Y)   Written consent of the owner if different from the sponsor; and
   (Z)   Any other information reasonably required by the Town Manager’s office
to determine the nature or scope of the event.
(Ord. passed 11-8-2022)
§ 130.64 STANDARDS FOR ALL SPECIAL EVENTS.
   (A)   All special events must comply with, and provide proof of compliance
with the following:
      (1)   All federal, state, local and event-sanctioning authority mandated
medical coverage requirements;
      (2)   County EMS medical standards for special events, if applicable.
County EMS shall be the primary service provider for the county;
      (3)   All state, federal and local fire safety and prevention standards,
codes and permitting requirements must be met; and
      (4)   Any other local, state, or federal law requirements deemed
necessary for such event.
   (B)   For events where alcohol is provided, served, or sold, the event
organizer must secure a valid ABC permit. Copies of this permit must be
forwarded to the Town Manager’s office prior to the event;
   (C)   Animals are not allowed at special events unless as a specified part
of an event and provided for in the application. Animals brought by spectators
or participants, except service animals, shall not be allowed;
   (D)   Event organizers shall remove all trash and debris and shall clean up
immediately after a special event;
   (E)   The town, in its discretion, may require the applicant to provide
liability and/or special events insurance coverage for the special event;
   (F)   All road closures or events that will impact traffic must be approved
by the town and/or the North Carolina Department of Transportation; and
   (G)   Major special events and other mass gatherings of 500 people or more
shall provide the following:
      (1)   A crowd control plan and control manager ratio of 1 manager per 250
people or as otherwise required by the North Carolina Fire Code;
      (2)   First aid plans, parking and traffic control plans, security/law
enforcement on site, and waste disposal plans for event approval;
      (3)   Proof of $1,000,000 general liability insurance, or more if deemed
necessary by the town; and
      (4)   Any other specific items requested by the town.
(Ord. passed 11-8-2022)
§ 130.65 ADDITIONAL STANDARDS FOR TELEVISION AND FILM EVENTS.
   (A)   A pre-production meeting with the Town Manager’s office or its
designee must be held;
   (B)   Proof of insurance certificates for the following must be submitted
with the application:
      (1)   General liability insurance: $2,000,000 or more if deemed necessary
by the town;
      (2)   Automobile liability insurance: $2,000,000 or more if deemed
necessary by the town; and
      (3)   Worker's compensation insurance as required by statute and
employer's liability insurance of $1,000,000 or more if deemed necessary by the
town.
   (C)   A security deposit of $2,000 must be submitted with the application.
This deposit will be refunded only after the inspections as provided in §
130.71 are complete and yield no damages. If damages are assessed, the amount
will be taken from the $2,000 deposit. Any amount remaining after damages will
be refunded within 30 days after inspections are completed.
   (D)   It is the responsibility of the television or film company to notify
the affected residents and/or businesses following the town’s approval of the
application, and no less than three business days prior to the planned
activity.
   (E)   Production vehicles shall not block fire hydrants, driveways, or other
access ramps unless authorized by town officials.
   (F)   Production companies are responsible for vacating locations used with
a minimum amount of noise and disruption at the end of each shooting day.
   (G)   Any filming activity involving holding, delaying or rerouting of
traffic in residential areas, or on state-maintained roadways, must be
accompanied by at least one uniformed officer.
   (H)   The production company is fully responsible for clean-up and proper
disposal of all waste and materials produced.
   (I)   Removal or alteration of vegetation in the public right-of-way or on
town/county-owned lands is prohibited unless specifically approved by the film
permit.
(Ord. passed 11-8-2022)
§ 130.66 PERMIT AND OTHER REQUIRED FEES.
   (A)   The schedule of fees for permitting and other associated fees for
special events, in addition to those set out herein, shall be approved by the
Town Council.
   (B)   If other fees for services are required, they must be paid by
certified funds prior to the event. These fees may include standby service fees
as determined by the town. If the event is canceled and the town is provided 24
hours’ notice, the fees for standby service will be refunded.
   (C)   There may be other fire inspection, health and facility usage permits/
fees that may be charged. All permits pertaining to any special event must be
obtained prior to the event and copies must be submitted to Town Manager’s
office (e.g., NCDOT, ABC permit).
(Ord. passed 11-8-2022)
§ 130.67 EXEMPTIONS.
   This subchapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   Any local, state or federal governmental agency acting within the
scope of its governmental functions;
   (B)   Any school, college or university operating in the county;
   (C)   Church or worship activities within a facility;
   (D)   Businesses holding events in venues designated to hold large numbers
of people, where there is already a safety and emergency plan approved by the
town;
   (E)   Gatherings sponsored by recognized political parties or candidates.
However, notice of such gatherings must be given at least four days in advance
to the Town Manager’s office so it may inform those agencies listed in §
130.62.
(Ord. passed 11-8-2022)
§ 130.68 PERMIT DENIAL.
   The town may deny an application for the following reasons:
   (A)   The special event time and location coincides with another special
event for which a permit has been issued, and it is determined that there is a
safety or logistical concern with allowing two events to proceed
simultaneously. Safety or logistical concerns include, but are not limited to,
events that would burden the resources of law enforcement or emergency services
personnel, or would create the potential for traffic hazards;
   (B)   The special event will interrupt the safe movement of pedestrian or
vehicular traffic at or contiguous to its location in a manner that cannot be
adequately controlled by the public safety departments;
   (C)   The concentration of persons, animals, and vehicles at assembly points
for or at the location of the special event will interfere with the town's
ability to provide adequate fire, law enforcement and emergency medical
services to the public;
   (D)   The town does not have adequate resources, equipment, or personnel to
protect the public health and safety during the event;
   (E)   If the sponsor, landowner, or any principal organizers have a record
of two or more permit violations in the previous two calendar years, or more
than two violations of state or local ordinances in the previous two calendar
years resulting from the operation of a special event;
   (F)   For failure to present a plan that adequately addresses traffic,
parking, fire safety, sanitation and other matters of concern;
   (G)   The Town Manager’s office determines that the event plan does not
account for and protect the public health and safety needs of the citizens of
the town and/or the county; or
   (H)   The town determines the application is misleading or is attempting to
circumvent the intent of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 11-8-2022)
§ 130.69 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The Town Manager or the Planning Director acting on behalf of the town has
the authority to revoke a special event permit if its holder fails to comply
with the provisions of this subchapter or other conditions stipulated in the
permit.
(Ord. passed 11-8-2022)
§ 130.70 APPEALS.
   Any applicant shall have the right to appeal the denial of a special event
permit, the conditions of a special event permit, or the revocation of a
special event permit to the Town Manager. The appealing party shall make the
appeal to the Town Manager within five business days after receipt of the
decision by Town Manager’s office. If the applicant wishes to appeal the Town
Manager's decision, the appeal must be made to the Town Council. The appeal to
the Town Council shall be made within five business days after receipt of the
decision by the Town Manager. If possible, the appeal to the Town Council will
be included in the agenda for the next Town Council meeting, taking into
consideration required agenda deadlines. A permit denied by any other
governmental agency must be appealed as allowed by law.
(Ord. passed 11-8-2022)
§ 130.71 PENALTIES AND REMEDIES.
   (A)   Clean up and damage to public property. The sponsor or property owner
shall be responsible for maintaining all areas encompassed by the event in
safe, clean, and orderly condition. The sponsor or property owner will be
responsible for the removal of trash or debris, restoration of damaged shrubs,
plants, turf, underground and overhead utilities, structures, irrigation, trees
and paved surfaces on any portion of publicly owned property. The town will
inspect public property for damage no later than three days after the event.
Any costs associated with such damages and their repair will be provided in a
written report to the applicant no later than seven days after the event. The
sponsor or property owner will be responsible for any repairs or costs related
to the damages incurred. If the sponsor or property owner fails to pay the town
the costs of such repairs within 30 days, then the town may seek any civil
remedy available to effect payment.
   (B)   Clean up of private property. The sponsor or property owner shall be
responsible for maintaining all areas encompassed by events on private property
in a safe, clean, and orderly condition, and for the removal of trash or debris
on any portion of private property following an event permitted by this
subchapter. The town will inspect private property for trash and debris no
later than three days after the event. Any abatement necessitated by trash or
debris left on private property will follow all conditions stipulated in this
code of ordinances.
   (C)   Abatement of unsafe conditions. The Sheriff or Police Department, the
Fire Marshal, Building Inspector, Department of Environmental Health, or
Planning Director, or their designees, may intervene in the operation of any
public or private event that, based upon known or observable factors, poses an
unreasonable danger to the participants or the public, or where state or local
laws or ordinances are being violated, regardless of whether the event is
properly permitted and complying with permit requirements. Depending upon the
degree of danger, the extent of legal violations, or the nature and degree of
other threats to health or safety, intervention may include suggestions for
remedial action, orders for remedial action, or closing the event.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Hold an event without a required permit;
      (2)   Fail to terminate an event upon revocation of a permit; or
      (3)   Conduct an event in violation of the terms and conditions of a
permit issued for the event.
   (E)   Violation of special event permit. Any violation of the provisions of
this subchapter shall subject the offender to a civil penalty of $500 for the
first offense and $ 1,000 for a second and any subsequent offenses, as
prescribed in G.S. § 160A-175. Each day of violation shall constitute a
separate offense. If a person fails to pay the civil penalties set forth herein
within 30 days after being cited for a violation, the town may seek to recover
the penalty by filing a civil action in the nature of debt.
   (F)   The town, by and through its duly authorized authorities, may seek to
enforce the provisions of this subchapter through any appropriate equitable
remedy issued from a court of competent jurisdiction in the county.
   (G)   Per G.S. § 14-4, any person found in violation of a town ordinance may
be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor.
   (H)   A special event for which a permit has not been approved, an event
exempt from this subchapter that otherwise would require a permit except for
the exemption, or an event for which the approved stipulations of the permit
are not met, or which is otherwise in violation of this subchapter, may be shut
down by law enforcement, only if either the Town Manager, the Police
Department, or designee determines that all of the following conditions are
present:
      (1)   The special event constitutes an immediate and direct physical
danger to citizens or property; and
      (2)   The above danger is of such an imminent nature that the remedy
provided for in this subchapter will not prevent the danger prior to its
occurrence.
(Ord. passed 11-8-2022)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   If any person shall violate §
130.10, he or she shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined an amount
as set by the Town Council or imprisoned for not more than 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 16-17)
   (C)   (1)   (a)   A violation of any provision of §
130.18 shall subject the offender to a civil penalty of up to $100 with a
minimum penalty of $15. If the offender fails to pay this penalty within ten
days after being cited for a violation, the town may seek to recover the
penalty by filing a civil action in the nature of a debt. If the violator of §
130.18(B), (C) or (D) is a person under the age of 18, the parents or legal
guardians of the minor shall be subject to the civil penalties referenced
herein as if they are the offender.
         (b)   The town may seek to enforce this section through any
appropriate equitable action.
         (c)   Each day that a violation continues after the offender has been
notified of the violation shall constitute a separate violation and each
violation shall be subject to an additional civil penalty.
         (d)   The town may seek to enforce this section by using any one or a
combination of the foregoing remedies.
      (2)   In addition to or in lieu of civil penalties or other remedies,
each violation of §
130.18(B) or (D) or failure to comply with division (E)(1) shall constitute a
separate misdemeanor. Any person convicted of a violation shall be fined not
less than $250 for a first offense and $500 for each subsequent offense. In
addition to any other remedy, the court shall order any person convicted of a
violation to make restitution to the property owner and/or to the town for the
damage or loss suffered as a result of the offense. The court may determine the
amount, terms and conditions of the restitution.
   (D)   (1)   Any person other than a juvenile charges with violation of §§
130.50 through
130.54 for the first time shall be given a warning citation. Upon subsequent
violation, the person shall be charged with the violation and, if found guilty,
the person shall be subject to punishment as provided in G.S. § 14-4.
      (2)   A juvenile who violates any provision of §§
130.50 through
130.54 is subject to being adjudicated delinquent. The court may, in its
discretion, impose any dispositional alternative(s) that are provided in the
State Juvenile Code for any juvenile who is delinquent.
(Ord. passed 12-11-1990; Ord. passed 8- -1997; Ord. passed 6-12-2007)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      Chapter
         
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
         
151.   MANUFACTURED HOMES AND MOBILE HOMES
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
General Provisions
   
150.001   Scope of chapter
   
150.002   Oversights and dereliction of duty not to legalize violation
   
150.003   Contractors; registration; bond
   
150.004   Certificates of occupancy
Regulatory Codes
   
150.020   Building Code; general construction
   
150.021   Residential Building Code
   
150.022   Plumbing Code
   
150.023   Heating Code
   
150.024   Electrical Code
   
150.025   Amendments
   
150.026   Compliance
   
150.027   Copies
Inspection Department
   
150.040   Composition; appointment of Department head
   
150.041   Duties generally
   
150.042   Conflicts of interest
   
150.043   Records; reports
   
150.044   Inspection procedure
   
150.045   Powers of inspection officials
Permits
   
150.060   Permits required
   
150.061   Applications
   
150.062   Plans and specifications
   
150.063   Issuance generally; limitations
   
150.064   Revocation
   
150.065   Time limitations on validity
   
150.066   Change in work after issuance
   
150.067   Fees
Unsafe Buildings
   
150.080   Declaration by Building Inspector
   
150.081   Removal after condemnation
   
150.082   Notice; hearing
   
150.083   Order to remedy or demolish
   
150.084   Appeals; finality of order not appealed
   
150.085   Report when owner fails to comply
   
150.086   Orders by Town Council
   
150.087   When posting and publication of notice required
   
150.088   Presumption of public danger
   
150.089   Failure to comply with orders and the like; penalties; continuing
violations
Insulation
   
150.100   Authority
   
150.101   Licenses required
   
150.102   Application
   
150.103   Procedure for issuance
   
150.104   Bond required
   
150.105   Termination and renewal
   
150.106   Suspension; revocation
   
150.107   Change of location
   
150.108   Required permit; fee
Housing Code
   
150.120   Findings; purpose
   
150.121   Definitions
   
150.122   Minimum standards of fitness for dwellings and dwelling units
   
150.123   Minimum standards for structural condition
   
150.124   Minimum standards for basic plumbing, heating and electrical
equipment and facilities
   
150.125   Minimum standards for ventilation
   
150.126   Minimum standards for space, use and location
   
150.127   Minimum standards for safe and sanitary maintenance
   
150.128   Minimum standards for control of insects, rodents and infestations
   
150.129   Minimum standards applicable to rooming houses; exceptions
   
150.130   Inspections; duty of owners and occupants
   
150.131   Powers and duties of Building Inspector
   
150.132   Procedure for enforcement
   
150.133   Methods of service of complaints and orders
   
150.134   In rem action by Inspector; placarding
   
150.135   Costs a lien on premises; sale of personal property
   
150.136   Civil action; remedies
   
150.137   Zoning Board of Adjustments to hear appeals
   
150.138   Prevention of demolition by neglect
   
150.139   Conflict with other provisions
   
150.140   Severability
   
150.141   Effective date
 
   
150.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.001 SCOPE OF CHAPTER.
   The provisions of this chapter and of the regulatory codes herein adopted
shall apply to the following:
   (A)   The location, design, materials, equipment, construction,
reconstruction, alteration, repair, maintenance, moving, demolition, removal,
use and occupancy of every building or structure or any appurtenances connected
or attached to the building or structure;
   (B)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use and maintenance of
plumbing systems consisting of house sewers, building drains, waste and vent
systems, hot and cold water supply systems and all fixtures and appurtenances
thereof;
   (C)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use and maintenance of
mechanical systems consisting of heating, ventilating, air conditioning and
refrigeration systems, fuel burning equipment and appurtenances thereof; and
   (D)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use and maintenance of
electrical systems and appurtenances thereof.
(Prior Code, § 7-1)
§ 150.002 OVERSIGHTS AND DERELICTION OF DUTY NOT TO LEGALIZE VIOLATION.
   No oversight or dereliction of duty on the part of any Inspector or other
official or employee of the Inspection Department shall be deemed to legalize
the violation of any provision of this chapter or any provision of any
regulatory code herein adopted.
(Prior Code, § 7-2)
§ 150.003 CONTRACTORS; REGISTRATION; BOND.
   (A)   Every person carrying on the business of building contractor, plumbing
contractor, heating-air conditioning contractor or electrical contractor within
the town shall register at the office of the Inspection Department, giving his
or her name and place of business.
(Prior Code, § 7-3)
   (B)   Every person required to register at the office of the Inspection
Department under the preceding division (A) shall also give a good and
sufficient bond in the sum of $1,000 to be approved by the Town Attorney,
conditioned upon faithful performance of duty in doing any work which he or she
may have contracted to do and to indemnify the town against loss in any manner
whatsoever for any unskillful or negligent work or conduct in the performance
of the duties imposed by the provisions of this chapter or any regulatory code
herein adopted, or any damage to any utility lines, streets or sidewalks in the
town or for the use of defective or improper material in the work, or for any
damage which may accrue to any person by reason of any default of the contract,
or for the payment of any inspection or other fees required by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-4)
§ 150.004 CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   No new building or part thereof shall be occupied, and no addition or
enlargement of any existing building shall be occupied, and no existing
building after being altered or moved shall be occupied, and no change of
occupancy shall be made in any existing building or part thereof, until the
Inspection Department has issued a certificate of occupancy therefor.
   (B)   A temporary certificate of occupancy may be issued for a portion or
portions of a building which may safely be occupied prior to final completion
and occupancy of the entire building.
   (C)   Application for a certificate of occupancy may be made by the owner or
his or her agent after all final inspections have been made for new buildings
or, in the case of existing buildings, after supplying the information and data
necessary to determine compliance with this chapter, the appropriate regulatory
codes and the Zoning Ordinance for the occupancy intended.
   (D)   The Inspection Department shall issue a certificate of occupancy when,
after examination and inspection, it is found that the building in all respects
conforms to the provisions of this chapter, the regulatory codes and the Zoning
Ordinance for the occupancy intended.
(Prior Code, § 7-5)
REGULATORY CODES
§ 150.020 BUILDING CODE; GENERAL CONSTRUCTION.
   The State Building Code, Volume I, General Construction, as adopted by the
State Building Code Council and as amended, is hereby adopted by reference as
fully as though set forth herein as the Building Code of the town to the extent
the code is applicable for safe and stable design, methods of construction,
minimum standards and use of materials in buildings or structures hereafter
erected, enlarged, altered, repaired or otherwise constructed or reconstructed.
(Prior Code, § 7-6)
§ 150.021 RESIDENTIAL BUILDING CODE.
   The State Uniform Residential Building Code, as adopted by the State
Building Inspectors Association, and as published by the State Building Code
Council is hereby adopted by reference as fully as though set forth herein as
the Residential Building Code for one- and two-family residential buildings in
the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-7)
§ 150.022 PLUMBING CODE.
   The State Plumbing Code (State Building Code, Volume II, Plumbing) as
adopted and published by the State Building Code Council and as amended, is
hereby adopted by reference as fully as though set forth herein as the Plumbing
Code for the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-8)
§ 150.023 HEATING CODE.
   The State Heating Code (State Building Code, Volume III, Heating) as adopted
and published by the State Building Code Council and as amended, is hereby
adopted by reference as fully as though set forth herein as the Heating Code
for the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-9)
§ 150.024 ELECTRICAL CODE.
   The State Electrical Code (State Building Code, Volume IV, Electrical),
adopting by reference the 1975 edition of the National Electrical Code of the
National Fire Protection Association as adopted by the State Building Code
Council and as amended, is hereby adopted by reference as fully as though set
forth herein as the Electrical Code for the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-10)
§ 150.025 AMENDMENTS.
   Amendments to the regulatory codes adopted by reference herein which are
from time to time adopted and published by the agencies or organizations
referred to herein shall be effective in the town at the time the amendments
are filed with the Town Clerk as provided in §
150.027.
(Prior Code, § 7-11)
§ 150.026 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   All buildings or structures which are hereafter constructed,
reconstructed, erected, altered, extended, enlarged, repaired, demolished or
moved shall conform to the requirements, minimum standards and other provisions
of either the State Building Code, General Construction, Volume I or the State
Uniform Residential Building Code, whichever is applicable , or of both if both
are applicable.
   (B)   Every building or structure intended for human habitation, occupancy
or use shall have plumbing, plumbing systems or plumbing fixtures installed,
constructed, altered, extended, repaired or reconstructed in accordance with
the minimum standards, requirements, and other provisions of the State Plumbing
Code (State Building Code, Volume II, Plumbing).
   (C)   All mechanical systems consisting of heating, ventilating, air
conditioning and refrigeration systems, fuel burning equipment and
appurtenances shall be installed, erected, altered, repaired, used and
maintained in accordance with the minimum standards, requirements and other
provisions of the State Heating Code (State Building Code, Volume III,
Heating).
   (D)   All electrical wiring, installations and appurtenances shall be
erected, altered, repaired, used and maintained in accordance with the minimum
standards, requirements and other provisions of the State Electrical Code
(State Building Code, Volume IV, Electrical).
(Prior Code, § 7-12)
§ 150.027 COPIES.
   (A)   An official copy of each regulatory code adopted in this subchapter
and official copies of all amendments thereto shall be kept on file in the
office of the Town Clerk.
   (B)   The copies shall be the official copies of the codes and the
amendments.
(Prior Code, § 7-13)
INSPECTION DEPARTMENT
§ 150.040 COMPOSITION; APPOINTMENT OF DEPARTMENT HEAD.
   The Inspection Department shall consist of a Building Inspector, a Plumbing
Inspector, a Heating-Air Conditioning Inspector, an Electrical Inspector and
such other Inspectors or deputy or assistant Inspectors as may be authorized by
the Town Council. The Town Manager may, subject to approval of the Town
Council, designate a Department head.
(Prior Code, § 7-14)
§ 150.041 DUTIES GENERALLY.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Inspection Department to enforce all of
the provisions of this chapter and of the regulatory codes adopted herein and
to make all inspections necessary to determine whether or not the provisions of
this chapter and the codes are being met.
   (B)   The State Building Code, Volume II, General Construction, and the
State Uniform Residential Building Code shall be enforced by the Building
Inspector. The State Plumbing Code shall be enforced by the Plumbing Inspector.
The State Heating Code shall be enforced by the Heating-Air Conditioning
Inspector. The State Electrical Code shall be enforced by the Electrical
Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 7-15)
§ 150.042 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   No officer or employee of the Inspection Department shall be financially
interested in the furnishing of labor, material or appliances for the
construction, alteration or maintenance of a building or any part thereof, or
in the making of plans or specifications therefor, unless he or she is the
owner of the building. No officer or employee of the Inspection Department
shall engage in any work which is inconsistent with his or her duties or with
the interests of the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-16)
§ 150.043 RECORDS; REPORTS.
   The Inspection Department, and each Inspector, shall keep complete,
permanent and accurate records in convenient form of all application received,
permits issued, inspections and reinspections made and all other work and
activities of the Inspection Department. Periodic reports shall be submitted to
the Town Manager and to other agencies, as required.
(Prior Code, § 7-17)
§ 150.044 INSPECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Inspection required. The Inspection Department shall inspect all
buildings and structures and work therein for which a permit of any kind has
been issued as often as necessary in order to determine whether the work
complies with this chapter and the appropriate codes.
   (B)   Inspection of materials at point of manufacture and the like. When
deemed necessary by the appropriate Inspector, materials and assemblies may be
inspected at the point of manufacture or fabrication, or inspections may be
made by approved and recognized inspection organizations; provided that, no
approval shall be based upon reports of the organizations unless the same are
in writing and certified by a responsible officer of the organization.
   (C)   Required inspections and notices therefor. All holders of permits, or
their agents, shall notify the Inspection Department and the appropriate
Inspector at each of the following stages of construction so that approval may
be given before work is continued:
      (1)   Foundation inspection. To be made after trenches are excavated and
the necessary reinforcement and forms are in place and before concrete is
placed. Drilled footings, piles and similar types of foundation shall be
inspected as installed;
      (2)   Framing inspection. To be made after all structural framing is in
place and all roughing-in of plumbing and electrical and heating has been
installed and after all fire blocking, chimneys, bracing and vents are
installed, but before any of the structure is enclosed or covered. Poured in
place concrete structural elements shall be inspected before each pour of any
structural member;
      (3)   Fireproofing inspection. To be made after all areas required to be
protected by fireproofing are lathed, but before the plastering or other
fireproofing is applied; and
      (4)   Final inspection. To be made after building or structure has all
doors hung, fixtures set and ready for occupancy, but before the building is
occupied.
   (D)   Calls for inspection. Request for inspections may be made to the
Office of the Inspection Department or to the appropriate Inspector. The
Inspection Department shall make inspections as soon as practicable after
request is made therefor; provided that, the work is ready for inspection at
the time the request is made. Reinspections may be made at the convenience of
the Inspector.
   (E)   Uncovering work; notice of approval or rejection. No work shall be
inspected until it is in proper and completed condition ready for inspection.
All work which has been concealed before the inspection and approval shall be
uncovered at the request of the Inspector and placed in condition for proper
inspection. Approval or rejection of the work shall be furnished by the
appropriate Inspector in the form of a notice posted on the building or given
to the permit holder or his or her agent.
   (F)   Failure to call for inspection; proceeding without approval. Failure
to call for inspections or proceeding without approval at each stage of
construction shall be deemed a violation of this chapter.
   (G)   Street lines and the like. Where the applicant for a permit proposes
to erect any building or structure on the line of any street, alley or other
public place, he or she shall secure a survey of the line of the street, alley
or other public place adjacent to the property upon which the building or
structure is to be erected before proceeding with construction of the building
or structure. It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector to see that the
building does not encroach upon the street, alley or other public place.
(Prior Code, § 7-18) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.045 POWERS OF INSPECTION OFFICIALS.
   (A)   Authority. Inspectors are hereby authorized, empowered and directed to
enforce all the provisions of this chapter and the regulatory codes herein
adopted.
   (B)   Right-of-entry. Inspectors shall have the right-of-entry on any
premises within the jurisdiction of the regulatory codes herein adopted at
reasonable hours for the purpose of inspection or enforcement of the
requirements of this chapter and the regulatory codes, upon presentation of
proper credentials.
   (C)   Stop orders. Whenever any building or structure or part thereof is
being demolished, constructed, reconstructed, altered or repaired in a
hazardous manner, or in violation of any provision of this chapter or any other
town ordinance or in violation of any provision of any regulatory code herein
adopted, or in violation of the terms of the permit or permits issued therefor,
or in a manner as to endanger life or property, the appropriate Inspector may
order the work to be immediately stopped. The order shall be in writing to the
owner of the property, to his or her agent or to the person doing the work and
shall state the reasons therefor and the conditions under which the work may be
resumed.
(Prior Code, § 7-19)
PERMITS
§ 150.060 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Building. No person shall commence or proceed with the construction,
reconstruction, alteration, repair, removal or demolition of any building or
other structure, or any part thereof, without a written permit therefor from
the Building Inspector; provided that, no building permit shall be required for
work the total cost of which does not exceed $100 and which does not involve
any change of the structural parts or the stairways, elevators, fire escapes or
other means of egress of the building or the structure in question. Local Board
of Health approval of property for septic tank is required where sewage system
cannot be connected to city sewer. In all cases of removal or demolition of a
building or structure, a good and sufficient bond in the sum of $500 shall be
posted by the property owner or by his or her contractor at the time of
application for a permit, to ensure complete removal or demolition, including
all rubble and debris. Failure on the part of the property owner or his or her
contractor to completely demolish, remove and clear the premises, after 30
days’ notice by the Building Inspector, shall be cause for forfeiture of the
bond.
   (B)   Plumbing. No person shall commence or proceed with the installation,
extension or general repair of any plumbing system without a written permit
therefor from the Plumbing Inspector; provided that, no permit shall be
required for minor repairs or replacements on the house side of a trap to an
installed system of plumbing if the repairs or replacements do not disrupt the
original water supply or the waste or ventilating systems. Local Board of
Health approval of property for septic tank is required where sewage system
cannot be connected to the sewer system of the town.
   (C)   Heating-air conditioning. No person shall commence or proceed with the
installation, extension, alteration or general repair of any heating or cooling
equipment system without a written permit from the Heating-Air Conditioning
Inspector; provided that, no permit shall be required for minor repairs or
minor burner services or filter replacements of warm air furnaces or cooling
system.
   (D)   Electrical. No person shall commence or proceed with the installation,
extension, alteration or general repair of any electrical wiring, devices,
appliances or equipment without a written permit therefor from the Electrical
Inspector; provided that, no permit shall be required for minor repair work
such as the replacement of lamps or the connection of portable devices to
suitable receptacles which have been permanently installed; and, provided that,
no permit shall be required for the installation, alteration or repair of the
electrical wiring, devices, appliances and equipment installed by or for an
electrical public utility corporation for the use of the corporation in the
generation, transmission, distribution or metering of electrical energy or for
the use of the corporation in the operation of signals or the transmission of
intelligence.
(Prior Code, § 7-20) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.061 APPLICATIONS.
   Written application shall be made for all permits required by this chapter
and shall be made on forms provided by the Inspection Department. The
application shall be made by the owner of the building or structure affected or
by his or her authorized agent or representative and, in addition to other
information as may be required by the appropriate Inspector to enable him or
her to determine whether the permit applied for should be issued, shall show
the following:
   (A)   Name, residence and business address of the owner;
   (B)   Name, residence and business of the authorized representative or
agent, if any; and
   (C)   Name and address of the contractor, if any, together with evidence
that he or she has obtained a certificate from the appropriate state licensing
board for the contractors, if it be required for the work involved in the
permit for which application is made.
(Prior Code, § 7-21)
§ 150.062 PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   Detailed plans and specifications shall accompany each application for
permit when the estimated total cost of the building or structure is in excess
of $20,000, and for any other building or structure where plans and
specifications are deemed necessary by the appropriate Inspector in order for
him or her to determine whether the proposed work complies with the appropriate
regulatory codes. Plans shall be drawn to scale with sufficient clarity to
indicate the nature and extent of the work proposed and the plans and
specifications together shall contain information sufficient to indicate that
the work proposed will conform to the provisions of this chapter and the
appropriate regulatory codes. Where plans and specifications are required, a
copy of the same shall be kept at the work until all authorized operations have
been completed and approved by the appropriate Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 7-22)
§ 150.063 ISSUANCE GENERALLY; LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   When proper application for a permit has been made and the appropriate
Inspector is satisfied that the application and the proposed work comply with
the provisions of this chapter and the appropriate regulatory codes, he or she
shall issue the permit, upon payment of the proper fee or fees as hereinafter
provided in §
150.067.
(Prior Code, § 7-23)
   (B)   (1)   No building permit shall be issued for any building or structure
the estimated total cost of which is more than $45,000 unless the work is to be
performed by a licensed general contractor.
      (2)   No building permit shall be issued for any building or structure,
other than a one- or two-family dwelling, the estimated total cost of which is
more than $45,000 unless the plans bear the state seal of a registered
architect or a registered engineer.
      (3)   Where any provision of the general statutes of the state or any
provision of this code or other town ordinance requires that work be done by a
licensed specialty contractor of any kind, no permit for the work shall be
issued unless it is to be performed by the licensed specialty contractor.
      (4)   Where detailed plans and specifications are required under this
chapter, no building permit shall be issued unless the plans and specifications
have been provided.
(Prior Code, § 7-24)
§ 150.064 REVOCATION.
   The appropriate Inspector may revoke and require the return of any permit by
notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason for the revocation.
Permits shall be revoked for any material departure from the approved
application, plans or specifications; for refusal or failure to comply with
proper orders of the Inspector; for refusal or failure to comply with
requirements of this chapter and the appropriate regulatory codes; or for false
statements or misrepresentations made in securing the permit.
(Prior Code, § 7-25)
§ 150.065 TIME LIMITATIONS ON VALIDITY.
   All permits issued under this chapter shall expire by limitation six months
after the date of issuance if the work authorized by the permit has not been
commenced. If, after commencement, the work is discontinued for a period of 12
months, the permit therefor shall immediately expire. No work authorized by any
permit which has expired shall thereafter be performed until a new permit
therefor has been secured.
(Prior Code, § 7-26)
§ 150.066 CHANGE IN WORK AFTER ISSUANCE.
   After a permit has been issued, changes or deviations from the terms of the
application and permit or changes or deviations from the plans or
specifications involving any work under the jurisdiction of this chapter or of
any regulatory code adopted herein shall not be made until specific written
approval of the changes or deviations has been obtained from the appropriate
Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 7-27)
§ 150.067 FEES.
   Fees for permits shall be based upon the total estimated cost of the
proposed work, including all subcontracts if any, but in no case shall the
total estimated cost be less than the market value of similar completed work in
the town as determined by the appropriate Inspector or Inspectors. Permit fees
shall be as established by the Town Council. A schedule of the fees shall be
maintained by the Inspection Department and be available for public inspection
during the normal office hours of the Inspection Department.
(Prior Code, § 7-28)
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.080 DECLARATION BY BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   Any building or structure or part thereof, partially destroyed or
otherwise, which is found by the Building Inspector to be in a dilapidated
state of disrepair or other substandard condition as to be dangerous to life,
health or other property, or to constitute a fire or safety hazard or a public
nuisance shall be declared by the Building Inspector to be unsafe.
   (B)   The unsafe condition may be caused by defective construction,
overloaded structural parts, decay, susceptibility to fire, exits or any other
hazardous conditions or circumstances.
   (C)   The Building Inspector shall have authority, and it shall be his or
her duty, to declare all such buildings or structures unsafe and to take
appropriate action to have the conditions corrected or removed.
   (D)   The declaration by the Building Inspector shall constitute an order of
condemnation for the purposes of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-29)
§ 150.081 REMOVAL AFTER CONDEMNATION.
   (A)   Duty of owner. Whenever any building or structure has been condemned
by the Building Inspector and the existence of the building or structure in a
dilapidated state of disrepair or other substandard condition is found and
determined by the Building Inspector or, upon appeal from or report by the
Building Inspector as hereafter provided, by the Town Council to be dangerous
to life, health or other property, or is in a condition as to constitute a fire
or safety hazard or a public nuisance, the owner or owners of the building or
structure shall be required to demolish and remove the same and remedy the
conditions under the regulations and procedures herein provided.
   (B)   Authority of town on failure of owner. In the event the owner fails or
refuses so to do within the time directed by the Building Inspector or by the
Town Council, as hereinafter provided, the Town Council may, in its judgment,
cause the same to be demolished and removed or other steps taken as it may find
to be necessary to suppress and abate the nuisance and remove the fire or
safety hazard and the danger to life, health or other property found to exist,
and specially assess the cost and expense of doing the work against the lot or
parcel of land on which the building or structure is located.
(Prior Code, § 7-30)
§ 150.082 NOTICE; HEARING.
   Before any building or structure may be ordered to be demolished and removed
as provided in §
150.081, the Building Inspector shall notify the owners thereof, in writing, by
certified or registered mail to the last known address of the owner, or by
personal service of the notice by the Building Inspector or his or her
assistant or by posting notice as hereinafter provided, that the building or
structure is in a condition as appears to constitute a fire or safety hazard or
dangerous to life, health or other property, or to be a public nuisance, and
that a hearing will be held before the Building Inspector at a designated place
at a time not less than ten days after the date of the written notice, at which
time and place the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by counsel
upon all legal or factual questions relating to the matter and shall be
entitled to offer the evidence as he or she may desire which is relevant or
material to the questions sought to be determined or the remedies sought to be
effected. If the name or whereabouts of the owner cannot, after due diligence,
be discovered, the notice herein referred to shall be considered properly and
adequately served if a copy thereof is posted on the outside of the building or
structure in question at least ten days prior to the date fixed for the hearing
and a notice of the hearing is published one time in a newspaper having general
circulation in the town at least one week prior to the date fixed for the
hearing. The notice shall state the address or location of the building or
structure and the time, place and purpose of the hearing.
(Prior Code, § 7-31)
§ 150.083 ORDER TO REMEDY OR DEMOLISH.
   If, upon the hearing, the Building Inspector shall find that the building or
structure in question is in a dilapidated or substandard state of disrepair as
to constitute a fire or safety hazard or to be dangerous to life, health or
other property or is a public nuisance, he or she shall make an order in
writing, directed to the owner of the building or structure, requiring the
owner to remedy the conditions so found to exist by demolishing and removing
the buildings or structure or taking other steps as may be necessary to abate
the nuisance and remove the hazards, within the period, not less than 60 days,
as the Building Inspector may prescribe.
(Prior Code, § 7-32)
§ 150.084 APPEALS; FINALITY OF ORDER NOT APPEALED.
   (A)   The owner of any building or structure ordered by the Building
Inspector to be demolished and removed, or who is directed by the Building
Inspector to take any other steps to abate a nuisance or remove hazards found
by the Building Inspector to exist, shall have the right of appeal from the
orders to the Town Council; provided that, the owner gives notice of appeal to
the Building Inspector at the time of the hearing at which the order is made,
or, within ten days after the order is made, files with the Building Inspector
a written notice of the appeal.
   (B)   Notice of appeal shall state the grounds therefor. Unless an appeal is
taken within the time and in the manner herein prescribed, the action of the
Building Inspector shall be deemed final, subject only to action as the Town
Council may take as herein elsewhere provided. Where an appeal has been
properly taken and notice thereof given in accordance with the provisions of
this section, it shall be the duty of the Building Inspector to report the same
to the Town Manager who shall cause the matter to be placed on the agenda for
action by the Town Council at its next ensuing regular meeting.
   (C)   The Town Council shall have the right to continue the hearing of the
appeal from time to time, in its discretion.
(Prior Code, § 7-33)
§ 150.085 REPORT WHEN OWNER FAILS TO COMPLY.
   In the event the owner does not appeal from the final order or direction of
the Building Inspector requiring that the building or structure be demolished
and removed or the taking of other steps as may be required to abate the
nuisance and remove the hazards, and fails or refuses to comply with the order
and direction, it shall be the duty of the Building Inspector to file a written
report thereof with the Town Manager, who shall cause the report to be placed
on the agenda for action by the Town Council at its next ensuing regular
meeting or to some subsequent meeting to which the Town Council may continue
the same. The Building Inspector shall mail a copy of the report by certified
or registered mail to the owner at his or her last known address or have a copy
of the report delivered to the owner. The report shall specify the date of the
meeting of the Town Council for which the matter will be docketed for action.
(Prior Code, § 7-34)
§ 150.086 ORDERS BY TOWN COUNCIL.
   In all cases referred to in this subchapter which reach the Town Council for
action, either upon appeal of the owner from the ruling of the Building
Inspector or upon report of the Building Inspector that the owner fails or
refuses to comply with his or her order or direction, the Town Council shall
hear the matter, and if it finds and determines that the building or structure
in question is in a dilapidated or substandard state of disrepair as to
constitute a fire or safety hazard, or to be dangerous to life, health or other
property, or is a public nuisance, and that the owner of the building or
structure has failed or refused to abate the nuisance and has failed or refused
to have the building or structure demolished and removed or has failed or
refused to take other steps as may be necessary to abate the nuisance and
remove the hazards found to exist, it may cause the demolition and removal of
the building or structure to be done, or effect other remedies as may be
necessary to abate the nuisance and remove the hazards, and specially assess
the cost of the work against the lot or parcel of land on which the building or
structure was situated; and the assessment shall constitute a specific lien
upon the lot or parcel of land, which may be enforced by an action instituted
in the name of the town in the nature of an action to foreclose a mortgage in
the case of ad valorem taxes and local improvement assessments.
(Prior Code, § 7-35)
§ 150.087 WHEN POSTING AND PUBLICATION OF NOTICE REQUIRED.
   In cases in which the Building Inspector has been unable to give the owner
actual notice of hearing in the manner hereinabove provided, and has given the
notice by posting and publishing the same as authorized in §
150.082, and the owner has failed or refused to comply with the order or
direction of the Building Inspector to demolish and remove the building or
structure, or take other remedial action as will remove the hazards, and the
case is referred to the Town Council for action, the Town Council shall, before
taking the action, cause to be posted on the outside of the building or
structure in question at least ten days prior to the date fixed for the
hearing, and published one time in a newspaper having general circulation in
the town at least one week prior to the date fixed for the hearing, a written
notice stating the address or location of the building or structure involved
and the time, place and purpose of the hearing and other information as the
Town Council may deem advisable.
(Prior Code, § 7-36)
§ 150.088 PRESUMPTION OF PUBLIC DANGER.
   In all cases in which the Town Council, under authority of this subchapter,
causes the demolition and removal of any building or structure to be carried
out, or directs other remedial steps to be taken as may be necessary to abate
the nuisance and remove the hazards, it shall be conclusively presumed that the
public nuisance and the fire and safety hazard and danger to life, health or
other property, created and maintained by the continued presence of the
building or structure in a condition as is found to exist, constitute a clear
and present danger amounting to a situation of emergency involving the public
health, safety and general welfare, which requires entry upon private property
for the summary abatement and removal of the danger, in the public interest.
(Prior Code, § 7-37)
§ 150.089 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ORDERS AND THE LIKE; PENALTIES; CONTINUING
VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully fail or refuse to comply
with any final order or direction of the Building Inspector or Town Council
made by virtue and in pursuance of this subchapter, and any person violating
this subchapter shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided by G.S. § 14-
4 for the violation of municipal ordinances and, every day, the person shall
willfully fail or refuse to comply with any final order or direction of the
Building Inspector or Town Council made by virtue and in pursuance of this
subchapter shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(Prior Code, § 7-38) Penalty, see §
150.999
INSULATION
§ 150.100 AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter is adopted pursuant to state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 7-39) (Ord. passed 12-13-1977)
§ 150.101 LICENSES REQUIRED.
   On and after 1-1-1978, no person may, for a consideration, install, alter or
restore within the town any insulation or other materials or energy utilization
equipment designed or intended to meet the State Building Code requirements for
insulation and energy utilization standards who is not either:
   (A)   Licensed as a contractor to do the proposed work under G.S. Ch. 87;
   (B)   Working under the supervision of a registered architect or
professional engineer;
   (C)   An owner working upon his or her own building; or
   (D)   Licensed under the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-40) (Ord. passed 12-13-1977) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.102 APPLICATION.
   Every person desiring a license under this subchapter shall submit an
application for the license to the Building Inspector, conforming to the
following requirements.
   (A)   Form of application. Each application shall be a written statement
upon forms provided by the Building Inspector.
   (B)   Contents of application. Each application shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   Name and home address of the applicant if an individual or home
office address if a corporation or partnership;
      (2)   Names and home addresses of the partners, if a partnership;
      (3)   Names and home addresses of the officers and directors, if a
corporation;
      (4)   Place where the proposed business is to be located;
      (5)   Complete record of all convictions of felonies or acts involving
dishonesty, fraud or deceit by the applicant or any employee, partner, officer
or director of the applicant, whether in this or any other state or
jurisdiction;
      (6)   Complete record of all licenses held by the applicant or any
employee, partner, officer or director of the applicant authorizing activities
of the type authorized herein or other activities involving construction,
alteration or modification of buildings and structures; and
      (7)   Information as to the circumstances in which any local, state or
federal government or agency has refused, suspended or revoked a license of the
type described in division (B)(6) to the applicant or any employee, partner,
officer or director of the applicant.
   (C)   Fees. Each application shall be accompanied by a fee in the amount as
set by the Town Council for the license, the amount to be for the fiscal year
and prorated by quarters to the end of the year.
   (D)   False statements. False statements on any application for a license
shall be grounds for immediate revocation or denial of the license.
(Prior Code, § 7-41) (Ord. passed 12-13-1977)
§ 150.103 PROCEDURE FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Review by town officers. Each application received by the Building
Inspector shall be promptly reviewed by the Inspection Department or Town
Manager and, if no derogatory information is found, approved for issuance of
license.
   (B)   Licensing agency. The application upon approval shall then be turned
over to the Finance Officer, who shall then issue the license pursuant to the
following standards.
   (C)   Standards. The Finance Officer shall issue the license unless he or
she shall find that the applicant or any employee, partner, officer or director
of the applicant:
      (1)   Has been convicted within the last three years of a felony or an
act involving dishonesty, fraud or deceit, whether in this or any other state
or jurisdiction;
      (2)   Has been refused a license to do the type of work authorized herein
or has had such a license suspended or revoked by any local, state or federal
government or agency and the government or agency has not subsequently granted
or restored the license;
      (3)   Has knowingly made a false statement in the application; and/or
      (4)   Has failed to post the bond or other security required by §
150.104.
(Prior Code, § 7-42) (Ord. passed 12-13-1977)
§ 150.104 BOND REQUIRED.
   (A)   Before a license shall be issued to any applicant, the applicant shall
post a bond with the town in the amount of $1,000. In lieu of posting a bond,
the applicant may deposit a cashier’s check or cash in the same amount.
   (B)   The security required by division (A) shall be available to indemnify
any person for any damage which may accrue by reason of the applicant’s failure
to properly provide or install insulation, energy utilization equipment or
other materials designed or intended to meet the State Building Code standards
for insulation and energy utilization.
(Prior Code, § 7-43) (Ord. passed 12-13-1977)
§ 150.105 TERMINATION AND RENEWAL.
   All licenses issued hereunder shall terminate on the last day of the fiscal
year for which issued. Renewal of the licenses shall be pursuant to the same
procedures and requirements set forth for initial issuance.
(Prior Code, § 7-44) (Ord. passed 12-13-1977)
§ 150.106 SUSPENSION; REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Town Manager may suspend or revoke any license issued hereunder at
any time upon a showing that the applicant or any employee, partner, officer or
director of the applicant has:
      (1)   Knowingly made a false statement in the application for a license;
      (2)   Violated the State Building Code requirements as to insulation or
energy utilization equipment or materials, whether in this or any other
jurisdiction; or
      (3)   Been convicted of an act involving dishonesty, fraud or deceit with
respect to any contract entered into for work requiring this license.
   (B)   (1)   Any licensee whose license is suspended or revoked may appeal
the suspension or revocation to the Town Council.
      (2)   After reasonable notice to the licensee, the Town Council shall
afford the licensee an opportunity to show why its license should not be
suspended or revoked.
(Prior Code, § 7-45) (Ord. passed 12-13-1977)
§ 150.107 CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   The location of any licensed business may be changed, provided ten days’
notice thereof is given to the town and operation at the new location does not
violate any applicable state or local law, ordinance or regulation.
(Prior Code, § 7-46) (Ord. passed 12-13-1977)
§ 150.108 REQUIRED PERMIT; FEE.
   On and after 1-1-1978, no person licensed under this subchapter may, for a
consideration, install, alter or restore any insulation or other materials or
energy utilization equipment designed or intended to meet the State Building
Code requirements for insulation and energy utilization without first securing
a permit from the Building Inspector for each item of work. There shall be a
fee as set by the Town Council for each permit issued.
(Prior Code, § 7-47) (Ord. passed 12-13-1977) Penalty, see §
150.999
HOUSING CODE
§ 150.120 FINDINGS; PURPOSE.
   (A)   Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-441, it is hereby declared that there exist in
the town dwellings which are unfit for human habitation due to dilapidation;
defects increasing the hazards of fire, accidents and other calamities; lack of
ventilation, light and sanitary facilities; and other conditions rendering the
dwellings unsafe or unsanitary, dangerous and detrimental to the health, safety
and morals, and otherwise inimical to the welfare of the residents of the town.
   (B)   In order to protect the health, safety and welfare of the residents of
the town as authorized by G.S. § 160A-174, it is the purpose of this subchapter
to establish minimum standards of fitness for the initial and continued
occupancy of all buildings used for human habitation, as expressly authorized
by G.S. § 160A-444.
(Prior Code, § 7-49) (Ord. passed 3-13-1979)
§ 150.121 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BASEMENT. A portion of a dwelling which is located partly underground,
having direct access to light and air from windows located above the level of
the adjoining ground.
      CELLAR. A portion of a dwelling which is located partly or wholly
underground having an inadequate access to light and air from windows located
partly or wholly below the level of the adjoining ground.
      DETERIORATED. A dwelling that is unfit for human habitation and can be
repaired, altered or improved to comply with all of the minimum standards
established by this subchapter at a cost not in excess of 50% of its value, as
determined by finding of the Inspector.
      DILAPIDATED. A dwelling that is unfit for human habitation and cannot be
repaired, altered or improved to comply with all of the minimum standards
established by this subchapter, except at a cost in excess of 50% of its value,
as determined by finding of the Inspector.
      DWELLING. Any building, structure or part thereof which is wholly or
partly used or intended to be used for living, sleeping or habitation by human
occupants, and includes any outhouses and appurtenances belonging thereto or
usually enjoyed therewith. Temporary housing, as hereinafter defined, shall not
be regarded as a DWELLING. The term shall include, within its meaning, the
terms rooming house and rooming unit, as hereinafter defined.
      DWELLING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling and
forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are used or intended to
be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating.
      EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rodents or other
pests by removing or making inaccessible materials that may serve as their
food; by poisoning, spraying, fumigating or trapping; or by any other
recognized and legal pest elimination methods approved by the Inspector.
      GARBAGE. The organic waste resulting from the handling, preparation,
cooking and consumption of food.
      GENDER. Words having a masculine gender shall include the feminine and
neuter genders.
      HABITABLE ROOM. A room or enclosed floor space used or intended to be
used for living, sleeping, cooking or eating purposes, excluding bathrooms,
water closet compartments, laundries, heater rooms, foyers or communicating
corridors, closets and storage spaces.
      INFESTATION. The presence, within or around a dwelling, of any insects,
rodents or other pests in a number as to constitute a menace to the health,
safety or welfare of the occupants or the public.
      INSPECTOR. The Building Inspector of the town or any authorized agent of
the Inspector.
      MULTIPLE DWELLING. Any dwelling containing more than two dwelling units.
      OCCUPANT. Any person living, sleeping, cooking or eating in, or having
actual possession of a dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming unit.
      OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care or control of a building, or
part thereof, in which dwelling units or rooming units are let.
      OWNER. Any person who alone, jointly or severally with others:
         (a)   Shall have title to any dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming unit,
with or without accompanying actual possession thereof;
         (b)   Shall be a mortgagee of record for any dwelling, dwelling unit
or rooming unit; or
         (c)   Shall have charge, care or control of any dwelling, dwelling
unit or rooming unit, as owner or agent of the actual owner, or as executor,
executrix, administrator, administratrix, trustee or guardian of the estate of
the actual owner. Any person thus representing the actual OWNER shall be bound
to comply with the provisions of this subchapter, and of rules and regulations
adopted pursuant thereto, to the same extent as if he or she were the owner.
      PARTY OR PARTIES IN INTEREST. All persons who have interests of record in
a dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming unit and any persons who are in possession
thereof.
      PERSON. Any individual, corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization or other legal entity.
      PLUMBING. All of the following supplied facilities and equipment: gas
pipes, gas burning equipment, water pipes, mechanical garbage disposal units
(mechanical sink grinders), sewage disposal pipes, water closets, sinks,
installed dishwashers, lavatories, bathtubs, shower baths, installed clothes
washing machines, catch basins, drains, vents and any other similar supplied
fixtures, together with all connections to water, sewer or gas lines.
      PUBLIC AUTHORITY. The officer in charge of the Town Inspection Department
relating to health, fire, building regulations or other activities concerning
dwellings in the town.
      ROOMING HOUSE. Any dwelling, or that part of any dwelling containing one
or more rooming units, in which space is let by the owner or operator to three
or more persons who are not husband or wife, son or daughter, mother or father,
or sister or brother of the owner or operator.
      ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
used or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for cooking or
eating purposes.
      RUBBISH. Non-organic waste materials. The term shall include paper, rags,
cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior, rubber, leather, tree branches, yard
trimmings, tin cans, metals, mineral matter, glass and dust.
      SUPPLIED. Paid for, furnished, or provided by, or under the control of,
the owner or operator.
      TEMPORARY HOUSING. Any tent, trailer or other structure used for human
shelter which is designed to be transportable and which is not attached to the
ground, to another structure, or to any utilities system on the same premises
for more than 30 consecutive days.
      UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION. That conditions exist in a dwelling, dwelling
unit, rooming house or rooming unit which violate or do not comply with one or
more of the minimum standards of fitness or one or more of the requirements
established by this subchapter.
   (B)   Whenever the words “dwelling”, “dwelling unit”, “rooming house”,
“rooming unit”, “premises” are used in this chapter, they shall be construed as
though they were followed by the words “or any part thereof”.
(Prior Code, § 7-50) (Ord. passed 3-13-1979; Ord. passed 6-9-2020)
§ 150.122 MINIMUM STANDARDS OF FITNESS FOR DWELLINGS AND DWELLING UNITS.
   (A)   Every dwelling and dwelling unit used as a human habitation, or held
out for use as a human habitation, shall comply with all of the minimum
standards of fitness for human habitation and all of the requirements of §§
150.123 through
150.128.
   (B)   No person shall occupy as owner-occupant, or let to another for
occupancy or use as a human habitation, any dwelling or dwelling unit which
does not comply with all of the minimum standards of fitness for human
habitation and all of the requirements of §§
150.123 through
150.128.
(Prior Code, § 7-51) (Ord. passed 3-13-1979) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.123 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR STRUCTURAL CONDITION.
   The following standards shall constitute the minimum standards for
structural condition of a dwelling or dwelling unit.
   (A)   Foundation.
      (1)   A foundation wall system shall support the building at all points
and shall be free of holes, cracks, and loose mortar or masonry which would
admit rodents, water or dampness to the interior of the building or which
lessen the capability of the foundation to support the building.
      (2)   All crawl spaces shall be graded so as to prevent any standing
water.
      (3)   Foundation piers shall be sound with no loose mortar or masonry.
   (B)   Exterior walls.
      (1)   There shall be no broken, cracked or fire damaged structural
members.
      (2)   All siding shall be weather-tight, with no holes or excessive
cracks or decayed boards which permit excessive air or moisture to penetrate
rooms.
      (3)   All siding shall be appropriately attached to the structure such
that it does not move or become unattached under normal storm wind conditions.
      (4)   Exterior surfaces not inherently resistant to deterioration shall
be treated with protective, appropriate siding or painted and maintained in
good repair to prevent deterioration.
   (C)   Interior walls.
      (1)   The interior finish shall be free of holes and excessive cracks
which:
         (a)   Permit air or moisture to penetrate rooms; or
         (b)   Contain loose or flaking materials.
      (2)   All interior walls shall be treated, painted and maintained so as
to be easily kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
      (3)   All wall materials shall be adequately attached to structural
components and there shall be no loose plaster, loose boards or other loose
wall materials. Any materials used in the repair of interior walls shall be of
a material that is similar in texture and appearance to the original material
and shall provide for the same level of safety and structural support as the
original material.
      (4)   Walls shall not be covered in cardboard, newspaper or other highly
combustible or improper wall finish.
      (5)   Walls shall contain no damaged, deteriorated, broken or cracked
studs or structural members which render the building unsafe.
      (6)   Walls and vertical studs shall be reasonably plumb, level and
straight and should not list, lean or buckle to such an extent as to render the
building unsafe.
   (D)   Ceilings.
      (1)   There shall be no joists which are decayed or broken, sagging, or
improperly supported.
      (2)   There shall be no holes or excessive cracks which permit air to
penetrate rooms.
      (3)   There shall be no loose plaster, boards, sheetrock, or other
ceiling finish. Any materials used in the repair of the ceiling shall be of a
material that is similar in texture and appearance to the original material and
shall provide for the same level of safety and structural support as the
original material. This provision does not include the replacement of the
entire ceiling provided that the material used is contiguous over the entire
ceiling within the affected room.
      (4)   There shall be no evidence of unrepaired water or fire damage.
      (5)   Whenever possible every dwelling unit shall have a minimum of R-30
insulation in the attic area. The approved types include blown insulation, batt
insulation or other insulation eguivalent of R-30 insulation value.
   (E)   Roofs.
      (1)   Roofs shall be supported and no rafters shall be rotted, broken,
sagging, have improperly supported ends or have unrepaired fire or water
damage.
      (2)   Roofing shall be sufficient to prevent the entrance of moisture and
shall be maintained by renewal, repair, waterproofing or other suitable means.
      (3)   Roof sheathing shall adequately attached, not be rotted and not
sagging excessively.
      (4)   Roof covering shall be adequately attached and not have holes or
leaks.
      (5)   There shall be proper flashing at walls and roof penetrations
installed in accordance with the North Carolina State Building Code.
      (6)   There shall be no chimneys or part thereof which are defective,
deteriorated or in danger of falling, or in such condition to constitute a fire
hazard.
      (7)   Roofs shall not have improperly distributed loads, shall not be
overloaded, and shall have sufficient strength to be reasonably safe for the
purpose for which they are used.
   (F)   Floors.
      (1)   Floors shall not have decayed, termite-damaged, fire-damaged,
broken, overloaded or sagging sills that adversely affect the structural
integrity of the building framing system.
      (2)   Joists shall not be decayed or broken so as to adversely affect the
structural integrity of the floor framing system.
      (3)   Flooring shall be reasonably smooth and weather-tight without holes
or cracks which permit excessive air to penetrate rooms.
      (4)   Flooring adequately attached to the structure such that it does not
move or become unattached under use.
      (5)   All floor coverings shall be constructed and maintained so as not
to constitute a trip hazard and kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
      (6)   There shall be no use of the ground for floors or wood floors
directly upon the ground.
      (7)   Floors shall not have improperly distributed loads, shall not be
overloaded, and shall have sufficient strength to be reasonably safe for the
purpose for which they are used.
   (G)   Porches. All porches shall have adeguate posts and railings which are
not rotted, broken or termite damaged. Every porch which is more than 30 inches
high shall have rails installed in accordance with the North Carolina State
Building Code. Porch foundations, floors, ceilings and roofs shall be egual to
standards as set forth in this division (G), except:
      (1)   Sills, joists and floors need not be level if providing drainage.
      (2)   Floors need not be weathertight.
      (3)   Minimum ceiling height shall be seven feet.
      (4)   Attic area need not have insulation.
   (H)   Stairs and steps.
      (1)   Stairs and steps shall be free of holes, grooves and cracks large
enough to constitute accident hazards.
      (2)   Stairs and steps shall be adeguately supported and stairs, steps
and supporting structure shall not be rotting, sagging or deteriorated.
      (3)   Every stairway, including inside stairs and rails, porches, decks
and appurtenances thereto shall be kept in sound condition and good repair.
      (4)   Platforms and steps shall be provided to serve exits and shall be
maintained in a safe condition. Platforms shall be sized in accordance with the
North Carolina State Building Code.
      (5)   No flight of stairs shall be settled out of its intended position
by more than two inches or separated in any way from supporting or adjacent
members.
      (6)   Stairs and steps shall be plumb and level and treads shall be
uniform in width. Risers shall be plumb, uniform in height, sound and securely
fastened to a structure. A slight uniform tilt of the treads to aid in the run
off of water is permissible for exterior steps.
   (I)   Adequate facilities. All dwellings and dwelling units shall:
      (1)   Have adequate facilities for egress in case of fire, accident or
other calamities.
      (2)   Be free from any defects significantly increasing hazards of fire,
accident or other calamities.
      (3)   Have adequate ventilation, light, heating and sanitary facilities
so as not to endanger the health, safety, or general welfare of the occupants
or other residents of the town.
      (4)   Have proper electrical, heating or plumbing facilities which do not
constitute a health or definite safety hazard.
      (5)   Have adequate weatherization.
      (6)   Not have any combination of defects or circumstances which in the
judgment of the Building Inspector renders such building dangerous or injurious
to the health, safety or general welfare of the occupants of the dwelling, the
occupants of neighboring dwellings, or other residents of the city.
(Prior Code, § 7-52) (Ord. passed 3-13-1979; Ord. passed 6-9-2020) Penalty, see
§
150.999
§ 150.124 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR BASIC PLUMBING, HEATING AND ELECTRICAL
EQUIPMENT AND FACILITIES.
   (A)   Plumbing system.
      (1)   Each dwelling unit shall be connected to a potable water supply and
to a public sewer or other approved sewage disposal system.
      (2)   Each dwelling unit shall contain not less than a kitchen sink,
lavatory, tub or shower, water closet and adequate supply of both cold water
and hot water. All water shall be supplied through an approved pipe
distribution system connected to a potable water supply.
      (3)   All plumbing fixtures shall meet the standards of the North
Carolina State Plumbing Code and shall be maintained in a state of good repair
and in good working order.
      (4)   All required plumbing fixtures shall be located within the dwelling
unit and be accessible to the occupants of same. The water closet and tub or
shower shall be located in a room or rooms affording privacy to the user.
      (5)   No fixtures shall be cracked or broken.
      (6)   All water piping shall be protected from freezing by proper
installation in enclosed or concealed areas or by such other means as approved
by the Building Inspector.
      (7)   Sewer and water lines shall be properly supported with no breaks or
leaks.
      (8)   Access to toilet and bathing facilities shall be through a
weathertight and heated area.
   (B)   Heating system. Every dwelling and dwelling unit shall have facilities
for providing heat in accordance with the following:
      (1)   Central and electric heating systems. Every central or electric
heating system shall be of sufficient capacity to heat all habitable rooms,
bathrooms and water closet compartments in every dwelling unit to which it is
connected with a minimum temperature of 70°F measured at a point three feet
above the floor during ordinary winter conditions.
      (2)   Other heating facilities. Where a central or electric heating
system is not provided, each dwelling and dwelling unit shall be provided with
sufficient fireplace, chimneys, flues, gas vents or other facilities to which
heating appliances may be connected to heat all habitable rooms with a minimum
temperature of 70°F measured three feet above the floor during ordinary winter
conditions.
   (C)   Electrical system.
      (1)   Every dwelling and dwelling unit shall be wired for electric lights
and convenience receptacles. Every habitable room shall contain at least four
separate duplex convenience outlets. Outlets shall be located as remote from
each other as practicable. At least one fixed in place ceiling or wall type
electric light fixture shall be provided in every bedroom, toilet room,
bathroom, laundry room, kitchen, furnace room, basement, porch, and any other
area in which artificial light is required for the safety and welfare of the
occupants. A switched wall receptacle shall be acceptable in a bedroom, living
room or den.
      (2)   Every public hall and stairway in every multiple dwelling shall be
adequately lighted by electric lights at all times when natural daylight is not
sufficient.
      (3)   All fixtures, receptacles, equipment and wiring shall be maintained
in a state of good repair, safe, capable of being used and installed in
accordance with the North Carolina State Electrical Code.
      (4)   Flexible cords shall not be used as a substitute for fixed wiring;
run through holes in walls, ceilings or floors; run through doorways, windows
or similar opening; or attached to building surfaces; concealed behind building
walls, ceilings or floors.
      (5)   Circuits and circuit breakers or fuses shall be adequate for the
dwelling and shall not be overloaded.
      (6)   Fuses shall be sized correctly and not bridged.
   (D)   Smoke detectors. All dwellings and dwelling units shall be equipped
with a 100-volt or battery-operated smoke detector which has been listed by a
testing agency (such as Underwriters Laboratories) and such detector shall be
installed outside of each sleeping area inside the dwelling. All smoke
detectors shall be located on or near the ceiling in accordance with the
manufacturer’s instructions and maintained in good working conditions.
(Prior Code, § 7-53) (Ord. passed 3-13-1979; Ord. passed 6-9-2020)
§ 150.125 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR VENTILATION.
   (A)   General. Every habitable room shall have at least one window or
skylight facing directly to the outdoors. The minimum total window area,
measured between stops, for every habitable room shall be ten percent of the
floor area of the room. Whenever walls or other portions of structures face a
window or any room and the light-obstructing structures are located less than
five feet from the window and extend to a level above that of the ceiling of
the room, such a window shall not be deemed to face directly to the outdoors
and shall not be included as contributing to the required minimum total window
area. Whenever the only window in a room is a skylight-type window in the top
of the room, the total window area of the skylight shall equal at least 15% of
the total floor area of the room.
   (B)   Habitable rooms. Every habitable room shall have at least one window
or skylight which can easily be opened or other device as will adequately
ventilate the room. The total openable window area in every habitable room
shall be equal to at least 45% of the minimum window area size or minimum
skylight-type window size as required, or shall have other approved, equivalent
ventilation.
   (C)   Bathroom and water closet rooms. Every bathroom and water closet
compartment shall comply with the light and ventilation requirements for
habitable rooms, except that no window or skylight shall be required in
adequately ventilated bathrooms and water closet rooms equipped with an
approved ventilation system.
(Prior Code, § 7-54) (Ord. passed 3-13-1979)
§ 150.126 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR SPACE, USE AND LOCATION.
   (A)   Room sizes.
      (1)   Every dwelling unit shall contain at least the minimum room size in
each habitable room as required by the State Residential Building Code.
      (2)   Every dwelling unit shall contain at least 150 square feet of
habitable floor area for the first occupant, at least 100 square feet of
additional habitable area for each of the next three occupants, and at least 75
square feet of additional habitable floor area for each additional occupant.
      (3)   In every dwelling unit and in every rooming unit, every room
occupied for sleeping purposes by one occupant shall contain at least 70 square
feet of floor area, and every room occupied for sleeping purposes by more than
one occupant shall contain at least 50 square feet of floor area for each
occupant 12 years of age and over and at least 35 square feet of floor area for
each occupant under 12 years of age.
   (B)   Ceiling height. At least one-half of the floor area of every habitable
room shall have a ceiling height of not less than seven feet and six inches.
   (C)   Floor area calculation. Floor area shall be calculated on the basis of
habitable room area. However, closet area and wall area within the dwelling
unit may count for not more than 10% of the required habitable floor area. The
floor area of any part of any room where the ceiling height is less than four
and one-half feet shall not be considered as part of the floor area for the
purpose of determining maximum permissible occupancy.
   (D)   Cellar. No cellar shall be used for living purposes.
   (E)   Basements. No basement shall be used for living purposes unless:
      (1)   The floor and walls are substantially water-tight;
      (2)   The total window area, total openable window area and ceiling
height are equal to those required for habitable rooms; and
      (3)   The required minimum window area of every habitable room is
entirely above the grade adjoining the window area, except where the window or
windows face a stairwell, window well or accessway.
(Prior Code, § 7-55) (Ord. passed 3-13-1979)
§ 150.127 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR SAFE AND SANITARY MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Exterior foundation, walls and roofs. Every foundation wall, exterior
wall and exterior roof shall be substantially weather-tight and rodent proof;
shall be kept in sound condition and good repair; shall be capable of affording
privacy; and shall be safe to use and capable of supporting the load which
normal use would cause to be placed thereon. Every exterior wall shall be
protected with paint or other protective covering to prevent the entrance or
penetration of moisture or the weather.
   (B)   Interior floors, walls and ceilings. Every floor, interior wall and
ceiling shall be substantially rodent proof; shall be kept in sound condition
and good repair; and shall be safe to use and capable of supporting the load
which normal use would cause to be placed thereon.
   (C)   Windows and doors. Every window, exterior door, basement or cellar
door and hatchway shall be substantially weather-tight, water-tight and rodent
proof and shall be kept in sound working condition and good repair.
   (D)   Stairs, porches and appurtenances. Every outside and inside stair,
porch and any appurtenance thereto shall be safe to use and capable of
supporting the load that normal use would cause to be placed thereon and shall
be kept in sound condition and good repair.
   (E)   Bathroom and kitchen floors. Every bathroom and kitchen floor surface
and water closet compartment floor surface shall be constructed and maintained
so that it will be reasonably impervious to water and will permit the floor to
be easily kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
   (F)   Supplied facilities. Every supplied facility, piece of equipment or
utility which is required under this subchapter shall be so constructed or
installed that it will function safely and effectively and shall be maintained
in satisfactory working condition.
   (G)   Drainage. Every yard shall be properly graded in order to obtain
thorough drainage and to prevent the accumulation of stagnant water.
   (H)   Noxious weeds. Every yard and all exterior property areas shall be
kept free of species of weeds or plant growth which are noxious or detrimental
to health.
   (I)   Egress. Every dwelling unit shall be provided with adequate means of
egress as required by the State Residential Building Code.
   (J)   Hazardous materials. Dwellings and dwelling units shall not contain
hazardous materials, such as lead and asbestos, subsequent to being required to
abate such conditions by an appropriate regulatory agency or court. Any
required abatement shall be performed in accordance with regulations,
directions and orders issued by the regulatory agency or court.
   (K)   Painting. All exterior surfaces of buildings and structures, not
inherently resistant to deterioration, shall be treated with a protective
coating, such as paint or other suitable preservative, with sufficient
frequency to prevent deterioration. All such portions shall be cleaned and free
of flaking, loose or defective surfacing materials prior to painting or
coating. All interior loose or peeling wall covering or paint shall be removed
and the exposed surface shall be placed in a smooth and sanitary condition. All
new paint shall be free of any lead pigment.
   (L)   Exterior property areas and grounds.
      (1)   The exterior property areas of all premises shall be kept free of
objects and materials, including abandoned motor vehicles, which may create a
hazard to the health and safety of the occupants or surrounding community or
which is a public nuisance.
      (2)   All exterior property and premises shall be maintained in a clean,
safe and sanitary condition. The occupant shall keep that part of the exterior
property which such occupant occupies or controls in a clean and sanitary
condition.
      (3)   All premises shall be graded and maintained to prevent the erosion
of soil and to prevent the accumulation of stagnant water thereon, or within
any structure located thereon. Lots shall also be properly graded to prevent
unreasonable surface water runoff from being directed onto adjoining
properties.
      (4)   All sidewalks, walkways, stairs, driveways, parking spaces and
similar areas shall be kept in a proper state of repair and maintained free
from hazardous conditions.
      (5)   All structures and exterior property shall be kept free from rodent
harborage and infestation. Where rodents are found, they shall be promptly
exterminated by approved processes which will not be injurious to human health.
After extermination, proper precautions shall be taken to eliminate rodent
harborage and prevent subsequent infestations.
      (6)   Pipes, ducts, conductors, fans or blowers shall not discharge
gases, steam, vapor, hot air, grease, smoke, odors or other gaseous or
particulate wastes directly upon abutting or adjacent public or private
property or that of another tenant.
      (7)   All accessory structures, including detached garages, sheds, barns,
fences, walls and other appurtenant structures, shall be maintained in a
structurally sound manner and in good repair.
   (M)   Unrepaired damage and dilapidation. Dwellings and dwelling units shall
not have unrepaired damage by fire, wind, or other causes rendering the
building unsafe and shall not have dilapidation, decay, insanitary conditions
or disrepair which is dangerous to the health, safety or general welfare of the
occupants, or other people in the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-56) (Ord. passed 3-13-1979; Ord. passed 6-9-2020)
§ 150.128 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR CONTROL OF INSECTS, RODENTS AND INFESTATIONS.
   (A)   Screens. In every dwelling unit, for protection against mosquitoes,
flies and other insects, every door opening directly from a dwelling unit to
outdoor space shall be equipped with screens and a self-closing device. Every
window or other device with openings to outdoor space, used or intended to be
used for ventilation, shall likewise be equipped with screens.
   (B)   Rodent control. Every basement or cellar window used or intended to be
used for ventilation, and every other opening to a basement which might provide
an entry for rodents, shall be equipped with screens or other approved device
as will effectively prevent their entrance.
   (C)   Infestation. Every occupant of a dwelling containing a single dwelling
unit shall be responsible for the extermination of any insects, rodents or
other pests therein or on the premises; and every occupant of a dwelling unit
in a dwelling containing more than one dwelling unit shall be responsible for
the extermination whenever his or her dwelling unit is the only one infested.
Whenever infestation is caused by failure of the owner to maintain a dwelling
in a rodent proof or reasonably insect proof condition, extermination shall be
the responsibility of the owner.
   (D)   Rubbish storage and disposal. Every dwelling and every dwelling unit
shall be supplied with approved containers and covers for storage of rubbish as
required by town ordinances, and the owner, operator or agent in control of the
dwelling or dwelling unit shall be responsible for the removal of rubbish.
   (E)   Garbage storage and disposal. Every dwelling and every dwelling unit
shall be supplied with an approved garbage disposal facility, which may be an
adequate mechanical garbage disposal unit (mechanical sink grinder) in each
dwelling unit, or an approved outside garbage can as required by town
ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 7-57) (Ord. passed 3-13-1979) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.129 MINIMUM STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO ROOMING HOUSES; EXCEPTIONS.
   All of the provisions of this subchapter, and all of the minimum standards
and requirements of this subchapter, shall be applicable to rooming houses, and
to every person who operates a rooming house, or who occupies or lets to
another for occupancy any rooming unit in any rooming house, except as provided
in the following divisions.
   (A)   Water closet, hand lavatory and bath facilities. At least one water
closet, lavatory basin and bathtub or shower, properly connected to an approved
water and sewer system and in good working condition, shall be supplied for
each four rooms within a rooming house wherever these facilities are shared.
All such facilities shall be located within the residence building served and
shall be directly accessible from a common hall or passageway and shall be not
more than one story removed from any of the persons sharing the facilities.
Every lavatory basin and bathtub or shower shall be supplied with hot and cold
water at all times. The required facilities shall not be located in a cellar.
   (B)   Minimum floor area for sleeping purposes. Every room occupied for
sleeping purposes by one occupant shall contain at least 70 square feet of
floor area and every room occupied for sleeping purposes by more than one
occupant shall contain at least 50 square feet of floor area for each occupant
12 years of age and over and at least 35 square feet of floor area for each
occupant under 12 years of age.
   (C)   Sanitary conditions. The operator of every rooming house shall be
responsible for the sanitary maintenance of all walls, floors and ceilings, and
for the sanitary maintenance of every other part of the rooming house. He or
she shall be further responsible for the sanitary maintenance of the entire
premises where the entire structure or building within which the rooming house
is contained is leased or occupied by the operator.
   (D)   Sanitary facilities. Every water closet, flush urinal, lavatory basin
and bathtub or shower required by division (A) of this section shall be located
within the rooming house and within a room or rooms which afford privacy, are
separate from the habitable rooms, are accessible from a common hall, and are
accessible without going outside the rooming house or through any other room
therein.
(Prior Code, § 7-58) (Ord. passed 3-13-1979) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.130 INSPECTIONS; DUTY OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of making inspections, the Inspector is hereby
authorized to enter, examine and survey at all reasonable times all dwellings,
dwelling units, rooming houses, rooming units and the premises associated
therewith. The owner or occupant of every dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming
house or rooming unit or the person in charge thereof shall give the Inspector
free access to the dwelling and its premises at all reasonable times for the
purpose of the inspection, examination and survey.
   (B)   Every occupant of a dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house or rooming
unit shall give the owner thereof, or his or her agent or employee, access to
any part of the dwelling unit and its premises at all reasonable times for the
purpose of making the repairs or alterations as are necessary to effect
compliance with the provisions of this subchapter or with any lawful order
issued pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-59) (Ord. passed 7-10-2007)
§ 150.131 POWERS AND DUTIES OF BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   The Building Inspector is hereby designated as the officer to enforce the
provisions of this subchapter and to exercise the duties and power herein
prescribed. The Building Inspector is authorized to exercise the powers as may
be necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purpose and
provisions of this subchapter. The Building Inspector shall have the following
powers and duties:
   (A)   To investigate the dwelling conditions, and to inspect dwellings and
dwelling units located in the town, in order to determine which dwellings and
dwelling units are unfit for human habitation, and for the purpose of carrying
out the objectives of this subchapter with respect to the repair, closing or
demolition of the dwellings and dwelling unit;
   (B)   To take such action, together with other appropriate departments and
agencies, public and private, as may be necessary to effect rehabilitation of
housing which is deteriorated;
   (C)   To keep a record of the results of inspections made under this
subchapter and an inventory of those dwellings that do not meet the minimum
standards of fitness herein prescribed;
   (D)   To administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses and receive
evidence;
   (E)   To enter upon premises for the purpose of making examinations and
inspections; provided, the entries shall be made in accordance with §
150.130 and state law, and shall be made in a manner as to cause the lease
possible inconvenience to the persons in possession;
   (F)   To appoint and fix the duties of the officers, agents and employees as
he or she deems necessary to assist in carrying out the purposes of this
subchapter, and to delegate any of his or her functions and powers to the
officers, agents and employees; and
   (G)   To perform such other duties as may be prescribed herein or by the
governing body.
(Prior Code, § 7-60) (Ord. passed 3-13-1979; Ord. passed 7-10-2007)
§ 150.132 PROCEDURE FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Preliminary investigation; notice; hearing. Whenever a petition is
filed with the Inspector by a public authority or by at least five residents of
the town charging that any dwelling or dwelling unit is unfit for human
habitation, or whenever it appears to the Inspector, upon inspection, that any
dwelling or dwelling unit is unfit for human habitation he or she shall, if his
or her preliminary investigation disclosed a basis for the charges, issue and
cause to be served upon the owner or any parties in interest in the dwelling or
dwelling unit a complaint stating the charges and containing a notice that a
hearing will be held before the Inspector at a place therein fixed, not less
than ten days nor more than 30 days after the serving of the complaint. Notice
of the hearing shall also be given to at least one of the persons signing a
petition relating to the dwelling. Any person desiring to do so may attend the
hearing and give evidence relevant thereto. Rules of evidence in courts of law
or equity shall not be controlling in hearings before the Inspector.
   (B)   Procedure after hearing. After notice and hearing, if the Building
Inspector determines that the dwelling under consideration is unfit for human
habitation, he or she shall state in writing his or her findings of fact in
support of that determination and shall issue and cause to be served upon the
owner thereof an order.
      (1)   If the repair, alteration or improvement of the dwelling can be
made at a reasonable cost in relation to the value of the dwelling requiring
the owner, within the time specified, to repair, alter or improve the dwelling
in order to render it fit for human habitation. The order may require that the
property be vacated and closed only if continued occupancy during the time
allowed for repair will present a significant threat of bodily harm, taking
into account the nature of the necessary repairs, alterations, or improvements;
the current state of the property; and any additional risks due to the presence
and capacity of minors under the age of 18 or occupants with physical or mental
disabilities. The order shall state that the failure to make timely repairs as
directed in the order shall make the dwelling subject to the issuance of an
unfit order under division (C) of this section; or
      (2)   If the repair, alteration or improvement of the dwelling cannot be
made at a reasonable cost in relation to the value of the dwelling requiring
the owner, within the time specified in the order, to remove or demolish the
dwelling. However, notwithstanding any other provision of law, if the dwelling
is located in a historic district of the city and the Historic District
Commission determines, after a public hearing as provided by ordinance, that
the dwelling is particular significance or value toward maintaining the
character of the district, and the dwelling has not been condemned as unsafe,
the order may require that the dwelling be vacated and closed consistent with
G.S. § 160A-400.14(a).
   (C)   Repair, vacation and closure. If the owner fails to comply with an
order to repair, alter or improve or to vacate and close the dwelling, the
Building Inspector may cause the dwelling to be repaired, altered or improved
or to be vacated and closed; that the public officer may cause to be posted on
the main entrance of any dwelling so closed, a placard with the following
words: “This building is unfit for human habitation; the use or occupation of
this building for human habitation is prohibited and unlawful.” Occupation of a
building so posted shall constitute a Class 1 misdemeanor. The duties of the
Building Inspector set forth in this division shall not be exercised until the
Town Council shall have by ordinance ordered the Building Inspector to proceed
to effectuate the purpose of this Housing Code with respect to the particular
property or properties which the Building Inspector shall have found to be
unfit for human habitation and which property or properties shall be described
in the ordinance. The ordinance shall be recorded in the office of the Register
of Deeds in the county wherein the property or properties are located and shall
be indexed in the name of the property owner in the grantor index.
   (D)   Removal or demolition. If the owner fails to comply with an order to
remove or demolish the dwelling, the Building Inspector may cause the dwelling
to be removed or demolished. The duties of the Building Inspector set forth in
this division shall not be exercised until the Town Council shall have by
ordinance ordered the Building Inspector to proceed to effectuate the purpose
of this Housing Code with respect to the particular property or properties
which the Building Inspector shall have found to be unfit for human habitation
and which property or properties shall be described in the ordinance. No such
ordinance shall be adopted to require demolition of a dwelling until the owner
has first been given a reasonable opportunity to bring it into conformity with
this Housing Code. The ordinance shall be recorded in the office of the
Register of Deeds in the county wherein the property or properties are located
and shall be indexed in the name of the property owner in the grantor index.
(Prior Code, § 7-61) (Ord. passed 7-10-2007; Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.133 METHODS OF SERVICE OF COMPLAINTS AND ORDERS.
   Complaints or orders issued by the Inspector shall be served upon persons
either personally or by registered or certified mail. If the whereabouts of the
persons are unknown and the same cannot be ascertained by the Inspector in the
exercise of reasonable diligence, the Inspector shall make an affidavit to that
effect, and the serving of the complaint or order upon the person may be made
by publishing the same at least once no later than the time at which personal
service would be required under the provisions of this subchapter in a
newspaper having general circulation in the town. Where service is made by
publication, a notice of the pending proceeding shall be posted in a
conspicuous place on the premises affected by the compliant or order.
(Prior Code, § 7-62) (Ord. passed 7-10-2007)
§ 150.134 IN REM ACTION BY INSPECTOR; PLACARDING.
   (A)   After failure of an owner of a dwelling or dwelling unit to comply
with an order of the Inspector issued pursuant to the provisions of this
subchapter, and upon adoption by the Town Council of an ordinance authorizing
and directing him or her to do so, as provided by G.S. § 160A-443(5) and §
150.137, the Inspector shall proceed to cause the dwelling or dwelling unit to
be repaired, altered or improved to comply with the minimum standards of
fitness established by this subchapter, or to be vacated and closed and removed
or demolished, as directed by the ordinance of the Town Council and shall cause
to be posted on the main entrance of the dwelling or dwelling unit a placard
with the following words: “This building is unfit for human habitation; the use
or occupation of this building for human habitation is prohibited and
unlawful.”
   (B)   Occupation of a building so posted shall constitute a Class 1
misdemeanor.
   (C)   Each ordinance shall be recorded in the office of the Register of
Deeds in the county wherein the property is located and shall be indexed in the
name of the property owner in the grantor index, as provided by G.S. § 160A-443
(5).
(Prior Code, § 7-63) (Ord. passed 7-10-2007) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.135 COSTS A LIEN ON PREMISES; SALE OF PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   The amount of the cost of repairs, alterations or improvements, or vacating
and closing, or removal or demolition by the public officer shall be a lien
against the real property upon which the cost was incurred, which lien shall be
filed, have the same priority, and be collected as the lien for special
assessment provided in G.S. Chapter 160A, Article 10. If the dwelling is
removed or demolished by the public officer, he or she shall sell the materials
of the dwelling, and shall credit the proceeds of the sale against the cost of
the removal or demolition and any balance remaining shall be deposited in the
superior court by the public officer, shall be secured in a manner directed by
the court, and shall be disbursed by the court to the persons found to be
entitled thereto by final order or degree if the court. Nothing in this section
shall be construed to impair or limit in any way the power of the city to
define and declare nuisances and to cause their removal or abatement by summary
proceedings, or otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 7-64) (Ord. passed 7-10-2007)
§ 150.136 CIVIL ACTION; REMEDIES.
   (A)   If any occupant fails to comply with an order to vacate a dwelling,
the public officer may file a civil action in the name of the city to remove
the occupant. The action to vacate the dwelling shall be in the nature of
summary ejectment and shall be commenced by filing a compliant naming as
parties-defendants any persons occupying the dwelling. The Clerk of Superior
Court shall issue a summons requiring the defendant to appear before the
magistrate at a certain time, date and place not to exceed ten days from the
issuance of the summons to answer the compliant. The summons and compliant
shall be served as provided in G.S. § 42-29. The summons shall be returned
according to it tenor, and if on its return it appears to have been duly
served, and if at the hearing the public officer produces a certified copy of
an ordinance adopted by the governing body pursuant to G.S. § 160A-443(5)
authorizing the officer to proceed to vacate the occupied dwelling, the
magistrate shall enter judgment ordering that the promises be vacated and that
all persons be removed. The judgment ordering that the dwelling be vacated
shall be enforced in the same manner as the judgment for summary ejectment
entered under G.S. § 42-30. An appeal from any judgment entered hereunder by
the magistrate may be taken as provided in G.S. § 7A-228, and the execution of
the judgment may be stayed as provided in G.S. § 7A-227. An action to remove an
occupant of a dwelling who is a tenant of the owner may not be in the nature of
a summary ejectment proceeding pursuant to this section unless the occupant was
served with notice at least 30 days before the filing of the summary ejectment
proceeding. That the governing body has ordered the public officer to proceed
to exercise his duties under G.S. § 160A-443(4) and (5) to vacate and close or
remove and demolish the dwelling.
(Prior Code, § 7-65)
   (B)   (1)   Appeals from orders of Inspector.
         (a)   An appeal from any decision of the Inspector may be taken by any
person aggrieved thereby. Any appeal from the Inspector shall be taken within
ten days from the rendering the decision or service of the order and shall be
taken filing with the Inspector and with the Zoning Board of Adjustment a
notice of appeal, which shall specify the grounds upon which the appeal is
based. Upon the filing of any notice of appeal, the Inspector shall forthwith
transmit to the Board all the papers constituting the record upon which the
decision appealed from was made. When an appeal is from a decision of the
Inspector refusing to allow the person aggrieved thereby to do any act, his or
her decision shall remain in force until modified or reversed. When an appeal
is from a decision of the Inspector requiring the person aggrieved to do any
act, the appeal shall have the effect of suspending the requirement until the
hearing by the Board, unless the Inspector certifies to the Board, after the
notice of appeals is filed with him or her, that by reason of the facts stated
in the certificate (a copy of which shall be furnished to the appellant), a
suspension of his or her requirement would cause imminent peril to life or
property, in which case the requirement shall not be suspended except for due
cause shown upon not less than one day’s written notice to the Inspector, by
the Board, or by a court of record upon petition made pursuant to G.S. § 160A-
446(f) and division (A) above.
         (b)   The Board shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of all
appeals, shall give due notice to all parties, and shall render its decision
within a reasonable time. Any party may appear in person or by agent or
attorney. The Board may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the
decision or order appealed from, and may make the decision and order as in its
opinion ought to be made in the matter, and to that end it shall have all the
powers if the Inspector, but the concurring vote of four members of the Board
shall be necessary to reverse or modify any decision or order of the Inspector.
The Board shall have power also in passing upon appeals, in any case where
there are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships in the way of
carrying out the strict letter of the ordinance, to adapt the application of
the ordinance to the necessities of the case to the end that the spirit of the
ordinance shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured and substantial
justice done.
         (c)   Every decision of the Board shall be subject to review by
proceedings in the nature of certiorari instituted within 15 days of the
decision of the Board, but not otherwise.
      (2)   Petition to superior court by owner. Any person aggrieved by an
order issued by the Inspector or a decision rendered by the Board shall have
the right, within 30 days after issuance of the ordering or rendering of the
decision, to petition the superior court for a temporary injunction restraining
the Inspector pending a final disposition of the cause, as provided by G.S. §
160A-446(f). Hearings shall be had by the court on a petition within 20 days,
and shall be given preferences over other matters on the court’s calendar. The
court shall hear and determine the issues raised and shall enter the final
order or decree as law and justice may require. It shall not be necessary to
file bond in any amount before obtaining a temporary injunction under this
division.
      (3)   Severability. If any dwelling is erected, constructed, altered,
repaired, converted, maintained or used in violation of this part or any
ordnance or code adopted under authority of this part or any valid order or
decision of the Inspector or Board made pursuant to any ordinance or code
adopted under authority of this part, the Inspector or Board may institute any
appropriate action or proceedings to prevent the unlawful erection,
construction, reconstruction, alteration or use to restrain, correct or abate
the violation, to prevent the occupancy of the dwelling, or to prevent any
illegal act, conduct or use in or about the premises of the dwelling.
(Prior Code, § 7-66)
   (C)   Neither this subchapter nor any of its provisions shall be construed
to impair or limit in any way the power of the town to define and declare
nuisances and to cause their abatement by summary action or otherwise, or to
enforce this subchapter by criminal process as authorized by G.S. § 14-4 and
division (B) above, and the enforcement of any remedy provided herein shall not
prevent the enforcement of any other remedy or remedies provided herein or in
other ordinances or laws.
(Prior Code, § 7-67)
(Ord. passed 7-10-2007)
§ 150.137 ZONING BOARD OF ADJUSTMENTS TO HEAR APPEALS.
   (A)   All appeals which may be taken from decisions or orders of the
Inspector pursuant hereto shall be heard and determined by the Zoning Board of
Adjustments. As the appeals body, the Board shall have the power to fix the
times and places of its meeting, to adopt necessary rules of procedure and any
other rules and regulations which may be necessary for the proper discharge of
its duties. The Board shall perform the duties prescribed hereby and shall keep
an accurate journal of all of its proceedings.
   (B)   If the Zoning Board of Adjustments consists of more than five members,
the Chairperson shall designate five members to hear appeals under this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-68) (Ord. passed 7-10-2007)
§ 150.138 PREVENTION OF DEMOLITION BY NEGLECT.
   (A)   Demolition by neglect. Demolition by neglect is defined as a situation
in which a property owner or others having legal possession, custody or control
of a property, allow the condition of a property located in the town’s Historic
District to suffer such deterioration, potentially beyond the point of repair,
as to threaten the structural integrity of the structure or its relevant
architectural detail to a degree that the structure and its character may
potentially be lost to current and future generations.
   (B)   Standards. The exterior features of any building or structure located
within the town’s Historic District as identified on the town’s official zoning
map shall be preserved by the owner and/or parties in interest against decay,
deterioration and structural defects. The owner and/or parties in interest
shall upon written request of the town repair such exterior features if they
are found to be deteriorating, or if their condition is contributing to
deterioration, including but not limited to, any of the following defects:
      (1)   Deterioration of exterior walls, foundations, flooring, parapet
walls, roofs, beams, chimneys and either horizontal or vertical load bearing
supports that causes leaning, sagging, splitting, listing or buckling;
      (2)   Ineffective waterproofing of exterior walls, roofs and foundations,
including broken windows/doors, failed paint leaking roofing, decayed brickwork
or failed siding materials;
      (3)   Rotting, holes and other forms of decay;
      (4)   Damages caused by fire or other calamity;
      (5)   Deterioration of exterior stairs, porches, handrails, window/door
frames, cornices, entablatures, wall facings or other architectural details
that causes delaminating, instability, loss of shape or crumbling;
      (6)   Deterioration of fences, gates, garden walls or accessory
structures;
      (7)   Deterioration of any exterior feature that creates or permits a
hazardous or unsafe condition to life, health or other property; and
      (8)   If painted a similar color to the remaining exterior facade,
boarded up windows, doors and other potential means of entering a building and
street barricades are allowed only in the following circumstances:
         (a)   Upon the issuance of an emergency permit granted by the Chief
Building Inspector for buildings that are unsecured. The permit shall expire 30
days from its issuance unless the Chief Building Inspector specifies an earlier
expiration. Building permits shall be obtained and repairs initiated to
permanently secure the building within the time period for the expiration of
any emergency permit issued. The time period for the emergency permit shall be
extended by the Building Inspector upon the applicant’s petition to the
Historic Preservation Commission for a determination of economic hardship and
the Historic Preservation Commission’s determination of economic hardship
pursuant to division (H) below.
         (b)   For projects which have been issued a valid building permit and
have made and continue to make substantial progress towards removing the
boarded up windows and/or barricades and permanently securing the building; or
         (c)   Where a building has been damaged by a hurricane or other
calamity. Building permits shall be obtained and repairs shall be initiated to
permanently repair and secure the building within 30 days of the date the
damage was incurred. The time period for the emergency permit shall be extended
by the Building Inspector upon the applicant’s petition to the Historic
Preservation Commission for a determination of economic hardship and the
Historic Preservation Commission’s determination of economic hardship pursuant
to division (H) below.
   (C)   Authority and responsibility of Building Inspector. Authority to
assure compliance with the standards set forth above is vested with the Chief
Building Inspector or his or her designee. The Chief Building Inspector or his
or her designee shall examine the buildings in the Historic District for the
purpose of determining their condition and the enforcement and administration
of this section upon receipt of a petition under division (D) below or, in the
absence of such a petition, periodically.
   (D)   Petition. Property owners or other concerned parties may file a
petition listing the specific defects of a structure located within the
Historic District with the Chief Building Inspector no earlier than six months
after the adoption of this section and may request that he or she act to
require the correction of the deterioration or the making of repairs. The Chief
Building Inspector shall systematically inspect the Historic District and
contact property owners to notify them of any violations during the first six-
month period following the adoption of this section.
   (E)   Notices and complaints. Whenever a petition is filed with the Chief
Building Inspector or whenever it otherwise appears to the Chief Building
Inspector that a building or structure is undergoing demolition by neglect, the
Inspector shall, if his or her preliminary investigation discovers a basis for
such charges, serve a notice of hearing and complaint upon the owners of the
associated property. The notice of hearing and complaint shall include the
following information:
      (1)   The charges and the basis for such charges;
      (2)   The date and time of a hearing to be held before the Chief Building
Inspector in the town hall. The date and time being not less than ten nor more
than 30 days after the issuance of the notice of hearing and complaint; and
      (3)   That the owner and/or parties of interest shall be given a right to
answer in writing at any time before the hearing and to appear at the hearing
to provide testimony and other evidence.
   (F)   Hearings. At the time and date specified in the notice of hearing
served pursuant to division (E), the Chief Building Inspector shall hold a
hearing at the town hall. The purpose of the hearing is to receive evidence
concerning the charge of demolition by neglect and to consider any claim of
undue economic hardship made by the owner and/or other parties of interest. The
rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity shall not be
controlling in hearing before the Inspector.
   (G)   Orders. Within 15 days following a hearing held pursuant to division
(F) of this section, if the Chief Building Inspector determines that the
building or structure is undergoing demolition by neglect according to the
standards listed in this section, the Inspector shall issue a written order
stating his or her determination along with the findings of fact in support of
such determination. The Inspector shall cause his or her order to be served
upon the owner and/or parties in interest. The Inspector’s order shall require
that repairs of those elements of the building or structure that are
deteriorating, contributing to deterioration or deteriorated be made within a
specified time not to exceed 90 days.
   (H)   Undue economic hardship. At any time within 15 days of the issuance of
the Inspector’s order pursuant to division (G), any owner and/or party in
interest may file with the Chief Building Inspector a written petition claiming
that compliance with the order will create an undue economic hardship for the
petitioner. All petitions alleging undue economic hardship shall be heard by
the town’s Historic Preservation Commission. In the event that a petition all
aging undue economic hardship is filed, the Inspector’s order shall be stayed
until after the Historic Preservation Commission considers the petition’s
allegations of economic hardship.
      (1)   Notice of hearing. Within ten days of his or her receipt of a
written petition claiming undue economic hardship, the Chief Building Inspector
shall notify the Historic Preservation Commission of the petition by forwarding
a copy of the petition to the chairman of the Historic Preservation Commission.
The Historic Preservation Commission shall schedule a hearing on the petition
within 15 days of receiving the petition from the Chief Building Inspector. The
Historic Preservation Commission shall notify the Chief Building Inspector, the
Town Manager and the petitioner of the date and time of the hearing.
      (2)   Hearing. The burden of proof shall be upon the party filing the
petition alleging undue economic hardship to provide clear and convincing
evidence during the hearing before the Historic Preservation Commission that
the economic hardship alleged will not allow them to take the action required
by the Chief Building Inspector’s order or that they require a delay or plan of
action to meet the requirements of the order. The petitioner shall provide
evidence and/or documentation of, at least, all of the following information
describing the circumstances of the alleged economic hardship:
         (a)   Nature of ownership (individual, business or nonprofit) or legal
possession, custody, control, residency and a description of the building or
structure;
         (b)   Financial resources of the owner and/or parties of interest;
         (c)   Cost of repairs;
         (d)   Assessed value of the land and improvements;
         (e)   Real estate taxes for the previous two years;
         (f)   Amount paid for the property, date of purchase and party from
whom purchased, including a description of the relationship between the owner
and the person from whom the property was purchased or other means of
acquisition of title, such as by gift or inheritance;
         (g)   Annual debt service, if any for pervious two years;
         (h)   Any listing of the property for sale or rent, price asked and
offers received, if any;
         (i)   Proof of application status for historic tax credits as filed
with the state;
         (j)   If the property is income producing:
            1.   Annual gross income from the property for last two years;
            2.   Itemized operating and maintenance expenses for the previous
two years, including proof that adequate and competent management procedures
were followed; and
            3.   Annual cash flow, if any, for the previous two years.
      (3)   Report from Commission. Within 15 days of the Historic Preservation
Commission’s hearing on the petition, the Historic Preservation Commission
shall report in writing to the Chief Building Inspector whether or not an undue
economic hardship exists and the findings of fact supporting such
determination. Upon finding the existence of an undue economic hardship, the
Historic Preservation Commission may recommend in its report to the Chief
Building Inspector a plan to relieve the economic hardship. This plan may
include, but is not limited to, loans or grants from the town or other public,
private or non profit sources, acquisition by purchase, changes in applicable
zoning regulations or relaxation of the provisions of this section sufficient
to mitigate the economic hardship.
      (4)   Action on report from Commission. Upon receipt of the report from
the Historic Preservation Commission, the Chief Building Inspector shall issue
an order stating the Historic Preservation Commission’s decision, findings and
recommendations. The Inspector’s order shall require that repairs of those
elements of the building or structure that are deteriorating, contributing to
deterioration or deteriorated be made within a specified time and in a manner
consistent with any recommendations included within the Historic Preservation
Commission’s report. The Inspector shall cause his or her order to be served
upon the owner and/or parties in interest.
   (I)   Appeals. Orders issued by the Chief Building Inspector may be appealed
in accordance with the procedures set forth for appeals pursuant to the
provisions to the town’s Housing Codes. There shall be no direct appeal from
the decision of the Historic Preservation Commission on a petition for undue
economic hardship. Upon an appeal of an order of the Chief Building Inspector
which includes the Historic Preservation Commission’s findings, decision and
recommendations on a petition for undue economic hardship, the Board of
Adjustment may consider the issue of undue economic hardship.
   (J)   Service of notices, complaints and orders. All notices, complaints and
orders of the Chief Building Inspector issued pursuant to this section shall be
served upon the owners and/or parties in interest of the relevant property in
the same manner required by the town’s Housing Code.
   (K)   Remedies. Enforcement of this section may be by any one or more of the
following methods, and the institution of any action under any of these methods
shall not relieve any party from any other civil or criminal proceeding
prescribed for violations and prohibitions:
      (1)   Equitable remedy. The town may apply for any appropriate remedy to
enforce the provisions of this subchapter.
      (2)   Order of abatement. The town may apply for and the court may enter
an order of abatement. An order of abatement may direct that improvements or
repairs be made, and that any other action be taken that is necessary to bring
the property into compliance with this subchpater. Whenever the party is cited
for contempt of court and the town executed the order of abatement, the town
shall have a lien, in the nature of a mechanic’s and materialman’s, on the
property for the cost of executing the order of abatement.
      (3)   Civil penalties. The town may issue civil penalties against the
owners and/or any parties in interest and may collect the penalties in the same
manner as collecting a debt if the penalties are not paid within 15 days of
their issuance. No civil penalty shall be issued unless and until the Chief
Building Inspector shall deliver a written notice by personal service or by
registered mail or certified mail, return receipt requested, to the person
responsible for each violation indicating the nature of the violation and
ordering corrective action. The notice shall also set forth the time period
when corrective measures must be completed. The notice shall state the failure
to correct the violation within the specified time period will result in the
assessment of civil penalties in a certain amount per day not to exceed $500
and other enforcement action. If any orders issued by the Chief Building
Inspector pursuant to this section include a notice that civil penalties may be
assessed, the order shall meet the requirements for notice under this
subsection. If after the allotted time period has expired and after the hearing
of an appeal, if any, to the Board of Adjustment corrective action has not been
completed, a civil penalty may be assessed in any amount less than or equal to
$500 per day for each day of the continuing violation.
   (L)   Effect on other provisions. Nothing h this section shall diminish the
town’s authority to declare a building to be unsafe, to be in violation of the
town’s minimum housing ordinance, to be a nuisance or to be an imminent danger
to the public.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 150.139 CONFLICT WITH OTHER PROVISIONS
   In the event any provision, standard or requirement of this subchapter is
found to be in conflict with any provision of any other ordinance or code of
the town, the provision which establishes the higher standard or more stringent
requirement for the promotion and protection of the health and safety of the
residents of the town shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 7-69) (Ord. passed 7-10-2007)
§ 150.140 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this subchapter is for any reason held to be invalid or
unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, the provision shall be
deemed a separate, independent provision and the holding shall not affect the
validity of any other provision hereof, and to that end, the provisions of this
subchapter are hereby declared to be severable.
(Prior Code, § 7-71) (Ord. passed 7-10-2007)
§ 150.141 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be effective on 7-10-2007.
(Prior Code, § 7-72) (Ord. passed 7-10-2007)
§ 150.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
150.100 through
150.108 shall be subject to all the applicable punishment, penalties and
equitable relief provided for by state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 7-48)
   (C)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dwelling or dwelling
unit to fail, neglect or refuse to repair, alter or improve the same, or to
vacate and close and remove or demolish the same, upon order of the Inspector
duly made and served as herein provided, within the time specified in the
order. Each day that any failure, neglect or refusal to comply with the order
continues shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dwelling or dwelling
unit, with respect to which an order has been issued pursuant to §
150.132, to occupy or permit the occupancy of the same after the time
prescribed in order for its repair, alteration or improvement or its vacation
and closing. Each day that the occupancy continues after the prescribed time
shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
      (3)   The violation of any provision of §§
150.120 through
150.141 shall constitute a misdemeanor, as provided by G.S. § 14-4.
      (4)   In addition to the penalty established by division (C)(3) above and
the remedies provided by other provisions of §§
150.120 through
150.141, §§
150.120 through
150.140 may be enforced by an appropriate equitable remedy issued by a court of
competent jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 7-70)
(Ord. passed 12-13-1977; Ord. passed 7-10-2007)
CHAPTER 151: MANUFACTURED HOMES AND MOBILE HOMES
Section
   
151.01   Purpose
   
151.02   Authority
   
151.03   Jurisdiction
   
151.04   Definitions
   
151.05   Permitted structures
   
151.06   Amendments
   
151.07   Administration
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of these regulations is to regulate allowable manufactured homes
and mobile homes within the jurisdiction of the town in order to promote the
public health, safety and general welfare of the citizens of the town.
(Ord. passed 9-8-1998)
§ 151.02 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted under the authority of G.S. § 153-121.
(Ord. passed 9-8-1998)
Editor’s Note:
   G.S. § 153-121 has been repealed
§ 151.03 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   These regulations shall govern each and every manufactured home and
mobile home that is brought into the town or moved from one location to another
within the town, as provided by G.S. § 153-121, Art. 6.
   (B)   This chapter shall regulate all manufactured homes and mobile homes
within the town.
(Ord. passed 9-8-1998)
Editor’s Note:
   G.S. § 153-121 has been repealed
§ 151.04 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (B)   The term “shall” is mandatory and words used in the singular include
the plural and those in the present include the future tense.
      HUD LABEL. A label attached to an individual manufactured home unit
certifying that the unit was built in compliance with the National Manufactured
Housing and Construction and Safety Standards. The label is approximately two
inches by four inches, has a three-letter prefix which identifies the primary
inspection agency and contains a six-digit number. A sample label reads as
follows:
As evidenced by this label No. xxxxxx, the manufacturer certifies to the best
of the manufacturer’s knowledge and belief that this manufactured home has been
inspected in accordance with the requirements of the Department of Housing and
Urban Development and is constructed in the conformance with the Federal
Manufactured Home Construction and Safety standards in effect on the date of
the manufacture.
      MANUFACTURED HOME. Any family dwelling fabricated in an off site and
manufacturing facility for installing or assembling on the building site
bearing a seal certifying that it was built in compliance with the National
Manufactured Housing and Constructing and Safety Standards Act of 1974 which
became effective 6-15-1976.
      MOBILE HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections, which in
the traveling mode is eight feet or more in width or is 40 feet or more in
length or when erected on a site, contains 320 or more square feet of floor
space, is designed to be used as a year-around dwelling and was built prior to
the enactment of the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety
Standards Act of 1974 which became effective 6-15-1976.
      PERMANENT SET-UP. Any mobile home or manufactured home which is set up in
accordance the State Regulations for Mobile/Manufactured Homes, 1989 addition
as amended.
(Ord. passed 9-8-1998)
§ 151.05 PERMITTED STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Mobile homes and manufactured homes that are presently located within
the town may be moved from one location to another within the town for the
purpose of permanent set-up; provided that, each has a valid HUD inspection
label attached to it and the home was not constructed 15 years prior to today’s
date. In addition, to qualify for relocation the mobile home or manufactured
home must be listed in the County Tax Assessor’s Office and all county ad
valorem taxes must be current on the home.
   (B)   (1)   Mobile homes and manufactured homes constructed 15 years prior
to today’s date cannot be brought into or moved within the town to be used as a
residence.
      (2)   The mobile home or manufactured home will be allowed to be used as
a residence provided it has passed an inspection performed by a certified HUD
Inspector. This does not include mobile homes or manufactured homes built
before 1-1-1977.
   (C)   Mobile homes and manufactured homes constructed prior to 1-1-1977
cannot be brought into or moved within the town to be used as a residence.
(Ord. passed 9-8-1998)
§ 151.06 AMENDMENTS.
   The Town Council may, from time to time, amend the terms of this chapter.
When possible, the Planning Board will be consulted for review and
recommendation.
(Ord. passed 9-8-1998)
§ 151.07 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Town Inspection Department will enforce this chapter. The Department is
directed to withhold all permits from any mobile home or manufactured home
which does not comply with the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 9-8-1998)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor punishable according to G.S. § 14-4. Each day’s failure to comply
with any provision of this chapter shall constitute a separate violation. The
town may use any of the enforcement techniques authorized by G.S. § 153A-123.
(Ord. passed 9-8-1998)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
[Reserved]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
G.S. Section Code Section
G.S. Section                Code Section
1-597                       51.105
7A-227                      150.136
7A-228                      150.136
Ch. 14                      Ch. 130
                            31.99,
                            72.01,
                            90.43,
                            94.999,
                            95.99,
14-4                        97.99,
                            110.99, 130.71,
                            130.99,
                            150.089,
                            150.136,
                            150.999,
                            151.99
14-34.1                     130.07
14-148                      Ch. 93
14-149                      Ch. 93
14-269                      130.07,
                            130.19
14-286                      92.09,
                            92.10
14-288.1                    31.26
14-288.1 et seq.            Ch. 31
14-288.5                    31.99
14-315                      130.19
14-316                      130.19
14-317                      Ch. 111
                            Ch. 90,
14-360 to 14-363            90.38,
                            90.45
                            Ch. 90,
14-366 to 14-368            90.38,
                            90.45
14-381                      130.08
14-399                      Ch. 94,
                            94.021
14-415.11,                  130.19
Ch. 18B                     130.01,
                            130.40
18B-101(4)                  130.01
18B-200                     130.40
18B-300.1                   130.40
18B-300.1(d)                130.40
18B-300.1(j)                130.40
18B-1001                    130.01
18B-1001(1)                 130.40
18B-1001(3)                 130.40
18B-1001(5)                 130.40
18B-1001(10)                130.40
18B-1001(16)                130.40
18B-1001.5                  130.40
18B-11001(5)                130.40
                            Ch. 90,
19A-1 et seq.               90.38,
                            90.45
Ch. 20                      130.40
20-1 et seq.                Ch. 70
20-4.01                     70.50,
                            96.07
20-4.01(12b)                70.50
20-4.01(49)                 Ch. 73
20-37                       Ch. 114
20-87                       Ch. 114
20-97                       Ch. 114
20-137.6 et seq.            Ch. 94
20-140.2                    Ch. 71
20-141                      Ch. 71
20-144                      Ch. 71
20-145                      Ch. 70,
                            Ch. 71
20-146.1                    Ch. 71
20-153                      Ch. 70,
                            Ch. 71
20-155                      Ch. 71
20-156                      Ch. 70,
                            Ch. 71
                            Ch. 70,
                            Ch. 71,
20-157                      Ch. 72,
                            92.09,
                            92.13
20-158                      Ch. 70
20-158.1                    Ch. 71
20-160                      Ch. 71
20-161                      Ch. 72
20-162                      Ch. 72,
                            92.13
20-165.1                    Ch. 71
20-168                      Ch. 70
                            Ch. 70,
20-169                      Ch. 71,
                            Ch. 91
20-219.3                    Ch. 94
20-219.11                   94.068
Ch. 20, Art. 9A             70.53
20-280                      Ch. 114
42-29                       150.136
42-30                       150.136
Ch. 44A, Art. 1             94.070
44A-1 through 44A-6.1       94.070
Ch. 58                      Ch. 92
Ch. 58, Art. 80             Ch. 92
Ch. 58, Art. 82             Ch. 92
58-82-1                     92.08
Ch. 58, Art. 83             Ch. 92
Ch. 58, Arts. 84 through 88 Ch. 92
63-53                       30.40
63-57                       30.40
67-1 et seq.                Ch. 90
69-25.1 et seq.             Ch. 92
Ch. 87                      150.101
Ch. 90, Art. 5              130.09
90-86 et seq.               130.19
Ch. 93B                     110.007
105-33 et seq.              Ch. 110
Ch. 105, Art. 5             114.99
106-385 (Repealed)          90.37
113-274(c)(1a)              90.02
121-5                       110.17
136-18.3                    Ch. 94
136-141 et seq.             94.073
136-143                     94.073
153-121 (Repealed)          151.02
153-121, Art. 6 (Repealed)  151.03
153A-123                    151.99
153A-156                    114.01
153A-156(f)                 114.99
Ch. 159                     30.02
159-1 et seq.               Ch. 30
159-24 et seq.              30.02
160A-59 through 160A-111    Ch. 30
160A-76                     92.01
160A-77                     Ch. 70
160A-147 through 160A-152   Ch. 30
160A-171                    Ch. 30
160A-172                    Ch. 30
160A-173                    Ch. 30
160A-174                    99.02,
                            150.120
                            10.99,
                            72.01,
160A-175, 130.71            90.43,
                            97.99,
                            130.71
160A-175(d)                 110.99
160A-178                    Ch. 113
160A-179                    130.02
                            Ch. 90,
160A-182                    90.38,
                            90.45
                            Ch. 92,
160A-183                    92.02,
                            92.03
160A-184                    Ch. 112,
                            130.10
160A-186                    Ch. 90
160A-187                    Ch. 90
160A-188                    90.01
160A-189                    130.07
160A-190                    130.11
160A-193                    Ch. 94,
                            130.15
160A-205.4                  130.40
160A-206 through 160A-209   Ch. 30
160A-212                    Ch. 30,
                            90.36
160A-213                    Ch. 30
Ch. 160A, Art. 10           150.135
160A-216 to 160A-238        Ch. 30
160A-266 to 160A-276        Ch. 30
160A-288                    Ch. 31,
                            31.01
160A-291                    Ch. 92
160A-291 through 160A-294   Ch. 92
160A-292                    92.46
160A-293                    Ch. 92
160A-296                    Ch. 91,
                            Ch. 96
160A-296 through 160A-308   Ch. 70
160A-302.1                  130.03
160A-303                    Ch. 94,
                            94.061
160A-303.1                  Ch. 94
160A-303.2                  94.061
160A-304                    Ch. 114
160A-311 to 160A-338        Ch. 30
160A-312                    Ch. 94
160A-341 to 160A-348        Ch. 93
160A-349.1 to 160A-349.13   Ch. 93
160A-400.14(a)              150.132
160A-417                    92.63
160A-441                    150.120
160A-443(4) or (5)          150.136
160A-443(5)                 150.134,
                            150.136
160A-446(f)                 150.136
160A-493                    Ch. 90
                            
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section 2011 Code Section
Prior Code Section 2011 Code Section
2-1                30.01
2-23               30.02
3-1                112.01
3-2                112.02
3-3                112.20
3-4                112.21
3-5                112.22
3-6                112.23
3-7                112.24
3-8                112.25
3-9                112.26
3.5-21             30.40
3.5-22             30.41
3.5-23             30.42
3.5-24             30.43
4-1                90.01
4-3                90.03
4-5                90.05
4-6                90.06
4-7                90.20
4-8                90.20
4-9                90.20
4-10               90.20
4-11               90.20
4-12               90.20
4-13               90.21
4-14               90.22
4-15               90.35
4-16               90.36
4-17               90.36
4-18               90.37
4-19               90.38
4-24               90.39
4-25               90.40
4-26               90.41
4-27               90.42
4-28               90.43
4-29               90.44
4-30               90.45
4-31               90.46
5-11               111.01
5-12               111.02
5-13               111.03
5-14               111.04
5-15               111.05
5-16               111.06
5-17               111.07
6-1                73.01
6-2                73.02
6-3                73.03
7-1                150.001
7-2                150.002
7-3                150.003
7-4                150.003
7-5                150.004
7-6                150.020
7-7                150.021
7-8                150.022
7-9                150.023
7-10               150.024
7-11               150.025
7-12               150.026
7-13               150.027
7-14               150.040
7-15               150.041
7-16               150.042
7-17               150.043
7-18               150.044
7-19               150.045
7-20               150.060
7-21               150.061
7-22               150.062
7-23               150.063
7-24               150.063
7-25               150.064
7-26               150.065
7-27               150.066
7-28               150.067
7-29               150.080
7-30               150.081
7-31               150.082
7-32               150.083
7-33               150.084
7-34               150.085
7-35               150.086
7-36               150.087
7-37               150.088
7-38               150.089
7-39               150.100
7-40               150.101
7-41               150.102
7-42               150.103
7-43               150.104
7-44               150.105
7-45               150.106
7-46               150.107
7-47               150.108
7-48               150.999
7-49               150.120
7-50               150.121
7-51               150.122
7-52               150.123
7-53               150.124
7-54               150.125
7-55               150.126
7-56               150.127
7-57               150.128
7-58               150.129
7-59               150.130
7-60               150.131
7-61               150.132
7-62               150.133
7-63               150.134
7-64               150.135
7-65               150.136
7-66               150.136
7-67               150.136
7-68               150.137
7-69               150.139
7-70               150.999
7-71               150.140
7-72               150.141
8-1                93.01
8-2                93.02
8-3                93.03
8-4                93.04
8-5                93.05
8-6                93.06
8-7                93.07
8-8                93.08
8-9                93.09
8-10               93.10
8-11               93.11
8-12               93.12
8-13               93.13
8-14               93.14
9-1                31.01
9-2                31.20
9-3                31.21
9-4                31.22
9-5                31.23
9-6                31.24
9-7                31.25
9-8                31.26
9-9                31.27
9-10               31.99
9-11               31.28
9-12               31.40
9-13               31.41
9-14               31.99
9-15               31.42
9-16               31.55
9-17               31.56
9-18               31.99
11-1               92.01
11-2               92.02
11-3               92.03
11-4               92.04
11-5               92.05
11-6               92.06
11-7               92.07
11-8               92.08
11-9               92.09
11-10              92.10
11-11              92.11
11-12              92.12
11-13              92.13
11-14              92.14
11-15              92.30
11-16              92.31
11-17              92.32
11-18              92.45
11-19              92.46
11-20              92.47
11-21              92.60
11-22              92.61
11-23              92.62
11-24              92.63
11-25              92.64
11-26              92.65
11-27              92.66
11-28              92.67
11-29              92.99
15-1               70.01
15-2               70.02
15-3               70.03
15-4               70.04
15-5               70.20
15-6               70.21
15-7               70.22
15-8               70.23
15-9               70.24
15-10              70.25
15-11              71.01
15-12              71.02
15-13              71.03
15-14              71.03
15-15              71.04
15-16              71.05
15-17              71.06
15-18              71.07
15-19              71.08
15-20              71.09
15-21              71.10
15-22              71.11
15-23              71.12
15-24              71.13
15-25              71.14
15-26              71.15
15-27              71.16
15-28              71.16
15-29              71.16
15-30              71.17
15-31              71.18
15-32              71.19
15-33              71.20
15-34              72.01
15-35              72.02
15-36              72.03
15-37              72.04
15-38              72.05
15-39              72.06
15-40              72.07
15-41              72.08
15-42              72.09
15-44              72.10
15-45              72.11
15-57              70.40
15-58              70.41
16-1               130.01
16-2               130.02
16-3               130.03
16-4               130.04
16-5               130.04
16-6               130.04
16-7               130.04
16-8               130.04
16-9               130.05
16-10              130.05
16-11              130.06
16-12              130.07
16-13              130.08
16-14              130.09
16-17              130.10,
                   130.99
16-18              130.11,
                   130.12
16-19              130.13
16-20              130.13
16-21              130.13
16-22              130.14
16-23              130.15
16-24              130.16
16-25              130.17
16-26              130.35
16-27              130.36
16-28              130.37
16-29              130.38
16-30              130.39
17-1               91.01
17-2               91.02
17-3               91.03
17-4               91.15
17-5               91.16
17-6               91.17
17-7               91.18
17-8               91.19
17-9               91.20
17-10              91.35
17-11              91.36
17-12              91.37
17-13              91.38
17-14              91.39
17-15              91.40
17-16              91.41
17.5-1             98.01
17.5-3             98.02
17.5-4             98.03
17.5-5             98.04
17.5-6             98.05
17.5-7             98.06
17.5-8             98.07
17.5-9             98.08
17.5-10            98.09
17.5-11            98.10
17.5-12            98.11
17.5-13            98.12
17.5-14            98.13
17.5-15            98.14
17.5-16            98.15
17.5-17            98.16
17.5-18            98.17
17.5-21            98.30
17.5-22            98.31
17.5-23            98.32
17.5-24            98.33
17.5-26            98.34
18-1               113.01
18-2               113.02
20.5-1             94.001
20.5-21            94.020
20.5-22            94.021
20.5-23            94.022
20.5-24            94.023
20.5-25            94.024
20.5-26            94.024
20.5-27            94.025
20.5-31            94.040
20.5-32            94.041
20.5-33            94.042
20.5-34            94.042
20.5-35            94.043
20.5-36            94.044
20.5-37            94.045
20.5-51            94.999
20.5-52            94.999
20.5-56            94.100
20.5-57            94.101
20.5-58            94.102
20.5-59            94.103
21-1               96.01
21-2               96.02
21-3               96.03
21-4               96.03
21-5               96.04
21-6               96.05
21-7               96.06
21-7.1             96.07,
                   96.99
21-8               96.20
21-9               96.21
21-10              96.22
21-11              96.23
21-12              96.24
21-13              96.25
21-14              96.26
21-15              96.26
21-16              96.40
21-17              96.41
21-18              96.42
23-1               114.20
23-2               114.21
23-3               114.22
23-4               114.23
23-5               114.24
23-6               114.24
23-7               114.24
23-8               114.25
23-9               114.26
23-10              114.27
23-11              114.28
23-12              114.29
23-13              114.30
23-14              114.31
23-15              114.32
23-16              114.32
23-17              114.33
23-18              114.34
23-19              114.35
23-20              114.36
24-1               50.01
24-2               50.02
24-7               51.001
24-8               51.002
24-9               51.003
24-10              51.004
24-11              51.005
24-12              51.006
24-13              51.020
24-14              51.021
24-15              51.022
24-16              51.023
24-17              51.024
24-18              51.025
24-19              51.040
24-20              51.041
24-21              51.042
24-22              51.043
24-23              51.044
24-24              51.045
24-25              51.046
24-26              51.047
24-27              51.048
24-28              51.049
24-29              51.050
24-30              51.065
24-31              51.066
24-32              51.067
24-33              51.068
24-34              51.069
24-35              51.070
24-36              51.071
24-37              51.072
24-38              51.073
24-39              51.074
24-40              51.075
24-41              51.999
                   
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
–      - -         150.132,
                     150.138
–      4-7-1970    130.15
–      5-10-1972   92.30
–      7-1-1972    90.35—
                     90.46
                     96.05,
–      4-10-1973   96.25,
                     130.15
–      5-29-1973   130.08
                     91.01—
                     91.03,
                     91.15—
                     91.20,
–      8-6-1973    91.35—
                     91.41,
                     112.20—
                     112.26,
                     130.08
–      10-8-1974   113.01
                     73.01—
–      1-14-1975   73.03,
                     130.01
                     51.065—
–      5-13-1975   51.075,
                     51.999
–      4-13-1976   130.16,
                     130.17
                     150.100—
–      12-13-1977  150.108,
                     150.999
–      10-10-1978  93.07
                     150.120—
–      3-13-1979   150.129,
                     150.131
–      5-8-1979    130.12
–      6-10-1980   130.01
–      12-9-1980   90.36,
                     90.39
                     98.01—
–      2-10-1981   98.16,
                     98.30—
                     98.34
–      4-14-1981   92.30
                     94.001,
                     94.020—
–      3-14-1984   94.025,
                     94.040—
                     94.045
                     97.01—
–      8-9-1988    97.13,
                     97.99
–      11-14-1989  96.07,
                     96.99
                     92.60—
                     92.67,
–      9-11-1990   92.99,
                     94.100—
                     94.103,
                     94.999
–      12-11-1990  130.10,
                     130.99
–      6-12-1991   30.01
–      6-29-1992   130.15
–      2-9-1993    92.01
–      8-9-1994    30.40—
                     30.43
–      2-22-1996   98.17
–      3-13-1996   130.19
–      6-11-1996   130.35—
                     130.39
                     130.50—
–      8- -1997    130.54,
                     130.99
                     151.01—
–      9-8-1998    151.07,
                     151.99
–      10-6-1998   72.01
–      10- -1999   130.15
–      11-27-2000  96.26
                     95.01—
–      3-14-2001   95.03,
                     95.99
–      5-13-2003   130.09
                     94.080—
–      9-9-2003    94.086,
                     94.999
–      11-24-2003  30.03
–      8-10-2004   72.01
–      9-14-2004   90.42,
                     90.43
                     51.090—
–      6-14-2005   51.092,
                     51.999
–      11-14-2006  98.02
–      6-12-2007   130.18,
                     130.99
                     150.130—
–      7-10-2007   150.141,
                     150.999
                     114.01—
–      11-10-2008  114.04,
                     114.99
–      9-14-2010   130.19
–      10-12-2010  130.09
–      12-14-2010  51.100—
                     51.107
–      7-12-2011   90.43
–      3-13-2012   90.02
–      3-13-2012   130.07
–      3-13-2012   130.11
–      6-12-2012   70.50 —
                     70.56
–      12-11-2012  73.02
–      3-12-2013   51.120—
                     51.123
–      6-10-2014   130.10
–      6-10-2014   30.40
–      7-14-2015   94.060—
                     94.074
–      3-8-2016    130.02
–      7-12-2016   94.042
–      3-14-2017   130.20
–      6-13-2017   99.01—
                     99.06
–      11-14-2017  94.042
                     150.121,
–      6-9-2020    150.123,
                     150.124,
                     150.127
–      6-8-2021    130.11
                     51.051,
–      3-8-2022    92.15,
                     94.043
                     110.01—
–      7-12-2022   110.23,
                     110.99
-        11-8-2022   130.60—
                     130.71
-        5-9-2023    93.01—
                     93.14
-        8-8-2023    130.40
                     91.01—
                     91.03,
-        10-10-2023  91.15—
                     91.20,
                     91.35—
                     91.41
                    
 
