CITY OF ELIZABETH CITY,
NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2020 S-2 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2019-09-01, passed 9-9-2019, and
State legislation current through North Carolina Legislative Service,
2019 Regular Session Laws, Pamphlet No. 6
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
One West Fourth Street, Third Floor
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet:  http://www.amlegal.com
CHARTER
Section
Article I. Incorporation, Corporate Powers, and Boundaries
   
1.1.   Incorporation
   
1.2.   Powers
   
1.3.   Corporate Limits
Article II. Governing Body
   
2.1.   Governing Body
   
2.2.   City Council; Composition; Terms of Office
   
2.3.   Mayor; Term of Office; Duties
   
2.4.   Mayor Pro Tempore
   
2.5.   Meetings
   
2.6.   Quorum; Voting
   
2.7.   Compensation; Qualifications for Office
   
2.8.   Vacancies
Article III. Elections
   
3.1.   Regular Municipal Elections
   
3.2.   Wards
   
3.3.   Election of Mayor
   
3.4.   Election of Council
   
3.5.   Special Elections and Referenda
Article IV. Organization and Administration
   
4.1.   Form of Government
   
4.2.   City Manager; Appointment; Powers and Duties
   
4.3.   City Attorney
   
4.4.   City Clerk
   
4.5.   Tax Collector
   
4.6.   Other Administrative Officers and Employees
   
4.7.   Council-Manager Relationship
   
4.8.   Settlement of Claims by City Manager
Article V. Bidding and Procurement
   
5.1.   Simplified Bid Process
Article VI. Disposition of Property
   
6.1.   Sale or Lease of Real Estate
   
6.2.   Redevelopment Commission
Article VII. Finance and Taxation
   
7.1.   Occupancy Tax Authorized
Article VIII. Airport Authority
   
8.1.   Airport Authority
Article IX. Miscellaneous
   
9.1.   Regulation of Waterways
GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF NORTH CAROLINA
SESSION 2001
SESSION LAW 2001-227
HOUSE BILL 636
AN ACT TO REVISE AND CONSOLIDATE THE CHARTER OF THE CITY OF ELIZABETH CITY AND
TO REPEAL PRIOR LOCAL ACTS.
The General Assembly of North Carolina enacts:
   SECTION 1. The Charter of the City of Elizabeth City is revised and
consolidated to read as follows:
THE CHARTER OF THE CITY OF ELIZABETH CITY.
ARTICLE I. INCORPORATION, CORPORATE POWERS, AND BOUNDARIES
Section 1.1. Incorporation.
   The City of Elizabeth City, North Carolina, in Pasquotank and Camden
Counties and the inhabitants thereof shall continue to be a municipal body
politic and corporate, under the name of the ‘City of Elizabeth City’,
hereinafter at times referred to as the ‘City.’
Section 1.2. Powers.
   The City shall have and may exercise all of the powers, duties, rights,
privileges, and immunities conferred upon the City of Elizabeth City
specifically by this Charter or upon municipal corporations by general law. The
term ‘general law’ is employed herein as defined in G.S. 160A-1.
Section 1.3. Corporate Limits.
   The corporate limits shall be those existing at the time of ratification of
this Charter, as set forth on the official map of the City and as they may be
altered from time to time in accordance with law. An official map of the city,
showing the current municipal boundaries and the boundaries of the wards
therein, shall be maintained permanently in the office of the City Clerk and
shall be available for public inspection. Upon alteration of the corporate
limits or wards pursuant to law, the appropriate changes to the official map
shall be made and copies shall be filed in the office of the Secretary of
State, the appropriate office of the Register of Deeds, and the appropriate
board of elections.
ARTICLE II. GOVERNING BODY
Section 2.1. Governing Body.
   The City Council, hereinafter referred to as the ‘Council’, and the Mayor
shall be the governing body of the City.
Section 2.2. City Council; Composition; Terms of Office.
   The Council shall be composed of eight members who shall serve terms of two
years or until their successors are elected and qualified. Two seats of the
eight City Council members shall be apportioned and assigned to each ward. The
qualified voters of each ward shall vote for and elect candidates to the two
‘ward seats’ of the Council so assigned and apportioned to the respective ward.
No person may be a candidate for a ‘ward seat’ unless that person is a resident
and qualified voter of the ward for which ‘ward seat’ that person desires to be
elected.
Section 2.3. Mayor; Term of Office; Duties.
   The Mayor shall be elected by all the qualified voters of the City for a
term of two years or until his or her successor is elected and qualified. The
Mayor shall be the official head of the City government and shall preside at
meetings of the Council; shall have the right to vote only when there is an
equal division on any question or matter before the Council; and shall exercise
the powers and duties conferred by general law or directed by the Council.
Section 2.4. Mayor Pro Tempore.
   The Council shall elect one of its members as Mayor Pro Tempore to perform
the duties of the Mayor during his or her absence or disability, in accordance
with general law. The Mayor Pro Tempore shall serve in such capacity at the
pleasure of the Council.
Section 2.5. Meetings.
   In accordance with general law, the Council shall establish a suitable time
and place for its regular meetings. Special and emergency meetings may be held
as provided by general law.
Section 2.6. Quorum; Voting.
   Official actions of the Council and all votes shall be taken in accordance
with the applicable provisions of general law, including G.S. 160A-75. The
quorum provisions of G.S. 160A-74 shall apply.
Section 2.7. Compensation; Qualifications for Office.
   The compensation and qualifications of the Mayor and members of the Council
shall be as provided in general law and in this Charter.
Section 2.8. Vacancies.
   Notwithstanding G.S. 160A-63, vacancies that occur in any elective office of
the City shall be filled by election as herein provided:
   (a)   If the vacancy occurs within 90 days before the first date for filing
notices of candidacy pursuant to G.S. 163-294.2 for the next regular City
election, a successor shall be elected at the next regular City election. The
elected successor shall serve the remainder of the unexpired term of the office
in which the vacancy occurs.
   (b)   If the vacancy occurs more than 90 days before the first date for
filing notices of candidacy pursuant to G.S. 163-294.2 for the next regular
City election, a successor shall be elected in a special election to fill the
vacancy. In such event, the Council shall meet within 10 days of the event
creating the vacancy and shall, by resolution, fix the date on which an
election to fill the vacancy shall be held. The date of the special election
shall be not less than 45 days and not more than 60 days from the date of the
adoption of the resolution. Not less than two legal notices of the special
election and the filing period for receipt of notices of candidacy shall be
published in a qualified newspaper of general circulation in the City with the
period between the first date of publication and the second date of publication
to be seven days, excluding the first date of publication but including the
second date of publication. The resolution shall set the filing period for
notices of candidacy, but same shall not be less than 10 days from, but
excluding, the first date of publication of the legal notice of the special
election and filing period for receipt of notices of candidacy. The resolution
shall also set the runoff date, if necessary, and same shall be not less than
15 days and not more than 21 days from the election. The elected successor in
the special election shall serve the remainder of the unexpired term of the
office in which the vacancy occurs.
   (c)   If by reason of a vacancy there shall be two seats within any ward to
be filled in the same election, the candidates shall declare for the specific
seat or office that the candidate is seeking in the notice of candidacy. Each
seat shall be a single office and the successor elected as provided in G.S.
163-293(a)(l) and (b)(1).
ARTICLE III. ELECTIONS
Section 3.1. Regular Municipal Elections.
   Regular municipal elections shall be held in each odd-numbered year in
accordance with the uniform municipal election laws of North Carolina.
Elections shall be conducted on a nonpartisan basis and the results determined
using the nonpartisan election and runoff method as provided in G.S. 163-293.
Section 3.2. Wards.
   The City shall be divided into four wards, and two seats of the eight
Council members shall be apportioned and assigned to each ward. The ward
boundaries are those existing at the time of ratification of this Charter, as
set forth on the official map of the City and as they may be altered from time
to time in accordance with general law.
Section 3.3. Election of Mayor.
   A Mayor shall be elected in each regular municipal election by the qualified
voters of the City voting at large.
Section 3.4. Election of Council.
   Eight Council members shall be elected in each regular municipal election.
Two Council members shall be elected from each ward by the qualified voters of
that ward to fill the offices of the Council members whose terms will expire
following the election.
Section 3.5. Special Elections and Referenda.
   Special elections and referenda may be held only as provided by this
Charter, general law, or applicable local acts of the General Assembly.
ARTICLE IV. ORGANIZATION AND ADMINISTRATION
Section 4.1. Form of Government.
   The City shall operate under the council-manager form of government in
accordance with Part 2 of Article 7 of Chapter 160A of the General Statutes.
Section 4.2. City Manager; Appointment; Powers and Duties.
   The Council shall appoint a City Manager who shall be responsible for the
administration of all departments of the City government. The City Manager
shall have all the powers and duties conferred by general law, except as
expressly limited by the provisions of this Charter, and the additional powers
and duties conferred by the Council, so far as authorized by general law.
Section 4.3. City Attorney.
   The Council shall appoint a City Attorney licensed to practice law in North
Carolina. It shall be the duty of the City Attorney to represent the City,
advise City officials, and perform other duties as required by law or as the
Council may prescribe.
Section 4.4. City Clerk.
   The Manager shall appoint a City Clerk, subject to the confirmation of the
Council, to keep a journal of the proceedings of the Council, to maintain
official records and documents, to give notice of meetings, and to perform
other duties as required by general law or prescribed by the Council.
Section 4.5. Tax Collector.
   Notwithstanding G.S. 105-349, the Manager shall appoint a Tax Collector and
any Assistant Tax Collectors, subject to the confirmation of the Council, to
collect all taxes owed to the City and to perform those duties specified in
G.S. 105-350 and such other duties as required by general law or prescribed by
the Council.
Section 4.6. Other Administrative Officers and Employees.
   The Council may authorize other positions to be filled by appointment by the
City Manager, subject to the confirmation of the Council, and may organize the
City government as deemed appropriate, subject to the requirements of general
law.
Section 4.7. Council-Manager Relationship.
   The Council shall hold the City Manager responsible for the proper
management of the affairs of the City, and the City Manager shall keep the
Council informed of the conditions and needs of the City and shall make reports
and recommendations as may be requested by the Council or deemed necessary by
the City Manager. The City Manager shall have the authority to appoint, subject
to the confirmation of the Council, and remove all officers, department heads,
and employees in the administrative service of the City, except the City
Attorney. The City Manager shall have direct supervisory authority over all
officers, department heads, and employees in the administrative service of the
City. Neither the Mayor, the City Council, nor any member of the City Council
shall direct the conduct or activities of any City employee, directly or
indirectly, except through the City Manager.
Section 4.8. Settlement of Claims by City Manager.
   The Council may authorize the City Manager to settle claims against the City
for: (1) personal injuries or damages to properly when the amount involved does
not exceed the sum of five thousand dollars ($5,000) and does not exceed the
actual loss sustained, including loss of time, medical expenses, and any other
expenses actually incurred; and (2) the taking of small portions of private
property that are needed for the rounding of corners at intersections of
streets, when the amount involved in any such settlement does not exceed five
thousand dollars ($5,000) and does not exceed the actual loss sustained.
Settlement of a claim by the City Manager pursuant to this Section shall
constitute a complete release of the City from any and all damages sustained by
the person involved in such settlement in any manner arising out of the
incident, occasion, or taking complained of. All settlements and releases shall
be approved in advance by the City Attorney.
ARTICLE V. BIDDING AND PROCUREMENT
Section 5.1. Simplified Bid Process.
   In addition to any authority granted by general law, the authority of the
City to proceed with a simplified competitive bidding process when the entire
cost of construction or repairs is five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000) or
less shall continue as provided in S.L. 1999-93 and any subsequent acts.
ARTICLE VI. DISPOSITION OF PROPERTY
Section 6.1. Sale or Lease of Real Estate.
   In addition to any authority granted by general law, the authority of the
City to proceed with the sale or lease of real property owned for the use and
benefit of the Industrial Development Commission shall continue as provided in
Chapter 129 of the 1979 Session Laws and any subsequent acts.
Section 6.2. Redevelopment Commission.
   In addition to any authority granted by general law, the authority to
dispose of redevelopment property at private sale shall continue as authorized
in Chapter 427 of the 1979 Session Laws and any subsequent acts.
ARTICLE VII. FINANCE AND TAXATION
Section 7.1. Occupancy Tax Authorized.
   The City shall be authorized to levy a room occupancy tax as provided in
Chapter 175 of the 1987 Session Laws and any subsequent acts.
ARTICLE VIII. AIRPORT AUTHORITY
Section 8.1. Airport Authority.
   The Elizabeth City-Pasquotank Airport Authority shall continue to be
governed by the provisions of Chapter 198 of the 1987 Session Laws, Chapter 860
of the 1989 Session Laws, Chapter 26 of the 1991 Session Laws, and any
subsequent acts.
ARTICLE IX. MISCELLANEOUS
Section 9.1. Regulation of Waterways.
   The City may adopt ordinances to regulate and control the speed of vessels
in waterways within its boundaries or within its extraterritorial jurisdiction,
as that term is used in Article 19 of Chapter 160A of the General Statutes. If
the City adopts ordinances to regulate and control the speed of vessels as
herein authorized, the City or its designee shall place and maintain markers in
accordance with the Uniform Waterway Marking System and any supplementary
standards for the system adopted by the Wildlife Resources Commission. All
markers regulating and controlling the speed of vessels shall be buoys or
floating signs placed in the water and must be sufficient in number and size as
to give adequate warning of the speed limit to the vessels approaching from
various directions. This section is enforceable after markers complying with
its provisions are placed in the water.
   SECTION 2. The purpose of this act is to review the Charter of the City of
Elizabeth City and to consolidate certain acts concerning the property,
affairs, and government of the City. It is intended to continue without
interruption those provisions of prior acts that are expressly consolidated
into this act, so that all rights and liabilities which have accrued are
preserved and may be enforced.
   SECTION 3. This act does not repeal or affect any acts concerning the
property, affairs of government of public schools, or any acts validating
official actions, proceedings, contracts, or obligations of any kind.
   SECTION 4. The following acts, having served the purposes for which they
were enacted or having been consolidated into this act, are expressly repealed:
   Chapter 131, Private Laws of 1868-69.
   Chapter 189, Public Laws of 1874-75.
   Chapter 135, Private Laws of 1895.
   Chapter 115, Public Laws of 1899.
   Chapter 111, Private Laws of 1901.
   Chapter 170, Private Laws of 1901.
   Chapter 278, Private Laws of 1901.
   Chapter 46, Private Laws of 1903.
   Chapter 99, Private Laws of 1903.
   Chapter 262, Private Laws of 1903.
   Chapter 350, Private Laws of 1905.
   Chapter 81, Private Laws of 1907.
   Chapter 117, Private Laws of 1907.
   Chapter 379, Private Laws of 1907.
   Chapter 319, Private Laws of 1909.
   Chapter 330, Private Laws of 1909.
   Chapter 120, Private Laws of 1911.
   Chapter 257, Private Laws of 1913.
   Chapter 262, Private Laws of 1913.
   Chapter 487, Private Laws of 1913.
   Chapter 127, Private Laws of 1913 (Ex. Sess.).
   Chapter 341, Private Laws of 1915.
   Chapter 299, Public-Local Laws of 1921, as to Elizabeth City only.
   Chapter 50, Private Laws of 1921, except section 1.
   Chapter 202, Private Laws of 1921.
   Chapter 248, Private Laws of 1921.
   Chapter 45, Private Laws of 1921 (Ex. Sess.).
   Chapter 90, Private Laws of 1921 (Ex. Sess.).
   Chapter 240, Public-Local Laws of 1923, as to Elizabeth City only.
   Chapter 461, Public-Local Laws of 1923, as to Elizabeth City only.
   Chapter 217, Private Laws of 1923.
   Chapter 246, Private Laws of 1923.
   Chapter 263, Public Laws of 1933, as to Elizabeth City only.
   Chapter 232, Private Laws of 1933, as to Elizabeth City only.
   Chapter 481, Public-Local Laws of 1939, except section 2.
   Chapter 301, Session Laws of 1945.
   Chapter 508, Session Laws of 1949.
   Chapter 997, Session Laws of 1953.
   Chapter 427, Session Laws of 1955.
   Chapter 268, Session Laws of 1957.
   Chapter 1450, Session Laws of 1957.
   Chapter 84, Session Laws of 1959.
   Chapter 24, Session Laws of 1963.
   Chapter 158, Session Laws of 1963, except section 36.
   Chapter 694, Session Laws of 1965.
   Chapter 35, Session Laws of 1967.
   Chapter 107, Session Laws of 1967.
   Chapter 159, Session Laws of 1973.
   Chapter 930, Session Laws of 1983 (Reg. Sess. 1984).
   Chapter 844, Session Laws of 1985 (Reg. Sess. 1986).
   Chapter 295, Session Laws of 1989.
   Chapter 174, Session Laws of 1999.
   SECTION 5. The Mayor and Council members serving on the date of ratification
of this act shall serve until the expiration of their terms or until their
successors are elected and qualified. Thereafter, those offices shall be filled
as provided in Articles II and III of the Charter of the City of Elizabeth City
as contained in Section 1 of this act.
   SECTION 6. This act does not affect any rights or interests that arose under
any provisions repealed by this act.
   SECTION 7. All existing ordinances, resolutions, and other provisions of the
City of Elizabeth City not inconsistent with the provisions of this act shall
continue in effect until repealed or amended.
   SECTION 8. No action or proceeding pending on the effective date of this act
by or against the City or any of its departments or agencies shall be abated or
otherwise affected by this act.
   SECTION 9. If any provision of this act or application thereof is held
invalid, the invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of
this act that can be given effect without the invalid provision or application,
and to this end the provisions of this act are declared to be severable.
   SECTION 10. Whenever a reference is made in this act to a particular
provision of the General Statutes and the provision is later amended,
suspended, or recodified, the reference shall be deemed amended to refer to the
amended General Statutes, or to the General Statutes which most clearly
correspond to the statutory provision that is amended, suspended, or
recodified.
   SECTION 11. This act is effective when it becomes law.
In the General Assembly read three times and ratified this the 19 day of June,
2001.
      s/ Marc Basnight
      President Pro Tempore of the Senate
      s/ James B. Black
      Speaker of the House of Representatives
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10:  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time; computing time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinances
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend code; effect of new ordinances
   
10.18   Section histories; section headings; statutory references
   
10.19   Altering code
   
10.20   Holding prisoners; by county
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the City of Elizabeth City shall
be designated as the Code of the City of Elizabeth City, North Carolina, and
may be so cited.
§ 10.02  INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03  APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04  CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain,
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BOND. When a bond is required, an undertaking in writing shall be
sufficient.
      CHARTER. The Charter of the City of Elizabeth City, North Carolina.
      CITY. The City of Elizabeth City, North Carolina.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code, as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time within which an act is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and the last day; and, if the last day is
Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday, that day shall be excluded.
      COUNCIL. The City Council of Elizabeth City, North Carolina.
      COUNTY. The County of Pasquotank, North Carolina.
      G.S. or GENERAL STATUTES. The latest edition of the General Statutes of
North Carolina, as amended.
      GENDER. Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine
and neuter.
      GOVERNOR. The Governor of North Carolina.
      JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving a joint authority to three or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of
persons or officers.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      NON-TECHNICAL and TECHNICAL WORDS. Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but TECHNICAL WORDS
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
      NUMBER. Words used in the singular include the plural, and the plural
includes the singular number.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath and, in those cases, the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Whenever certain hours are named in this code,
they shall mean standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use
in the city.
      OWNER. Applied to any property, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole
or a part of the property.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as applied to
any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Every species of property, except real property.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property.
      REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of North Carolina.
      STREET. Any city-controlled public way, road, highway, street, avenue,
boulevard, parkway, dedicated alley, lane, viaduct, bridge and the approaches
thereto within the city and shall mean the entire width of the right-of-way
between abutting property lines.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT. When applied to a building or land, shall include any
person who occupies the whole or a part of the building or land, whether alone
or with others.
      TENSE. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well
as the past and present.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
Statutory reference:
   Computation of time, see G.S. § 1-593
§ 10.06  RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of the city shall be by the following
rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or”, if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of an act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07  SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08  REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09  REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, that spelling shall be corrected and the word
or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11  OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within the city for the transaction of all city
business.
§ 10.12  REASONABLE TIME; COMPUTING TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME or
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   (1)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided,
shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last.
      (2)   If the last day be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13  ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   (A)   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other
ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in
full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary
implication.
   (B)   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall be
construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
      (1)   Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture
incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective
date of this code;
      (2)   Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment
of money for the city or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the city or
any evidence of the city’s indebtedness;
      (3)   Any contract or obligation assumed by the city;
      (4)   Any ordinance fixing the salary of any city officer or employee;
      (5)   Any right or franchise granted by the city;
      (6)   Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating,
relocating, opening, widening, paving and the like, any street or public way in
the city;
      (7)   Any appropriation ordinance;
      (8)   Any ordinance which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or
limited term;
      (9)   Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes
therefor;
      (10)   Any zoning ordinance or zoning map amendment;
      (11)   Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat;
      (12)   Any ordinance describing or altering the boundaries of the city;
      (13)   The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the city not in
conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this code;
      (14)   Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included herein; and/
or
      (15)   Any ordinance establishing or prescribing street grades in the
city.
   (C)   Nor shall any ordinance be construed to revive any ordinance or part
thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance which is repealed by
this chapter; and all ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full
force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length herein.
Statutory reference:
   Statutes not repealed by General Statutes, see G.S. § 164-7
§ 10.15  EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication
shall take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
   (B)   Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from their
passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16  REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17  ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND CODE; EFFECT OF NEW ORDINANCES.
   (A)   (1)   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend,
repeal or in any way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the
numbering system hereof and printed for inclusion herein.
      (2)   When subsequent ordinances repeal any chapter, section or division,
or any portion thereof, the repealed portions may be excluded from this code by
omission from reprinted pages.
      (3)   The subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in
the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence that the subsequent
ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new code by the city.
   (B)   Amendments to any of the provisions of the code shall be made by
amending provisions by specific reference to the section number of this code in
language substantially similar to the following: “Section                of the
Code of Ordinances, City of Elizabeth City, North Carolina, is hereby amended
as follows...”. The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (C)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be added,
language substantially similar to the following shall be used: “The Code of
Ordinances, City of Elizabeth City, North Carolina, is hereby amended by adding
a section, to be numbered              , which section shall read as
follows:...”. The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (D)   All sections, subchapters, chapters or provisions desired to be
repealed must be specifically repealed by section, subchapters or chapter
number, as the case may be.
§ 10.18  SECTION HISTORIES; SECTION HEADINGS; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and, if any, are listed following the text of
the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-
1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (G.S. §
160A-11)  (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1985)
      (2)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
         § 39.01  PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see G.S. §§ 132-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the prior code of ordinances
of the city, the prior code section number shall be indicated in the history by
“(2005 Code, §       )”. The history notes following sections and the
references scattered throughout the code are not part of the code, but are
merely for the benefit for the user of the code.
§ 10.19  ALTERING CODE.
   No person shall change or amend, by additions or deletions, any part or
portion of this code. No person shall insert or delete pages, or any portions
thereof, or alter or tamper with such code in any manner, except pursuant to
ordinance or resolution or other official act of the City Council, which will
cause the law of the city to be misrepresented thereby.
(2005 Code, § 1-7)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 10.20  HOLDING PRISONERS; BY COUNTY.
   Upon demand by a member of the Police Department, the Sheriff or jailor of
the county is hereby required, without mittimus, to receive into the jail of
the county, as prisoner, any person taken by the police force and to keep such
person safely until he or she shall be lawfully dealt with.
(2005 Code, § 1-9)
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of any
section or division of this code of ordinances for which no other penalty is
provided, or failing or neglecting or refusing to comply with same, shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor and subject to a fine not to
exceed $50 or imprisonment not to exceed 30 days, and each day that any of the
provision of this code of ordinances are violated shall constitute a separate
offense.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to enforce ordinances, see G.S. §§ 160A-174 et seq.
   For provisions concerning enforcement of ordinances, see G.S. §§ 14-4, 160A-
175
   Violation of ordinance is misdemeanor, see G.S. § 14-4
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
      
31.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   CODE OF ETHICS
      
33.   CIVIL EMERGENCIES
      
34.   FINANCE AND REVENUE; TAXATION
      
35.   PETTY CASH
CHAPTER 30:  OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
   
30.01   Equal opportunity in municipal employment
   
30.02   City Manager
   
30.03   City Clerk
   
30.04   Building Inspector
   
30.05   Chief of the Fire Department
   
30.06   Director of Public Utilities
   
30.07   Chief of the Police Department
   
30.08   City Attorney
   
30.09   Oath of office
   
30.10   Residency requirement
§ 30.01  EQUAL OPPORTUNITY IN MUNICIPAL EMPLOYMENT.
   The city affirms its support of the equal opportunity concept. The city
administration shall ensure that promotions, employments, disciplinary actions
and related internal administrative practices are based solely on the
performance or the qualifications of the individual involved. Individuals with
disabilities shall be given all consideration required under the Americans with
Disabilities Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq. Discrimination by department
heads or other supervisory personnel on the basis of race, color, religion,
sex, pregnancy, sexual orientation, national origin, age disability, present or
former military status, genetic information or any other legally protected
characteristic is strictly prohibited and will not be tolerated. All city
employees will be expected to actively support this policy of non-
discrimination. The City Manager will assure that each employee is made fully
aware of this policy.
(2005 Code, § 2-20; Ord. 2016-09-13, passed 9-26-2016)  (Motion passed 2-1-
1993)
§ 30.02  CITY MANAGER.
   (A)   The City Manager shall be appointed by the Council and shall serve at
the pleasure of the Council.
   (B)   The City Manager shall be the administrative head of the city
government and shall:
      (1)   See that within the city the laws of the state and the ordinances,
resolutions and regulations enacted by the Council are faithfully executed;
      (2)   Attend all meetings of the Council, unless excused, and recommend
for adoption such measures as he or she shall deem expedient;
      (3)   Make reports to the Council from time to time upon the affairs of
the city and keep the Council fully advised of the city’s financial condition
and its future financial needs, including the preparation of the city’s budget;
      (4)   Subject to confirmation by City Council, appoint such officers and
department heads as he or she shall deem necessary from time to time;
      (5)   Have general supervision and oversight over all departments of the
city;
      (6)   Prepare or cause to be prepared and published all reports required
of the city or any department or officer thereof;
      (7)   Act as, or designate a purchasing agent for the various departments
and approve or disapprove all bills or accounts for items purchased prior to
payment therefor; and
      (8)   Perform and carry out any other duties imposed or to be imposed
upon him or her by the state or the City Council, including, but not limited
to, the duties of one or more other offices or positions of the city, except as
herein otherwise provided.
(2005 Code, § 2-21)  (Motion passed 2-1-1993)
§ 30.03  CITY CLERK.
   The City Clerk shall attend all meetings of the City Council, unless
excused, and shall keep the minutes thereof. He or she shall further perform
such other duties and keep such other records as may be required by law or
prescribed by the City Council with the assistance of a deputy and such
clerical assistance as may be deemed necessary by the City Manager and City
Council.
(2005 Code, § 2-22)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 160A-171
§ 30.04  BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   The Building Inspector shall:
   (A)   Perform the duties of Building, Plumbing, Mechanical, and Electrical
Inspector imposed upon him or her by the general laws of the state and city;
   (B)   Issue and collect the prescribed fees for permits for construction
which shall be in conformity with state law and the ordinances, rules and
regulations of the City Council;
   (C)   To daily deposit in the General Fund of the city, all funds on hand
belonging to the city; and
   (D)   And perform such other and additional duties as may from time to time
be prescribed.
(2005 Code, § 2-23)
§ 30.05  CHIEF OF THE FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   The Chief of the Fire Department shall be in general charge of the employees
of the Fire Department and shall be responsible for the upkeep of the
firefighting equipment in order to provide the city with an effective
firefighting department, all under the supervision of the City Manager. He or
she shall report from time to time to the City Council, through the City
Manager, the activities of his or her Department. If he or she or, in his or
her absence, the Assistant Chief on duty shall deem it necessary to check the
progress of any fire, he or she may lay hose across any street, railroad or
railway or through any building and may cause any house or building to be
demolished without being responsible in damages therefor.
(2005 Code, § 2-24)
§ 30.06  DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   The Director of Public Utilities shall be in charge of the construction,
repair and maintenance of the streets, alleys, public ways, sidewalks, bridges,
viaducts, electrical facilities, canals, pumps, drains and all public buildings
of the city; provide for the disposition of all street wastes, garbage and
trash; enforce the rules, regulations and ordinances of the city with respect
thereto and, in order to enforce same, shall have the power and authority to
make arrests for the violation of any ordinance pertaining thereto; and, shall,
upon the letting of a public contract for any work of the nature above
mentioned, inspect such work from time to time and see that it is in all
respects carried out in accordance with the contract. He or she shall further
have general supervision and control over all employees in the Public Works
Department.
(2005 Code, § 2-25)
§ 30.07  CHIEF OF THE POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   The Chief of Police shall be the head of the Police Department. He or she
shall preserve the public peace, prevent crimes, detect and arrest offenders,
suppress civil disturbances and other unlawful gatherings, protect the right of
persons and property in the city, preserve order generally, regulate traffic,
enforce and carry out the ordinances and laws of the city, state and nation,
serve as the city’s Harbor Master, and perform such other and further duties as
the City Council may from time to time impose upon him or her by ordinance.
(2005 Code, § 2-26)
§ 30.08  CITY ATTORNEY.
   The City Attorney shall be an attorney at law licensed to practice before
any and all courts in the state. He or she shall be the chief legal advisor and
attorney for the city and all departments and offices thereof in matters
relating to their official powers and duties. It shall be his or her duty,
either personally or by such assistants as he or she may designate, to perform
all services of a legal nature to the city and all departments and offices
thereof; attend all regular meetings of the City Council, unless excused; give
advice in writing, when so requested; prosecute or defend, as the case may be,
all suits or cases to which the city may be a party; review all contracts,
bonds and other instruments in writing wherein the city is concerned and to
perform such other duties of a legal nature as the City Council may require.
(2005 Code, § 2-27)
§ 30.09  OATH OF OFFICE.
   Every law enforcement officer of the city shall, before entering upon the
duties of his or her office, take and subscribe the oaths or affirmations as
prescribed by G.S. § 11-11 and G.S. § 160A-61 before some officer authorized
and empowered to administer oaths; and such oaths shall be filed and kept in
the office of the City Clerk.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, requirements, see G.S. § 11-11
§ 30.10  RESIDENCY REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any  department heads employed by the city who are not in a public
safety field may reside within 30 miles of the corporate limits of the city;
those in the public safety field (Fire Chief and Police Chief) must live no
farther from the city limits than necessary so as to allow the department head
to reach the city limits within 30 minutes from his or her residence.
   (B)   Both the City Manager and the Assistant City Manager must reside
within the corporate city limits.
(Ord. 2015-01-01, passed 1-26-2015; Ord. 2019-09-01, passed 9-9-2019)
CHAPTER 31:  ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Joint Redevelopment Commission
   
31.01   Commission created
   
31.02   Findings
   
31.03   Membership, tenure and compensation
   
31.04   Powers, duties and functions
   
31.05   Commission budgeting and accounting systems
   
31.06   Procedures for contract purchases and sales
   
31.07   Authority to operate
Statutory reference:
   Urban redevelopment law, see G.S. §§ 160A-500 et seq.
JOINT REDEVELOPMENT COMMISSION
§ 31.01  COMMISSION CREATED.
   A separate and distinct body corporate and politic, to be known as the Joint
Redevelopment Commission of the County of Pasquotank and City of Elizabeth
City, North Carolina, the “Commission”, is hereby created to function within
the territorial jurisdiction of the county and the city under the authority
vested in the county and city by G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 22, and other applicable
laws of the state.
(2005 Code, § 2-77)  (Ord. passed 1-23-1994)
Statutory reference:
   Creation of joint county-city redevelopment commission, see G.S. § 160A-
507.1
§ 31.02  FINDINGS.
   (A)   Within the county and city, blight exists in commercial and industrial
areas as well as in residential areas, in the form of dilapidated,
deteriorated, poorly ventilated, obsolete, over-crowded, unsanitary or unsafe
buildings, inadequate and unsafe streets, inadequate lots and other conditions
detrimental to the sound growth of the community; that the presence of such
conditions tends to depress the value of neighboring properties, to impair the
tax base of the community and to inhibit private efforts to rehabilitate or
improve other structures in the area; and that the acquisition, preparation,
sale, sound replanning and redevelopment of such areas in accordance with sound
and approved plans will promote the public health, safety, convenience and
welfare.
   (B)   Not only is it in the interest of the public health, safety,
convenience and welfare to eliminate existing substandard areas of all types,
but it is also in the public interest and less costly to the community to
prevent the creation of new blighted areas or the expansion of existing
blighted areas; that vigorous enforcement of municipal and state building
standards, sound planning of new community facilities, public acquisition of
dilapidated, obsolescent buildings and other municipal action can aid in
preventing the creation of new blighted areas or the expansion of existing
blighted areas; and that rehabilitation, conservation and reconditioning of
areas in accordance with sound and approved plans, where, in the absence of
such action, there is a clear and present danger that the area will become
blighted, will protect and promote the public health, safety, convenience and
welfare.
(2005 Code, § 2-78)  (Ord. passed 1-23-1994)
§ 31.03  MEMBERSHIP, TENURE AND COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The powers of the Commission shall be exercised by members, composed
as follows:
 
Member Unit            Number of Members
County of Pasquotank   3
City of Elizabeth City 3
 
   (B)   The governing bodies of the county and the city shall appoint
residents of the county and city to the Commission.
   (C)   For inefficiency or neglect of duty or misconduct in office, a
Commissioner may be removed by the appointing governing body, but a
Commissioner shall be removed only after a hearing and after a Commissioner
shall have been given a copy of the charges at least ten days prior to such
hearing and have had an opportunity to be heard in person or by counsel.
   (D)   Commissioners shall serve staggered terms as set forth in this
section. Thereafter, a Commissioner’s term of office shall be five years.
   (E)   Each Commissioner shall hold office until the Commissioner’s successor
has been appointed and qualified.
   (F)   Vacancies for the unexpired term of a Commissioner shall be promptly
filled by the governing body which appointed the vacating Commissioner.
   (G)   The members of the Commission shall select from among themselves a
Chairperson, a Vice-Chairperson and such other officers as the Commission may
determine.
   (H)   The Commission may employ a Secretary, its own counsel and such
technical experts, and such other agents and employees, permanent or temporary,
as it may require, and may determine the qualifications and fix the
compensation of such persons.
   (I)   The majority of the members of the Commission shall constitute a
quorum for its meetings.
   (J)   Members shall not be liable personally on the bonds or other
obligations of the Commission and the rights of creditors shall be solely
against such Commission.
   (K)   The Commission may delegate to one or more of its members, agents or
employees such of its powers as it shall deem necessary to carry out its
purposes, subject always to the supervision and control of the Commission.
   (L)   Commissioners shall be compensated for attendance at meetings of the
Commission and reimbursed for expenses incurred by them in the course of their
duties upon presentation of proper vouchers for those expenses. Such
compensation and reimbursement of expenses shall be pursuant to a schedule
approved by the county and the city.
(2005 Code, § 2-79)  (Ord. passed 1-23-1994)
§ 31.04  POWERS, DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS.
   The Commission shall possess the following powers:
   (A)   To procure from the Planning Commission the designation of areas in
need of redevelopment and its recommendation for such redevelopment;
   (B)   To cooperate with state or federal government or any subdivision,
agency or instrumentality corporation or otherwise of either of them;
   (C)   To act as agent of the state or federal government or any of its
instrumentalities or agencies for the public purposes set out in G.S. Ch. 160A,
Art. 22;
   (D)   To prepare or cause to be prepared and recommend redevelopment plans
to the governing bodies of the county and city and to undertake and carry out
“redevelopment projects”, as that term is defined in G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 22,
within its area of operation;
   (E)   Subject to the provisions of G.S. § 160A-514(b), to arrange or
contract for the furnishing or repair, by any person or agency, public or
private, of services, privileges, works, streets, roads, public utilities or
other facilities for or in connection with a redevelopment project; and,
notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this division (E), G.S.
Ch. 160A, Art. 22, or any other provision of law;
   (F)   To agree to any conditions that it may deem reasonable and appropriate
attached to federal financial assistance and imposed pursuant to federal law
relating to the determination of prevailing salaries or wages or compliance
with labor standards, in undertaking or carrying out of a redevelopment project
and to include in any contract let in connection with such a project,
provisions to fulfill such of said conditions as it may deem reasonable and
appropriate;
   (G)   Within its area of operation, to purchase, obtain options upon,
acquire by gift, grant, bequest, devise, eminent domain or otherwise, any real
or personal property or any interest therein, together with any improvements
thereon, necessary or incidental to a redevelopment project;
   (H)   To hold, improve, clear or prepare for redevelopment any such
property, and notwithstanding the provisions of G.S. § 160A-59, but subject to
the provisions of G.S. § 160A-514, and with the approval of the local governing
body sell, exchange, transfer, assign, subdivide, retain for its own use,
mortgage, pledge, hypothecate or otherwise encumber or dispose of any real or
personal property or any interest therein, either as an entirety to a single
“redeveloper”, as that term is defined in G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 22, or in parts
to several redevelopers; provided that, the Commission finds that the sale or
other transfer of any such part will not be prejudicial to the sale of other
parts of the redevelopment area, nor in any other way prejudicial to the
realization of the redevelopment plan approved by the governing body;
   (I)   To enter into contracts with redevelopers of property containing
covenants, restrictions and conditions regarding the use of such property for
residential, commercial, industrial, recreational purposes or for public
purposes in accordance with the redevelopment plan and such other covenants,
restrictions and conditions as the Commission may deem necessary to prevent a
recurrence of blighted areas or to effectuate the purposes of this division (I)
and G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 22; to make any of the covenants, restrictions or
conditions of the foregoing contracts covenants running with the land, and to
provide appropriate remedies for any breach of any such covenants or
conditions, including the right to terminate such contracts and any interest in
the property created pursuant thereto;
   (J)   To borrow money and issue bonds therefor and provide security for
bonds;
   (K)   To insure or provide for the insurance of any real or personal
property or operations of the commission against any risks or hazards,
including the power to pay premiums on any such insurance; and to enter into
any contracts necessary to effectuate the purposes of this division (K) and
G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 22;
   (L)   To invest any funds held in reserves or sinking funds or any funds not
required for immediate disbursements, in such investments as may be lawful for
guardians, executors, administrators or other fiduciaries under the laws of the
state; to redeem its bonds at the redemption price established therein or to
purchase its bonds at less than redemption price, all bonds so redeemed or
purchased to be canceled;
   (M)   To borrow money and to apply for and accept advances, loans evidenced
by bonds, grants, contributions and any other form of financial assistance from
the federal government, the state, the county, the city or other public body or
from any sources, public or private for the purposes of this division (M), to
give such security as may be required and to enter into and carry out contracts
in connection therewith; and, notwithstanding the provisions of any other law,
may include in any contract for financial assistance with the Federal
Government for a redevelopment project such conditions imposed pursuant to
federal law as the Commission may deem reasonable and appropriate and which are
not inconsistent with the purposes of this division (M) and G.S. Ch. 160A, Art.
22;
   (N)   Acting through one or more Commissioners or other person designated by
the Commission, to conduct examinations and investigations and to hear
testimony and take proof under oath at public or private hearings on any matter
material for its information; to administer oaths, issue subpoenas requiring
the attendance of witnesses or the production of books and papers;
   (O)   Within its area of operation, to make or have made all surveys,
studies and plans, but not including the preparation of a general plan for the
community, necessary to the carrying out of the purposes of this division (O)
and G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 22, and in connection therewith to enter into or upon
any land, building or improvement thereon for such purposes and to make
soundings, test borings, surveys, appraisals and other preliminary studies and
investigations necessary to carry out its powers;
   (P)   Such entry shall constitute no cause of action for trespass in favor
of the owner of such land, building or improvement except for injuries
resulting from negligence, wantonness or malice; and to contract or cooperate
with any and all persons or agencies public or private, in the making and
carrying out of such surveys, appraisals, studies and plans;
   (Q)   The Commission is hereby specifically authorized to make:
      (1)   Plans for carrying out a program of voluntary repair and
rehabilitation of buildings and improvements;
      (2)   Plans for the enforcement of laws, codes and regulations relating
to the use of land and the use and occupancy of buildings and improvements, and
to the compulsory repair, rehabilitation, demolition or removal of buildings
and improvements; and
      (3)   The commission is further authorized to develop, test and report
methods and techniques, and carry out demonstrations and other activities, for
the prevention and elimination of slums and urban blight.
   (R)   To make such expenditures as may be necessary to carry out the
purposes of this division (R) and G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 22; and to make
expenditures from funds obtained from the federal government;
   (S)   To sue and be sued;
   (T)   To adopt a seal;
   (U)   To have perpetual succession;
   (V)   To make and execute contracts and other instruments necessary or
convenient to the exercise of the powers of the Commission; and any contract or
instrument when signed by the Chairperson or Vice-Chairperson and Secretary, or
Assistant Secretary, or Treasurer or Assistant Treasurer of the Commission
shall be held to have been properly executed for and on its behalf;
   (W)   To make and from time to time amend and repeal bylaws, rules,
regulations and resolutions;
   (X)   To make available to the county or city or any appropriate agency,
board or commission, the recommendations of the Commission affecting any area
in its field of operation or property therein, which it may deem likely to
promote the public health, morals, safety or welfare; and
   (Y)   To perform redevelopment project undertakings and activities in one or
more contiguous or non-contiguous redevelopment areas which are planned and
carried out on the basis of annual increments.
(2005 Code, § 2-80)  (Ord. passed 1-23-1994)
Statutory reference:
   Powers of redevelopment commission, see G.S. § 160A-512
§ 31.05  COMMISSION BUDGETING AND ACCOUNTING SYSTEMS.
   (A)   The budgeting and accounting systems of the Commission shall be an
integral part of the budgeting and accounting system of the county as such
shall be considered a department or agency of the county. The operation of the
Commission shall be budgeted and accounted for as if the operations were those
of a public enterprise of the county.
   (B)   The budget of the Commission shall be prepared and submitted in the
same manner and according to the same procedures as are the budgets of other
departments and agencies of the county and the budget ordinance of the county
shall provide for the operations of the Commission.
   (C)   The Budget Officer and Finance Officer of the county shall administer
and control that portion of the county’s budget ordinance relating to the
operations of the Commission.
(2005 Code, § 2-81)  (Ord. passed 1-23-1994)
Statutory reference:
   Commission systems as part of municipal systems, see G.S. § 160A-505.1
§ 31.06  PROCEDURES FOR CONTRACT PURCHASES AND SALES.
   The Commission shall comply with the provisions of G.S. § 160A-514 when
contracting for engineering, legal, surveying, professional or other similar
services; when entering and carrying out any contract for construction,
demolition, moving of structures or repair work or the purchase of apparatus,
supplies, materials or equipment; and when selling, exchanging or otherwise
transferring the fee or any lesser interest in real property in a redevelopment
area.
(2005 Code, § 2-82)  (Ord. passed 1-23-1994)
§ 31.07  AUTHORITY TO OPERATE.
   The Commission is authorized to operate within the city’s territorial
jurisdiction in which area the Redevelopment Commission of the city operates.
(2005 Code, § 2-83)  (Ord. passed 1-23-1994)
CHAPTER 32:  CODE OF ETHICS
Section
General Code of Ethics
   
32.01   Declaration of policy
   
32.02   Definitions
   
32.03   Standards of conduct
   
32.04   Disclosure of interest in legislative action
   
32.05   General disclosure
   
32.06   Investigations
   
32.07   Sanctions
   
32.08   Advisory opinions
City Council Code of Ethics
   
32.20   General principles underlying code
   
32.21   Purpose
   
32.22   Obedience and guidance; policy
   
32.23   Integrity, independence from improper influence
   
32.24   Impropriety; advice
   
32.25   Faithful performance of duties
   
32.26   Conducting affairs; compliance
   
32.27   Violation; censure; hearing
   
32.28   Conflict; resolution
GENERAL CODE OF ETHICS
§ 32.01  DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   The proper operation of democratic government requires that public officials
and employees be independent, impartial and responsible to the people; that
governmental decisions and policy be made in proper channels of the
governmental structure; that public office not be used for personal gain; and
that the public have confidence in the integrity of its government. In
recognition of these goals, a code of ethics for city officials is adopted. The
purpose of this subchapter is to establish guidelines for ethical standards of
conduct for all such officials by setting forth those acts or actions that are
incompatible with the best interest of the city.
(2005 Code, § 2-110)  (Ord. passed 10-21-1991; Ord. passed 1-6-1992; Ord. 2014-
04-01, passed 4-28-2014)
§ 32.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS ENTITY. Any business, proprietorship, firm, partnership, person in
representative or fiduciary capacity, association, venture, trust or
corporation which is organized for financial gain or for profit; or any
association, institute, society or group which is organized as a non-profit,
501(c)3 entity.
   CITY OFFICIAL. The Mayor, members of the City Council, the City Manager,
Assistant City Manager and department heads, City Clerk and City Attorney.
   EMPLOYEE. A full-time or part-time employee.
   INTEREST. Direct or indirect pecuniary or material benefit accruing to a
city official or employee as a result of a contract or transaction which is or
may be the subject of an official act or action by or with the city. For the
purpose of this subchapter, a city official or employee shall be deemed to have
an INTEREST in the affairs of:
      (1)   Any person in his or her immediate household;
      (2)   Any business entity in which the city official or employee is an
officer or director;
      (3)   Any business entity in which the stock of, or legal or beneficial
ownership of, in excess of 10% of the total stock or total legal or beneficial
ownership, is controlled or owned directly or indirectly by the city officials
or employee; and
      (4)   Any contract in which the city official or employee derives any
income or commission directly from the contract or acquires property under the
contract.
   OFFICIAL ACT OR ACTION. Any legislative, administrative, discretionary act
of any city official or employee.
(2005 Code, § 2-111)  (Ord. passed 10-21-1991; Ord. passed 1-6-1992; Ord.
passed 8-17-1998; Ord. 2014-04-01, passed 4-28-2014)
§ 32.03  STANDARDS OF CONDUCT.
   All city officials and employees, as herein defined, shall be subject to and
abide by the following standards of conduct:
   (A)   Interest in contract or agreement. No official or employee, as herein
defined, shall have or thereafter:
      (1)   Acquire an interest in any contract or agreement with the city;
      (2)   Derive a direct benefit from contracts or agreements they are
involved in making or administering;
      (3)   Attempt to influence any other person who is responsible for making
or administering a contract or agreement from which the city official or
employee derives a direct benefit; or
      (4)   Solicit or receive any gift, reward or promise of reward in
exchange for recommending, influencing or attempting to influence the award of
a contract or agreement by the city.
   (B)   Use of official position. No city official or employee shall use his
or her official position or the city’s facilities for his or her private gain
or to facilitate hobbies, community, civic or other volunteer interests, nor
shall he or she appear before or represent any private person, group or
interest before any department, agency, commission or board of the city, except
in matters of purely civic or public concern.
   (C)   Disclosure of information. No city official or employee shall use or
disclose confidential information gained in the course of or by reason of his
or her official position for purposes of advancing:
      (1)   His or her financial or personal interest;
      (2)   Business entity of which he or she is an owner, in part of or in
whole, an officer or a director; or
      (3)   The financial or personal interest of a member of his or her
immediate household or that of any other person.
   (D)   Incompatible service. No city official or employee shall engage in, or
accept private employment or render service, for private interest when such
employment or service is incompatible with the proper discharge of his or her
official duties or would tend to impair his or her independence of judgment or
action in the performance of his or her official duties, unless otherwise
permitted by law and unless disclosure is as provided in this subchapter.
   (E)   Gifts. No city official or employee shall directly or indirectly
solicit any gift; or accept or receive any gift having a value of $25 or more,
whether in the form of money, services, loan, travel, entertainment,
hospitality, thing or promise, or any other form, under circumstances in which
it could reasonably be inferred that the gift was intended to influence him or
her, or could reasonably be expected to influence him or her, in the
performance of his or her official duties, or was intended as a reward for any
official action on his or her part. Legitimate political contributions shall
not be considered as gifts under the provisions of this division (E). For the
purpose of this section, gifts over $25 from any source in a calendar year
shall not be permitted.
   (F)   Special treatment. No city official or employee shall grant any
special consideration, treatment or advantage to any citizen beyond that which
is available to every other citizen.
(2005 Code, § 2-112)  (Ord. passed 10-21-1991; Ord. passed 1-6-1992; Ord. 2014-
04-01, passed 4-28-2014)
§ 32.04  DISCLOSURE OF INTEREST IN LEGISLATIVE ACTION.
   (A)   The Mayor or any member of the City Council who has an interest, as
defined in §
32.02 of this chapter, in any official act or action before the Council shall
publicly disclose on the record of the Council the nature and extent of such
interest, and shall withdraw from any consideration of the matter if excused by
the Council pursuant to G.S. § 160A-75.
   (B)   Failure to disclose or any other violation of this subchapter shall
require enforcement and penalty. Enforcement shall be handled in accordance
with existing city policies and procedures. Potential violations of criminal
laws shall be referred to the appropriate law enforcement agency by the City
Manager.
(2005 Code, § 2-113)  (Ord. passed 10-21-1991; Ord. passed 1-6-1992; Ord. 2014-
04-01, passed 4-28-2014)
§ 32.05  GENERAL DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   All city officials, as herein defined, shall file with the City Clerk
on or before February 1 of each year a verified statement containing the
following information:
      (1)   The identity, by name and address, of any business entity, as
defined in §
32.02 of this chapter, of which he, she or immediate members of household is an
owner, an officer or a director. Additionally, the city official shall give the
name of his or her employer or, if self-employed, state the nature of his or
her work; and
      (2)   The identity, by location and address, of all real property located
in the county and corporate limits of Camden County owned by the city official
or immediate members of household, including an option to purchase, or a lease
for ten years or more other than his or her personal residence.
   (B)   The statements required by this section shall be filed on a form
prescribed by the City Council and obtained from the City Clerk and are public
records available for inspection and copying by any personnel during normal
business hours. The City Clerk is authorized to establish and charge reasonable
fees for the copying of statements.
   (C)   All city employees, as herein defined, shall file disclosure with the
City Manager or his or her designee in the same manner as described in
divisions (A) and (B) above.
(2005 Code, § 2-114)  (Ord. passed 10-21-1991; Ord. passed 1-6-1992; Ord.
passed 9-21-1998; Ord. 2014-04-01, passed 4-28-2014)
§ 32.06  INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   The City Council may direct the City Attorney to investigate any
apparent violation of this subchapter as it applies to the Mayor, member of the
City Council or City Manager, and to report the findings of his or her
investigation to the City Council.
   (B)   The City Manager may direct the City Attorney to investigate any
apparent violation of this subchapter as it applies to any other city official
or city employee, and to report the findings of his or her investigation to the
City Manager who shall handle the disposition of the matter pursuant to the
city’s Personnel Manual or other appropriate state law. The City Manager shall
provide a summary report to the City Council.
   (C)   The City Council may direct the City Manager to investigate any
apparent violation of this subchapter by the City Attorney, and to report the
findings of his or her investigation to the City Council.
   (D)   Any person who believes that a violation of this subchapter has
occurred may file a verified complaint in writing with the City Council when
the Mayor, member of City Council, City Manager or City Attorney is the subject
of the complaint, or with the City Manager when any other city employee is the
subject of the complaint, who may thereafter proceed as provided in divisions
(A), (B) or (C) above.
(2005 Code, § 2-115)  (Ord. passed 10-21-1991; Ord. passed 1-6-1992; Ord. 2014-
04-01, passed 4-28-2014)
§ 32.07  SANCTIONS.
   (A)   If the City Manager, after the receipt of an investigation by the City
Attorney, has cause to believe a violation has occurred, as to any city
employee other than himself or herself, he or she shall handle the matter
pursuant to the Personnel Manual or other appropriate state law.
   (B)   If the City Council, after receipt of an investigation by the City
Attorney, has cause to believe a violation has occurred, as to the Mayor, City
Council members or City Manager, the City Council shall schedule a hearing on
this matter. The official who is charged with the violation shall have the
right to present evidence, cross-examine witnesses, including the complainant,
and be represented by counsel at the hearing. If, upon the conclusion of the
hearing, at least three-fourths of the members of Council vote to find a
violation has occurred, the Council may adopt a resolution of censure which
shall be placed as a matter of record in the minutes of an official Council
meeting. The City Manager may require that the hearing be closed to the public
in the event that he or she is the subject of the investigation.
   (C)   If the City Council, after receipt of an investigation by the City
Manager, has cause to believe a violation has occurred as to the City Attorney,
and such finding is by a three-fourths vote of the Council, then the matter
shall be forwarded to the North Carolina State Bar, Box 25908, Raleigh, NC
27611.
(2005 Code, § 2-116)  (Ord. passed 10-21-1991; Ord. passed 1-6-1992; Ord. 2014-
04-01, passed 4-28-2014)
§ 32.08  ADVISORY OPINIONS.
   When any city official has a doubt as to the applicability of any provision
of this subchapter to a particular situation, or as to the definition of terms
used herein, he or she may apply in writing to the City Attorney for an
advisory opinion. The city official shall have the opportunity to present his
or her interpretation of the facts at issue and of the applicability of
provisions of this subchapter before such advisory opinion is made.
(2005 Code, § 2-117)  (Ord. passed 10-21-1991; Ord. passed 1-6-1992; Ord. 2014-
04-01, passed 4-28-2014)
CITY COUNCIL CODE OF ETHICS
§ 32.20  GENERAL PRINCIPLES UNDERLYING CODE.
   (A)   The stability and proper operation of democratic representative
government depend upon public confidence in the integrity of the government and
upon responsible exercise of the trust conferred by the people upon their
elected officials.
   (B)   Government decisions and policy must be made and implemented through
proper channels and processes of the governmental structure.
   (C)   Council members must be able to act in a manner that maintains their
integrity and independence, yet is responsive to the interests and needs of
those they represent.
   (D)   Council members must always remain aware that at various times they
play different roles:
      (1)   As advocates, who strive to advance the legitimate needs of their
citizens;
      (2)   As legislators, who balance the public interest and private rights
in considering and enacting ordinances, orders and resolutions; and
      (3)   As decision-makers, who arrive at fair and impartial quasi-judicial
and administrative determinations.
   (E)   Council members must know how to distinguish among these roles, to
determine when each role is appropriate, and to act accordingly.
   (F)   Council members must be aware of their obligation to conform their
behavior to standards of ethical conduct that warrant the trust of their
constituents. Each official must find within his or her own conscience the
touchstone by which to determine what conduct is appropriate.
(Ord. 10121, passed 12-13-2010)
§ 32.21  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish guidelines for ethical
standards of conduct for the City Council and to help determine what conduct is
appropriate in particular cases. It should not be considered a substitute for
the law or for a Council member’s best judgment.
(Ord. 10121, passed 12-13-2010)
§ 32.22  OBEDIENCE AND GUIDANCE; POLICY.
   (A)   Council members should obey all laws applicable to their official
actions as members of the City Council. Council members should be guided by the
spirit as well as the letter of the law in whatever they do.
   (B)   At the same time, Council members should feel free to assert policy
positions and opinions without fear of reprisal from fellow Council members or
citizens. To declare that a Council member is behaving unethically because one
disagrees with that Council member on a question of policy (and not because of
the Council member’s behavior) is unfair, dishonest, irresponsible and itself
unethical.
   (C)   Council members should endeavor to keep up to date through the
Council’s attorney and other sources, about new or ongoing legal or ethical
issues they may face in their official positions. This educational function is
in addition to the day-to-day legal advice the Council may receive concerning
specific situations that arise.
(Ord. 10121, passed 12-13-2010)
§ 32.23  INTEGRITY, INDEPENDENCE FROM IMPROPER INFLUENCE.
   (A)   Council members should act with integrity and independence from
improper influence as they exercise the duties of their offices.
   (B)   Characteristics and behaviors consistent with this standard include
the following:
      (1)   Behaving consistently and with respect toward everyone with whom
they interact;
      (2)   Exhibiting trustworthiness;
      (3)   Living as if they are on duty as elected officials regardless of
where they are or what they are doing;
      (4)   Using their best independent judgment to pursue the common good as
they see it, presenting their opinions to all in a reasonable, forthright,
consistent manner;
      (5)   Remaining incorruptible, self-governing and unaffected by improper
influence while at the same time being able to consider the opinions and ideas
of others;
      (6)   Disclosing contacts and information about issues that they receive
outside of public meetings and refraining from seeking or receiving information
about quasi-judicial matters outside of the quasi-judicial proceedings
themselves;
      (7)   Treating other Council members and the public with respect and
honoring the opinions of others even when the Council members disagree with
those opinions;
      (8)   Not reaching conclusions on issues until all sides have been heard;
      (9)   Showing respect for their offices and not behaving in ways that
reflect badly on those offices;
      (10)   Recognizing that they are part of a larger group and acting
accordingly; and
      (11)   Recognizing that individual Council members are not generally
allowed to act on behalf of the Council, but may only do so if the Council
specifically authorizes it, and that the Council must take official action as a
body.
(Ord. 10121, passed 12-13-2010)
§ 32.24  IMPROPRIETY; ADVICE.
   (A)   Council members should avoid impropriety in the exercise of their
official duties. Their official actions should be above reproach. Although
opinions may vary about what behavior is inappropriate, this Council will
consider impropriety in terms of whether a reasonable person who is aware of
all of the relevant facts and circumstances surrounding the Council member’s
action would conclude that the action was inappropriate.
   (B)   If a Council member believes that his or her actions, while legal and
ethical, may be misunderstood, the member should seek the advice of the
Council’s attorney and should consider publicly disclosing the facts of the
situation and the steps taken to resolve it (such as consulting with the
attorney).
(Ord. 10121, passed 12-13-2010)
§ 32.25  FAITHFUL PERFORMANCE OF DUTIES.
   (A)   Council members should faithfully perform the duties of their offices.
They should act as the especially responsible citizens whom others can trust
and respect. They should set a good example for others in the community,
keeping in mind that trust and respect must continually be earned.
   (B)   Council members should faithfully attend and prepare for meetings.
They should carefully analyze all credible information properly submitted to
them, mindful of the need not to engage in communications outside the meeting
in quasi-judicial matters. They should demand full accountability from those
over whom the Council has authority.
   (C)   Council members should be willing to bear their fair share of the
Council’s workload. To the extent appropriate, they should be willing to put
the Council’s interest ahead of their own.
(Ord. 10121, passed 12-13-2010)
§ 32.26  CONDUCTING AFFAIRS; COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Council members should conduct the affairs of the Council in an open
and public manner. They should comply with all applicable laws governing open
meetings and public records, recognizing that doing so is an important way to
be worthy of the public’s trust. They should remember when they meet that they
are conducting the public’s business. They should also remember that local
government records belong to the public and not to the Council members or their
employees.
   (B)   In order to ensure strict compliance with the laws concerning
openness, Council members should make clear that an environment of transparency
and candor is to be maintained at all times in the governmental unit. They
should prohibit unjustified delay in fulfilling public records requests. They
should take deliberate steps to make certain that any closed sessions held by
the Council are lawfully conducted and that such sessions do not stray from the
purposes for which they are called.
(Ord. 10121, passed 12-13-2010)
§ 32.27  VIOLATION; CENSURE; HEARING.
   (A)   If a majority of the Council has reason to believe that one of its
members has violated a provision of this subchapter, it shall open an
investigation into the matter to determine whether probable cause exists to
initiate censure proceedings against the member. All information complied,
including the grounds for any findings of probably cause, shall be shared with
the member when it is received. All information pertaining to the case shall be
open to public inspections and copying pursuant to the state’s public records
statutes. If, upon investigation, the Council concludes that a violation of a
criminal law may have occurred, it shall refer the matter to the local district
attorney.
   (B)   Should the Council determine that it wishes to proceed further with
censure proceedings, it shall call for a hearing, to be held at a regular
meeting or at a special meeting convened for that purposes. Notice of the
hearing stating its time, place and purpose shall be given once a week for two
successive calendar weeks in a newspaper having general circulations in the
jurisdiction. The notice shall be published the first time not less than ten
days or more than 25 days before the date fixed for the hearing. In computing
such period, the day of publication is not to be included, but the day of the
hearing shall be included. Alternatively, the hearing shall be advertised on
the jurisdiction’s website for the same period of time, up to and including the
date of the hearing. The notice shall state that a detailed list of the
allegations against the member is available for public inspection and copying
in the office of the Clerk to the Council.
   (C)   The hearing shall be convened at the time and place specified. The
hearing and any deliberations shall be conducted in open session in accordance
with the state’s open meeting statutes.
   (D)   The accused Council member shall have the right to have counsel
present, to present and cross-examine expert and other witnesses, and to offer
evidence, including evidence of the bias of any other Council member or the
presiding officer. An audio or video and audio tape of the proceedings shall be
prepared. Any and all votes during the hearing shall be taken by the ayes and
noes and recorded in the Council’s minutes.
   (E)   Once the hearing is concluded, it shall be closed by vote of the
Council. The presiding officer shall next entertain a motion to adopt a non-
binding resolution censuring the member based on specified violations of the
code of ethics. Any motion made must be an affirmative one in favor of adopting
a non-binding resolution of censure. If the motion or resolution does not state
particular grounds for censure under the code of ethics, the presiding officer
shall rule it out of order.
   (F)   If a motion to adopt a non-binding resolution of censure stating
particular grounds under the code of ethics has been made, the Council shall
debate the motion. The accused member shall be allowed to participate in the
debate and shall be allowed to vote on the motion to adopt the resolution.
   (G)   At the conclusion of the debate, the Council shall vote on the
resolution. If the motion to adopt the non-binding resolution of censure is
approved by a majority vote of those present and voting, a quorum being
present, the motion passes and the non-binding resolution of censure is
adopted.
   (H)   The text of the non-binding resolution of censure shall be made a part
of the minutes of the Council. Any recording of the Council’s proceedings shall
be approved by the Council as a permanent part of the minutes. The proceedings
shall then be considered concluded, the Council having done all it legally can
with respect to the matter in question.
(Ord. 10121, passed 12-13-2010)
§ 32.28  CONFLICT; RESOLUTION.
   Any inconsistencies between this subchapter and §§
32.01 through
32.08 of this chapter shall be resolved in such a way that this subchapter
takes precedence and shall be controlling on the issue.
(Ord. 10121, passed 12-13-2010)
CHAPTER 33:  CIVIL EMERGENCIES
Section
   
33.01   Definition
   
33.02   Proclamation authorized; publication
   
33.03   Imposition of prohibitions and restrictions
   
33.04   Exceptions to proclamation
   
33.05   Evacuation
   
33.06   Curfew
   
33.07   Possession, consumption or transfer of alcoholic beverages
   
33.08   Possession, transportation and transfer of dangerous weapons and
substances
   
33.09   Restrictions on access to areas
   
33.10   Termination of proclamation; removal of restrictions
   
33.11   Superseding and amendatory proclamations
   
33.12   Territorial applicability
 
   
33.99   Penalty
Federal law reference:
   Comprehensive emergency response plans, see 42 U.S.C. § 11003
   Emergency Planning and Community Right to Know Act of 1986, see 42 U.S.C. §§
11011 through 11050
   Establishment of local emergency planning committee, see 42 U.S.C. § 11001
(c)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to enact ordinances dealing with state of emergency, see
G.S. § 14-228.12
   Authority to regulate explosives, radioactive substances and instruments of
mass death and destruction, see G.S. § 160A-183
   Authority to regulate firearms, see G.S. § 160A-189
   Authority to regulate use of streets, sidewalks and the like, see G.S. §
160A-296
   County and municipal emergency management, see G.S. § 166A-7
   Fire prevention and protection, see G.S. Ch. 69
   Mass gatherings, see G.S. §§ 130A-251 et seq.
   Picketing and the like, see G.S. § 14-225.1
   Possession of weapons by demonstrators, see G.S. § 14-277.2
   Reciprocal aid, fire, see G.S. § 160A-293
   Reciprocal aid, law enforcement, see G.S. § 160A-258
   Riots and civil disorders, see G.S. §§ 14-288.1 through 14.288.20
   Wearing masks, see G.S. §§ 14-12.4 et seq., 14-128
§ 33.01  DEFINITION.
   A STATE OF EMERGENCY shall be deemed to exist whenever during times of
public crisis, disaster, rioting, enemy action, catastrophe or similar public
emergency, for any reason, public safety authorities are unable to maintain
public order or afford adequate protection for lives, safety or property, or
whenever the occurrence of any such condition is immanent.
(2005 Code, § 22-1)  (Ord. passed 6-6-1988)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 14-288.1(10)
§ 33.02  PROCLAMATION AUTHORIZED; PUBLICATION.
   (A)   If an existing or threatened state of emergency endangers the lives,
safety, health and welfare or threatens damages to or destruction of property,
the Mayor, or in his or her absence, the Mayor Pro Tempore, is hereby
authorized and empowered under G.S.§ 166A-19.31 to issue a public proclamation
declaring to all persons the existence of such state of emergency and, in order
to more effectively protect the lives and property of people within the city,
to place in effect the restrictions authorized by this chapter.
   (B)   The proclamation shall be in writing. The Mayor or, in his or her
absence, the Mayor Pro Tempore shall take reasonable steps to give notice of
the terms of the proclamation to those affected by it and shall post a copy of
it in the City Hall. The Mayor shall send reports of the substance of the
proclamation to the mass communication media which serves the affected area.
The Mayor shall retain a text of the proclamation and furnish upon request
certified copies of it.
(2005 Code, § 22-2)  (Ord. passed 6-6-1988)
§ 33.03  IMPOSITION OF PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The Mayor or, in his or her absence, the Mayor Pro Tempore, by
proclamation, may impose the prohibitions and restrictions specified in this
section and in §§
33.05 through
33.09 of this chapter in the manner described in those sections. The Mayor may
impose as many of those specified prohibitions and restrictions as he or she
finds are necessary, because of an emergency, to maintain an acceptable level
of public order and services, and to protect lives, safety and property. The
Mayor shall recite his or her findings in the proclamations.
   (B)   The proclamation may prohibit or restrict:
      (1)   Movements of people in public places;
      (2)   The operation of offices, business establishments and other places
to or from which people may travel or at which they may congregate; and
      (3)   Other activities or conditions the control of which may be
reasonably necessary to maintain order and protect lives or property during the
state of emergency, within the area designated in the proclamation.
(2005 Code, § 22-3)  (Ord. passed 6-6-1988)
§ 33.04  EXCEPTIONS TO PROCLAMATION.
   The Mayor or, in his or her absence, the Mayor Pro Tempore is hereby
authorized and empowered to limit, by the proclamation, the application of all
or any part of such restrictions to any area specifically designated or
described within the city and to specific hours of the day or night; and to
exempt from all or any part of such restrictions, while acting in the line of
and within the scope of their respective duties, law enforcement officers,
firefighters and other public employees, rescue squad members, doctors, nurses,
employees of hospitals and other medical faculties; on-duty military personnel,
whether state or federal; on-duty employees of public agencies or governmental
units, whether state or federal; on-duty employees of public utilities, public
transportation companies and newspaper, magazine, radio broadcasting and
television broadcasting corporations operated for profit; and such other
classes of persons as may be essential to the preservation of public order and
immediately necessary to serve the safety, health and welfare needs of people
within the city.
(2005 Code, § 22-4)  (Ord. passed 6-6-1988)
§ 33.05  EVACUATION.
   The Mayor may direct the evacuation of all or part of the population of the
city; prescribe routes, modes of transportation and destination in connection
with evacuation; and control ingress and egress of a disaster area, the
movement of persons within the area and the occupancy of premises therein.
Details of the evacuation may be set forth or amended in a subsequent
proclamation which shall be well publicized.
(2005 Code, § 22-5)  (Ord. passed 6-6-1988)
§ 33.06  CURFEW.
   (A)   The proclamation may impose a curfew prohibiting in certain areas and
during certain periods the appearance in public of anyone who is not a member
of an exempted class. The proclamation shall specify the geographical area and
the period during each 24-hour day to which the curfew applies. The Mayor may
exempt from some or all of the curfew restrictions classes of people whose
exemption the Mayor finds necessary for the preservation of the public health,
safety and welfare. The proclamation shall state the exempted classes and the
restrictions from which each is exempted.
   (B)   Unless otherwise specified in the proclamation, the curfew shall apply
during the specified period each day until the Mayor by proclamation removes
the curfew.
(2005 Code, § 22-6)  (Ord. passed 6-6-1988)
§ 33.07  POSSESSION, CONSUMPTION OR TRANSFER OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   The proclamation may prohibit the possession or consumption of any alcoholic
beverage; including beer, wine and spirituous liquor other than on one’s own
premises, and may prohibit the transfer, transportation, sale or purchase of
any alcoholic beverage within the area of the city described in the
proclamation. The prohibition, if imposed, may apply to transfers of alcoholic
beverages by employees of alcoholic beverage control stores as well as by
anyone else within the geographical area described.
(2005 Code, § 22-7)  (Ord. passed 6-6-1988)
Statutory reference:
   Closing of ABC stores by governor, see G.S. § 18B-110
§ 33.08  POSSESSION, TRANSPORTATION AND TRANSFER OF DANGEROUS WEAPONS AND
SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   The proclamation may prohibit the transportation or possession off of
one’s own premises, or the sale or purchase of any dangerous weapon or
substance. The Mayor may exempt from some or all of the restriction classes of
people whose possession, transfer or transportation of certain dangerous
weapons or substances is necessary to the preservation of the public health,
safety or welfare. The proclamation shall state the exempted classes and the
restriction from which each is exempted.
   (B)   The term DANGEROUS WEAPON OR SUBSTANCE means:
      (1)   Any deadly weapon, ammunition, explosive, incendiary device,
radioactive material or device as defined in G.S. § 14-288.8(c)(1—4), gasoline
or other instrument or substance designed for a use that carries a threat of
serious bodily injury or destruction of property;
      (2)   Any other instrument or substance that is capable of being used to
inflict serious bodily injury or destruction of property, when the
circumstances indicate a probability that such instrument or substance will be
so used; and
      (3)   Any part or ingredient in any instrument or substance included
above when the circumstances indicate a probability that such a part or
ingredient will be so used.
   (C)   If imposed, the restrictions shall apply throughout the jurisdiction
of the city or such part thereof as designated in the proclamation.
   (D)   A violation of the section shall be punishable as provided in G.S. §
14-288.8.
(2005 Code, § 22-8)  (Ord. passed 6-6-1988)
§ 33.09  RESTRICTIONS ON ACCESS TO AREAS.
   (A)   The proclamation may prohibit obtaining access or attempting to obtain
access to any area, designated in the manner described in this section, in
violation of any order, clearly posted notice or barricade indicating that
access is denied or restricted.
   (B)   Areas to which access is denied or restricted shall be designated by
the City Manager and his or her subordinate or other law enforcement officer
when directed in the proclamation to do so by the Mayor. When acting under this
authority, the City Manager and his or her subordinates may restrict or deny
access to any area, street, highway or location within the city if that
restriction or denial of access or use is reasonably necessary to promote
efforts being made to overcome the emergency or to prevent further aggravation
of the emergency.
(2005 Code, § 22-9)  (Ord. passed 6-6-1988)
§ 33.10  TERMINATION OF PROCLAMATION; REMOVAL OF RESTRICTIONS.
   Any proclamation issued under this chapter shall expire five days after its
last imposition unless sooner terminated in writing under the procedures set
forth in this chapter. The Mayor shall, by proclamation, terminate the entire
declaration of emergency or remove any of the prohibitions and restrictions
when the emergency no longer requires them, or when directed to do so by the
City Council.
(2005 Code, § 22-10)  (Ord. passed 6-6-1988)
§ 33.11  SUPERSEDING AND AMENDATORY PROCLAMATIONS.
   The Mayor, at his or her discretion, may invoke the restrictions authorized
by this chapter in separate proclamations, and may amend any proclamation by
means of a superseding proclamation in accordance with the procedures set forth
in §
33.10 of this chapter.
(2005 Code, § 22-11)  (Ord. passed 6-6-1988)
§ 33.12  TERRITORIAL APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall only apply in any area over which the city has
jurisdiction to enact general police power ordinances.
(2005 Code, § 22-14)  (Ord. passed 6-6-1988)
§ 33.99  PENALTY.
   Except as provided in §
33.08 of this chapter, any person violating any prohibition or restriction
imposed by a proclamation authorized by this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable, upon conviction, by a fine not exceeding $50 or
imprisonment not exceeding 30 days, as provided by G.S. § 14-4.
(2005 Code, § 22-12)  (Ord. passed 6-6-1988)
CHAPTER 34:  FINANCE AND REVENUE; TAXATION
Section
   
34.01   Tourism occupancy tax
Statutory reference:
   City power to impose specifically authorized taxes, see G.S. § 160A-206
   Property taxes, see G.S. § 160A-209
   Remedies for collecting taxes, see G.S. § 160A-207
   State and local taxation, see N.C. Const. Art. V, § 2
§ 34.01  TOURISM OCCUPANCY TAX.
   Now, therefore, be it further ordained, by the City Council that an
occupancy tax is hereby levied effective on 9-1-2005 on the gross receipts from
the rental of any room, lodging or accommodations furnished by a hotel, motel,
inn, bed and breakfast establishment or similar place within the corporate
limits of the city in the amount of 6% of said gross receipts and administered
subject to G.S. §§ 153A-155 and 160A-215 and S.L. 2005-16, H.B. 351.
(2005 Code, § 78-19)  (Ord. 05071, passed 7-11-2005)
Editor’s note:
   This tax is levied pursuant to S.L. 2005-16, § 2
Statutory reference:
   Uniform provisions for room occupancy taxes, see G.S. § 160A-215
CHAPTER 35:  PETTY CASH
Section
   
35.01   Petty cash as a form of payment
§ 35.01  PETTY CASH AS A FORM OF PAYMENT.
   The use of petty cash as a form of payment expedites minor purchases and
minimizes accounting costs. Expenditures of $25 or less (including sales tax)
can be made through the use of petty cash. Petty cash shall only be used when
the expenditure is clearly for a public purpose as defined by the North
Carolina Constitution, and the individual initiating its use is certain that
the funds have been appropriated. Petty cash shall not be used for purchases
that exceed the $25 limit without prior approval of the Finance Director or his
or her designee.
(Ord. 2016-08-02, passed 8-22-2016)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SOLID WASTE
      
51.   GENERAL WATER AND SEWER PROVISIONS
      
52.   SEWER USE AND PRETREATMENT
CHAPTER 50:  SOLID WASTE
Section
   
50.01   Garbage removal by private persons
   
50.02   Garbage receptacles; storage before placement for collection
   
50.03   Wet garbage
   
50.04   Preparation of paper boxes
   
50.05   Commercial establishments
   
50.06   Removal of containers after emptied
   
50.07   Dates of removal
   
50.08   When garbage and trash to be placed for collection
   
50.09   Removal of debris, rubbish
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate disposal of trash and garbage within municipal limits,
see G.S. § 160A-303.1
   City may regulate illegal disposal of solid waste, littering, see G.S. §
160A-185
   Municipal power to require use of solid waste services and to regulate
accordingly, see G.S. § 160A-317(b)
   Requirements for municipal solid waste landfill facilities, see 15A NCAC
13B.1601 et seq.
§ 50.01  GARBAGE REMOVAL BY PRIVATE PERSONS.
   No person shall collect, handle, haul or transport, on any of the streets,
alleys, public ways or places of the city, any garbage without first having
procured a permit therefor from the City Manager. Any vehicle to be used for
the purpose of hauling or transporting garbage shall first be approved by the
City Manager and shall be at all times subject to his or her inspection as to
condition and cleanliness. All garbage and slops handled in such vehicles shall
be hauled in closed containers. Persons having a permit for hauling garbage or
slops under the provisions of this section shall place daily at each hotel,
café, cafeteria or restaurant or other place from which such garbage or slops
are to be hauled a clean empty can furnished by such person or by the operator
of such hotel, café, cafeteria or restaurant, for garbage or slops, and each
such can shall be removed not later than the following day, Sunday excepted,
without changing or interchanging the contents thereof.
(2005 Code, § 70-1)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.02  GARBAGE RECEPTACLES; STORAGE BEFORE PLACEMENT FOR COLLECTION.
   (A)   The occupant of every building, premises or place where garbage does
or may exist shall be provided a city-issued 95-gallon garbage receptacle in
which he or she shall deposit all garbage existing at the place occupied by him
or her. Such receptacles shall be placed on private property to the rear of the
premises until the day for garbage collection in such area. All garbage
receptacles shall be kept reasonably clean by the use of some effective
cleaner.
   (B)   The storing of garbage out-of-doors awaiting placement for collection
on the day of pick up in plastic or paper garbage bags outside of approved
receptacles is expressly prohibited.
(2005 Code, § 70-2)  (Ord. passed 5-5-1980)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.03  WET GARBAGE.
   All wet garbage shall have the liquid drained off and shall be wrapped in
paper or other combustible material before it is placed in the garbage can so
as to prevent smell and the breeding of flies in summer and freezing and
adhesion to the can in winter.
(2005 Code, § 70-3)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.04  PREPARATION OF PAPER BOXES.
   Paper and cardboard boxes shall be recycled and shall not be placed in
garbage receptacles.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.05  COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   Preparation for collection. No person operating or employed by a
commercial establishment shall place or cause to be placed any trash outdoors,
unless same is confined in a closed container, either of a fixed or movable
nature. The construction or design of such container and method of disposal
shall meet the approval of the City Manager. This section shall apply only to
commercial establishments, and shall include all establishments other than one-
family or two-family residences or multi-family residences containing up to
four units.
   (B)   Approved containers required. All COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENTS, defined
as persons owning, controlling, operating, policying, renting or managing on a
business basis for profit, will be serviced by a container-type refuse truck;
therefore, these locations will be required to store their garbage, trash or
other waste in containers, size approved by the City Manager.
   (C)   Group housing.
      (1)   GROUP HOUSING DEVELOPMENT is defined as a residential area of five
or more dwelling units which generally has a higher density per acre than an
area of single-family, detached development; which functions under one
ownership, or collective ownership, or is built to function as undefined
development of ownership, or which has common maintenance or maintenance of
common, shared areas.
      (2)   All group housing development, as defined above, will be serviced
by a container type refuse truck; therefore, these locations will be required
to store their garbage, trash or other waste in a container size approved by
the City Manager. The location of these containers will be chosen with regard
to the best interest of the public welfare safety and to where refuse trucks
can service them with the least maneuvering. Securing a location for placement
of the container shall be the responsibility of the owner, or management, with
such locations approved by the City Manager or his or her designee.
      (3)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner of such group housing
development to supply these containers. Containers shall be maintained in a
sanitary condition.
      (4)   It shall be the duty of every person owning, controlling, managing,
operating or policying any group housing development to replace, within ten
days after receipt of condemnation notice issued by the city, acting through
its duly designated officials, any containers that have deteriorated or that
have jagged edge capable of causing injuries to those whose duty it is to
handle the containers or that have been damaged to such an extent.
   (D)   Mobile home parks.
      (1)   The owners must request garbage collection for individual units.
      (2)   The roadway must have a minimum of a stone base, be considered as
all-weather roadway adequate to handle the 70,000 pound trucks and must include
a turnaround for the truck. Also, the owner will be responsible to keep the
roadway passable for the collection truck (i.e., inclement weather, parked
cars).
      (3)   If adequate roadway is not available, the owner must provide a
collection place where residents will be required to roll the containers to the
truck can pick up.
      (4)   Charges will be the same as all residential collections.
(2005 Code, § 70-5)  (Ord. passed 3-7-1994)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.06  REMOVAL OF CONTAINERS AFTER EMPTIED.
   Every garbage or trash can placed on any street or alley to be emptied
shall, as soon as the contents thereof are emptied and collected, be removed
from such street or alley by the owner or occupant of the premises from which
such can came.
(2005 Code, § 70-6)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.07  DATES OF REMOVAL.
   Garbage and trash will be collected and removed as per a schedule which
shall be kept on file in the office of the Public Works Department.
(2005 Code, § 70-7)
§ 50.08  WHEN GARBAGE AND TRASH TO BE PLACED FOR COLLECTION.
   Garbage and trash for removal shall be placed on the street or alley
abutting the premises from which it is to be removed on the day of and prior to
8:30 a.m. on the date fixed for removal. Specifically, no garbage or trash may
be placed on such street or alley prior to the day scheduled for its removal.
Garbage or trash placed on such street or alley for collection shall only be
placed in city-issued receptacles.
(2005 Code, § 70-8)  (Ord. passed 5-5-1980)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.09  REMOVAL OF DEBRIS, RUBBISH.
   (A)   The city will pick up at the curb only leaves, miscellaneous household
rubbish, other than construction debris, grass cuttings tree limbs no larger
than four inches in diameter and under eight feet in length, and similar
material. All of the aforementioned items classified as yard waste will not be
bagged, boxed or placed in any type closed container for collection.
   (B)   In cases where a citizen wishes to have accumulated acceptable debris
or rubbish as outlined above removed, there is a truck load lot on a property
owner’s property, the city will, if time and equipment is available, and after
signing of a waiver by the property owner, pick up trash and debris on the
property owner’s land.
   (C)   The city will not pick up tree stumps of any size or tree trunks or
limbs larger than four inches in diameter and eight feet in length. The city
will not pick up construction debris of any description.
   (D)   Materials placed on the street to be picked up shall be placed between
the sidewalk and street so as not to interfere with storm drainage.
(2005 Code, § 70-9)  (Ord. passed 8-5-1985; Ord. passed 10-5-1992)  Penalty,
see §
10.99
CHAPTER 51:  GENERAL WATER AND SEWER PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Cut-on fee
   
51.02   Billing; payment of water and sewer charges
   
51.03   Damage to systems prohibited
   
51.04   Reservation of water cut-off authority
   
51.05   Use of water cut-off restricted to authorized personnel
   
51.06   Resale, resupply of water prohibited
   
51.07   Sprinkler systems; requirements for connection to water system
   
51.08   Water connections to be used for fire protection only
   
51.09   Charges for connected sprinkler systems
   
51.10   Inspections
   
51.11   Hydrants; installation; location
   
51.12   Hydrants; area to be unobstructed
   
51.13   Hydrants; use
   
51.14   Emergency water conservation procedures
   
51.15   Water and sewer system development fees
Taps
   
51.25   No connections to private lines
   
51.26   Right-of-way requirements
   
51.27   No tapping where there is no main abutting property
   
51.28   Temporary water taps
   
51.29   Fees to be paid in advance
   
51.30   Inspection previous to tap
   
51.31   Separate connections required for each building; rates
   
51.32   When sewer service charge is added to water bill
   
51.33   Laterals to be laid only to the curb of the property line
   
51.34   Moving water meters
   
51.35   Connections to be made only by the city
   
51.36   Connections and meters to remain the property of the city
   
51.37   City to maintain taps
Extensions
   
51.50   Compliance with subchapter required
   
51.51   Written request for extension
   
51.52   Submission of plans and the like
   
51.53   Minimum distance for water, sewer main
   
51.54   Size of water, sewer mains
   
51.55   Extensions to a portion of a larger development
   
51.56   Street improvement may be required
   
51.57   Construction to comport with approved plans, specifications
   
51.58   Ownership of facilities; easements
   
51.59   Financing extensions within corporate limits
   
51.60   Financing extensions outside corporate limits
 
   
51.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Watersheds, see
Ch. 156
Statutory reference:
   Municipal power to require connections to water or sewer service, see G.S. §
160A-317
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01  CUT-ON FEE.
   A cut-on fee according to the then current rate and fee schedule will be
charged each time water and sewer service is turned on.
(2005 Code, § 90-1)  (Ord. passed 11-6-1967)
§ 51.02  BILLING; PAYMENT OF WATER AND SEWER CHARGES.
   (A)   Water and sewer service charges shall be paid not later than ten days
after the postmark date of the bill.
   (B)   Water and sewer services may be cut off for non-payment after the
expiration of the ten-day period without further notice.
   (C)   Payment of water and sewer bills may be enforced as provided in G.S. §
160A-314.
(2005 Code, § 90-2)  (Ord. passed 11-6-1967)
Editor’s Note:
   The city’s policy regarding termination of water and/or sewer service for
non-payment is covered under the city’s customer service policies and
procedures adopted 9-8-1992, as the same may be amended or supplemented by City
Council from time to time.
§ 51.03  DAMAGE TO SYSTEMS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to tamper with, break or damage any
portion of the water or sewerage system.
(2005 Code, § 90-3)  (Ord. passed 11-6-1967)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.04  RESERVATION OF WATER CUT-OFF AUTHORITY.
   The city reserves the right to cut-off water without notice in case of
accidents or emergency repairs. If time permits, affected customers are to be
notified one hour prior to cut-off.
(2005 Code, § 90-4)  (Ord. passed 11-6-1967)
§ 51.05  USE OF WATER CUT-OFF RESTRICTED TO AUTHORIZED PERSONNEL.
   (A)   No one other than authorized personnel of the city shall use the cut-
off in the meter box. For purposes of this section, AUTHORIZED PERSONNEL means:
      (1)   Water and sewer personnel; and
      (2)   A plumber licensed by the State of North Carolina or a plumber
approved by the Director of Public Utilities.
   (B)   Authorization will allow licensed plumbers to perform repairs or test
work to residents’ lines or laterals without the city’s involvement.
(2005 Code, § 90-5)  (Ord. passed 11-6-1967; Ord. passed 11-1-1993)  Penalty,
see §
51.99
§ 51.06  RESALE, RESUPPLY OF WATER PROHIBITED.
   The city will not permit the resale or supplying of water, either before or
after using, from the city’s system to other persons or families.
(2005 Code, § 90-6)  (Ord. passed 11-6-1967)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.07  SPRINKLER SYSTEMS; REQUIREMENTS FOR CONNECTION TO WATER SYSTEM.
   No sprinkler or other fire system will be connected to the city’s water
system unless and until adequate plans for the system have been submitted to
and approved by the Director of Public Utilities of the city and the final tap-
on connection will not be made until the entire installation has been inspected
and approved by the Director of Public Utilities or his or her designated
assistant. Such installations shall be in accordance with the specifications
and requirements of the Director of Public Utilities and shall include not less
than one fire underwriter’s approved check valve at a location to be designated
by the Director of Public Utilities.
(2005 Code, § 90-7)  (Ord. passed 11-6-1967; Ord. passed 1-5-1976; Motion
passed 2-1-1993)
§ 51.08  WATER CONNECTIONS TO BE USED FOR FIRE PROTECTION ONLY.
   (A)   No water supplied for sprinkler systems passing through the
connections required shall be used for any purpose other than fire protection.
   (B)   No connections other than those required for firefighting purposes
will be permitted on any fire system.
(2005 Code, § 90-8)  (Ord. passed 11-6-1967)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.09  CHARGES FOR CONNECTED SPRINKLER SYSTEMS.
   All persons who may hereafter be equipped with sprinkler systems connected
to the water system of the city shall pay the city charges in accordance with
the rates and fee schedule.
(2005 Code, § 90-9)  (Ord. 02054, passed 5-6-2002)
§ 51.10  INSPECTIONS.
   The Director of Public Utilities, the Fire Chief or any of their assistants,
during daylight hours of any day other than Sundays or legal holidays, shall
have the full right and authority to enter upon the premises of the person
equipped with a sprinkler or other fire system for the purpose of inspecting
the connections of such systems.
(2005 Code, § 90-10)  (Ord. passed 11-6-1967; Ord. passed 1-5-1976; Motion
passed 2-1-1993)
§ 51.11  HYDRANTS; INSTALLATION; LOCATION.
   Hydrants will be installed outside the city limits upon the payment of the
total cost of materials and installation; provided, the line on which the
hydrant is to be installed is six inches in diameter or larger from said
hydrants on private property in the city will be installed at the expense of
the property owner. The location of hydrants will be determined by the Fire
Chief and the Director of Public Utilities or their designated assistants with
the approval of the City Manager.
(2005 Code, § 90-12)  (Ord. passed 11-6-1967; Motion passed 2-1-1993)
§ 51.12  HYDRANTS; AREA TO BE UNOBSTRUCTED.
   An area not less than six feet in any direction shall be kept clear and
unobstructed around each hydrant.
(2005 Code, § 90-13)  (Ord. passed 11-6-1967)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.13  HYDRANTS; USE.
   Water is not to be taken from fire hydrants, except by authorized personnel.
(2005 Code, § 90-14)  (Ord. passed 11-6-1967)
§ 51.14  EMERGENCY WATER CONSERVATION PROCEDURES.
   The Water Storage Response Plan entitled, “Emergency Water Shortage Response
Plan”, dated 9-13-2010, is hereby approved and shall be submitted to the
Department of Environment and Natural Resources.
(2005 Code, § 90-15)  (Ord. 1091, passed 9-13-2010)
§ 51.15  WATER AND SEWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT FEES.
   (A)   The system development fees for the city shall be the following:
Meter Size Water Wastewater
Meter Size Water    Wastewater
3/4"       $3,395   $3,113
1"         $5,670   $5,199
1.5"       $11,305  $10,366
2"         $18,095  $16,592
3"         $36,225  $33,216
4"         $56,595  $51,894
6"         $113,155 $103,756
8"         $181,055 $166,016
10"        $475,300 $435,820
12"        $599,795 $549,974
 
   (B)   The system development fee shall be solely based on meter size for
water and wastewater.
(Ord. 2018-6-02, passed 6-11-2018)
TAPS
§ 51.25  NO CONNECTIONS TO PRIVATE LINES.
   The city will not connect or permit any connection to its water or sewerage
system unless the mains to be served are deeded to the city prior to the
connection. The city will not make taps on privately-owned water lines.
(2005 Code, § 90-36)  (Ord. passed 11-6-1967)
§ 51.26  RIGHT-OF-WAY REQUIREMENTS.
   Water and sewer taps will not be made to service pipes that cross private
property other than the particular residence, industrial or commercial lot
being served, unless a right-of-way is given and recorded.
(2005 Code, § 90-37)  (Ord. passed 11-6-1967)
§ 51.27  NO TAPPING WHERE THERE IS NO MAIN ABUTTING PROPERTY.
   No water or sewer tap will be made either in the city or outside the city,
except to a water or sewer line situated in that part of the street or right-
of-way immediately abutting the lot to be served, except as otherwise provided
in this subchapter.
(2005 Code, § 90-38)  (Ord. passed 11-6-1967)
§ 51.28  TEMPORARY WATER TAPS.
   When a temporary water tap is desired, the party desiring such a tap shall
deposit with the city an amount equal to the cost established by the City
Council for permanent connection. The city will then install a meter at the
nearest water main. After the tap has served its purpose and has been removed,
the city will refund to the depositor any moneys over and above the cost of
labor and the cost of any material involved in the project that is not
reusable.
(2005 Code, § 90-39)  (Ord. passed 11-6-1967; Ord. passed 1- 5-1976)
§ 51.29  FEES TO BE PAID IN ADVANCE.
   Water and sewer tapping fees and water and sewer impact fees, as adopted
from time to time by the City Council, shall be paid in advance before work is
undertaken.
(2005 Code, § 90-40)  (Ord. passed 11-6-1967)
§ 51.30  INSPECTION PREVIOUS TO TAP.
   Prior to any water or sewerage system or installation owned or controlled by
any person being connected with or tapped on to any city-owned sewer or water
line outside the corporate limits of the city, and as a condition precedent to
the making of such connection, the person owning or having under control such
system or installation sought to be attached to the city system shall agree
with the city and consent to an inspection by the city of the system or
installation sought to be connected to the city system and such person, in
addition to paying the established tap-in fee, shall also pay to the city an
inspection fee for said inspection in an amount to be computed on the basis of
fee established by the Director of Public Utilities.
(2005 Code, § 90-41)  (Ord. passed 11-6-1967; Motion passed 2-1-1993)
§ 51.31  SEPARATE CONNECTIONS REQUIRED FOR EACH BUILDING; RATES.
   Each building shall have a separate sewer connection and each family unit,
apartment or separate business in operation, in accordance to the current
water/sewer rate and fee schedule as approved by City Council, shall have a
separate water meter; provided, however, where the owner of multiple unit
apartments furnishes utilities as a part of the rental agreement, a single
connection and meter shall be permitted connecting all or a combination of said
units. Two or more dwellings, apartments, stores or combination of dwellings,
apartments or stores will not be allowed on the same meter. On old services
where the meter is serving more than one dwelling, apartment or store or other
water user, this practice will be allowed to continue for those presently in
existence, but no additional dwelling, apartment or other user may be added to
any such multiple user’s service. For all such multiple user single meter
service the total consumption will be divided by the number of dwellings,
apartments, stores or businesses served and billed as individual accounts. The
minimum bill for each account will be no less than the minimum rate and
according to the then current rate schedule. The rate for each apartment will
be the same as for separate houses and the minimum rate will be charged for
each building and apartment.
(2005 Code, § 90-42)  (Ord. passed 11-6-1967; Motion passed 2-1-1993)
§ 51.32  WHEN SEWER SERVICE CHARGE IS ADDED TO WATER BILL.
   No sewer service charge shall be made on the water bill for a construction
job until the sewer is actually put into use.
(2005 Code, § 90-43)  (Ord. passed 11-6-1967)
§ 51.33  LATERALS TO BE LAID ONLY TO THE CURB OF THE PROPERTY LINE.
   At each water tap, the city will extend the water lateral to the back of the
curbline where the meter will be located and will extend the sewer lateral to
the property line.
(2005 Code, § 90-44)  (Ord. passed 11-6-1967)
§ 51.34  MOVING WATER METERS.
   (A)   At the request of the property owner, the city will relocate existing
water meters; provided, the property owner deposits with the city, in advance,
the cost of a new tap according to the city’s schedule.
   (B)   The city will refund to the property owner any moneys over and above
the total cost of labor and the cost of any material that is not reusable in
the project.
(2005 Code, § 90-45)  (Ord. passed 11-6-1967)
§ 51.35  CONNECTIONS TO BE MADE ONLY BY THE CITY.
   The connections of water and sewer taps and any other connections to the
city’s water or sewerage system shall be done by the city and/or a licensed
utility contractor, subject to the approval of the Superintendent of the Water
and Sewerage Systems.
(2005 Code, § 90-46)  (Ord. passed 11-6-1967)
§ 51.36  CONNECTIONS AND METERS TO REMAIN THE PROPERTY OF THE CITY.
   All water meters, meter boxes, pipes and other fittings necessary to make
water and sewer taps shall remain the property of the city.
(2005 Code, § 90-47)  (Ord. passed 11-6-1967)
§ 51.37  CITY TO MAINTAIN TAPS.
   After installation, the city shall maintain water taps from the main to, and
including, the meter and sewer taps from the main to the property line.
(2005 Code, § 90-48)  (Ord. passed 11-6-1967)
EXTENSIONS
§ 51.50  COMPLIANCE WITH SUBCHAPTER REQUIRED.
   No extension to the water or sanitary sewerage system of the city shall be
made and no application shall be approved, except in accordance with the
requirements of this subchapter.
(2005 Code, § 90-70)  (Ord. passed 11-6-1967)
§ 51.51  WRITTEN REQUEST FOR EXTENSION.
   (A)   Any property owner desiring water or sanitary sewer service shall
apply in writing to the Director of Public Utilities or his or her designee
requesting the extension of water or sanitary sewer service or both.
   (B)   No request for the extension of services shall be considered unless
submitted in writing in accordance with the requirements of this subchapter.
(2005 Code, § 90-71)  (Ord. passed 11-6-1967)
§ 51.52  SUBMISSION OF PLANS AND THE LIKE.
   The city may require the applicant to submit as part of the written
application for a water or sewer extension such information, plans or other
data as may be required to adequately determine if the requirements of this
subchapter are to be met.
(2005 Code, § 90-72)  (Ord. passed 11-6-1967)
§ 51.53  MINIMUM DISTANCE FOR WATER, SEWER MAIN.
   The minimum distance for any extension of a water main or sanitary sewer
main shall be determined by the Director of Public Utilities. In general, the
minimum distance for extensions shall be one platted block, or in the case of
water mains from the main line, from valve to valve and, in the case of
sanitary sewer extension, from manhole to manhole.
(2005 Code, § 90-73)  (Ord. passed 11-6-1967)
§ 51.54  SIZE OF WATER, SEWER MAINS.
   The size of water mains and sanitary sewer mains to be installed and the
other required system facilities shall be determined by the Director of Public
Utilities in accordance with the recognized standards and accepted engineering
practices and design.
(2005 Code, § 90-74)  (Ord. passed 11-6-1967)
§ 51.55  EXTENSIONS TO A PORTION OF A LARGER DEVELOPMENT.
   When application is made for water and sewer extensions to serve an area or
development project that is planned as part of a larger project or subdivision,
all of which is not to be developed at the time application is made, the owner
shall submit plans in sufficient detail in order to determine the size and type
facilities which will be necessary to serve the entire development or
subdivision when completed.
(2005 Code, § 90-75)  (Ord. passed 11-6-1967)
§ 51.56  STREET IMPROVEMENT MAY BE REQUIRED.
   (A)   The City Council, in its discretion as a condition under which water
or sewer service or both will be extended, requires the owner of a proposed
subdivision to enter into an agreement to improve the proposed streets therein
at such owner’s own expense and in accordance with the ordinances then in force
governing the acceptance of public streets for the city.
   (B)   If required, this section shall apply to subdivisions which are
located within or outside the corporate limits of the city.
(2005 Code, § 90-76)  (Ord. passed 11-6-1967)
§ 51.57  CONSTRUCTION TO COMPORT WITH APPROVED PLANS, SPECIFICATIONS.
   Any water mains or sanitary sewer mains extended under the provisions of
this subchapter shall be installed and constructed in accordance with the
approved plans, specifications and other requirements of the city.
(2005 Code, § 90-77)  (Ord. passed 11-6-1967)
§ 51.58  OWNERSHIP OF FACILITIES; EASEMENTS.
   All facilities installed under the provisions of this subchapter, whether
within or outside the corporate limits, shall become the sole property of the
city and under its jurisdiction and control for any and all purposes whatsoever
at the time such facilities are connected to the city system. When required,
the property owner shall grant to the city such utility easements as the city
may require. In addition, a deed to the city for water and/or sewer facilities
installed which are located outside the corporate limits, the cost of which is
borne by individual property owners, shall be executed prior to the time any
extensions provided for in this subchapter are connected to the city systems.
(2005 Code, § 90-78)  (Ord. passed 11-6-1967)
§ 51.59  FINANCING EXTENSIONS WITHIN CORPORATE LIMITS.
   (A)   Extensions to approved subdivisions or developed property.
      (1)   When application is received requesting the extension of water or
sanitary sewer service or both to serve property within the corporate limits
which is developed or has been previously approved as a subdivision, or where
streets have previously been dedicated and accepted by the city, and where such
area is not part of a new subdivision which has not been approved by the city,
the City Manager or other person designated by the City Council shall estimate
the cost of the project and present the application for such extension, the
estimated cost and other required information to the City Council for their
consideration. If the application is approved by the City Council and subject
to the availability of funds, the city will install or have installed by
contract under its supervision the extensions which have been approved, and
such extensions shall be financed in accordance with this section.
      (2)   When an approved water or sanitary sewer extension project has been
completed, the City Council shall determine, for each project, the percentage
of the total cost that will be assessed to benefitted properties. In
determining such percentage, any of the basis for assessment, or combination
thereof, in accordance with and under the authority granted to the city under
state law can be used. The remaining percent or the total cost of such
extensions shall be borne by the city from funds appropriated for this purpose.
      (3)   Any property owner shall have the opportunity to pay his, her or
their proportionate share of the cost of such extensions after the assessment
roll is confirmed rather than paying his or her share in equal annual
installments with interest as required by statute.
   (B)   Extensions to proposed developments or subdivisions.
      (1)   When an application is received requesting the extension of water
or sanitary sewer service or both to proposed developments or subdivisions
within the corporate limits which have not been approved by the City Council,
the City Manager or other person designated by the City Council shall estimate
the cost of the project and present the application for such extension, the
estimated cost and other required information to the City Council for its
consideration. If the application is approved and subject to the availability
of funds, the city shall install or have installed by contract under its
supervision such extensions which shall be financed in accordance with this
section.
      (2)   Prior to the beginning of any construction, the property owner
shall advance to the city funds in an amount equal to 100% of his or her
proportionate share of the total estimated cost of the proposed extensions.
Upon receipt of such funds, a written contract shall be entered into by and
between the city and the property owner, under which the city will use such
funds upon the following terms and conditions.
         (a)   The funds shall be deposited in a special account of the city
for which a separate accounting will be made.
         (b)   At the time construction of the extension is completed and the
total cost thereof is determined, if the amount deposited exceeds 100% of the
total cost, that portion in excess of the amount deposited will be refunded to
the owner without interest. If the amount deposited is less than 100% of the
total cost, the owner or owners shall pay such additional amount to the city
and this condition shall be a part of the written contract.
         (c)   In lieu of depositing funds, the owner may provide a surety bond
or some other form of security that will insure payment to the city of the
owner’s proportionate share of the cost of extension in accordance with this
subchapter.
         (d)   No refund or reimbursement of funds shall be made to the owner
who pays 75% of the total cost of extension under the requirements of this
division (B)(2), except as provided for in division (B)(2)(b) above.
      (3)   The city shall finance from funds appropriated for this purpose the
remaining 25% of the total cost of extension to and within such proposed
developments or subdivisions.
   (C)   Facilities excluded in determining owner’s share of cost.
      (1)   When the city determines that it is advisable to install larger
size facilities than are necessary to serve the property requesting such
extension, the difference in the cost of the larger size facilities over and
above the cost of the facilities required to serve the property requesting such
extension shall be paid for by the city and excluded from the total cost to be
shared by the property owner and the city as provided for herein.
      (2)   Fire hydrants, pumping stations, outfall lines and other facilities
installed for general public use shall be paid for by the city and excluded
from the total cost to be shared by the property owner and the city, as
provided for herein.
   (D)   Exceptions authorized. Nothing in this subchapter shall prevent the
City Council from extending water or sanitary sewer mains or both within the
corporate limits on their own motion without receipt of an application from
property owners, and to assess the cost of such extensions in accordance with
the terms of this section when, in the opinion of the City Council, the general
public interest demands such extension of service.
(2005 Code, § 90-79)  (Ord. passed 11-6-1967; Motion passed 2-1-1993; Ord.
passed 10-4-1999)
§ 51.60  FINANCING EXTENSIONS OUTSIDE CORPORATE LIMITS.
   (A)   All applications for water and sewer extensions outside the corporate
limits shall be made in the same manner and under the same requirements as
provided for in §
51.59 of this chapter.
   (B)   If an application is approved by the City Council, the owner shall be
required to pay for 100% of the cost of all extensions; provided, the city may
participate to the extent agreed upon by the City Council in the cost of larger
size mains which are in excess of the size mains required to serve the project.
No reimbursement shall be made upon annexation and all water and sewer lines
connected to the city system and located outside the corporate limits shall
become the property of the city at the time such facilities are connected.
   (C)   Prior to the beginning of any construction, the owner shall deposit
with the city funds in the amount equal to the estimated cost by the city of
such extensions. Upon receipt of such funds, a written contract shall be
entered into by and between the city and the property owner in accordance with
the requirements of this subchapter. Such contract shall provide that in the
event the amount of the total funds deposited exceeds the amount of the total
cost of the extension, the remaining funds will be refunded to the owner
without interest. Such contract shall also provide that if the amount deposited
is less than the total cost of the construction, the owner shall pay such
additional amount to the city.
   (D)   In lieu of depositing funds, the owner or may execute a surety bond
guaranteeing payment for such extension or the owner may have such extension
work performed under private contract with the approval of the City Council,
provided the work is to be performed in accordance with all construction
requirements of the city and subject to inspection and approval of the city.
   (E)   In the event the property for which application has been made for
water or sewer service is contiguous to the corporate limits and the owner of
such property agree to annexation, and in the event such property is annexed to
the city, extensions may be made to such property and the cost thereof financed
in accordance with the requirements of §
51.59 of this chapter.
(2005 Code, § 90-80)  (Ord. passed 11-6-1967; Ord. passed 1-5-1976)
§ 51.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   In the event of the failure of any person to comply with provisions of
§§
51.01 through
51.13 of this chapter relating to sprinkler systems, the city may, after ten
days’ written notice, disconnect the premises of such persons from the water
system of the city. If the premises of any water customer are disconnected for
violation of any of the provisions of §§
51.01 through
51.13 of this chapter, then in that event the city will not reconnect such
premises until an approved detector type check valve and meter has been
installed on the fire service portion of the customer’s water system at the
property owner’s sole expense. In such cases, the restoration of services may
be made as soon as the customer involved has deposited with the city sufficient
funds to cover the estimated cost of the installation of an approved detector
type check valve and meter.
(2005 Code, § 90-11)  (Ord. passed 11-6-1967)
CHAPTER 52:  SEWER USE AND PRETREATMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Purpose and policy
   
52.02   Definitions
   
52.03   Abbreviations
   
52.04   Revenue system
   
52.05   Authority
Regulations
   
52.20   Use of public sewers required
   
52.21   Private wastewater disposal
   
52.22   Building sewers and connections
   
52.23   Prohibited discharges
   
52.24   National categorical pretreatment standards
   
52.25   Modification of national categorical pretreatment standards
   
52.26   Specific pollutant limitations
   
52.27   State requirements
   
52.28   Local government’s right to revision
   
52.29   Dilution prohibition
   
52.30   Accidental discharge
Discharge of Industrial Wastewater
   
52.45   Application requirements
   
52.46   Contents of application
   
52.47   Permit modifications
   
52.48   Control structure
   
52.49   Notice of process change or interruption of operation
   
52.50   User records and reporting
   
52.51   Confidentiality
   
52.52   Pretreatment
Sampling and Monitoring
   
52.65   Right of entry
   
52.66   Compliance determination
   
52.67   Analysis of industrial wastewaters
   
52.68   Sampling frequency
 
   
52.99   Penalty
Federal law reference:
   Categorical pretreatment regulations, see 40 C.F.R. §§ 401.10 through
471.105
   General pretreatment regulations, see 40 C.F.R. §§ 403.1 et seq.
   Local delegated pretreatment programs must effectively control and document
wastewater discharge from certain industrial users to publicly owned treatment
works, see 40 C.F.R. § 403.8(f)(1)(iii)
Statutory reference:
   Local pretreatment programs, see 15A NCAC 2H.0900 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01  PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for discharges into the
city wastewater disposal system and enables the local government to comply with
all applicable state and federal laws and the general pretreatment regulations.
The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To prevent discharges into the wastewater disposal system which
will interfere with the operation of the system or contaminate the resulting
sludge;
      (2)   To prevent discharges into the wastewater disposal system which
will pass through the system, inadequately treated, into receiving waters or
the atmosphere;
      (3)   To improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewaters and
sludges from the system; and
      (4)   To provide for equitable distribution of the cost of the wastewater
disposal system.
   (B)   This chapter provides for the regulation of discharges into the
Publicly Owned Treatment Works (POTW) through issuance of permits,
establishments of local limitations, monitoring and enforcement activities and
user reporting, and provides for the setting of fees for the equitable
distribution of expenditures. This chapter shall apply to the city, to persons
outside the city who are, by contract or agreement with the local government,
users of the POTW and any other users of the POTW. Except as otherwise provided
herein, the Director of Public Utilities for the city shall administer the
provisions of this chapter.
(2005 Code, § 90-104)  (Ord. passed 9-10-1984; Motion passed 2-1-1993)
§ 52.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et
seq., as amended from time to time.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The Director of the DEM.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF INDUSTRIAL USER. An authorized representative
of an industrial user may be a principal executive officer of at least the
level of vice-president, if the industrial
user is a corporation; a general partner or proprietor if the industrial user
is a partnership or proprietorship, respectively; a duly authorized
representative of the individual designated above if such representative is
responsible for the overall operation of the facilities from which the indirect
discharge originates.
   BILLABLE BOD. A user’s loading in pounds of BOD calculated using the
billable flow and concentration of BOD in the wastewater in excess of 300 mg/l.
   BILLABLE COD. A user’s loading in pounds of COD calculated using the
billable flow and concentration of COD in the wastewater in excess of 750 mg/l.
   BILLABLE FLOW. A user’s recorded water usage as determined by the
appropriate water utility, plus measured water from wells and other sources,
and less any sewer-exempt measured water, times the local government approved
percentage factor for wastewater entering the waste water disposal system.
Alternatively, industrial users may have their BILLABLE FLOW determined by
continuously measuring their wastewater discharge in a manner approved by the
local government. Residential users on unmetered wells shall have their FLOW
estimated by averaging the billable flow of all other residential users.
   BILLABLE TKN. A user’s loading in pounds of TKN calculated using the
billable flow and concentration of TKN in the wastewater in excess of 45 mg/l.
   BILLABLE TSS. A user’s loading in pounds of TSS calculated using the
billable flow and concentration of TSS in the wastewater in excess of 300 mg/l.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen, expressed in
milligrams per liter (mg/l), utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic
matter under standard laboratory procedures in five days at 20°C.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives sanitary or industrial wastewater only and is located
inside the walls of a building and conveys the wastewater to the building
sewer, which begins five feet outside the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the collection
sewer or other place of disposal and conveys only sanitary or industrial
wastewater.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (COD). The total amount of oxygen required to oxidize
the organic matter in a waste as described in Standard Methods.
   CLASSES OF USERS. The division of users by similar wastewater
characteristics, business functions and the like, such as residential,
institutional, industrial, governmental, restaurants, laundries and the like.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANTS. BOD, TSS, pH and fecal coliform bacteria; plus any
additional pollutants identified in the POTW’s permit, where the POTW is
designed to treat such pollutants and, in fact, does treat such pollutants to
the degree required by the NPDES permit.
   COOLING WATER. The water used for air conditioning, refrigeration or other
cooling applications.
   DIRECT DISCHARGE. The discharge of wastewater directly to the waters of the
state.
   DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC UTILITIES. The authorized deputy, agent or representative
of the city empowered to administer this subchapter.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in a pretreatment facility.
   GARBAGE. The animal or vegetable wastes from the domestic and commercial
preparation, cooking and dispensing of food and from the commercial handling,
storage and sale of produce.
   HOLDING TANK WASTES. Any waste from holding tanks such as chemical toilets,
campers, trailers, septic tanks, vacuum-pump tank trucks and the like.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. All pollutants other than compatible pollutants.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE. The discharge of non-domestic pollutants from any source
regulated under § 307(b) or (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317) into the POTW
(including holding tank waste).
   INDUSTRIAL USER. A source of indirect discharge which does not constitute a
“discharge of pollutants” under regulations issued pursuant to § 402 of the Act
(33 U.S.C. § 1342).
   INFILTRATION. The extraneous groundwater entering the wastewater disposal
system through such means as, but not limited to, defective pipes, pipe joints,
connections or manhole walls.
   INFLOW. The surface water entering the wastewater disposal system from such
sources as, but not limited to roof leaders; cellar, yard and area drains;
foundations drains, unpolluted cooling water discharges; drains from springs
and swampy areas; manhole covers; cross-connections from storm sewers and/or
combined sewers; catchbasins; storm waters; surface runoff; street wash waters;
or drainage.
   INTERFERENCE. The inhibition or disruption of the POTW which contributes to
a violation of any requirements of the POTWs NPDES permit. The term includes
prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal by the POTW in accordance with §
405 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1345) or any criteria, guidelines or regulation
development pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA), being 42 U.S.C. §§
6901 et seq., the Clean Air Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq., the Toxic
Substances Control Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq., or more stringent
state criteria applicable to the method of disposal or use employed by the
POTW.
   LOCAL GOVERNMENT. The City of Elizabeth City, North Carolina, acting through
its Mayor and City Council.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive and compliance is subject to the
discretion of the local government.
   NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREAT-MENT STANDARD and PRETREATMENT STANDARD. Any
regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in
accordance with § 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317(b) and (c)) which
applies to a specific category of industrial users.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION PERMIT. A permit issued under the
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System for discharge of wastewaters to
waters of the United States.
   NATIONAL PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD and PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD.
Any regulation developed under the authority of § 307(b) of the act, being 33
U.S.C. § 1317(b),  and 40 C.F.R. § 403.5.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a water source, pond, ditch, lake or other
surface water or groundwater.
   NEW SOURCE. Any wastewater source, the construction of which is commenced
after the publication of proposed regulations prescribed in § 307(c) of this
Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317(c)) categorical pretreatment standard which will be
applicable to such source, if such standard is thereafter promulgated within
120 days of proposal in the federal register. Where the standard is promulgated
within 120 days after proposal, a NEW SOURCE means any source the construction
of which is commenced after the date of promulgation of the standard.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS. All costs, direct and indirect, not
including debt service and capital related expenditures, but inclusive of
expenditures attributable to administration, monitoring, inspections, reviewing
applications, maintenance of equipment and treatment and collection of
wastewaters, necessary to assure adequate wastewater collection and treatment
on a continuing basis which conforms to applicable regulations and assures
optimal long-term facility management.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company,
association, joint stock company, tract, estate, governmental entity or any
other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agents or assigns. The
masculine gender shall include the feminine, and the singular shall include the
plural where indicated by context.
   pH. The term used to express the intensity of the acid or base condition of
a solution as determined by Standard Methods.
   PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater to a less harmful state prior to or in lieu of discharging such
pollutants into the POTW. The reduction or alteration can be obtained by
physical, chemical or biological processes, or process changes of other means,
except as prohibited by 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(d).
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment, other than a pretreatment standard imposed on an industrial
user.
   PRIVATE SEWER. A sewer which is not owned by the city.
   PUBLIC OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW). The treatment works as defined by § 212
of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1292) which is owned by the city. This definition
includes any sewers that convey wastewater to the POTW treatment plant, but
does not include pipes, sewers or other conveyances not connected to a facility
providing treatment. For the purpose of this subchapter, the term POTW shall
also include any sewers that convey wastewaters from persons outside the city
who are, by contract or agreement with the local government, users of the POTW
or who are otherwise users of the POTW.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer which is owned and controlled by the city and is
separate from and does not include sewers owned by other governmental units.
   QUALIFIED LABORATORY. A laboratory currently certified by the state to
perform wastewater analyses.
   REPLACEMENT COSTS. The capital expenditures for obtaining and installing
equipment, accessories or appurtenances necessary to maintain the capacity and
performance of the POTW.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sanitary and/or industrial wastewater
from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, institutions or other
structures.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory and requires compliance.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER. Any industrial user of the POTW who discharges
wastewater with substances subject to pretreatment standards or with
characteristics exceeding surcharge or local prohibitive limitations or is
found by the local government, the DEM or the EPA to have significant impact,
either singly or in combination with other contributing industries, on the
wastewater disposal system, the quality of sludge, the system’s effluent
quality, the receiving stream quality or air emissions generated by the system.
Restaurants, auto washes, laundries, service stations and other similar
commercial establishments shall not be considered SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USERS.
   SLUDGE. Any discharge of wastewater which in concentration of any given
constituent or in quality of flow exceeds for any period of a duration longer
than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-hour concentration or flow
during normal operation and shall adversely affect the wastewater disposal
system so as to prevent attainment of effluent limitations or to substantially
increase operation and maintenance requirements.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC). A classification pursuant to the
Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the Executive Office of the
President of the United States, Office of Management and Budget, 1972.
   STANDARD METHOD. The laboratory procedures set forth in the latest edition
of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Waste Water, prepared and
published jointly by the American Public Health Association, American Water
Works Association and Water Pollution Control Federation and/or any other
procedures recognized by the DEM and the EPA.
   STATE. The State of North Carolina.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer that carries only storm waters, surface runoff and the
like and to which waste water is not intentionally admitted.
   TOTAL KJELDAHL NITROGEN (TKN). The sum of organic nitrogen and ammonia
nitrogen content of a wastewater as determined by Standard Methods.
   TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS). Total suspended matter that either floats on
the surface of, or is in suspension with, water, wastewater or other liquids
and is removable laboratory filtration as described in Standard Methods.
   TOXIC SUBSTANCES. Any substances, whether gaseous, liquid or solid, which
when discharged into the wastewater disposal system in sufficient quantities
may tend to interfere with any wastewater treatment process, or to constitute a
hazard to recreation in the receiving waters of the effluent from the POTW.
These substances include, but are not limited to those listed as toxic in
regulations promulgated by the EPA under the provisions of CWA § 307(a), being
33 U.S.C. § 1317(a), or other acts.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water that is of sufficient quality that it would not be
in violation of federal or state water quality standards if such water were
discharged into waters of the state.
   USER. Any person who discharges, causes or permits the discharge of
wastewater into the wastewater disposal system.
   USER CHARGE SYSTEM. The system of charges levied on users for the cost of
operation and maintenance of the wastewater disposal system.
   WASTEWATER. The combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, institutions and other
structures, including polluted cooling water and wash water and infiltration/
inflow.
      (1)   INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER. A combination of liquid and water-carried
wastes discharged from any industrial establishment and resulting from any
trade or process carried on in that establishment and shall include the wastes
from pretreatment faculties and polluted cooling water.
      (2)   SANITARY WASTEWATER. The combination of liquid and water-carried
wastes discharged from toilet and other sanitary plumbing facilities.
   WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT. Such permits as set forth in §§
52.45 through
52.52 of this chapter.
   WASTEWATER DISPOSAL SYSTEM. The structures, equipment and processes owned
and controlled by the city, unless specified otherwise, required to collect,
transport and treat domestic and industrial wastewater and to dispose of the
effluent and accumulated residual solids.
   WATERS OF THE STATE. All streams, lakes, ponds, marches, water sources,
waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage
systems and all other bodies or accumulation of water, surface or underground,
natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained within, flow
through or border upon the state or any portion thereof.
(2005 Code, § 90-105)  (Ord. passed 9-10-1984; Motion passed 2-1-1993)
§ 52.03  ABBREVIATIONS.
   The following abbreviations shall have the designated meanings.
   BOD. Five-day biochemical oxygen demand.
   C.F.R. Code of Federal Regulations.
   COD. Chemical oxygen demand.
   CWA. Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
   DEM. Division of Environmental Management, Department of Natural Resources
and Community Development, of the state.
   EPA. Environmental Protection Agency.
   mg/l. Milligrams per liter.
   NPDEP. National Pollutant Discharge Elimination Permit.
   NPDES. National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System.
   POTW. Publicly owned treatment works.
   SIC. Standard Industrial Classification.
   SWDA. Solid Waste Disposal Act, 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.
   TKN. Total Kjeldahl nitrogen.
   TSS. Total suspended solids.
   U.S.C. United States Code.
(2005 Code, § 90-106)  (Ord. passed 9-10-1984; Motion passed 2-1-1993)
§ 52.04  REVENUE SYSTEM.
   (A)   Fees shall be assessed to users for wastewater discharge into the POTW
and for executing or enforcing the provisions of this chapter. These charges
shall be developed by the Director and be approved by the local government no
less frequently than biennially in accordance with the user charge system and
other ordinances and policies of the local government and applicable state
statutes. Charges shall be developed for the following purposes:
      (1)   Industrial monitoring, inspections and surveillance procedures;
      (2)   Reviewing accidental discharge procedures and construction;
      (3)   Reviewing permit applications;
      (4)   Reviewing appeals;
      (5)   Special industrial discharges;
      (6)   Recovering capital related expenditures; and
      (7)   Other charges, including user charges based on billable flow and
excessive pollutant discharges to the POTW, necessary to recover the operation
and maintenance costs of the wastewater disposal system.
   (B)   Charges for items in divisions (A)(1) through (A)(5) above shall be
based on the actual cost to the local government for each specific user or
incident. However, a fixed fee may be proposed by the Director, subject to
local government approval, for those procedures that are repetitive and do not
differ substantially within each class of users. Charges for items in divisions
(A)(6) and (A)(7) above shall be developed and assessed in accordance with the
user charge system. The local government may, under applicable state statutes
and local government ordinances, levy ad valorem taxes for general obligation
bond principal and interest payments, and any other purpose provided by
disposal system. The charges and fees developed in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter shall be presented to the local government for
approval in the form of a sewer rate ordinance.
(2005 Code, § 90-108)  (Ord. passed 9-10-1984; Motion passed 2-1-1993)
§ 52.05  AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter is adopted under the authority granted by G.S. Ch. 160A.
(2005 Code, § 90-109)  (Ord. passed 9-10-1984; Motion passed 2-1-1993)
REGULATIONS
§ 52.20  USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city any human or animal
excrement, garbage or objectionable waste. It shall be unlawful to discharge
without a city permit to any natural outlet within the city, or in any area
under the jurisdiction of the city, and/or to the POTW any wastewater or other
polluted waters, except as authorized by the Director in accordance with the
provisions of this subchapter. It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain
any privy, septic tank or other facility intended or used for the disposal of
wastewater. The owner of all houses, buildings or
properties used for human occupancy, employment or other purposes, situated
within the city and abutting on any street, alley or easement in which there is
now located or may in the future be located a public sanitary sewer, is hereby
required at the owner’s expense to install suitable toilet facilities, and to
connect such facilities directly with the public sewer in accordance with the
provisions of this subchapter, within 120 days after date of official notice to
do so, provided that the public sewer is within 200 feet of the property line.
Under unusual and/or special circumstances, the local government may waive this
provision.
(2005 Code, § 90-131)  (Ord. passed 9-10-1984; Motion passed 2-1-1993) 
Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.21  PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL.
   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available, the building sewer shall be
connected to a private wastewater disposal system complying with the provisions
of this subchapter. Before commencement of construction of a private wastewater
disposal system, the owner shall first obtain written approval from the
Director of Public Utilities. The application for such permit shall be made on
a form furnished by the Director of Public Utilities which the applicant shall
supplement with any plans, specifications and other information as deemed
necessary by the Director of Public Utilities. A permit and inspection fee
established by the local government shall be paid to the city at the time the
application is filed. Approval for a private wastewater disposal system shall
not become effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of
the Director of Public Utilities. The Director of Public Utilities shall be
allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction. The type, capacities,
location and layout of a private wastewater disposal system shall comply with
all recommendations of the county’s Health Department and the DEM. No septic
tank shall be permitted to discharge to any natural outlet. The owner shall
operate and maintain the private wastewater disposal facilities in a sanitary
manner at all times, at no expense to the city.
(2005 Code, § 90-132)  (Ord. passed 9-10-1984; Motion passed 2-1-1993)
§ 52.22  BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Authorization required to make sewer connection. No unauthorized
person shall uncover, make any connection with or opening into, use, alter or
disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without first obtaining
written approval from the Director. All costs and expenses incidental to the
installation and connection of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner.
The owner shall indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may directly or
indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer; however,
such indemnification shall not extend to loss or damage due solely to willful
misconduct or negligence on the part of local government personnel. Excluding
industrial plant sites or other sites which have written approval from the
Director for single discharge points, a separate and independent building sewer
shall be provided for every building; except where one building stands at the
rear of another on an interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be
constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, courtyard or
driveway, the front building may be extended to the rear building and the whole
considered as one building sewer, but the local government does not and will
not assume any obligation or responsibility for damage caused by or resulting
from any such single connection aforementioned. Old building sewers may be used
in connection with new buildings only when they are found, on examination and
test by the Director, to meet all requirements of this subchapter. Existing
building sewers may be kept in service if, in the opinion of the Director, they
are in acceptable structural condition and operate satisfactorily. All new
building sewers, including any necessary replacement of existing building
sewers, must comply with the North Carolina State Building Code, Volume II,
Plumbing. The connection of the building sewer into the public sanitary sewer
shall be made at the “Y” branch, if such branch is available, the owner shall,
at his expense, install a “Y” branch in the public sewer at the location
specified by the Director. Where the public sewer is greater than 12 inches in
diameter, and no properly located “Y” branch is available, a neat hole may be
cut into the public sewer to receive the building sewer, with entry in the
downstream direction at an angle of about 45 degrees. A 45-degree ell may be
used to make such connection, with the spigot end cut so as not to extend past
the inner surface of the public sewer. The invert of the building sewer at the
point of connection shall be at the same or at a higher elevation than the
invert of the public sewer. A smooth, neat joint shall be made and the
connection made secure and water-tight by encasement in concrete. Special
fittings may be used for the connection only with approval by the Director. It
shall be the responsibility of the property owner to keep and maintain the
building sewer connected to the public sewer in good repair. The owner shall,
at his or her own expense, be responsible for making necessary repairs, to the
building sewer within five days after receiving written notification by the
local government that such repairs are necessary.
   (B)   Grease removal.
      (1)   Grease and oil traps or other interceptors shall be required at the
user’s expense, when such user operates an establishment that deals in all food
preparation, or serving facilities and all vehicle maintenance facilities.
Grease interceptors can be required in other industrial or commercial
establishments when they are necessary in the opinion of the Director of Public
Utilities for proper handling of liquid wastes containing oil and/or grease.
All such traps, tanks, chambers or other interceptors shall be of a type and
capacity approved by the Director or his designee and shall be readily and
easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. All such interceptors shall be
serviced and emptied of the waste content as required for their efficient
operation, but not less often than every 30 days, in order to maintain their
minimum design capacity to intercept oils and grease from the wastewater
discharged to the publicly owned sanitary sewer. Failure to comply can result
in the implementation of §
52.99 of this chapter.
      (2)   Wastes removed from grease interceptors shall not be discharged
into the publicly owned sanitary sewer. The owner shall be responsible for the
sanitary disposal of such wastes.
      (3)   A faculty must keep interceptor-cleaning records on file a minimum
of three years. The following information must be maintained: receipt for job
performed signed by contractor and cost; clean out date; person responsible for
cleaning; name of firm performing the clean out; disposal method for and
destination of material removed.
   (C)   Sand and grit removal.
      (1)   Sand and grit traps or other interceptors shall be provided at the
owner’s expense when they are necessary for the proper handling and control of
liquid wastes containing sand and grit in excessive amounts. All such
interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the Director of Public
Utilities or his or her designee and shall be readily and easily accessible for
cleaning and inspection. All such interceptors shall be serviced and emptied of
their solid contents as required for their operation, but not less often than
every 30 days, in order to maintain their minimum design capacity to incept
grit and sand prior to the discharge of wastewaters to the public sanitary
sewers. Failure to comply can result in the implementation of §
52.99 of this chapter.
      (2)   Wastes removed from sand and grit interceptors shall not be
discharged into the publicly owned sanitary sewer. The owner shall be
responsible for the sanitary disposal of such wastes.
      (3)   A facility must keep interceptor-cleaning records on file a minimum
of three years. The following information must be maintained: receipt for job
performed signed by contractor and cost; clean out date; person responsible for
cleaning; name of firm performing the clean out; disposal method for and
destination of material removed.
   (D)   Preliminary treatment devices. Where preliminary treatment,
pretreatment, flow-equalizing faculties or grease, oil, grit and sand traps or
other interceptors are provided for any wastewater, they shall be continuously
maintained in satisfactory condition and effective operation by the owner at
his or her expense.
   (E)   Additional pretreatment measures.
      (1)   Whenever deemed necessary, the Director of Public Utilities may
require users to restrict their discharge during peak flow periods, designate
that certain wastewater be discharged only into specific sewers, relocate and/
or consolidate points of discharge, separate sewage wastestreams from
industrial wastestreams, and such other conditions as may be necessary to
protect the POTW and determine the user’s compliance with the requirements of
this department.
      (2)   Except as provided herein, for a period of one year following
adoption of the ordinance from which this section is derived, although
installation of grease and sand interceptors will be required to be installed,
no enforcement actions will be taken under this subchapter. If, during this
one-year period, an obstruction of a city sewer main occurs that causes a sewer
overflow to the extent that an impact on the environment is realized and that
such overflow or failure of the sanitary sewer collection system to convey
sewage can be attributed in part or in whole to an accumulation of grease and/
or sand in the city’s sewer main, the city will take appropriate enforcement
actions, as stipulated in §
52.99 of this chapter against the generator or contributor of such grease and/
or sand.
(2005 Code, § 90-133)  (Ord. passed 9-10-1984; Motion passed 2-1-1993; Ord.
02095, passed 9-9-2002; Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.23  PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge or cause to be
discharged any pollutant or wastewater which will interfere with the operation
and/or performance of the POTW.
      (2)   These general prohibitions apply to all such users of the POTW
whether or not the user is subject to pretreatment standards or any other
federal, state or local government limitations or requirements.
   (B)   A user shall not discharge the following substances to the POTW:
      (1)   Any unpolluted waters such as infiltration/ inflow to any sanitary
sewer. Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designed as storm sewers or to a natural outlet
approved by the Director and the DEM. Unpolluted cooling water or process
waters may be discharged on approval of the DEM to a storm sewer or natural
outlet. Under unusual circumstances or where a natural outlet is not available,
the local government may allow the discharge of unpolluted cooling water to the
wastewater disposal system;
      (2)   Any liquids, solids or gases which, by reason of their nature or
quantity, are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
POTW or to the operation of the POTW. At no time shall two successive readings
on an explosion hazard meter, at the point of discharge into the system, or at
any point in the system, be more than 5%, nor any single reading over 10%, of
the lower explosive limit (LEL) of the meter. Materials specifically prohibited
from discharge into the POTW include gasoline, kerosene, naphtha, fuel oil, and
any other substance which the local government, the state or the EPA has
notified the user is a fire hazard or a hazard to the system;
      (3)   Solid or viscous substances which may cause obstruction to the flow
in a sewer or other interference with the operation of the POTW, such as, but
not limited to: floatable oil; garbage with articles greater than one-half inch
in any dimension; animal guts, scales or tissues; paunch manure; bones, hair,
hides or fleshing; entrails; whole blood; feathers; ashes; cinders; sand; spent
lime; stone or marble dust; metal glass; straw; shavings; grass clippings;
rags; spent grains; spent hops; wastepaper; wood; plastics; gas; tar; asphalt
residues; residues from refining or processing of fuel or lubricating oil; mud;
or glass grinding or polishing wastes;
      (4)   Any wastewater having a pH less than 5.0 or greater and/or
wastewater having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or
hazard to the waste water disposal system or local government personnel;
      (5)   Any wastewater containing toxic substance or other pollutants in
sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other pollutants,
which will cause interference, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, or
create a toxic effect in the receiving waters of the POTW;
      (6)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases or solids which, either
singly or by interaction with other wastes, are sufficient to create a public
nuisance or hazard to life or are sufficient to prevent entry into the sanitary
sewer for maintenance and repair;
      (7)   Any substance which may cause the POTWs effluent or any other
product to be unsuitable for reclamation and reuse. In no case shall a
substance discharge to the POTW cause the POTW to fail to be in compliance with
sludge use or disposal criteria, guidelines or regulations developed under §
405 of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1345, or any criteria, guidelines or
regulations affecting sludge use or disposal developed pursuant to the Solid
Waste Disposal Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq., the Clean Act, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq., the Toxic Substances Control Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§
2601 et seq., or state criteria applicable to the sludge management method
being used;
      (8)   Any wastewater with color, such as, but not limited to, ink,
paints, dye wastes and vegetable tanning solutions which cause interference or
prevent the POTW from complying with local, state or federal effluent
limitations or water quality standards;
      (9)   Any wastewater, liquid or vapors having a temperature higher than
140°F;
      (10)   Any waste containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such
half-life or concentration as may exceed limits established by the local
government in compliance with applicable state and/or federal regulations; and
      (11)   Quantities of flow, concentrations or both which constitute a
“slug”, as defined herein.
(2005 Code, § 90-134)  (Ord. passed 9-10-1984; Motion passed 2-1-1993) 
Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.24  NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   Upon the promulgation of pretreatment standards for an industrial
subcategory, each pretreatment standard, if more stringent than the
corresponding limitation imposed under this subchapter for sources in that
subcategory shall, following the date for final compliance, supersede the
limitations imposed under this subchapter. The Director shall notify all
affected users of the applicable reporting requirements under 40 C.F.R. §
403.12. All industrial users of the POTW shall comply with 40 C.F.R. § 403.12.
(2005 Code, § 90-135)  (Ord. passed 9-10-1984; Motion passed 2-1-1993)
§ 52.25  MODIFICATION OF NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   Where the POTW achieves consistent removal of pollutants limited by
pretreatment standards, the local government may apply to the approval
authority for modification of specific limits in the pretreatment standards.
The local government may modify pollutant discharge limits in the pretreatment
standards if the requirements contained in 40 C.F.R. part 403, § 403.7, are
fulfilled and prior approval from the approval authority is obtained.
(2005 Code, § 90-136)  (Ord. passed 9-10-1984; Motion passed 2-1-1993)
§ 52.26  SPECIFIC POLLUTANT LIMITATIONS.
   Prohibitive limitations for specific pollutants are given below. In the
event that discharge of pollutants with concentrations in excess of that
enumerated below does not result in interference or in the inability of the
local government to meet the objectives of this subchapter, then the local
government may waive, in writing, all or a portion of the provisions of this
section. The local government may require payment to cover the costs of
handling and treating the pollutants in excess of these limitations. Having had
a waiver at one time shall not eliminate the enforcement of these limits at the
discretion of the local government when it is determined necessary. Additional
toxic substances or other pollutants may be added to the list as needed to meet
the objectives of this subchapter.
Pollutant Daily Composite (mg/l) Instantaneous Peak (mg/l)
Pollutant                    Daily Composite (mg/l) Instantaneous Peak (mg/l)
Arsenic                      0.5                    0.5
Cadmium                      0.5                    2.0
Copper                       2.5                    10.0
Iron                         20.0                   50.0
Lead                         0.5                    2.0
Mercury                      0.01                   0.1
Nickel                       2.5                    10.0
Hexavalent chromium          0.2                    1.0
Total chromium               5.0                    10.0
Selenium                     0.1                    0.5
Silver                       0.1                    0.5
Zinc                         2.5                    10.0
Total of above heavy metals  10.0                   25.0
(excluding iron)
Cyanide                      0.5                    1.0
Phenolic compounds           5.0                    20.0
BOD                          800.0                  1200.0
COD                          2000.0                 3000.0
Oil and grease               100.0                  100.0
TSS                          600.0                  1000.0
TKN                          80.0                   200.0
BOD                          800.0                  1200.0
COD                          2000.0                 3000.0
Oil and grease               100.0                  100.0
TSS                          600.0                  1000.0
TKN                          80.0                   200.0
 
(2005 Code, § 90-137)  (Ord. passed 9-10-1984; Motion passed 2-1-1993)
§ 52.27  STATE REQUIREMENTS.
   State requirements and limitations on discharges shall apply in any case
where they are more stringent than pretreatment requirements and standards or
those in this subchapter.
(2005 Code, § 90-138)  (Ord. passed 9-10-1984; Motion passed 2-1-1993)
§ 52.28  LOCAL GOVERNMENT’S RIGHT TO REVISION.
   The local government reserves the right to establish by amendment more
stringent limitations or requirements on discharge to the wastewater disposal
system if deemed necessary to comply with the objectives of this subchapter.
(2005 Code, § 90-139)  (Ord. passed 9-10-1984; Motion passed 2-1-1993)
§ 52.29  DILUTION PROHIBITION.
   No user shall deliberately increase the use of process water or, in anyway,
dilute wastewater or otherwise avoid adequate treatment standards, or in any
other pollutant-specific limitation developed by the local government or state.
(2005 Code, § 90-140)  (Ord. passed 9-10-1984; Motion passed 2-1-1993) 
Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.30  ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE.
   (A)   Industrial users shall provide protection from accidental discharge of
prohibited materials or other substances regulated by this subchapter.
Faculties to prevent accidental discharge of prohibited materials shall be
provided and maintained at the user’s own cost and expense. Detailed plans
showing facilities and operating procedures to provide this protection shall be
submitted to the Director for review and shall be approved by the local
government before construction of the facility. The plans shall include a
description of the manner in which employees are to be advised of emergency
notification procedures. All existing users shall complete such a plan by 1-1-
1985. No user who commences discharge to the POTW after the effective date of
this subchapter shall be permitted to discharge pollutants until accidental
discharge procedures have been approved by the local government. Review and
approval of such plans and operating procedures shall not relieve the
responsibility to modify the facility as necessary to meet the requirements of
this subchapter. In the case of an accidental discharge, it is the
responsibility of the user to immediately telephone and notify the Director of
the incident. The notification shall include location of discharge, type of
waste, concentration and volume and corrective actions.
   (B)   Within five days following an accidental discharge, the user shall
submit to the Director a detailed written report describing the cause of the
discharge and the measures to be taken to prevent similar future occurrences.
Such notification shall not relieve the user of any expense, loss, damage or
other liability which may be incurred as a result of damage to the wastewater
disposal system fish kills, or any other damage to person or property; nor
shall such notification relieve the user of any fines, civil penalties or other
liability which may be imposed by this subchapter or other applicable law.
(2005 Code, § 90-141)  (Ord. passed 9-10-1984; Motion passed 2-1-1993) 
Penalty, see §
52.99
DISCHARGE OF INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER
§ 52.45  APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   Significant industrial users now discharging industrial wastewater into the
wastewater disposal system or desiring to discharge industrial wastewater shall
complete an official application and file it with the local government.
Approval shall be evidenced by written notice from the Director. Significant
industrial users now discharging industrial wastewater shall complete and file
an application within 180 days from the date of passage of this subchapter.
Significant industrial users desiring to commence discharging industrial
wastewater after this subchapter becomes effective shall file an application
and have it approved prior to commencing the discharge.
(2005 Code, § 90-171)  (Ord. passed 9-10-1984; Motion passed 2-1-1993)
§ 52.46  CONTENTS OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   The application for a permit required by §
52.45 of this chapter shall contain the following:
      (1)   Name, address and location if different from the address;
      (2)   SIC number according to the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual, Bureau of the Budget, 1972, as amended;
      (3)   Wastewater characteristics, including, but not limited to, those
mentioned in §§
52.23,
52.24 and
52.26 of this chapter as determined by a qualified laboratory;
      (4)   Time and duration of discharges regulated by this subchapter;
      (5)   Average and peak daily wastewater flow rates, including substantive
or major proportions daily, monthly and seasonal variations if any, inherent to
the operation of the facility;
      (6)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and details
to show all building drains, building sewers and appurtenances by the size,
location and elevation;
      (7)   Description of activities, facilities and plant processes on the
premises, including type and amount of all materials which are or could be
discharged;
      (8)   Where known, the nature and concentration of any pollutants in the
discharge which are limited by any local government or state limitations or
pretreatment standards, and a statement regarding whether or not the
limitations and pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis and
if not, whether additional operation and maintenance and/or additional
pretreatment is required for the user to meet applicable limitations;
      (9)   If additional pretreatment and/or operation and maintenance (O&M)
will be required to meet local government or state limitations and pretreatment
standards, the shortest schedule by which the user will provide such additional
pretreatment. The completion date of this schedule shall not be later than the
compliance date established for the applicable limitations or requirements. The
following conditions shall apply to this schedule.
         (a)   The schedule shall contain increments of progress in the form of
dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the
construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to
meet the applicable limitations and requirements (e.g., hiring an engineer,
completing preliminary plans, completing final plans, executing contract for
major components, commencing construction, completing construction and the
like).
         (b)   No increment referred to in division (A)(9)(a) above shall
exceed nine months.
         (c)   Not later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and
the final date for compliance, the user shall submit a progress report to the
Director, including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress to be met on such date and, if not, the date on which it
expects to comply with this increment of progress, the reason for delay, and
the steps being taken by the user to return the construction to the schedule
established. In no event shall more than nine months elapse between such
program reports.
         (d)   Any other information as may be deemed by the local government
to be necessary to evaluate the application.
   (B)   The Director will evaluate the date furnished by the user and may
require additional information. After evaluation and acceptance of the date
provided, the local government will grant permission to discharge subject to
the terms and conditions provided herein. Wastewater discharge permission is
issued to a specific industrial user for a specific operation. Any succeeding
owner or user shall comply with the terms and conditions of this subchapter.
Significant industrial users which, through changes in the use of the premises
or water usage, cause a significant change in wastewater volume, strength or
characteristics shall require a new application filed prior to making the
change or alteration.
(2005 Code, § 90-172)  (Ord. passed 9-10-1984; Motion passed 2-1-1993)
§ 52.47  PERMIT MODIFICATIONS.
   Within nine months of the promulgation of a national categorical
pretreatment standard, the wastewater discharge permit of users subject to such
standards shall be revised to require compliance with such standard within the
time frame prescribed by such standard. Where a user, subject to a pretreatment
standard, has not previously submitted an application for a wastewater
discharge permit as required by §
52.45 of this chapter, the user shall apply for a waste discharge permit within
180 days after promulgation of the pretreatment standard. In addition, the user
with an existing wastewater discharge permit shall submit to the local
government within 180 days after the promulgation of an application
pretreatment standard the information required by §
52.46(A)(8) and (A)(9) of this chapter.
(2005 Code, § 90-173)  (Ord. passed 9-10-1984; Motion passed 2-1-1993)
§ 52.48  CONTROL STRUCTURE.
   When required by the local government, the owner of any property served by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastewater shall build a control structure
in the building sewer from his or her premises just prior to the entrance of
the building sewer into the public sewer suitable for sampling and/or measuring
his or her wastewater. Significant industrial users may be required to
construct a control structure for the purpose of equalizing discharges, flow
and/or pollutant concentrations, over a time span specified by the Director if
the local government determines this is necessary to prevent interference.
Plans for this structure shall be approved by the local government. There shall
be ample room in or near such facility to allow accurate flow measurement,
sampling and measuring equipment shall be constructed and maintained at all
times in a safe and proper operating condition at the expense of the owner.
(2005 Code, § 90-174)  (Ord. passed 9-10-1984; Motion passed 2-1-1993)
§ 52.49  NOTICE OF PROCESS CHANGE OR INTERRUPTION OF OPERATION.
   Notice by the user shall be given to the Director in advance or at the
earliest possible time when normal operations of the industry will be
interrupted for 48 hours or longer, when wastes will not be available for
discharge, or prior to implementation of a process change which will alter
demands on the POTW.
(2005 Code, § 90-175)  (Ord. passed 9-10-1984; Motion passed 2-1-1993)
§ 52.50  USER RECORDS AND REPORTING.
   (A)   User records. Any user shall maintain and retain for three years all
plan records as specified by the local government and afford the local
government access thereto. These records include, but are not limited to,
production records relating to wastewater discharges or compliance with the
provisions of this subchapter, wastewater self-monitoring records, records
related to compliance with pretreatment standards and other state and EPA
required records. Upon request, any user shall submit notices of self-
monitoring reports to the local government at the time intervals stated by the
local government. Failure to maintain the records described herein, to provide
access to same, or to submit notices of self-monitoring upon request shall
constitute sufficient justification for permit revocation pursuant to §
52.99 of this chapter. Any user shall likewise allow local government and its
agents to enter its premises to examine records of monitoring activities and
results, which entry shall be reasonable and pursuant to safeguards established
in §
52.65 of this chapter.
   (B)   Reporting requirements for permittee.
      (1)   Compliance date report. Within 90 days following the date for final
compliance with applicable pretreatment standards or, in the case of a new
source, following commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW,
any user subject to pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the
Director a report indicating the nature and concentration of all pollutants in
the discharge from the regulated process which are limited by pretreatment
standards and requirements and the average and maximum daily flow for these
process units in the user facility which are limited by such pretreatment
standards or requirements. The report shall state whether the applicable
pretreatment standards or requirements are being met on a consistent basis and,
if not, what additional operation and maintenance and/or pretreatment is
necessary to bring the user into compliance with the applicable pretreatment
standards or requirements. This statement shall be signed by an authorized
representative of the industrial user, and certified to by a qualified
professional.
      (2)   Periodic compliance reports.
         (a)   Any user subject to a pretreatment standard, after the
compliance date of such pretreatment standard or, in the case of a new source,
after commencement of the discharge into the POTW, shall submit to the Director
during the months of June and December, unless required more frequently in the
pretreatment standard or by the Director, a report indicating the nature and
concentration of pollutants in the effluent which are limited by such
pretreatment standards. In addition, this report shall include a record of all
daily flows which during the reporting period exceeded the average daily flow
for which the user has a permit. At the discretion of the Director, and in
consideration of such factors as local high or low flow rates, holidays, budget
cycles and the like, the Director may agree to alter the months during which
the above reports are to be submitted.
         (b)   The Director may impose mass limitations on users which are
using dilution to meet applicable pretreatment standards or requirements, or in
other cases where the imposition of mass limitations are appropriate. In such
cases, the report required by division (B)(2)(a) above shall indicate the mass
of pollutants regulated by pretreatment standards in the effluent of the user.
These reports shall contain the results of sampling and analysis of the
discharge, or production and mass where requested by the Director, of
pollutants contained therein which are limited by the applicable pretreatment
standards. The frequency of monitoring shall be prescribed in the applicable
pretreatment standard. All analysis shall be performed in accordance with
procedures established by the Administrator pursuant to § 304(g) of the Act,
being 33 U.S.C. § 1314(g), and contained in 40 C.F.R. part 136 and amendments
thereto or with any other test procedures approved by the Administrator.
Sampling shall be performed in accordance with the techniques approved by the
Administrator.
(2005 Code, § 90-176)  (Ord. passed 9-10-1984; Motion passed 2-1-1993)
Editor’s note:
   Where 40 C.F.R. part 136 does not include a sampling or analytical technique
for the pollutant in question, sampling and analysis shall be performed in
accordance with the procedures set forth in the EPA publication, “Sampling and
Analysis Procedures for Screening of Industrial Effluent for Priority
Pollutants,” April, 1977, and amendments thereto, or with any other sampling
and analytical thereto, or with any other sampling and analytical procedures
approved by the Administrator
§ 52.51  CONFIDENTIALITY.
   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, questionnaires,
discharge applications and monitoring programs and from inspections shall be
available to the public or other governmental agency without restriction unless
the user specifically requests and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction
of the local government that the release of such information would divulge
information, processes or methods of production entitled to protection as trade
secrets of the user. When requested by the person furnishing the report, the
portions of a report which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes
shall not be made available for inspection by the public. It will, however, be
made available upon written request to governmental agencies for uses related
to this subchapter, the NPDES permit, and/or the pretreatment program; however,
such portions of a report shall be available for use by the state or any state
agency in judicial review or enforcement proceedings involving the person
furnishing the report. Wastewater constituents and characteristics shall not be
recognized as confidential information. Information accepted by the local
government as confidential shall not be given to any governmental agency until
and unless a ten-day notification is given to the user.
(2005 Code, § 90-177)  (Ord. passed 9-10-1984; Motion passed 2-1-1993)
§ 52.52  PRETREATMENT.
   Users shall provide necessary wastewater treatment as required to comply
with this subchapter and shall achieve compliance with all pretreatment
regulations. Any faculties required to pretreat wastewater shall be
constructed, operated and maintained at the user’s expense. Detailed plans
showing the pretreatment facilities and operation procedures shall be submitted
to the Director. Submittal of such plans and operating procedures will in no
way relieve the user from the responsibility of modifying the facility as
necessary to produce an effluent acceptable to the local government under the
provisions of this subchapter. Any subsequent changes in the pretreatment
facilities or method of operation shall be reported to the local government
prior to the user’s initiation of the changes.
(2005 Code, § 90-178)  (Ord. passed 9-10-1984; Motion passed 2-1-1993)
SAMPLING AND MONITORING
§ 52.65  RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   Whenever it shall be necessary for the purpose of this subchapter and upon
presentation of proper credentials and identification, local government
personnel shall be permitted to enter upon any property of wastewater disposal
system users for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling
or testing in the area of control and/or sampling facility. Any industrial user
completing and filing an application to discharge wastewater shall thereby
grant the local government permission to enter his or her premises for said
purpose. Where a user has security measures in force which would require proper
identification and clearance before entry into their premises, the user shall
make necessary arrangements with their security guards so that upon
presentation of suitable identification, local government personnel will be
permitted to enter, without delay, for the purpose of performing their specific
responsibilities. Local government personnel shall at all times, while on
premises, obey all federal, state and user health and safety rules and conduct
themselves in a proper manner.
(2005 Code, § 90-200)  (Ord. passed 9-10-1984; Motion passed 2-1-1993)
§ 52.66  COMPLIANCE DETERMINATION.
   (A)   Compliance determinations with respect to §§
52.45 through
52.52 of this chapter, prohibitions and limitations shall be made on the basis
of composite and discrete samples of wastewater. Composite samples may be taken
over a 25-hour period, or over a different time span, as determined necessary
by the Director to meet the needs of specific circumstances.
   (B)   The local government shall annually provide public notification in the
largest local daily newspaper of industrial users which, during the previous 12
months, were significantly violating applicable pretreatment standards and
state and local limitations or requirements. A significant violation is, for
the purpose of this provision only, a violation:
      (1)   For which the user fails to initiate corrective action as within 45
days after notification of non-compliance;
      (2)   Which is part of a pattern of non-compliance over the 12-month
period;
      (3)   Which involved a failure to accurately report non-compliance, in
reference to self-monitoring; or
      (4)   Which results in the revocation of permission to discharge to the
wastewater disposal system.
(2005 Code, § 90-201)  (Ord. passed 9-10-1984; Motion passed 2-1-1993)
§ 52.67  ANALYSIS OF INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATERS.
   All measurements, test and analysis of the characteristics or properties of
wastewater to which reference is made in this subchapter shall be made in
accordance with Standard Methods and shall be performed by a qualified
laboratory.
(2005 Code, § 90-202)  (Ord. passed 9-10-1984; Motion passed 2-1-1993)
§ 52.68  SAMPLING FREQUENCY.
   Sampling of industrial wastewater for the purpose of compliance
determination with respect to §§
52.45 through
52.52 of this chapter, prohibitions and limitations will be done at such
intervals as the Director may designate. However, it is the intention of the
local government to conduct, compliance sampling or to cause such sampling to
be conducted for all significant industrial users at least twice in every one-
year period.
(2005 Code, § 90-203)  (Motion passed 2-1-1993)
§ 52.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Penalties.
      (1)   The city may suspend the wastewater treatment service and/or a
wastewater contribution permit when such suspension is necessary, in the
opinion of the city, in order to stop an actual or threatened discharge which
presents or may present an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health
or welfare of persons or to the environment; causes interference to the POTW;
or causes the city to violate any condition of its NPDES permit. Any person
notified of a suspension of the wastewater treatment service and/or the
wastewater contribution permit shall immediately stop or eliminate the
contribution. In the event of a failure of the person to comply voluntarily
with the suspension order, the city shall take such steps as deemed necessary,
including immediate severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize
damage to the POTW system or endangerment to any individuals. The city shall
reinstate the wastewater contribution permit and/or the wastewater treatment
service upon proof of the elimination of the non-complying discharge. A
detailed written statement submitted by the user describing the causes of the
harmful contribution and the measures taken to prevent any future occurrence
shall be submitted to the city within 15 days of the date of occurrence.
      (2)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this subchapter,
except divisions (C)(3) and (C)(4) below shall be served by the local
government with written notice stating the nature of the violation and
providing a reasonable time limit, not to exceed 60 days, for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, cease all violations. Any person who shall continue any violation
beyond the time limit provided for in the aforementioned notice of violation
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, on conviction thereof, shall be fined in
the amount not exceeding $500 for each violation. Each day in which any such
violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
      (3)   No person shall maliciously, wilfully or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenances or
equipment which is a part of the wastewater disposal system. Any person
violating this provision shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. In addition, such
person shall be liable to reimburse the local government for any damage
resulting from such violations.
      (4)   Any person who knowingly makes any false statements,
representations or certification in any application, record, report, plan or
other document filed or required to be maintained pursuant to this subchapter,
or wastewater contribution permit, or who falsifies, tampers with or knowingly
renders inaccurate any monitoring device or method required under this
subchapter, shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not more than
$1,000 or by imprisonment for not more than six months or by both.
   (B)   Revocation of permission to discharge. The local government may order
a permission to discharge be revoked upon finding that the discharge has
violated a provision of this subchapter. A user whose permission to discharge
has been revoked shall immediately stop all discharges of any liquid-carried
wastes. The local government may disconnect or permanently block from the
wastewater disposal system the private sewer of any discharge whose permission
to discharge has been revoked if such action is necessary to ensure compliance
with the order of revocation. A user whose permission to discharge has been
revoked shall apply for new permission to discharge and pay all delinquent
fees, charges, penalties and such other sums as may be due to the local
government. Costs incurred to revoke the prior permission to discharge and
disconnect the private sewer shall be paid for by the discharger before new
permission to discharge shall be granted.
   (C)   Reasons for revocation of permission to discharge. Any user who
violates the following conditions of this subchapter or applicable state and
federal regulations is subject to having his or her permission to discharge
revoked in accordance with the procedures in division (B) above:
      (1)   Failure of a user to factually report the wastewater constituents
and characteristics of his or her discharge;
      (2)   Failure of a user to report significant changes in operation or
wastewater constituents or characteristics;
      (3)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for the purpose
of inspection or monitoring; or
      (4)   Violation of §§
52.23,
52.26,
52.29 and
52.30 of this chapter.
   (D)   Legal action. If any person discharges sewage, industrial wastes or
other wastes into the city’s wastewater disposal system contrary to the
provisions of this subchapter, federal or state pretreatment requirements, or
any order of the city, the City Attorney may commence an action for appropriate
legal and/or equitable relief in the County District or Superior Court.
(2005 Code, § 90-107)  (Ord. passed 9-10-1984; Motion passed 2-1-1993)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING RULES
      
73.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
74.   RAILROADS
CHAPTER 70:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Police officers
   
70.03   Application of traffic code to government vehicles
   
70.04   Pedestrians
   
70.05   Use of skates, coasters, toy vehicles
   
70.06   Implements which injure road surface
   
70.07   Clinging to vehicles
Leased Vehicles
   
70.20   Definitions
   
70.21   Tax on gross receipts derived from retail short-term lease or rental of
vehicles
Traffic-Control Markings, Signs, Signals, Devices
   
70.35   Unauthorized signs, signals or markings
   
70.36   Interference with railroad signs or signals
   
70.37   Obedience to devices
   
70.38   Legend
   
70.39   Obedience to no-turn signs
   
70.40   Markings on streets; crosswalks; safety zones
Impoundment
   
70.55   Removal authorized; circumstances enumerated
   
70.56   Designation of garage
   
70.57   Towing and storage charges
   
70.58   Charges constitute a lien on vehicle
   
70.59   Towing and storage charges in addition to other penalties
Statutory reference:
   Authority for traffic-control devices, traffic control legend, see G.S. §
20-158
   Removal and disposal of derelict vehicles, see G.S. §§ 20-1, 20-137.6 et
seq., 20-219 et seq., 160A-303 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this traffic code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES. Vehicles of the Fire Department, Police
Department and Emergency Medical Services; and any other vehicles authorized by
the city for emergency purposes from time to time.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to a street or highway where 75%
or more of the frontage thereon for a distance of 300 feet or more is occupied
by buildings in use for business purposes.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLES. Every vehicle designed, maintained or used primarily
for the transportation of property.
   CROSSWALKS.
      (1)   The part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connection of the lateral lines of the sidewalk on opposite sides of the
highway measured from the curb, or in the absence of curbs from the edge of the
traversable roadway; and
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface.
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   INTERSECTION. The area embraced within the prolongation of the lateral
curbline or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of two or more streets
which join one another at an angle whether or not one such street crosses the
other.
   LOADING ZONE. A space adjacent to a curb for the exclusive use of vehicles
during the loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, markings and devices
not inconsistent with this traffic code, placed or erected by authority of a
public body or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating,
warning or guiding traffic.
   OPERATOR. Every individual who shall operate a vehicle as the owner thereof,
or as the agent, employee or permittee of the owner, or is in actual physical
control of a vehicle.
   PARK. When prohibited, the standing of a vehicle whether occupied or not,
otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while engaged in loading and
unloading.
   PASSENGER LOADING ZONE. A place adjacent to a curb reserved for the
exclusive use of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PRIVATE ROAD AND DRIVEWAY. Every way or place in private ownership and used
for vehicular traffic by the owner and those having express or implied
permission from the owner, but not by other persons.
   PUBLIC LOADING ZONE. A place adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive
use of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or materials by
the public generally.
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to a street, not comprising a
business district, where 75% or more of the frontage thereon for a distance of
300 feet or more is mainly occupied by dwellings or by dwellings and buildings
in use for business purposes.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the street.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street or highway improved, designed or ordinarily
used for vehicular traffic, exclusive of the berm or shoulder.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curbline or the lateral lines
of a roadway, and the adjacent property line intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   STOP, STOPPING, STANDING.
      (1)   When required, complete cessation of movement; and
      (2)   When prohibited, any stopping or standing of a vehicle whether
occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or
in compliance with the direction of a police officer or traffic-control signal
or sign.
   STREET AND HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purpose of vehicular traffic.
   SUBSERVIENT STREET. Every street or highway or portion thereof on which
vehicular traffic is required by law to stop or yield the right-of-way before
entering or crossing an intersecting street, through street.
   THROUGH STREETS. Every street or highway or portion thereof at the entrance
to which vehicular traffic from intersecting streets or highways is required by
law to stop or yield the right-of-way before entering or crossing the same.
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNALS. Any device, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop or to
proceed or by which is indicated the manner traffic is to proceed.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a street, excepting devices moved by human power
or used exclusively upon fixed rails or tracks; provided that, for the purpose
of this traffic code, bicycles shall be deemed VEHICLES, and every rider of a
bicycle upon a street shall be subject to the provisions of this traffic code
applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except those which, by their nature, can
have no application.
   YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY. When used, that such person upon whom the obligation is
imposed shall afford the immediate use of the roadway to such other person or
vehicle, as is provided, which is approaching so as to arrive at the
intersecting point of their lines of travel at approximately the same time.
(2005 Code, § 46-1)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 20-38
§ 70.02  POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Police Department shall enforce all street traffic laws of the
city. The officers of the Police Department are authorized to direct all
traffic by voice, hand or signal in conformance with the traffic laws;
providing that, in the event of a fire or other emergency or to expedite
traffic or to safeguard pedestrians, officers of the Police Department may
direct traffic as conditions may require notwith-standing the provisions of the
traffic laws and it shall constitute a misdemeanor for any person to operate a
vehicle other than in conformance with the direction of such police officer
under the conditions above enumerated.
   (B)   A violation of this section shall be punishable as provide in G.S. §
20-114.1.
(2005 Code, § 46-2)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Firefighters as traffic officers, see G.S. § 20-114.1
§ 70.03  APPLICATION OF TRAFFIC CODE TO GOVERNMENT VEHICLES.
   The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to the driver of any vehicle
owned by any governmental unit or operated for any governmental unit and shall
be unlawful for any said driver to violate any of the provisions of this
traffic code, except as otherwise permitted in this traffic code or by state
statute.
(2005 Code, § 46-3)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 20-168
§ 70.04  PEDESTRIANS.
   Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic-control signals as declared in this
traffic code, but, at all other places, pedestrians shall be granted those
rights and be subject to the restrictions stated below.
   (A)   Pedestrian right-of-way in crosswalks. When traffic-control signals
are not in place or not in operation, the driver of a vehicle shall yield the
right-of-way, slowing down or stopping, if need be, to yield to a pedestrian
crossing the roadway within a crosswalk when the pedestrian is approaching so
closely from the opposite half of the roadway as to be in danger, but no
pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb, or other place of safety, and walk or
run into the path of a vehicle, which is so close that it is impossible for the
driver to yield.
   (B)   Pedestrians shall yield when not within crosswalk. Every pedestrian
crossing a roadway at any point other than within a marked crosswalk or within
an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield the right-of-way to all
vehicles upon the roadway.
   (C)   Where crosswalk use required. No person on foot shall walk, run or
otherwise cross any portion or part of any city street other than at those
designated pedestrian crosswalks. (Refer to §
70.01, definition of crosswalk.)
   (D)   Pedestrian traffic-control signal or device. No person shall cross any
street within the city at which there is located a pedestrian traffic-control
signal or device, except at a time and in a manner designated or indicated by
such pedestrian traffic-control signal or device.
   (E)   Duty of drivers at crosswalk. When any vehicle is stopped at a marked
crosswalk or at an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian
to cross the roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear
shall not overtake and pass such stopped vehicle.
   (F)   Drivers to exercise due care. Notwith-standing the foregoing
provisions of this section, every driver of a vehicle shall exercise due care
to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any roadway and shall give warning
by sounding the horn when necessary and shall exercise proper precaution upon
observing any child or any confused or incapacitated person upon a roadway.
(2005 Code, § 46-4)  (Ord. passed 9-8-1997)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.05  USE OF SKATES, COASTERS, TOY VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person upon roller skates or a skateboard or riding in or by means
of a coaster, toy vehicle or similar device shall go upon any roadway, except
when crossing a street on a crosswalk; and, when so crossing, such person shall
be granted all of the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties
applicable to pedestrians.
   (B)   No person shall ride a skateboard or any similar device on any public
way, including, but not limited to, a sidewalk, street, park, public parking
lot or alley in the downtown area. The downtown area shall be identified as
that area bounded by the Pasquotank River continuing down Elizabeth Street,
Road Street, Ehringhaus Street, Walston Street, Shepherd Street continuing to
the Pasquotank River.
(2005 Code, § 46-5)  (Ord. passed 4-3-1989)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.06  IMPLEMENTS WHICH INJURE ROAD SURFACE.
   No person shall drag or run, or cause to be dragged or run, any harrow or
other instrument, engine, machine or tool upon any permanently paved street of
the city or sidewalk thereof, which is likely to or does cause injury to the
surface of such street or sidewalk.
(2005 Code, § 46-6)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.07  CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled or toy
vehicle, shall attach the same or himself or herself to any other vehicle upon
the roadway.
(2005 Code, § 46-7)  Penalty, see §
10.99
LEASED VEHICLES
§ 70.20  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CUSTOMER. Any person that leases or rents a vehicle on a short-term lease or
rental basis.
   GENERAL STATUTES. The North Carolina General Statutes and any reference to a
particular section thereof shall include the same as may be from time to time
amended, modified, supplemented, revised or superseded.
   GROSS RECEIPTS. The amount that is or would be reported as gross receipts on
a business’s state income tax return, or on the federal income tax return filed
with the state income tax return if the state return does not separately state
gross receipts for the most recently completed tax year. Taxes collected
hereunder are subject to the tax herein imposed and are not included in GROSS
RECEIPTS.
   LEASE AND RENTAL. A transfer, for consideration, of the use, but not the
ownership of, property to another for a period of time.
(G.S. § 105-164.3(7a))
   LONG-TERM LEASE OR RENTAL. A lease or rental made under a written agreement
to lease or rent property to the same person for a period of at least 365
continuous days and that is not a vehicle subscription.
(G.S. § 105-187.1(a)(3))
   PERSON. Any individual, trustee, executor, other fiduciary, corporation,
firm or other legal entity.
   SHORT-TERM LEASE OR RENTAL. Any lease or rental of a motor vehicle that is
not a long-term lease or rental.
(G.S. §§ 105-187.1(a)(7)
   TAX COLLECTOR. The individual appointed by the governing body pursuant to
G.S. § 105-349 (the provisions of the Municipal Charter) to collect taxes on
behalf of the city and any other person authorized to carry out the duties and
functions of such individual.
   TAXPAYER. Any person liable for the taxes imposed by this subchapter.
   VEHICLE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A motor vehicle of the passenger type, including a passenger van,
minivan or sport utility vehicle;
      (2)   A motor vehicle of the cargo type, including cargo van, pickup
truck or truck with a gross vehicle weight rating of 26,000 pounds or less used
predominantly in the transportation of property for other than commercial
freight, and that does not require the operator to possess a commercial drivers
license; and
      (3)   A trailer or semitrailer with a gross vehicle weight of 6,000
pounds or less.
(G.S. § 160A-215.1(e)(2)
(2005 Code, § 46-29)
§ 70.21  TAX ON GROSS RECEIPTS DERIVED FROM RETAIL SHORT-TERM LEASE OR RENTAL
OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   Levy of tax. A tax is hereby imposed and levied in an amount equal to
1-1/2% of the gross receipts derived from the short-term lease or rental of
vehicles at retail to the general public.
   (B)   Collection of the tax. Every person engaged in the business of the
short-term lease or rental of vehicles at retail to the general public shall
collect at the time of the lease or rental the tax herein levied, place the tax
so collected in a segregated account, and thereafter remit such tax to the Tax
Collector in accordance with the provisions of this section. The taxpayer shall
include a provision in each retail short-term lease or rental agreement stating
that the percentage amount enacted by this section of the total lease or rental
price, excluding sales tax, is being charged as a tax on gross receipts. The
amount of the tax shall be stated separately from the lease or rental and shown
separately on the taxpayer’s records. The tax shall be paid by the customer to
the taxpayer as trustee for an account of the city. The taxpayer shall be
liable for the collection thereof and for its payment to the Tax Collector and
the taxpayer’s failure to charge or to collect said tax from the customer shall
not affect such liability.
   (C)   Report and payment of tax.
      (1)   Taxes levied under this section are due and payable when a return
is required to be filed.
      (2)   Every taxpayer shall, within the time specified, submit a return to
the Tax Collector on the form prescribed by the Tax Collector. A return must be
signed by the taxpayer or the taxpayer’s agent. Returns of taxpayers are due to
the Tax Collector each month on or before the fifteenth day of the month
following the month in which the tax accrues.
      (3)   As provided in G.S. § 160A-208.1, a return shall not be considered
a public record and information contained in a return may be disclosed only in
accordance therewith.
   (D)   Taxpayer to keep records.
      (1)   The taxpayer shall keep and preserve suitable records of the gross
receipts received by such taxpayer in the conduct of business and such other
books or accounts as may be necessary to determine the amount of the tax for
which such taxpayer is liable under the provisions of this section.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the taxpayer to keep and preserve for a
period of three years all such records of gross receipts herein described shall
be open for examination at all reasonable hours during the day by the Tax
Collector or his or her duly authorized agent.
   (E)   Tax collector to provide forms. The Tax Collector shall design,
prepare, print and make available to all taxpayers operating within the
municipal boundaries of the city, forms and instructions for filing returns to
insure a full collection of and an accounting for taxes due. The failure of any
taxpayer to obtain or receive forms shall not relieve such taxpayer from the
payment of the tax at the time and in the manner provided.
   (F)   Situs. The transaction giving rise to the tax herein levied shall be
deemed to have occurred at the location of the entity from which the customer
takes deliver of the vehicle.
(G.S. § 160A-215.1(b))
   (G)   Penalties and remedies.
      (1)   The provisions with respect to remedies and penalties applicable to
G.S. Ch. 105, Subch. VII, Local Government Sales and Use Tax, as contained in
Art. 5 and Art. 9, Subch. 1, thereof, shall be applicable in like manner to the
tax authorization to be levied and collected under this section, to the extent
that the same are not inconsistent with the provisions hereof.
      (2)   The governing body of the city may exercise any power the Secretary
of Revenue may exercise in collecting sales and use taxes.
      (3)   Penalties and remedies, including interest shall be applied at the
rate set by the county.
(G.S. § 160A-215.1(f))
   (H)   Administration. In addition to the provisions herein, the levy and
collection of the taxes herein imposed shall be otherwise administered in the
same manner as the sales and use tax as provided by G.S. Ch. 105, Art. 5,
Subch. 1.
(G.S. § 160A-215.1(d))
   (I)   Authority. This section is enacted pursuant to the provisions of G.S.
§ 160A-215.1.
(2005 Code, § 46-30)  (Ord. passed 6-27-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Gross receipts tax by cities on short-term leases or rentals, see G.S. §
160A-215.1
TRAFFIC-CONTROL MARKINGS, SIGNS, SIGNALS, DEVICES
§ 70.35  UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS, SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   No person shall place, maintain or display upon the streets of the city or
in view of any streets unauthorized signs, signals or markings which purport to
be or are an imitation of or resemble official traffic-control devices.
(2005 Code, § 46-86)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.36  INTERFERENCE WITH RAILROAD SIGNS OR SIGNALS.
   No person shall demolish or remove any railroad sign or signal or any
inscription shield or insignia thereon or any part thereof.
(2005 Code, § 46-87)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.37  OBEDIENCE TO DEVICES.
   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic-control devices applicable thereto placed in accordance with this
subchapter, unless otherwise directed by a police officer, subject to the
exception granted drivers of an authorized emergency vehicle in this traffic
code.
(2005 Code, § 46-88)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.38  LEGEND.
   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals exhibiting the
words “go”, “caution” or “stop”, or exhibiting different colored lights
successively one at a time, or with arrows, the following colors only shall be
used and the terms and lights shall indicate and govern the drivers of vehicles
and pedestrians as follows.
   (A)   Green alone or “go”.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the above traffic signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at such place prohibits
either such turn, but vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or
left, shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles and to pedestrians
lawfully within the intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at the time such
signal is exhibited.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway within
any marked or unmarked crosswalk.
   (B)   Yellow alone or “caution”, when shown following the green or “go”
signal.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal is thereby warned that the red
or stop signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter and such vehicular
traffic shall not enter or be crossing the intersection when the red or stop
signal is exhibited.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing such signal are thereby advised that there is
insufficient time to cross the roadway and any pedestrian then starting to
cross shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles.
   (C)   Red alone or “stop” or when shown with yellow or “caution” and there
is posted a “no right turn” sign as provided by G.S. § 20-158.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if no crosswalk, then before
entering the intersection, and shall remain standing until green or go is shown
alone.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway unless he
or she can do so safely and without interfering with any vehicular traffic.
   (D)   Red with green arrow.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing such signal may cautiously enter the
intersection only to make the movement indicated by such arrow, but shall yield
the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within a crosswalk, marked or
unmarked, and to other traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway unless he
or she can do so safely and without interfering with any vehicular traffic.
   (E)   Flashing red (stop signal). When a red lens is illuminated with rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line when marked or, if none
is marked, then before entering the intersection and the right to proceed shall
be subject to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
   (F)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed into the
intersection or past such signal only with caution.
(2005 Code, § 46-89)
§ 70.39  OBEDIENCE TO NO-TURN SIGNS.
   Whenever an authorized sign is erected indicating that no right or left turn
is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the direction of any such
sign.
(2005 Code, § 46-90)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.40  MARKINGS ON STREETS; CROSSWALKS; SAFETY ZONES.
   The City Manager is hereby authorized:
   (A)   To designate and maintain by appropriate devices, marked or lined upon
the surface of the roadway, crosswalks at intersections, where, in his or her
opinion, there is a particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway and
at such other places as he or she may deem necessary;
   (B)   To establish safety zones of such kind and character and at such
places as he or she may deem necessary for the protection of pedestrians; and
   (C)   To establish and mark traffic lanes upon the roadway of any street
where, in his or her opinion, a regular alignment of traffic is necessary, and
where such traffic lanes have been marked, it shall be unlawful for the
operator of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such vehicle within the
boundaries of any such lane, except when lawfully passing a vehicle or
preparatory to making a lawful turning movement.
(2005 Code, § 46-91)
Statutory reference:
   Driving through safety zone, see G.S. § 20-160
IMPOUNDMENT
§ 70.55  REMOVAL AUTHORIZED; CIRCUMSTANCES ENUMERATED.
   Any member of the Police Department is hereby authorized to remove or cause
to be removed any vehicle from a street, a street parking lot or from any other
public place owned or controlled by the city to a garage designated by the
Police Department as provided in this subchapter and the vehicle shall be held
until claimed by the owner(s) or until same is otherwise disposed of as
provided by this subchapter or other applicable laws under any of the
circumstances as follows:
   (A)   When any vehicle is left unattended upon a street or public alley in
the city, if the owner of such vehicle cannot be found or, if after
notification, he or she shall fail or refuse to properly remove the same, where
such vehicle:
      (1)   Constitutes an obstruction of traffic;
      (2)   Interferes with the construction, reconstruction, alteration,
repair or cleaning of a public street or alley; and/or
      (3)   Is parked illegally.
   (B)   When a vehicle upon a street is so disabled as to constitute an
obstruction to traffic and the person in charge of the vehicle is under arrest
or by reason of physical injury or other cause is incapacitated to such an
extent as to be unable to provide for its custody or removal;
   (C)   When any vehicle is left parked on any street or in any unmetered off-
street parking lot or other public place for a period longer than three days
and the Police Department has given the owner(s) or agent of such vehicle 24-
hours’ written notice of the Police Department’s intention to tow the vehicle
in as authorized by this subchapter, or has made a diligent attempt to so
notify the owner(s) or agent of such vehicle but has been unable to do so; and
   (D)   Any sworn member of the Police Department is hereby authorized to
remove or cause to be removed any vehicle from a street, a street parking lot
or from any other public place owned or controlled by the city to a garage
designated by the Police Department’s policy of rotation towing and assistance
as administered by central communications as provided in this subchapter and
the vehicle shall be held until claimed by the owner or until same is otherwise
disposed of as provided by this chapter or other applicable such as, but not
limited to, the following:
      (1)   When any vehicle is left unattended upon a street or public alley
in the city, if the owner of such vehicle cannot be found or, if after
notification, he or she shall fail or refuse to properly remove the same, where
such vehicle:
         (a)   Constitutes an obstruction or hazard of traffic;
         (b)   Interferes with the construction, reconstruction, alteration,
repair, cleaning or traversing of a public street or alley; and/or
         (c)   Is parked illegally.
      (2)   When a vehicle upon a street is so disabled as to constitute an
obstruction to traffic and the person in charge of the vehicle is under arrest
or by reason of physical injury or other cause is incapacitated to such an
extent as to be unable to provide for its custody or removal.
(2005 Code, § 46-181)  (Motion passed 2-1-1993)
§ 70.56  DESIGNATION OF GARAGE.
   The garage to which a vehicle removed under this subchapter shall be towed
for storage, as provided by this subchapter, shall be designated by the owner,
if available, otherwise selection shall be made accordingly to the Police
Department’s policy of rotation towing and assistance as administered by
central communication or the officer in charge, whichever applicable.
(2005 Code, § 46-182)  (Motion passed 2-1-1993)
§ 70.57  TOWING AND STORAGE CHARGES.
   Towing and storage charges incurred in the impounding of any vehicle under
the provisions of this subchapter shall be as follows:
   (A)   Normal towing charges for each vehicle shall be the current prevailing
charge; and
   (B)   (1)   If a call is made for towing service and the owner, or person
having control of the vehicle to be towed, returns to the unattended vehicle
before the arrival of the towing vehicle and the unattended vehicle is not in
fact towed in, the charge for answering such call shall be entered upon the
violation ticket given the owner and collected in the same manner as the
penalty for the violation is collected.
      (2)   Such amount shall be set from time to time by the City Council.
(2005 Code, § 46-183)  (Motion passed 2-1-1993)
§ 70.58  CHARGES CONSTITUTE A LIEN ON VEHICLE.
   All towing, storage, advertising and other charges incurred by the city or
imposed upon the owner or operator of any vehicle impounded under the
provisions of this subchapter in connection with the impounding of such vehicle
shall constitute a lien upon such vehicle and no such impounded vehicle shall
be released until all such charges due to the owner of the garage where the
impounded vehicle is stored.
(2005 Code, § 46-184)  (Motion passed 2-1-1993)
§ 70.59  TOWING AND STORAGE CHARGES IN ADDITION TO OTHER PENALTIES.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall in any way affect the provisions of this
traffic code with respect to fines and penalties for the violation of the
provisions of this traffic code and the towing and storage charges prescribed
by this subchapter shall be in addition to all other charges and in addition to
any fine or court cost which may be imposed according to law.
(2005 Code, § 46-185)
CHAPTER 71:  TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
Operation of Vehicles
   
71.01   Speed limits
   
71.02   Stop when traffic obstructed at intersection
   
71.03   Emerging from alleys, driveways or buildings
   
71.04   Entering, leaving parking lots
   
71.05   U-turns
   
71.06   One-way streets
   
71.07   Driving through funeral or other processions
   
71.08   Drivers in procession
   
71.09   Restrictions on operating certain commercial trucks
   
71.10   Persons riding vehicle must stay inside
   
71.11   Driving on sidewalk
   
71.12   Operation of mopeds and other gasoline propelled contraptions
Statutory reference:
   Operation of motor vehicles generally, see G.S. §§ 20-138 et seq.
OPERATION OF VEHICLES
§ 71.01  SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or cause to be operated
a vehicle on any section of all city-controlled streets as enumerated herein in
excess of 25 miles per hour.
   (B)   The city-controlled streets affected by this section are enumerated as
follows:
   1403 River Road, A St, Adams St, Agawam St, Albemarle St, Alexander Ct,
Anderson St, Arbutus St, Asbury Dr, Ashe St, Aydlett Cir, B St, Ball St, Bank
St, Barney Ln, Bartlett Ave, Baxter St, Bayberry Dr, Beech St, Bell St, Bias
St, Binnacle Ct, Blue Bonnet St, Bonner Dr, Boston Ave, Bray St, Briarwood Rd,
Broad St, Brookridge Dr, Brooks Ave, Brothers Dr, Brown St, Bunnells Ave,
Burgess St, Burke St, Butlers Ln, Byrd St, Byron Ct, Byrum Ln, Cale St, Calvert
St, Camden Ave, Camellia Dr, Capital Trace, Captains Ct, Cardinal Way, Cardwell
St, Carolina Ave, Carver St, Catalina Ave, Cedar Point Cir, Cedar St, Celeste
St, Center Cross Dr, Center St, Chalk St, Chancey Dr, Chapel St, Charles St,
Chesson St, Chestnut St, Church St, City Center Blvd, Cobb St, Cohoon St,
College St, Colonial Ave, Commercial Blvd, Compass Dr, Conlon Way, Cooke St,
Corsair Cir, Crescent Dr, Crohns Dr, Culpepper St, Cypress St, Dance St, Davis
Ave, Dawson St, Debry Ln, Delaware Ave, Douglas St, Dunstan Ln, Dyer St, Edge
St, Edgewood Dr, Elcinoca Dr, Eleuthera Way, Elliot St, Ensanada Dr, Etheridge
St, Factory St, Fairfax Ave, Fairlead Dr, Fairway Terr, Fearing St, Fifth St,
First St, Fleetwood St, Flora St, Forrest Dr, Fourth St, Francis St, Franklin
St, Ft Bragg Dr, Galera Ct, Garden St, Glade St, Golf Club Dr, Goodwin Ave,
Gosnold Ave, Grace Dr, Grady St, Grand View Dr, Green Run Ct, Greenleaf St,
Gregory St, Grice St, Griffin St, Grove St, Hampton Dr, Harding St, Hariot Dr,
Harney St, Harrell St, Harris Dr, Hastings Ln, Hemlock St, Herrington Rd,
Highland Ave, Hoffler St, Hoggard St, Holly St, Honeysuckle Dr, Hopkins Dr,
Horner St, Hull Dr, Hummingbird Way, Hunnicut Ave, Hunter St, Hyman Cir, Ida
Acres Dr, Inagua Ct, Jail Rd, Jefferson St, Jessica St, Jones Ave, Jordan St,
Kaitlyn Way, Kathryn Ct, Knobbs Creek Dr, Kramer St, Kristin St, Kylers Way,
Lane St, Laurel Ave, LeJune Ct, Lexington Dr, Lighthouse Dr, Lincoln St, Locust
St, Lowe St, Lowry St, Mac Dr, Mackey Dr, Madison St, Madrin Ln, Madrin St,
Magnolia St, Main St, Maple St, Martin Luther King Jr Dr, Maryland Ave,
Massachusetts Ave, McArthur Dr, McMorrine St, McPherson Crossing, McPherson St,
Meadowlark Ln, Medical Dr, Meekins St, Midgett Dr, Millbrooke Cir, Mimosa Ln,
Mitchell Dr, Moore St, Morgan St, Morrisette Ave, Moseley St, Nance Ct, New
Jersey Ave, New York Ave, Newby St, Newport Ave, Normal Ave, Nugget Trail Dr,
Oakwood Ln, Old Oak Dr, Overman Cir, Pallister Ct, Panama St, Park Dr, Park St,
Parkwood Dr, Parsonage St, Paxton St, Pearl St, Penny Dr, Perguimans Ave, Perry
St, Persse St, Pleasant Dr, Poindexter St, Pool St, Powell Ct, Preyer Ave,
Price St, Pritchard St, Providence Cir, Providence Rd, Queen St, Raintree Run,
Raleigh St, Ranch Dr, Ray St, Red Cedar Run, Renaissance Cir, Renaissance Dr,
Rhode Island Ave, Rich Blvd, Richardson St, Ridgefield Dr, Ridley St, Riley Dr,
River Breeze Ct, Rivershore Rd, Riverside Ave, Robinson St, Rochelle Dr,
Rosebud Ave, Rosedale Dr, Rosewood Ave, Russell Ln, Salem Dr, Sam Davis St,
Sanford Dr, Sawyer St, Schwarzkopf Dr, Scott St, Second St, Selden St,
Shadowwood St, Shannon St, Shephard St, Shiloh St, Shirley St, Simpson St,
Sixth St, Speed St, Spellman St, Springvale St, Spruce St, St. Helen Dr,
Stallings Ct, Starboard Ct, State Ln, Summerfield Dr, Summerfield St, Sundown
Dr, Sunset Cir, Sutton Dr, Sycamore Ln, Tanglewood Pkwy, Tanglewood Pkwy South,
Tanner Ct, Tatem Ln, Third St, Tidewater Way, Timber Trl, Tonto Ct, Tuscarora
Ave, Villa Dr, Virginia St, Williams Cir, Walker Ave, Walnut St, Walston St,
Ward St, Wareham St, Warren Way, Washington St, Weeks St, Wesley Dr, West City
Dr, Westover St, White St, Williams Cir, Willow St, Willow Way, Wilson St,
Windermere Dr, Windfield Dr, Winston St, Witherspoon St, Wood St, Woodruff Ave,
and York St.
(2005 Code, § 46-52)  (Ord. passed 8-3-1992; Ord. passed 2-1-1993; Ord. 2011-
12, passed 11-28-2011; Ord. 2014-03-2, passed 3-10-2014; Ord. 2016-05-01,
passed 5-23-2016; Ord. 2016-08-03, passed 8-22-2016)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Speed limits, see G.S. § 20-141
§ 71.02  STOP WHEN TRAFFIC OBSTRUCTED AT INTERSECTION.
   No driver shall enter an intersection or marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle he or she is operating without obstructing the passage
of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic-control
indication to proceed.
(2005 Code, § 46-53)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.03  EMERGING FROM ALLEYS, DRIVEWAYS OR BUILDINGS.
   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall
stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or area
extending across an alleyway or driveway and shall yield the right-of-way to
any pedestrian as may be necessary to avoid collision and the person entering
the roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on said
roadway.
(2005 Code, § 46-54)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.04  ENTERING, LEAVING PARKING LOTS.
   No person in the operation of any motor vehicle upon the streets of the city
shall cause same to be turned from the streets of such city into any public
parking lot owned or operated by such city, except at such entrances to such
parking lots as are designated. No person shall operate a motor vehicle from
any such parking lot into the streets of the city, except through exits as
designated.
(2005 Code, § 46-55)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.05  U-TURNS.
   No driver of a vehicle shall turn such vehicle so as to proceed in the
opposite direction upon the street on which he or she is traveling; that is to
say, it shall be unlawful for any driver of a vehicle to make a U-turn on any
street.
(2005 Code, § 46-57)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.06  ONE-WAY STREETS.
   No person shall operate a vehicle on a street designated by an ordinance and
a sign as a one-way street, except in the direction indicated.
(2005 Code, § 46-58)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 20-165.1
§ 71.07  DRIVING THROUGH FUNERAL OR OTHER PROCESSIONS.
   No driver of a vehicle shall drive between the vehicles comprising a funeral
or other authorized procession while they are in motion and when such vehicles
are conspicuously designated as required in this chapter. This provision shall
not apply at intersections where traffic is controlled by traffic-control
signals or police officers.
(2005 Code, § 46-59)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.08  DRIVERS IN PROCESSION.
   Each driver in a funeral or other procession shall drive as near to the
right-hand edge of the roadway as practical and shall follow the vehicle ahead
as close as is practical and safe and shall while in such procession, operate
his or her vehicle with its headlights illuminated, if so equipped, and its
hazard warning signal lamps illuminated, if so equipped.
(2005 Code, § 46-60)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 20-157.1
§ 71.09  RESTRICTIONS ON OPERATING CERTAIN COMMERCIAL TRUCKS.
   (A)   When signs are erected to give notice thereof, no person shall operate
any commercial vehicle exceeding two and one-half tons gross weight, at any
time, upon any of the streets or parts of the streets so designated; except
that, such vehicle may be operated thereon for the purpose of delivering or
picking up material or merchandise and then only by entering such street at the
intersection nearest the destination of the vehicle and proceeding no further
than the nearest intersection thereafter.
   (B)   No through trucks shall be permitted on State Road 1164 between
Ehringhaus Street and Asbury Drive, also known as portions of Water Street,
Southern Avenue, Parkview Drive and River Road, in concurrence with North
Carolina Department of Transportation Ordinance Number 1070467 (Pasquotank
County, Division I). For purposes of this division, TRUCK shall mean any motor
vehicle designed, used or maintained primarily for the transportation of
property, including “truck tractors,” “road tractors,” “trailers,” “semi-
trailer,” “pole trailers,” and “special mobile equipment.” A person commits an
offense under this division if the person willingly operates a truck between
Ehringhaus Street and Asbury Drive, unless said truck is an authorized
emergency truck or the road is the only route to a destination. Any person who
shall violate any provision of this division shall be fined an amount pursuant
to G.S. § 7A-148. Each violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(2005 Code, § 46-61; Ord. 2016-04-02, passed 4-25-2016)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.10  PERSONS RIDING VEHICLE MUST STAY INSIDE.
   No person when riding shall allow any part of his or her body to protrude
beyond the limits of the vehicle in which he or she is riding, except to give
such signals as are by law required, and no person shall stand on any vehicle
whatsoever.
(2005 Code, § 46-62)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.11  DRIVING ON SIDEWALK.
   A driver of a vehicle shall not drive within any sidewalk area, except at a
permanent or temporary driveway where the movement of the vehicle is into or
out of a driveway, alley or building.
(2005 Code, § 46-63)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 20-160
§ 71.12  OPERATION OF MOPEDS AND OTHER GASOLINE PROPELLED CONTRAPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall operate or cause to be operated his or her moped, as
defined in G.S. § 105-164.3(22), or any other gasoline propelled contraption in
any city park or recreational area or on property owned by the city other than
on the public streets of the city. When operated on city public streets, mopeds
shall be properly licensed by the North Carolina Department of Motor Vehicles
However, nothing herein shall prohibit the use of city-owned equipment in the
maintenance of such areas.
   (B)   No person shall operate or cause to be operated a moped or other
gasoline propelled contraption at any place within the city after the hour of
9:30 p.m., except upon the public streets of the city.
(2005 Code, § 46-64)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 72:  PARKING RULES
Section
   
72.01   General prohibition in specified places
   
72.02   Parking motor vehicle for more than seven days prohibited
   
72.03   Parking unlicensed motor vehicles on streets prohibited
   
72.04   Compliance with signs
   
72.05   Distance from curb
   
72.06   Parking across driveways
   
72.07   Parking in fire safety zone
   
72.08   Designation of parking spaces
   
72.09   Handicapped parking spaces and public loading zones
   
72.10   Standing in public loading zones
   
72.11   Standing in freight curb loading zones
   
72.12   Designation of public carrier stops and stands
   
72.13   Use of bus and taxicab stands
   
72.14   Vehicles of two and one-half tons or greater capacity on residential
streets
   
72.15   Parking of campers, trailers, boats and the like on city streets
prohibited
   
72.16   Method of parking
   
72.17   Parking on city right-of-way between the curbline and the sidewalk
prohibited
   
72.18   Removal of unauthorized vehicles from private lots
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Impoundment, see §§
70.55 through
70.59
Statutory reference:
   Parking, see G.S. § 20-162
   Violation of local parking ordinance, see G.S. Ch. 144(b)
§ 72.01  GENERAL PROHIBITION IN SPECIFIED PLACES.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic, or in compliance with other provisions of
this traffic code, or at the direction of a police officer or traffic-control
device, in any of the following places:
   (A)   On a sidewalk;
   (B)   In front of a public or private driveway;
   (C)   Within an intersection;
   (D)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
   (E)   On a crosswalk;
   (F)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk or intersection;
   (G)   Within 30 feet of the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign or
traffic-control signal located overhead or at the side of a roadway;
   (H)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and on the
side of the street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75 feet of
the entrance;
   (I)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge of
the curb of a street; or
   (J)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a street.
(2005 Code, § 46-114)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02  PARKING MOTOR VEHICLE FOR MORE THAN SEVEN DAYS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park or cause to be parked a motor vehicle upon any street
of the city at any one location for a continuous period of longer than seven
days.
(2005 Code, § 46-115)  (Motion passed 2-1-1993)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03  PARKING UNLICENSED MOTOR VEHICLES ON STREETS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park or cause to be parked upon any street of the city a
motor vehicle which has not been duly licensed according to the laws of the
state and the city or on which a currently valid license is not clearly
exhibited.
(2005 Code, § 46-116)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04  COMPLIANCE WITH SIGNS.
   (A)   No person shall park or cause to be parked a vehicle on the street or
parts of streets, or on any designated parking area owned, leased or maintained
by the city, where signs prohibit such or in violation of lawful time
limitations.
   (B)   Time limitations apply not only to individual spaces, but to any space
that has a time limitation located in the block where the vehicle is parked.
   (C)   Parking prohibited in designated places. When signs are placed,
erected or installed, giving notice thereof, or the curbing has been painted
yellow in lieu of such signs, no person shall park a vehicle at any time upon
any of the streets or portions of streets described in the city prohibited
parking traffic schedule, which is incorporated herein by reference and may be
amended from time to time by the City Council.
(2005 Code, § 46-117)  (Ord. passed 7-11-1994; Ord. passed 9-11-1995; Ord.
2017-01-02, passed 1-9-2017)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05  DISTANCE FROM CURB.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a roadway other than parallel
with the edge of the roadway headed in the direction of lawful traffic movement
and with the right-hand wheels of the vehicle within 18 inches of the curb or
edge of the roadway; provided, the following parking shall be lawful.
   (A)   Angular parking. Angular parking in marked spaces designated by the
City Manager shall be permitted in the areas designated by ordinance.
   (B)   One-way streets. Parking parallel to the roadway heading in the
direction of lawful movement with the left-hand or right-hand wheels of the
vehicle within 18 inches of the curb or edge of the roadway shall be lawful on
one-way streets unless parking is otherwise restricted on one or both sides.
(2005 Code, § 46-118)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06  PARKING ACROSS DRIVEWAYS.
   No person shall park or cause to be parked any vehicle of any kind across
any driveway or alley.
(2005 Code, § 46-119)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.07  PARKING IN FIRE SAFETY ZONE.
   (A)   No person shall park or cause to be parked any motor vehicle or other
vehicle or contraption or to allow same to stand in any area marked “Fire
Safety Zone - No Parking”.
   (B)   Any motor vehicle, contraption or other vehicle left parked or
standing in a fire safety zone may be towed away and the cost of such towing
and storage charged to the owner thereof as the condition for the release of
same to the owner. The owner’s permission to the driver of the vehicle to drive
same shall constitute the owner’s consent that same may be towed away and of
the owner’s consent to pay such charges.
   (C)   The charges set forth in this section shall be in addition to such
fines as may be levied by the court after warrant duly issued.
(2005 Code, § 46-120)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.08  DESIGNATION OF PARKING SPACES.
   The designation of parking spaces shall be as established by the City
Manager.
(2005 Code, § 46-121)
§ 72.09  HANDICAPPED PARKING SPACES AND PUBLIC LOADING ZONES.
   The City Manager is hereby authorized to determine the location of
handicapped parking spaces and public loading zones and freight curb loading
zones and shall place and maintain appropriate signs indicating the same, and
stating the hours during which the provisions of this section are applicable.
(2005 Code, § 46-122)
§ 72.10  STANDING  IN  PUBLIC LOADING ZONES.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or period of
time other than for the expeditious loading or unloading of passengers or
materials in any place marked as a public loading zone during hours when the
regulations applicable to such public loading zone are effective.
(2005 Code, § 46-123)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.11  STANDING IN FREIGHT CURB LOADING ZONES.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or length of
time other than for the expeditious unloading or delivery or pickup and loading
of materials in any place marked as a freight curb loading zone during hours
when the provisions applicable to such zone are in effect. No stop for loading
and unloading of materials shall exceed 30 minutes.
(2005 Code, § 46-124)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.12  DESIGNATION OF PUBLIC CARRIER STOPS AND STANDS.
   The City Manager shall establish bus stops, bus stands, taxicab stands and
stands for other common carrier passenger motor vehicles on such public streets
in such places and in such number as he or she shall determine to be of the
greatest benefit and convenience to the public and every such bus stop, bus
stand, taxicab stand or other stand shall be designated by appropriate signs.
(2005 Code, § 46-125)
§ 72.13  USE OF BUS AND TAXICAB STANDS.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle other than a bus at a bus stop
or other than a taxicab at a taxicab stand, except a driver of a passenger
vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of, and while actually
engaged in, loading or unloading passengers when such stopping does not
interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter or about to enter the zone.
(2005 Code, § 46-126)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.14  VEHICLES OF TWO AND ONE-HALF TONS OR GREATER CAPACITY ON RESIDENTIAL
STREETS.
   No person shall park or cause to be parked within the corporate limits of
the city any vehicle of two and one-half tons or greater capacity on any public
street located within a residentially zoned district, as defined in the city's
Unified Development Ordinance. Any and all emergency/disaster relief equipment
which requires overnight parking may be exempted by direction of the City
Manager.
(2005 Code, § 46-127)  (Ord. passed 3-2-1998)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.15  PARKING OF CAMPERS, TRAILERS, BOATS AND THE LIKE ON CITY STREETS
PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or cause to be parked any boat
trailer or any boat and trailer or any recreational vehicle, camper or similar
type of vehicle containing sleeping arrangements, excluding vans and pick-ups
with attached campers, upon any public street of the city at one location for
more than three hours.
(2005 Code, § 46-128)  (Ord. passed 5-6-1991)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.16  METHOD OF PARKING.
   Except when necessary in obedience to traffic regulation or traffic signal
or the direction of a traffic officer, it shall be unlawful for the driver of a
vehicle to park such vehicle in a highway, street or roadway other than
parallel with the edge of the roadway, street or highway headed in the
direction of traffic, and with the curbside wheels of the vehicle within 12
inches of the edge of the road or curb.
(2005 Code, § 46-129)  (Ord. passed 9-8-1997)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.17  PARKING ON CITY RIGHT-OF-WAY BETWEEN THE CURBLINE AND THE SIDEWALK
PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a vehicle to stop, stand or park such
vehicle on any landscaped or grassy planted area within the right-of-way of any
street, highway or roadway within the city, except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or with the direction of a police officer or
traffic signal.
(2005 Code, § 46-130)  (Ord. passed 9-8-1997)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.18  REMOVAL OF UNAUTHORIZED VEHICLES FROM PRIVATE LOTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person other than the owner or lessee of a
privately owned or leased parking space to park a motor or other vehicle in
such private parking space without the expressed permission of the owner or
lessee of such space; provided that, such private parking lot be clearly
designated as such by a sign no smaller than 24 inches by 24 inches prominently
displayed at the entrance thereto and the parking spaces within the lot be
clearly marked by signs indicating the name of the owner or lessee; a vehicle
parked in a privately owned parking space in violation of this section may be
cited by a parking violation notice for a violation of this chapter or removed
from such space upon the request of the parking space owner or lessee to a
place of storage and the registered owner of such motor vehicle shall become
liable for removal and storage charges. Any person who removes a vehicle
pursuant to this section shall not be held liable for damages for the removal
of the vehicle to the owner, lienholder or other person legally entitled to the
possession of the vehicle removed; however, any person who intentionally or
negligently damages a vehicle in the removal of such vehicle, or intentionally
or negligently inflicts injury upon any person in the removal of such vehicle,
may be held liable for damages.
(2005 Code, § 46-131)  (Ord. passed 3-6-1995)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be permitted
to voluntarily pay a penalty of $5, or a penalty to be set from time to time by
the City Council within ten days of the date of the offense for the violation
of this chapter and, upon payment thereof, shall not be taken with warrant and
placed upon trial for the violation of the chapter. A fine, as authorized by
G.S. § 20-37.6, shall be paid for illegally parking in a space reserved for the
handicapped. All moneys so received, when warrant is not issued and trial of
the accused is not had, shall be paid into the General Fund of the city.
(2005 Code, § 46-113)
   (B)   For a first offense of §
72.15 of this chapter, the fine shall be $10; for a second offense within 30
days of a first offense, the fine shall be $20; for a third offense within 30
days of a first offense, the fine shall be $40.
(2005 Code, § 46-128)
(Ord. passed 5-6-1991; Ord. passed 5-3-1993; Ord. passed 1-5-1998)
CHAPTER 73:  RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Bicycles
   
73.01   Applicability
   
73.02   Application of traffic laws to bicycle operators
   
73.03   Approaching sidewalk or entering roadway
   
73.04   Lights at night
   
73.05   Brakes
   
73.06   Riding on sidewalks
   
73.07   Responsibilities of parent, guardian
BICYCLES
§ 73.01  APPLICABILITY.
   The regulations of this subchapter shall apply whenever a bicycle is
operated upon any street, sidewalk or avenue within the city limits. As used in
this chapter, a BICYCLE is defined as a nonmotorized vehicle with two or three
wheels tandem, a steering handle, one or two saddle seats, and pedals by which
the vehicle is propelled.
(2005 Code, § 46-153)
§ 73.02  APPLICATION OF TRAFFIC LAWS TO BICYCLE OPERATORS.
   (A)   Every person riding a bicycle upon a public way shall be granted all
rights and shall be subject to all the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by the laws of the state and applicable to ordinances of the city,
except as to special regulations in this subchapter and except as to those
provisions of laws and ordinances which, by their nature, can have no
application.
   (B)   Pursuant to G.S. § 20-171.9 with regard to any bicycle used on a
public roadway, public bicycle path, or other public right-of-way:
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any parent or legal guardian of a person
below the age of 16 to knowingly permit that person to operate or be a
passenger on a bicycle unless at all times when the person is so engaged that
he or she wears a protective bicycle helmet that meets or exceeds impact
standards set by the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) of good fit
fastened securely upon the head with the straps of the helmet.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any parent or legal guardian of a person
below the age of 16 to knowingly permit that person to be a passenger on a
bicycle unless all of the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The person is able to maintain an erect, seated position on the
bicycle;
         (b)   Except as provided in subdivision (c) of this section, the
person is properly seated alone on a saddle seat (as on a tandem bicycle);
         (c)   With respect to any person who weighs less than 40 pounds, or is
less than 40 inches in height, the person can be and is properly seated in and
adequately secured to a restraining seat.
(2005 Code, § 46-154)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 20-171
§ 73.03  APPROACHING SIDEWALK OR ENTERING ROADWAY.
   The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley, driveway or building
shall, upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area extending across any
alleyway, yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians approaching on the sidewalk
or sidewalk area and, upon entering the roadway, yield the right-of-way to all
vehicles approaching on the roadway.
(2005 Code, § 46-155)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.04  LIGHTS AT NIGHT.
   Every bicycle operated on any street or sidewalk in the city during the
period from 30 minutes after sunset to 30 minutes before sunrise shall display
at least one white light visible for a distance of at least 300 feet to the
front and a red light or reflector on the rear visible for a distance of at
least 200 feet.
(2005 Code, § 46-156)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.05  BRAKES.
   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will enable the operator
to make the braked wheel lock on the application thereof.
(2005 Code, § 46-157)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.06  RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk within the central
business district.
   (B)   No person 15 or more years of age shall ride a bicycle upon any
sidewalk in any district.
(2005 Code, § 46-158)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.07  RESPONSIBILITIES OF PARENT, GUARDIAN.
   No parent of any child or guardian of any ward shall authorize or knowingly
permit any such child or ward to violate any of the provisions of this traffic
code.
(2005 Code, § 46-159)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 74:  RAILROADS
Section
   
74.01   Council permission to build on street, alley
   
74.02   Crossings to be kept in good repair
   
74.03   Maintenance of ditches
   
74.04   Parking railroad cars at certain areas
   
74.05   Duty on approach of fire trucks/emergency medical vehicles
   
74.06   Jumping on and off trains
   
74.07   Playing about railroad tracks
Federal law reference:
   Political subdivisions preempted from enacting most railroad speed and
safety regulations, Federal Railroad Safety Act, see 49 U.S.C. §§ 20106 et seq.
   Federal law preempts local provisions governing locomotive horn use at most
public highway-rail grade crossings, see 49 C.F.R. § 222.7
Statutory reference:
   Breaking into railroad cars, see G.S. §§ 14-56 and 14-161
   Disorderly conduct at railroad station, see G.S. § 14-275.1
   Imitation railroad signal, see G.S. § 14-386
   Injury to railroad property, see G.S. §§ 14-278 et seq.
   Motor vehicles at crossings, see G.S. §§ 20-142 et seq.
   Powers of cities as to railroad crossings, see G.S. § 160A-295
   Railroads generally, see G.S. §§ 62-220 et seq.
   Shooting or throwing at trains, passengers, see G.S. § 14-280
   Train robbery, see G.S. § 14-88
§ 74.01  COUNCIL PERMISSION TO BUILD ON STREET, ALLEY.
   No railroad company within the city limits shall be allowed to construct,
lay or attempt to lay any sidetracks or switches on or across any street or
alley without first obtaining permission from the City Council.
(2005 Code, § 62-1)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.02  CROSSINGS TO BE KEPT IN GOOD REPAIR.
   Every railroad company whose tracks cross any street within the city limits
shall fix and keep in good repair and condition the crossing in the space
covered by its right-of-way in accordance with the directions of the City
Manager, or his or her proper appointee. No person shall fail to comply with
any provisions or requirements of this section for a period of longer than ten
days after notice from the City Manager that repairs to a crossing are
required.
(2005 Code, § 62-2)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.03  MAINTENANCE OF DITCHES.
   Every railroad company whose tracks extend within the city limits shall keep
the ditches and gutters on both sides of and between tracks on its right-of-way
clear of grass, weeds, trash, garbage and filth of every kind; and such shall
be graded so that water will not stand, or become stagnant in ditches, or along
tracks.
(2005 Code, § 62-3)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.04  PARKING RAILROAD CARS AT CERTAIN AREAS.
   (A)   North Road Street. No railroad company, agent or employee shall leave
or park any coach, car, gondola, tender or engine within 50 feet of either side
of North Road Street, where the railroad crosses the street.
(2005 Code, § 62-4)
   (B)   West Main Street. No railroad company, agent or employee shall leave
or park any coach, car, gondola, tender or engine within 50 feet of either side
of West Main Street, where the railroad crosses the street.
(2005 Code, § 62-5)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.05  DUTY ON APPROACH OF FIRE TRUCKS/EMERGENCY MEDICAL VEHICLES.
   All railroad companies, and the engineers and employees of all railroad
companies in the city, when any engine, train or cars are across or on any
street, upon the approach of the firefighters or any fire vehicle or the
approach of any emergency medical vehicle, upon sounding a siren/alarm, shall
disconnect or remove the cars or train and clear the street crossing
immediately and allow the firefighters and vehicles to pass without any delay.
(2005 Code, § 62-6)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.06  JUMPING ON AND OFF TRAINS.
   No person, except railroad employees on duty, shall catch hold of or get on
or off any railroad car, engine or train, while the same is in motion.
(2005 Code, § 62-7)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.07  PLAYING ABOUT RAILROAD TRACKS.
   No person shall play or loiter about the railroad tracks, shops or depots
within the city limits.
(2005 Code, § 62-8)  Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
92.   DOCKS, WHARVES AND HARBORS
      
93.   CEMETERIES
      
94.   PARADES, PICKETS AND PUBLIC GATHERINGS
      
95.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
96.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
CHAPTER 90:  ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Hives
   
90.02   Cows
   
90.03   Hogs
   
90.04   Poultry
   
90.05   Horses, ponies, mules, burros, donkeys
   
90.06   Limit on number of animals
   
90.07   Pens to be sanitary
   
90.08   Feeding or running hogs, sheep, goats, cattle
   
90.09   Hitching animals
   
90.10   Impoundment and disposition of animals at large or hitched
   
90.11   Shooting animals
   
90.12   Cruelty to beasts of burden
   
90.13   Commercial breeding
   
90.14   Feral cats
Dogs
   
90.25   Dog(s) creating nuisance
   
90.26   Impoundment of dogs running at large
   
90.27   Rabies examination
   
90.28   Vaccination for rabies
   
90.29   Adequate food, water, shelter and proper restraint, when used
   
90.30   Animal sanitation
   
90.31   Cruelty to animals
   
90.32   Hunting of animals
Dangerous Dogs
   
90.45   Definitions
   
90.46   Application; exceptions
   
90.47   Reporting requirements
   
90.48   Determination that dog is dangerous, potentially dangerous or vicious
   
90.49   Registration required
   
90.50   Permit required
   
90.51   Regulation of potentially dangerous or dangerous dogs; security and
restraint requirements
   
90.52   Impoundment of potentially dangerous, dangerous and vicious dogs
   
90.53   Administration
 
   
90.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Animal shelters, see G.S. § 160A-493
   City authority to regulate domestic animals, see G.S. § 160A-186
   City authority to regulate or prohibit animals dangerous to person or
property, see G.S. § 160A-187
   Dogs generally, see G.S. Ch. 67
   License tax, see G.S. § 160A-212
   Rabies, see G.S. §§ 130A-184 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01  HIVES.
   (A)   Location of hives and other enclosures. No person shall locate,
construct, reconstruct, alter, maintain or use any hives or other enclosures
for the purpose of keeping any bees on any lot or parcel of land within the
city limits unless every part of such hive or enclosure is located at least 75
feet from any dwelling located on adjoining property. Any and all hives shall
be placed at ground level or securely attached to an anchor or stand. If the
hive is securely attached to an anchor or stand, the city may permit the anchor
or stand to be permanently attached to a roof surface.
   (B)   Number of hives or colonies. Up to five hives shall be permitted on a 
single parcel within the land use planning jurisdiction of the city. The hives
or other enclosures shall be at least 15 feet from any adjoining property line.
On lots larger than 15,000 square feet, additional hives or other enclosures
will be permitted on the basis of one hive or other enclosure for each 5,000
square feet in excess of 15,000 square feet.
   (C)   Type of bees. This section shall pertain only to honey bees maintained
in movable frame hives or enclosures and it does not authorize the presence of
hives or enclosures with non-movable frames or feral honeybee colonies
(honeybees in trees, sides of houses and the like) which shall be unlawful
under this section.
   (D)   Restrictions on manipulating bees. The hives or colonies or enclosures
of bees may not be manipulated between the hours of sunset and sunrise unless
the hives or enclosures are being moved to or from another location.
   (E)   Water source. No person shall establish or maintain any hive or other
enclosure for purposes of keeping bees upon any lot within the city limits
unless an independent water source is established and continuously maintained
for the hive or other enclosure upon the same property on which the hive or
other enclosure is located.
   (F)   The city may require removal of the hive if the owner no longer
maintains the hive or if removal is necessary to protect the health, safety,
and welfare of the public.
   (G)   For purposes of this section, the term HIVE has the same definition as
in G.S. § 106-635(15).
(2005 Code, § 6-1)  (Ord. passed 3-4-1985; Ord. 2017-03-01, passed 3-27-2017) 
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02  COWS.
   No person shall keep or maintain any cow or other cattle within the city
limits.
(2005 Code, § 6-2)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03  HOGS.
   (A)   No person shall keep any pig or hog within the city limits; nor shall
any person keep any pig or hog within 500 feet of any cemetery or within 500
feet outside the city limits.
   (B)   Should any annexation by the city bring any hog in any existing hog
sty into the area regulated by this section, the owner of such hog shall come
into compliance with this section within six months of the date of annexation.
This section shall not be construed to permit any person to bring any hog into
such annexed area or within 500 feet thereof after the date of annexation.
(2005 Code, § 6-3)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04  POULTRY.
   (A)   No person shall permit ducks, geese, chickens or other poultry to
remain on or in any of the streets or public places of the city at any time.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain on any
premises or lot within the city any rooster, duck, goose or other such bird or
fowl that by loud and habitual crowing, quacking or honking or in any other
manner constitutes a public nuisance. Failure to abate such nuisance within two
days after written notice to do so from the Code Enforcement Officer shall be
unlawful and shall be punishable as a misdemeanor at the discretion of the
court.
(2005 Code, § 6-4)  Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Hatcheries, see G.S. §§ 106-541 et seq.
§ 90.05  HORSES, PONIES, MULES, BURROS, DONKEYS.
   (A)   No person shall cause a horse, pony, mule, burro or donkey to be
brought into or kept in any manner in the city.
   (B)   This shall not prevent the transportation of such animals through the
city while in transit on the public thoroughfares of the city in the normal
flow of traffic.
   (C)   Any such animal which is stabled within the city as of 3-5-1973, and
the issue of any such animal born within 335 days from 3-5-1973, may continue
to be stabled or kept within the city for the lifetime of such animal or the
lifetime of the issue born within the above described time; provided, however,
that, the following conditions are continuously complied with as a continuing
condition for permitting such animal to continue to remain in the city.
      (1)   The owner of such animal must register same with the Chief of
Police and receive a permit therefor from the Chief of Police within 30 days
from the date of the adoption of this section or within 30 days of the birth of
such permitted issue. The registration and permit shall set forth the age,
markings and such other identifying data as would permit the identification of
such animal.
      (2)   All sanitary and other regulations contained in this section and
pertaining to grazing animals shall be continuously complied with.
      (3)   The permit shall be shown to any police officer or public official
upon demand.
   (D)   If any animal enumerated in this section is brought into the city
limits by action of the city in enlarging such limits, then such animal and its
offspring born within 335 days of such annexation may be kept if the owner
thereof complies with divisions (C)(1) through (C)(3) above within 30 days of
the annexation.
   (E)   If the City Council, after notice to an owner, should find that the
conditions above are not complied with by the owner within 24 hours, or if the
City Council shall find it necessary to issue more than one notice, then the
permit shall be revoked.
   (F)   Nothing contained in this section shall prohibit the stabling of race
horses in and at a harness racetrack existing within the city limits on 4-15-
1980, for the life of such race horses being there stabled as of 4-15-1980, nor
to prevent race horses being carried to and from such existing track and
stabled there during the racing sessions at such track and for a period of 48
hours prior to such session and for a period of 24 hours after such session.
(2005 Code, § 6-5)  (Ord. passed 3-5-1973; Ord. passed 4-15-1980)  Penalty, see
§
90.99
§ 90.06  LIMIT ON NUMBER OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall keep more than three animals at any given time within
a residence or other enclosed space and/or in any yard or lot within the city,
in order to protect the public health, safety and welfare.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to bees, nor to any poultry, nor to any
animal under the age of five months.
(2005 Code, § 6-6; Ord. 2016-09-12, passed 9-26-2016)  Penalty, see § 
90.99
§ 90.07  PENS TO BE SANITARY.
   (A)   All animals kept within the city shall be kept in a clean and sanitary
confine and shall be kept in such a manner as not to be injurious to the public
welfare, safety and health of persons living in the community.
   (B)   No grazing animal shall be permitted to graze within 25 feet of any
adjoining property line. The stable or building in which such animal is housed
shall not be located closer than 40 feet to any adjoining property line.
   (C)   There shall not be allowed to be accumulated more than two days’ dung,
waste or litter in any cage, pen, building or running and grazing area; every
cage, pen, building or running and grazing area shall be thoroughly cleaned of
much other refuse at least every four days. Sufficient disinfectant,
insecticide and deodorant shall be applied every day or as needed in order to
prevent the accumulation of insects and the creation of odors.
(2005 Code, § 6-7; Ord. 2016-09-12, passed 9-26-2016)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08  FEEDING OR RUNNING HOGS, SHEEP, GOATS, CATTLE.
   (A)   No person who is the owner of, or who has the custody of, any hog,
sheep, goat or cattle of any kind shall allow the same to run at large within
the city limits. No person shall stake or otherwise fasten any such animal for
grazing or other purposes, on or in any of the streets, sidewalks, parks,
squares or cemeteries of the city; nor shall any person feed any such animal
upon or in any of the streets, sidewalks, cemeteries, parks or squares of the
city.
   (B)   No person shall graze or tie up on any vacant lot, within 50 feet of
any dwelling or street within the city, any animal enumerated in this section.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to permit the staking,
tying, feeding or grazing within the city of any animal forbidden by this
section to be within the city.
(2005 Code, § 6-8)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.09  HITCHING ANIMALS.
   No person shall hitch any animal to any of the trees, lampposts, electric
light or power or telephone or telegraph poles, mailboxes, wires or hydrants
owned by the city or permitted by the city to be erected on or in any of the
streets, sidewalks, squares or parks of the city.
(2005 Code, § 6-9)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.10  IMPOUNDMENT AND DISPOSITION OF ANIMALS AT LARGE OR HITCHED.
   (A)   Any animal named in this chapter which is found running at large or
staked, hitched or fastened in violation of the provisions of this chapter
shall be seized and impounded by the Chief of Police or his designee.
   (B)   Whenever a police officer shall find any feral/vicious animal (which
includes any animal that has been separated from domestication), except a dog
loose or running at large in the streets or other public places in the city,
the officer shall take up such animal and put same in pens or lots kept for
such purposes, and to notify the owner, if known. After three days’
impoundment, such animal, if not claimed by its owner, shall be disposed of in
any humane manner in the discretion of the Chief of Police or his designee.
(2005 Code, § 6-10)  (Ord. 08-03-11, passed 3-24-2008; Ord. 2016-09-12, passed
9-26-2016)
Statutory reference:
   Impoundment of livestock, see G.S. §§ 68-17 et seq.
§ 90.11  SHOOTING ANIMALS.
   No person shall shoot any animal within city limits. This section shall not
limit police action in the case of rabid dogs or any other animal which poses
an imminent danger to any person.
(2005 Code, § 6-11)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.12  CRUELTY TO BEASTS OF BURDEN.
   For purposes of this section, BEASTS OF BURDEN is defined as a draught
animal that carries or pulls heavy loads, such as a donkey, mule, llama, camel
or ox; and by extension, any domesticated animal trained to perform tasks for
humans, such as a herding dog.
   (A)   No person shall mistreat, drive or work, or allow to be worked, any
beast of burden that is physically disabled for labor or work. The Chief of
Police or his designee shall pass upon the physical condition and fitness of
all beasts of burden for work, and inspect same.
   (B)   No person shall work or allow to be worked any beast of burden, or
compel same to work after having been notified by the police to discontinue or
stop the working of such animal, or after any animal has been condemned.
(2005 Code, § 6-12; Ord. 2016-09-12, passed 9-26-2016)  Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to define and prohibit abuse, see G.S. § 160A-182
   Cruelty to animals, see G.S. §§ 14-360 et seq.
   Protection of animals generally, see G.S. §§ 19A-20 et seq.
§ 90.13  COMMERCIAL BREEDING.
   No animal shall be kept within the city for the purpose of commercial
breeding. Commercial breeding of animals within the city is prohibited.
(2005 Code, § 6-13)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.14  FERAL CATS.
   (A)   Feral cat care giver requirements.
      (1)   The purpose of this section is to provide humane care and oversight
while significantly decreasing the feral cat population within the
jurisdictional boundaries of the city. Equally, the intent is to also maintain
the health, safety and welfare of the citizens and domesticated animals and
pets.
      (2)   A FERAL CAT shall be defined as a domesticated cat that has
returned to the wild, or the descendants of such an animal. It is distinguished
from a stray cat, which is a pet cat that has been lost or abandoned, while
feral cats have never been socialized. The offspring of a stray cat can be
considered feral if born in the wild.
      (3)   Pursuant to the stated purpose of reducing the number of feral cats
in the city, it shall therefore be unlawful for any person to intentionally
provide food, water or other forms of sustenance or care to a feral cat or
feral cat colony unless the person registers as a feral cat care giver with the
local SPCA shelter.
      (4)   A FERAL CAT CARE GIVER is defined as any individual registered to
feed/water feral cats and/or feral cat colonies in existence within the
jurisdictional limits of the city, after having completed proper registration
as defined by the following administrative and operational requirements.
         (a)   Feral cat care givers shall annually register with the local
SPCA shelter, along with their colonies. The local SPCA shelter shall use the
“PetPoint” record keeping system and provide an up-to-date list of all
registered feral cat care givers to the city’s Police Department. At any time,
the Police Department shall have access to the local SPCA shelter fecal cat
records upon request.
         (b)   Written permission authorizing registered feral cat care givers
to go onto a specified property so as to feed/water cats must be obtained from
the respective property owner(s); said documentation must be maintained by the
local SPCA shelter with copy to the city’s Police Department Administration
Division. When acting in a care giver capacity, care givers shall maintain and
carry an identification card, as issued by the SPCA, which will serve as proof
of their registered feral cat care giver status.
         (c)   No location established to feed/water a feral cat or feral cat
colony shall be located within 100 feet of any residentially-zoned district.
         (d)   A standard trap-neuter-release (TNR) form shall be provided by
local SPCA shelter to all feral cat care givers so as to register the cats and
shall be filed at the shelter. The form shall identify all cats by colony being
maintained by the care givers. The SPCA’s TNR program, including trapping, cage
monitoring and cleanup and removal of cat food, shall be overseen and
maintained by officials at the local shelter; and shall be the governing tool
for administering oversight of feral cat colonies in the city.
         (e)   Care givers agree to assume responsibility and make arrangements
for the feeding of their colony throughout the year, including weekends and
holidays.
         (f)   Care givers agree that to avoid nocturnal animals such as
raccoons and opossums, feeding of feral cat colonies shall be restricted to
daylight hours and all food must be removed by 6:00 p.m. (EST). Food can only
be placed at a single feeding station, located in an area not easily accessible
or visible to the public. Food shall be limited to dry kibbles and must be in
plastic containers; no food will be scattered on the pavement in public places.
         (g)   Adoptable cats/kittens shall not be returned to the colony.
Cats/kittens with health issues, such as signs and symptoms of rabies and/or
feline panleukopenia (feline distemper) shall not be returned to any colony and
will be disposed of in accordance with SPCA policy.
         (h)   Photographs of all cats/kittens shall be taken. The information
shall be input into the existing SPCA records keeping system thereby assigning
each cat a location, care giver and ID number. All necessary documentation
shall be kept in one central place, by the local SPCA shelter and shall be
accessible by the city’s Police Department.
         (i)   Registered feral cat care givers agree to assume full
responsibility for the medical care of all of the feral cats they oversee and
will maintain proof of sterilization, vaccination for rabies and distemper and
medical records, as overseen by the SPCA. Feral cats returned to the colony
shall be vaccinated, sterilized (i.e., spayed or neutered) and ear-tipped.
      (5)   Except for food-placed by a registered feral cat care giver, it
shall be unlawful for anyone to place, distribute or allow the placement, or
food, minerals, carrion, trash or similar substances to feed or attract cats.
It shall also be unlawful for anyone, once notified by the city, to continue to
place, distribute or allow the placement of any food, mineral, carrion, trash
or similar substances for any purpose if the placement of these materials
results in the presence of any cats, feral or domesticated. After notification,
such person shall be in violation of the law if the placing, distribution or
presence of such food, minerals, carrion, trash or similar substances continues
and there is evidence of his or her wrongdoing.
      (6)   The city reserves the right to seek removal or destruction of a
feral cat colony or a feral cat if the colony or cat creates a circumstance, in
the opinion of the Chief of Police or his or her designee, which poses or
creates a threat to the health, safety or welfare of the residents of the city
or other domesticated animals within the city. Courtesy notification will be
sent to the local SPCA shelter 24 hours prior to executing this provision of
this section.
      (7)   Feeding and watering of feral cats is prohibited on any property
owned, operated or leased by the city.
   (B)   Annual report documenting number of feral cats/feral cat colonies. In
order to accurately determine the number of feral cats and feral cat colonies
within the city, the SPCA shall provide, in writing, an annual report which
details the numbers of feral cats checked at the shelter; how many cats have
been trapped/neutered/released; and how many unadoptable and sick cats have
been euthanized by the shelter. The annual report for the preceding year shall
be provided to the Police Department by no later than January 30 of any
calendar year.
   (C)   Enforcement. The provisions of this section shall be enforced by the
Animal Control Officer and deputy Animal Control Officers, and may be enforced
by law enforcement officers of the Police Department.
   (D)   Tampering and altering of feral cat traps prohibited. It shall be
unlawful for any person other than law enforcement officers of the city’s
Police Department or the County Sheriff’s office or persons authorized by
either law enforcement organization to tamper, alter, move, transfer, destroy
and/or otherwise interfere with the intended use of traps utilized in the
capture of feral cats within the jurisdictional boundaries of the city.
(Ord. 2015-08-06, passed 8-24-2015)  Penalty, see §
90.99
DOGS
§ 90.25  DOG(S) CREATING NUISANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, possess or maintain
a dog in a manner so as to constitute a nuisance.
   (B)   The actions of a dog constitute a nuisance when the dog disturbs the
rights of, threatens the safety of or damages a member of the general public;
or interferes with the ordinary use and enjoyment of private or public
property. By way of example and not of limitation, the following acts or
actions by an owner or possessor of a dog are hereby declared to be a nuisance
and are therefore unlawful:
      (1)   Maintaining a dog that habitually or repeatedly disturbs,
interferes with or annoys human beings;
      (2)   Maintaining a dog that tips over garbage pails or damages gardens,
flowers or vegetables;
      (3)   Failing to confine in a building or secure enclosure a female dog
while in estrus;
      (4)   Allowing or permitting a dog to bark, whine, howl or yowl in an
excessive, continuous or untimely fashion, or to make other noise continuously
and/or excessively for a period of ten minutes or more, or who barks, bays,
cries, howls or makes any other noise intermittently for one-half hour or more
to the disturbance of any person at any time;
      (5)   It shall not be a violation of this section if at the time the dog
is barking, baying, crying, howling or making any other noise a person is
trespassing or threatening to trespass upon private property in or upon which
the dog is situated or for any legitimate cause which teased or provoked the
dog;
      (6)   Any adult resident, owner, occupant or tenant of property upon
which the dog is situated shall be deemed a person in charge or otherwise
exercising control over the dog;
      (7)   Maintaining a dog that habitually or continuously loiters on public
places;
      (8)   Maintaining a dog that chases, snaps at, attacks or otherwise
molests or threatens pedestrians, bicyclists, motor vehicles passengers or
domestic animals; or
      (9)   Maintaining a dog that is diseased and dangerous to the health of
the public unless under the care of a licensed veterinarian.
   (C)   Upon complaint being made to the Police Department or Sheriff’s
Department or to the Animal Control Officer or their respective
representatives, a representative of the respective department or the Animal
Control Officer shall notify such person against whom the complaint is directed
that a complaint has been received; and, thereupon, such person shall abate the
nuisance within 24 hours from the time of notification.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to abate the
nuisance declared herein within 24 hours from the time of notification.
(2005 Code, § 6-45)  (Ord. passed 12-3-1979; Ord. 2016-09-12, passed 9-26-
2016)  Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Nuisance, see G.S. § 160A-193
§ 90.26  IMPOUNDMENT OF DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   No person shall allow any dog owned by such person or which is placed
in such person’s control or custody to run at large anywhere in the city. Any
dog found upon the streets of the city or in any public place or upon the
property of others, even though licensed by the city or county shall be deemed
to be running at large unless he or she shall be attached to a leash held by
the owner or some other person in whose care the dog is placed. Nothing in this
section is to be construed to prevent the owner of a dog from permitting such
dog to run at large upon such owner’s property or property leased or rented by
the owner; provided that, whether on the owner’s premises or not, the dog shall
be attended at all times by, and under the control, of a competent person, when
off an owner’s premises this includes leashed as required above. A COMPETENT
PERSON being defined as a person of suitable age and discretion to keep a
specific dog under sufficient control in order to prevent harm to the dog, to
persons, to other animals or to property.
   (B)   (1)   All dogs found running at large, as defined in this section,
shall be subject to being picked up by the Animal Control Officer and
impounded.
      (2)   After impounding, the Animal Control Officer shall notify the owner
thereof, if known, as soon as practical. If the owner shall fail to call for
the dog within a period of three days after being so notified and shall fail to
pay a pickup fee for the impounding of the dog together with a per diem amount
for its keep, then the Animal Control Officer shall hold the dog an additional
three days within which time any person may purchase the animal from the dog
pound and, if no purchase is made, then the dog shall be disposed of in a
manner which the Animal Control Officer may deem most expedient and humane and
any monies realized from pickup fees, boarding fees or other fees for
disposition of dogs shall be deposited in the Rabies Control Fund of the
county.
(2005 Code, § 6-45)  (Ord. passed 11-5-2001)  Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Bitch at large, see G.S. § 67-2
   Dog at large at night, see G.S. § 67-12
§ 90.27  RABIES EXAMINATION.
   (A)   When a dog within the city bites any person or animal, the Health
Officer shall have the authority to examine such dog for the purpose of
determining whether he or she has rabies.
   (B)   Upon demand of the Health Officer, the person owning or having the
custody of such dog shall deliver him or her to the Health Officer, who may
impound such dog during such period as may be necessary to determine whether it
has rabies.
   (C)   If the Health Officer finds that such dog has rabies, or any symptoms
thereof, then the Health Officer shall cause such dog to be killed; otherwise,
he or she shall be returned to the person owning him or her or who had the
custody thereof at the time he or she was delivered up for examination.
(2005 Code, § 6-47)
§ 90.28  VACCINATION FOR RABIES.
   (A)   Each owner of a dog shall annually have such dog vaccinated against
rabies by a doctor of veterinary medicine. Such doctor shall furnish a
certificate or tag to the owner of each dog vaccinated. Any person failing to
have his or her dog vaccinated shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Each owner shall show his or her certificate of vaccination upon
demand of the Animal Control Officer or any police officer of the city.
(2005 Code, § 6-48)  Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Time of rabies vaccination, see 10A NCAC 41G.0101
§ 90.29  ADEQUATE FOOD, WATER, SHELTER AND PROPER RESTRAINT, WHEN USED.
   (A)   Adequate food. At suitable intervals, not to exceed 24 hours, a
quantity of wholesome foodstuff suitable for the species and age, sufficient to
maintain a reasonable level of nutrition for the animal shall be provided. Such
foodstuff shall be served in a receptacle, dish or container that is physically
clean and in which agents injurious to health have been removed or destroyed to
a practical minimum.
   (B)   Adequate water. A constant access to supply of clean, fresh water
shall be provided in a sanitary manner.
   (C)   Adequate shelter.
      (1)   A shelter shall be provided which will keep an animal dry, out of
the direct path of winds and out of the direct sun and at a temperature level
that is healthful for the animal.
      (2)   The containment area for the animal shall be free of accumulated
waste and debris so that the animal shall be free to walk or lie down without
coming in contact with any such waste or debris.
      (3)   A suitable method of draining shall be provided to rapidly
eliminate excess water or moisture.
   (D)   Proper restraint, when used. Any dog shall be confined within an
enclosed secure area and shall not be allowed outside the enclosed secure area
unless securely leashed and under the control of a competent person as defined
in §
90.26(A). No person shall permit any dog to be kept on a chain, rope or other
type of leash outside the enclosed secure area unless the person is in direct
physical control of the leash. No dogs shall be leashed to any inanimate object
such as a tree, post, stake, building, vehicle and the like.
(2005 Code, § 6-49)  (Ord. passed 11-5-2001; Ord. 2016-09-12, passed 9-26-
2016)  Penalty, see §
90.99
Editor’s note:
   This section shall apply not only to dogs, but all animals similarly kept by
an owner
§ 90.30  ANIMAL SANITATION.
   (A)   Any person owning, harboring, walking, in possession of or in charge
of a dog, which defecates on public property, public park property, public
right-of-way property or any private property without the permission of the
private property owners, shall remove all feces immediately after it is
deposited by the dog. All feces removed in accordance with this section shall
be placed in a suitable bag or other container that closes and disposed of in a
lawful manner.
   (B)   Any person, while harboring, walking, in possession of or in charge of
a dog on public property, public park property, public right-of-way or any
private property without the permission of the private property owner, shall
have in his or her possession a bag or other container that closes, which is
suitable for removing feces deposited by the dog.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to blind persons using
dogs as guides.
(2005 Code, § 6-50)  (Ord. 04071, passed 7-12-2004)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.31  CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to molest, torture, torment,
deprive of necessary sustenance, cruelly beat, needlessly mutilate or kill,
wound, injure, poison, abandon or subject to conditions detrimental to its
health or general welfare any animal, or to cause or procure said action. The
works TORTURE and TORMENT shall be held to include every act, omission or
neglect whereby unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or death is caused or
permitted, but the terms shall not be construed to prohibit an animal’s owner,
a veterinarian, the Health Officer, the Chief of Police or Animals Control
Program representatives from destroying dangerous, unwanted or injured animals
in a humane manner.
   (B)   Animal cruelty investigators may be appointed by the Chief of Police
or the Pasquotank County Sheriff. An animal cruelty investigator(s) has the
responsibility for carrying out the defined duties of an animal cruelty
investigator as mandated by G.S. §§ 19A-46 and 19A-47.
(Ord. 2016-09-12, passed 9-26-2016)
§ 90.32  HUNTING OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   The hunting of deer only, by means of archery/bow hunting only, on the
wooded land area owned by the city and physically located off of Wellfield/
Thunder Roads (specially, Parcel 7994-905981) shall be permitted if all of the
following conditions are met:
      (1)   A permit is obtained from the city and approved by the Chief of
Police or his or her designee. Prior to applying with the city, the applicant
(as a pre-requisite) must possess and produce a valid state hunting license
from the North Carolina Wildlife Resources Commission; failure to have in
possession and produce said hunting permit will result in an automatic denial
of city permit. The cost of the city hunting permit issued shall not exceed
$15. It shall remain valid during the period of time as established by, and run
concurrent with, the North Carolina Wildlife Resources Commission for “archery/
bow hunting” in Pasquotank County, as defined by the North Carolina Inland
Fishing, Hunting, and Trapping Regulations digest published by the Commission
each year and located at http://www.eregulations.com/northcarolina/hunting-
fishing/deer-seasons.
      (2)   The archery/bow hunter must be at least 18 years of age and must
notify a designated official from the city for approval prior to hunting on
city-owned property (Parcel 7994-905981);
      (3)   The archery/bow hunter shall not be permitted to use dogs while
hunting on city-owned property (Parcel 7994-905981);
      (4)   The archery/bow hunter must give at least 24-hours advanced notice
to either E911/Pasquotank-Camden Central Communications or the Elizabeth City
Police Department prior to engaging in each event of hunting on city-owned
property (Parcel 7994-905981);
      (5)   There shall not be more than two  archery/bow hunters located on
city-owned property (Parcel 7994-905981) at the same time;
      (6)   There shall be no permanent or semi-permanent deer stand erected or
in use by any archery/bow hunter while bow hunting for deer. The only
acceptable means of hunting will be in the form of walking while on city-owner
property (Parcel 7994-905981); and
      (7)   All laws, guidelines, policies, and rules in place by the North
Carolina Wildlife Resources Commission are strictly followed. Failure to follow
all laws, guidelines, policies, and rules established by the North Carolina
Wildlife Resources Commission, as it relates to archery/bow hunting of deer,
will result in automatic revocation of the hunter’s city permit.
   (B)   he City Council shall have power and it shall be its duty to order a
certain permit issued or to refuse to issue a certain permit sought. The City
Council may attach to the exercise of the rights granted by such license such
terms and conditions as, in its judgment, the public convenience and necessity
may require.
   (C)   The Elizabeth City Police Department shall keep on record and maintain
a schedule of archery/bow hunters that have met all requirements and have been
approved to hunt on city-owned property (Parcel 7994-905981).
(Ord. 2019-02-02, passed 2-25-2019)
DANGEROUS DOGS
§ 90.45  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL CONTROL BOARD. The Animal Control Board shall consist of five
members; two appointed by the City Council; two appointed by the County Board
of Commissioners; and one member shall be a representative of the SPCA of
Northeastern North Carolina recommended by the SPCA Board of Directors and
jointly appointed by each governing body. Three members of the Animal Control
Board shall constitute a quorum for the purposes of this subchapter.
   ATTACK BY A DOG. Any assault or battery by a dog upon a person or domestic
animal, to include biting, felling or toppling, tearing of clothing, provoking
flight to escape attack or any other act which could reasonably cause physical
injury to the person or domestic animal.
   BITE BY A DOG. Any seizing, gripping or grasping, no matter how slight or
momentary, by a dog between its jaws of the body parts of a person or domestic
animal, so as to cause physical injury to such person or domestic animal.
   DANGEROUS DOG. A dangerous dog is defined as any dog whose actions,
according to the records of the appropriate authority (i.e., Sheriff’s Office
or Police Department) after a sustained investigation and provided such actions
are attested to in a sworn statement by at least one person, meet at least one
of the following:
      (1)   Without provocation on public or private property, including the
owner’s property, has killed or inflicted serious bodily injury on a person;
      (2)   Without provocation on public or private property, including the
owner’s property, has killed or inflicted severe injury to another dog or other
domesticated animal; or
      (3)   Is a dog trained for dog fighting or is being used or has been used
for the purpose of dog fighting.
   DOG. A domesticated animal (canis familiaris) of the Canidae family;
provided also that, a wild specie of the Canidae family, such as a wolf, fox or
coyote, shall be considered a DOG for purposes of this subchapter.
   GUARD DOG. A dog trained by a skilled trainer to recognized security
industry or other reasonable standards and presently used under the control of
trained handlers to protect persons and property.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY. The County Sheriff’s Office or the city’s Police
Department or any other agency, which has jurisdiction within the city or
county.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT DOG. A dog trained for police work to recognized law
enforcement standards and presently used by and under the control of a law
enforcement officer to carry out the law enforcement officer’s official duties.
   LAWFUL HUNT. A hunt for lawful game conducted on private or public property
with the consent of the owner or custodian of the property by a person with a
valid license (if required) during the lawful season for the game concerned
using dogs customarily employed and suitable for such game.
   OWNER. Any person or legal entity that has a possessory property right in a
dog, including the harborer or keeper of a dog with the consent of the owner or
of a dog that has been abandoned by or escaped the custody of its owner.
   OWNER’S REAL PROPERTY. Any real property owned or leased by the owner of the
dog, not including any public right-of-way or a common area of a condominium,
apartment complex or townhouse development.
   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG. Any dog whose actions, according to the records
of the appropriate authority (i.e., Sheriff’s Office or Police Department)
after a sustained investigation and provided such actions are attested to in a
sworn statement by at least one person, meet at least one of the following:
      (1)   Inflicted injury to a domesticated animal that required veterinary
care or bit any person, without provocation, so as to cause a laceration or
abrasion requiring medical care;
      (2)   Chases or approaches a human upon the streets, sidewalks or any
public or private property in a menacing or threatening manner and in an
apparent attitude of attack, when such human is conducting himself or herself
peacefully and lawfully and is not provoking the dog; or
      (3)   Engages in any behavior that requires a defensive action by any
person to prevent bodily injury when the person and the dog are off the
property of the owner or custodian of the dog.
   SEVERE INJURY. Any physical injury that results in broken bones or
disfiguring lacerations or requires cosmetic surgery or hospitalization.
   TERRITORIAL JURISDICTION OF THE CITY OF ELIZABETH CITY AND PASQUOTANK
COUNTY. All territory within the boundaries of the County of Pasquotank, North
Carolina, except the incorporated area of a municipality, unless such
municipality has consented to the application and enforcement of subchapter in
such areas.
   VICIOUS DOG. A dangerous dog, as defined herein, that after having once
committed an act making it a dangerous dog or having been determined hereunder
to be a dangerous dog, commits a subsequent attack on a person or domestic
animal.
(Ord. 2013-24, passed 9-15-2013)
§ 90.46  APPLICATION; EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter do not apply to:
   (A)   A law enforcement dog or guard dog being used by a law enforcement
officer or bona fide professional security guard to carry out the law
enforcement officer’s or security guard’s official duties or professional
responsibilities;
   (B)   A dog being used in a lawful hunt;
   (C)   A dog where the injury or damage inflicted by the dog was sustained by
a domestic animal while the dog was working as a hunting dog, herding dog or
predator control dog on the property of, or under the control of, its owner,
keeper or harborer, and the damage or injury was to a species or type of
domestic animal appropriate to the work of the dog;
   (D)   A dog where the injury inflicted by the dog was sustained by a person
who, at the time of the injury, was tormenting, abusing or assaulting the dog,
had tormented, abused or assaulted the dog, or was committing or attempting to
commit a crime; or
   (E)   A dog which has caused a severe injury or other bodily harm on a
person; however, law enforcement agency finds the injuries are the result of
extenuating circumstances.
(Ord. 2013-24, passed 9-15-2013)
§ 90.47  REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Report required.
      (1)   An owner, keeper or harborer of a dangerous or vicious dog or a dog
that has attacked or bitten a person or domestic animal; a victim of or person
witnessing such an attack or biting; a veterinarian treating a domestic animal
for such an attack or biting; or a health care professional treating a person
for such an attack or biting, shall report the following events to the
Sheriff’s Office within three business days after the event has occurred:
         (a)   Any attack or biting by a dog upon any person or domestic
animal; or
         (b)   The transfer, gift, sale or other conveyance of ownership or
possession of a potentially dangerous, dangerous or vicious dog, its
confinement in a veterinary facility, its removal from the territorial
jurisdiction of the county, or its death.
      (2)   If a dog is caused to be moved into the county from any
jurisdiction (whether it be a municipality, county or other local government),
which has caused that dog to be classified as potentially dangerous, dangerous
or vicious (or some other similar classification), or an animal so classified
elsewhere is situate within the county at any time, that dog must be reported
as required hereunder to the Sheriff’s Office. The Sheriff or his or her
designee shall review the case and classification of the previous jurisdiction
and, if appropriate, cause the owner or person in possession of said dog to
register the dog within the county as potentially dangerous, dangerous or
vicious.
   (B)   Report data required. The data required in the report and the format
thereof shall be as set forth in administrative procedures promulgated by the
Sheriff.
(Ord. 2013-24, passed 9-15-2013)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.48  DETERMINATION THAT DOG IS DANGEROUS, POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS.
   (A)   Generally. Upon a complaint, or when he has reasonable suspicion, that
a dog is potentially dangerous, dangerous or vicious, the Sheriff’s Office
shall make a determination whether or not such dog is dangerous, potentially
dangerous or vicious. Any determination that a dog is potentially dangerous,
dangerous or vicious shall be made in a writing which summarizes the available
evidence and which shall be delivered or mailed certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the owner. If the determination is made that the suspect dog is
dangerous, potentially dangerous or vicious, the written determination shall
order compliance with the appropriate provisions of this subchapter and the
Sheriff’s Office may impose reasonable conditions to maintain the public health
and safety. The Sheriff’s Office shall assess appropriate civil penalties if he
or she determines that violations of this subchapter have been established and
may elect to pursue other remedies authorized by law.
   (B)   Appeals from determinations.
      (1)   Any party having a direct interest in the matter and aggrieved by
any determination as provided in this subchapter may within five business days
of receiving such determination appeal such determination in writing, within
five business days to the Animal Control Board by delivering a written notice
of appeal to the Sheriff’s Office. The ruling of Animal Control Board shall be
final, subject only to such appeal or certiorari proceeding as may be provided
by law to the Superior Court for the county, filed within ten days of the date
of the final determination by the Animal Control Board. Any determination of
the law enforcement agency under division (A) above may be appealed to the
Animal Control Board by filing written objections with the Chairperson of the
Animal Control Board within five business days after such determination. The
Animal Control Board shall schedule a hearing on such appeal within ten days of
the filing of the written objections. The Animal Control Board shall render its
decision as expeditiously as possible after the hearing. It shall deliver it to
the parties and any person appearing at the hearing and requesting notice
thereof, certified mail, return receipt requested, and file it concurrently
with the Sheriff and the office of the County Attorney. Any decision of the
Animal Control Board concerning any appeal provided for in this subchapter
other than under this division (B) shall be final.
      (2)   Any appeal hearing before the Animal Control Board shall be
conducted as follows.
         (a)   The hearing shall be subject to the Open Meetings Law, being
G.S. Ch. 143, Art. 33C, and the notice required there under shall be posted and
given as applicable.
         (b)   The parties may appear pro se or be represented by an attorney.
         (c)   Any person adversely affected by the appeal may appear and
participate fully in the proceeding.
         (d)   Participants may make any statements, present any evidence or
offer any witnesses on their behalf on any relevant issue.
         (e)   Participants shall be entitled to the right of cross-
examination.
         (f)   The hearing shall be quasi-judicial in nature and all testimony
shall be under oath.
         (g)   Any participant shall be entitled to transcribe the proceeding
at his or her own cost.
         (h)   The Animal Control Board may affirm, deny or affirm with
conditions the determination appealed from. Any conditions imposed by the
Animal Control Board shall be reasonable, shall be relevant to the issues in
the matter and shall have the effect of promoting the public health, safety and
welfare.
         (i)   The Animal Control Board shall announce its decision at an open
meeting and render it in writing as expeditiously as possible at or following
the hearing. Its decision shall contain findings of fact and conclusions in
support of its decision.
         (j)   The Animal Control Board may order that a vicious dog be
euthanized.
(Ord. 2013-24, passed 9-15-2013)
§ 90.49  REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Generally. Any person owning, keeping or harboring a dog determined as
set forth above to be dangerous or potentially dangerous shall register such
dog with the Sheriff’s Office within five business days of such determination
or may, in lieu of any hearing, register such dog voluntarily, which such
voluntary registration shall constitute an admission and determination that the
dog is dangerous or potentially dangerous.
   (B)   Relief from civil penalty. Voluntary registration of a dangerous or
potentially dangerous dog by the owner, keeper or harborer thereof prior to a
determination that a dog is dangerous, or within five business days of an event
establishing reasonable cause to believe that a dog is potentially dangerous or
dangerous or of the acquisition of a potentially dangerous or dangerous,
whichever later occurs, shall relieve such person from assessment of a civil
penalty for any violation of this subchapter occurring between such date, event
or acquisition and the date of registration.
   (C)   Permanent identification mark required. Each dog registered as set
forth above shall be assigned a registration number by the Sheriff’s Office,
which shall be affixed to the dog by permanent chip implant, tattoo or some
other permanent means by or at the expense of the owner, keeper or harborer of
the dog. No person shall remove such identification mark once it is assigned
and affixed.
(Ord. 2013-24, passed 9-15-2013)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.50  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Generally. After registration of a potentially dangerous or dangerous
dog, or after a determination that such dog is potentially dangerous, dangerous
or vicious, no person shall own, keep or harbor such dog thereafter within the
territorial jurisdiction of this subchapter without applying for and obtaining
a permit from the Sheriff’s Office.
   (B)   Issuance of permit. The Sheriff’s Office shall immediately issue a
permit for a potentially dangerous or dangerous only upon submission of a
complete, verified application, payment of the permit fee, and a finding by the
Animal Control Officer assigned to the case that required arrangements for
housing of the dog and other public health and safety provisions are in effect,
and that each dog for which a permit is issued does not pose an unreasonable
threat to the public health, safety and general welfare if the permittee shall
comply with the provisions of this subchapter and the conditions of the permit.
Each permit shall be conditioned on continued compliance with the provisions of
this subchapter and other provisions of law, on continued compliance with and
maintenance of the arrangements for housing and safety set forth in the permit
application, and any special conditions the Sheriff’s Office may deem
reasonably necessary to protect the public health, safety and welfare in view
of the particular circumstances and history of the dog concerned.
   (C)   Cost of permit. A permit fee as determined by the county shall be
imposed on all owners who register a dog that is deemed as potentially
dangerous or dangerous. That fee will be paid to the county for use exclusively
by the Sheriff’s Office for the Animal Control Program.
   (D)   Temporary permits. Following the registration of a potentially
dangerous or dangerous dog or the impoundment of such a dog, upon application
therefore and for good cause, the Sheriff’s Office may issue a temporary permit
allowing the owner, keeper or harborer of a registered potentially dangerous or
dangerous dog to retain possession of such dog or to confine such dog at a
veterinary facility or kennel approved by the Sheriff’s Office. A temporary
permit also may be issued to allow the transport of a potentially dangerous or
dangerous dog from the territorial jurisdiction of this subchapter. A temporary
permit shall be issued subject to the same conditions to which a regular permit
is subject and to any other conditions the Sheriff’s Office may deem necessary
to protect the public health, safety and welfare consistent with the provisions
of this subchapter and shall be valid for a period not to exceed 30 days after
issuance. A temporary permit shall be valid only until the earlier of its
expiration, revocation or the issuance or denial of a permit under the
provisions of division (B) above.
   (E)   Term of permits and renewal thereof. No permit shall be issued under
division (B) above for a term of more than three years, but may in the
Sheriff’s Office’s discretion be issued for a shorter period. Permits may be
renewed, subject to the same terms and conditions required for initial permits.
   (F)   Revocation of permits. The Sheriff’s Office may, upon notice and
hearing and for good cause shown, revoke any permit or modify any terms,
conditions or provisions thereof. If the Sheriff’s Office deems it necessary to
protect the public health or safety from any imminent threat or danger thereto,
he or she may, without hearing, suspend any permit or any portion thereof for
not more than 30 days. Good cause for revocation or modification of a permit
shall include, without limitation, violation of or failure to comply with any
provision of this subchapter or with any term, condition or provision of a
permit.
   (G)   Inspections. The Sheriff’s Office shall cause periodic inspections
(usually quarterly unless there is reasonable cause for more frequent
inspections) to be made of the premises of a permittee to assure compliance
with the provisions of this subchapter and the applicable permit. Notice to
permittee or occupant of premises must be given before completing any periodic
inspection of the premises.
   (H)   Inspection fee. The owner of a potentially dangerous, dangerous or
vicious registered dog shall be imposed a $25 inspection fee per inspection.
That fee will be paid to the county for use exclusively by the Sheriff’s Office
for the Animal Control Program.
   (I)   Insurance. Every person owning, keeping or harboring a dog that has
been declared dangerous, potentially dangerous or vicious shall purchase and
maintain a policy of liability insurance covering any injury or property damage
caused by the dog. Minimum policy limits shall be $100,000 personal injury or
property damage, per occurrence. Such person shall cause a certificate or
declaration of insurance to be furnished to the Sheriff’s Office annually.
Every calendar day that the required insurance is not in full force and effect
shall constitute a violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2013-24, passed 9-15-2013)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.51  REGULATION OF POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS OR DANGEROUS DOGS; SECURITY AND
RESTRAINT REQUIREMENTS.
   No person shall own, keep or harbor a dangerous or potentially dangerous
dog, except in compliance with all provisions of this subchapter, including:
   (A)   Dangerous dogs and potentially dangerous dogs. Dangerous dogs and
potentially dangerous dogs shall be subject to the following regulations.
      (1)   Such dog shall be kept, secured and restrained while on the real
property of the person owning, keeping or harboring it only in the following
ways:
         (a)   In a building with doors, windows and other exits securely
fastened shut under the supervision and control of a responsible adult person
capable of such supervision and control;
         (b)   Securely kept in a locked enclosure which has secure sides, top
and bottom and is constructed out of materials and in a manner which will
preclude escape by the dog and prevent entry by small children; and
         (c)   While outside a building or enclosure described above, securely
leashed with a leash no longer than four feet in length in the hands of and
under the control of a responsible competent person capable of such control and
muzzled by a muzzling device sufficient to prevent such dog from biting persons
or other animals.
      (2)   No person owning, keeping or harboring such a dog shall remove such
a dog from the real property of such person, except to bring such dog to a
veterinarian or to the County Animal Shelter, or to remove such dog permanently
from the territorial jurisdiction of this subchapter. In the event of such
removal, such dog shall be securely restrained or enclosed as set forth above
for dogs being maintained outside buildings.
      (3)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, no person shall keep or harbor
within the territorial jurisdiction of this subchapter a dangerous dog that has
killed a person, except as follows:
         (a)   In the care and custody of a veterinarian for the purposes of
treatment or quarantine or pending appeal as herein provided of the
determination that the dog is vicious, in which case the dog shall be kept and
secured by the veterinarian as provided herein for a dangerous dog;
         (b)   In the custody of the County Animal Shelter pending disposition
in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter or lawful instructions of
the person owning or previously keeping or harboring such animal; or
         (c)   Pending appeal as herein provided of the determination that the
dog is dangerous, in which case the dog shall be kept and secured by the County
Animal Shelter as provided herein.
   (B)   Vicious dogs. No person shall keep or harbor a vicious dog within the
territorial jurisdiction of this subchapter, except as follows:
      (1)   In the care and custody of a veterinarian for the purposes of
treatment or quarantine or pending appeal as herein provided of the
determination that the dog is vicious, in which case the dog shall be kept and
secured by the veterinarian as provided herein for a dangerous dog;
      (2)   In the custody of the County Animal Shelter pending disposition in
accordance with the provisions of this subchapter or lawful instructions of the
person owning or previously keeping or harboring such animal; and
      (3)   Pending appeal as herein provided of the determination that the dog
is vicious, in which case the dog shall be kept and secured by the County
Animal Shelter as provided herein for a dangerous dog.
   (C)   Signage.
      (1)   Any owner of a dangerous, potentially dangerous or vicious dog
shall erect a weather-proof sign (two feet by 20 inches) on the enclosure
housing said dog which shall read:
BEWARE OF DOG THIS DOG IS DANGEROUS STAY AWAY! (252) xxx-xxxx
      (2)   All letters must be at least three inches vertically and clearly
visible from all four sides of the property. In addition, if the owner has a
phone, the owner’s phone number must be placed on the sign.
(Ord. 2013-24, passed 9-15-2013)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.52  IMPOUNDMENT OF POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS, DANGEROUS AND VICIOUS DOGS.
   (A)   Apprehension and surrender.
      (1)   Upon an initial determination or upon registration of a dog to be
dangerous, potentially dangerous or vicious, or if the Sheriff’s Office has
reasonable suspicion to believe that a dangerous, potentially dangerous or
vicious dog is being kept or harbored within the territorial jurisdiction of
this subchapter in violation of it or of a permit issued hereunder, the
Sheriff’s Office of the county and of any municipality subject to this
subchapter shall impound such dog.
      (2)   It shall be a violation of this subchapter to fail or refuse to
surrender such dog to such officers upon their lawful demand. The officer
impounding such a dog shall deliver the same to the County Animal Shelter.
   (B)   Confinement. A dog impounded by or surrendered to the Sheriff’s Office
as provided herein shall be confined in the County Animal Shelter or, upon
request of the owner, keeper or harborer of the dog, or a permittee hereunder,
and at such person’s expense, at a private veterinary facility or kennel
approved by the Sheriff’s Office, subject to the following conditions.
      (1)   Costs of impoundment. Impoundment shall be at the expense of the
owner, keeper or harborer of the dog, or of the permittee. Costs of impoundment
at the County Animal Shelter shall be paid by the person liable therefore at
the daily rate therefor. The costs of impoundment at a veterinary facility or
kennel shall be paid by the person liable therefore pursuant to the terms of
the agreement between such person and the proprietor of such facility or
kennel. In no event shall the county or any municipality subject to this
subchapter be liable for or pay for impoundment at such private facility or
kennel.
      (2)   Release from impoundment. No such dog shall be released from
impoundment as provided herein, except upon registration of such dog and
issuance, as provided herein, of a permit or temporary permit allowing such
release. No such dog shall be released from the County Animal Shelter until
costs of confinement of such dog, any registration and permit fees for such dog
and any civil penalties assessed in connection with such dog have been paid in
full.
   (C)   Disposition of unclaimed or abandoned dogs. The following dogs
impounded at the County Animal Shelter pursuant to this section shall be deemed
abandoned and disposed of in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter
and the rules and regulations of the County Animal Shelter:
      (1)   Any dog which remains unclaimed by its owner, keeper or harborer or
permittee thereof for a period more than ten business days or a period of
lawful quarantine, whichever is longer;
      (2)   Any dog claimed by its owner, keeper or harborer, which is confined
for a period in excess of ten business days, or a period of lawful quarantine,
whichever is longer, during which no application has been made for a permit or
temporary permit; provided, however, the Sheriff’s Office shall extend such
time upon a showing of justifiable delay in such action by the owner, keeper,
harborer or permittee thereof; and
      (3)   Any dog unclaimed by its owner shall be disposed of pursuant to the
direction of the Sheriff’s Office.
(Ord. 2013-24, passed 9-15-2013)
§ 90.53  ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Responsibility. The Sheriff’s Office shall administer and enforce this
subchapter and shall promulgate rules and regulations for such administration
and enforcement as may be necessary or desirable to such end.
   (B)   Citations assessing civil penalties. The law enforcement agency shall
have authority to investigate alleged or suspected violations of this
subchapter and upon the determination by such person, based on observation or
other evidence that a violation has occurred; each such person shall have the
authority to issue a written citation for violation of this subchapter and to
assess a civil penalty in the amount due. Such citation shall be mailed to the
violator by the Sheriff’s Office, certified mail, return receipt requested,
addressed to the last known address of the violator, or shall be personally
delivered to the violator or to some responsible person at the violator’s
residence. Service shall be complete upon personal delivery as provided herein
or upon execution of a receipt for the certified mail by the violator or his or
her agent in the event of such service. If a civil penalty duly assessed is not
paid when due, the Sheriff’s Office shall initiate an action in a court of
competent jurisdiction to collect such amount due.
   (C)   Authority to enter upon premises.
      (1)   The law enforcement agency shall have authority to enter into and
inspect any premises, dwellings, rooming units, barns and other outbuildings,
any part of the curtilage thereof, or any yard or other enclosure to:
         (a)   Conduct any investigation of a dog alleged or suspected of being
potentially dangerous, dangerous or vicious;
         (b)   Apprehend a dog determined to be potentially dangerous,
dangerous or vicious or as which there is reasonable suspicion to believe is
potentially dangerous, dangerous or vicious;
         (c)   To investigate any violation of this subchapter; or
         (d)   To serve a citation upon a person for violation of this
subchapter.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Sheriff’s Office shall only make
such entry upon consent, pursuant to an administrative search warrant under
G.S. § 15-27.2, or otherwise as authorized by law.
   (D)   Authority to immobilize or kill a dangerous or vicious dog.
      (1)   If, in the course of investigating, apprehending or otherwise
taking custody a potentially dangerous, dangerous or vicious dog, or a dog as
to which there is reasonable suspicion to believe is potentially dangerous,
dangerous or vicious, such dog is not securely restrained and the Sheriff’s
Office has reasonable cause to believe the dog poses an imminent risk of
serious physical injury or death to any person or domestic animal, the
Sheriff’s Office shall have authority to render such dog immobile by means of
tranquilizers or other safe drugs or, if that is not safely or timely possible
under the circumstances, then said officer may humanely dispose of said dog.
      (2)   If a potentially dangerous, dangerous or vicious dog impounded in
the County Animal Shelter cannot be cared for or handled without risk of
serious physical injury or death to persons caring for or handling such dog or
to other animals, the Sheriff’s Office shall have the authority to render such
dog immobile by means of tranquilizers or other safe drugs or, if that is not
safely or timely possible under the circumstances, then said officer may
humanely dispose of said dog.
      (3)   The Sheriff’s Office may humanely dispose of any dog being
investigated under the provisions of this subchapter at the request of or with
the consent of its owner, keeper or harborer.
(Ord. 2013-24, passed 9-15-2013)
§ 90.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   The violation of any provision of §
90.01 of this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor. Each day that a violation
exists or continues to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
(2005 Code, § 6-1)
   (C)   Any person charged with a violation of §
90.14 of this chapter for the first time shall be given a warning citation.
Upon subsequent violation, the person shall be charged with such violation and,
if found guilty, such person shall be subject to punishment as provided in G.S.
§ 14-4.
   (D)   A violation of §
90.26 of this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor and be punishable as such.
Nothing in §
90.26(B) of this chapter shall be construed as a lesser penalty or the payment
of the sum in lieu of the issuance of the warrant or in lieu of prosecution for
such misdemeanor, the payments provided in §
90.26(B) of this chapter being solely to aid in defraying the cost of picking
up and keeping the animal impounded.
(2005 Code, § 6-45)
   (E)   (1)   Violations. Each act or conduct prohibited by §§
90.45 through
90.53 of this chapter and each failure to comply with a mandatory provision of
§§
90.45 through
90.53 of this chapter shall constitute a violation. Each day’s continuing act
or conduct prohibited hereby and each day’s continuing failure to comply shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense. Violations shall subject the
violator to civil penalties and to other remedies allowed by law. For the
purposes of assessing civil penalties, violations of §§
90.45 through
90.53 of this chapter are classified as follows.
         (a)   Class I violations.
            1.   Failure to report an event for which a report is required;
            2.   Failure to register a potentially dangerous, dangerous or
vicious dog as required; and
            3.   Any other violation not otherwise classified in this section.
         (b)   Class II violations.
            1.   Keeping or harboring a vicious dog within the territorial
jurisdiction of §§
90.45 through
90.53 of this chapter in violation thereof;
            2.   Keeping or harboring a dangerous dog within the territorial
jurisdiction of this ordinance in violation of terms, conditions and provisions
of a permit or of the housing and restraint requirements of §§
90.45 through
90.53 of this chapter;
            3.   Failure to surrender a potentially dangerous or dangerous dog
to the Sheriff’s Office for impoundment as required by §§
90.45 through
90.53 of this chapter; and
            4.   Willfully or negligently allowing a potentially dangerous,
dangerous or vicious dog to leave the premises where it is required to be kept
and harbored.
         (c)   Class III violations.
            1.   Willfully or negligently allowing a potentially dangerous,
dangerous or vicious dog to leave the premises where it is required to be kept
and harbored, when such dog has thereafter committed an attack or a biting;
            2.   Refusal to surrender a vicious dog to the Sheriff’s Office for
impoundment as required by §§
90.45 through
90.53 of this chapter; or
            3.   Failure to maintain insurance as required herein.
      (2)   Civil penalties. The following civil penalties shall be assessed
for each class of violation.
         (a)   Class I violations.
            1.   One hundred dollars for the first day of a violation;
            2.   Twenty-five dollars for each subsequent day of a continuing
violation; and
            3.   A maximum of $1,000 for each continuing violation.
         (b)   Class II violations.
            1.   Two hundred fifty dollars for the first day of a violation;
            2.   One hundred dollars for each subsequent day of a continuing
violation; or
            3.   A maximum of $3,000 for each continuing violation.
         (c)   Class III violations.
            1.   Five hundred dollars for the first day of a violation;
            2.   Two hundred fifty dollars for each subsequent day of a
continuing violation; or
            3.   A maximum of $7,500 for each continuing violation.
      (3)   Other remedies. In addition to assessment of civil penalties, §§
90.45 through
90.53 of this chapter may be enforced by any one or more of the remedies set
forth in G.S. Ch. 153A or 160A, as applicable.
      (4)   State law violations.
         (a)   Nothing in §§
90.45 through
90.53 of this chapter shall be construed to prevent the Sheriff’s Office or any
other person from pursuing remedies under G.S. Ch. 67, Art. 1A.
         (b)   The Sheriff’s Office is designated as the person responsible for
making the determination required under G.S. § 67-4.1(c). In making such
determinations, the Sheriff’s Office shall follow the procedure set forth
herein for determinations.
         (c)   The Animal Control Board is designated as the appellate board to
hear appeals of determinations made pursuant to G.S. § 67-4.1(c).
(Ord. passed 3-4-1985; Ord. passed 11-5-2001; Ord. 2013-24, passed 9-15-2013;
Ord. 2015-08-06, passed 8-24-2015)
CHAPTER 91:  PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Hours of use of specific recreational areas
   
91.02   Mariners’ Wharf Park
   
91.03   Waterfront Park
   
91.04   Fueling of vessels or boats
   
91.05   Commercial fishing regulated on city-owned property
Senior Citizens Advisory Committee
   
91.35   Committee created; duties
   
91.36   Composition; compensation; terms
   
91.37   Meetings
   
91.38   Officers
   
91.39   Report to City Council and County Commissioners
Skate Facility
   
91.45   General requirements
   
91.46   Hours, times and conditions of operation
   
91.47   Park supervision and personal liability
   
91.48   Skate facility rules and regulations
   
91.49   Enforcement
   
91.50   Skate facility signage
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Director of Public Utilities, see §
30.07
   Recreational Vehicles, see
Ch. 73
   Redevelopment Commission, see §§
31.01 through
31.07
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01  HOURS OF USE OF SPECIFIC RECREATIONAL AREAS.
   (A)   Areas specified. The following areas will be open from daylight until
10:00 p.m. each day of the week:
      (1)   Pete L. Hooker Park, located on the corner of Chalk and Baxter
Streets;
      (2)   Edgewood Park, located on the corner of Hopkins Drive and Aydlett
Circle;
      (3)   Charles Creek Park, located on Riverside Avenue;
      (4)   Elizabeth Street Playground, located on Elizabeth Street;
      (5)   Knobbs Creek Park, located on Ward Street;
      (6)   Enfield Recreation Area, located on Corsair Circle and Catalina
Avenue;
      (7)   Elizabeth Street Tennis Courts, located on the corner of Harney and
Cedar Streets;
      (8)   Enfield Park, located along Catalina Avenue and Corsair Circle;
      (9)   Gosnold/Sunset Park;
      (10)   Waterfront Park, unless a person is actively engaged in loading or
unloading a boat;
      (11)   Mariners’ Wharf Park located on Water Street, unless a person(s)
is actually engaged in docking or departing on a power or sailing vessel;
      (12)   Hobbs Park;
      (13)   Dog Corner Park, located at the corner of Southern and Riverside
Avenues, unless a person(s) is actually engaged in docking or departing on a
power or sailing vessel;
      (14)   Pool Street Park, located on East Main Street;
      (15)   Causeway Park;
      (16)   George M. Wood Memorial Park, located on the south side of the
Camden Causeway;
      (17)   Walnut Street Playground, located on Third Street;
      (18)   Moth Boat Park, located at the east end of Main Street;
      (19)   Fish Court Park, located on Southern Avenue;
      (20)   Northeastern Park, located at Northeastern High School along Oak
Stump Road;
      (21)   River Road Sports Complex, located at River Road Middle School on
River Road;
      (22)   South Park Athletic Complex, located on Capital Trace Boulevard;
      (23)   Coast Guard Park, located on Riverside Avenue along the Pasquotank
River;
      (24)   Jennette Property, located on North Road Street along Knobbs
Creek;
      (25)   Veterans Park, located at the corner of N. Water Street and E.
Elizabeth Street; and
      (26)   Any other parks or recreational facilities designated by the City
Council from time to time.
   (B)   Parks and Recreation Department function. However, where the Parks and
Recreation Department is operating a function under its own supervision or the
supervision of others for which a written permit has been issued, the park and
recreation areas shall remain open until an hour designated by the Parks and
Recreation Department, which closing time shall be posted on such recreational
area or park on such occasion.
   (C)   Restriction. No person shall go upon or in any manner occupy any park
specified above, except during the hours which it is opened as specified in
division (A) above.
(2005 Code, § 58-1)  (Ord. passed 4-15-1976; Ord. passed 9-12-1983; Ord. passed
9-6-1988; Ord. passed 9-5-1989; Motion passed 2-1-1993)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02  MARINERS’ WHARF PARK.
   (A)   All that riverfront property located between the Pasquotank River to
the east and Water Street to the west known as Mariners' Wharf Park shall be
set apart for the purpose of this section to be used as a public wharf.
   (B)   The City Manager or his or her designee shall administer the
provisions of this section.
   (C)   No person shall swim in Mariners’ Wharf at any time. No person shall
fish beyond the railing.
   (D)   Dockage is to be limited to 48 consecutive hours unless a special
permit is issued by the City Manager or his or her designee.
   (E)   If a vessel shall sink at Mariners’ Wharf, the owner thereof shall
immediately remove the wreck at his or her own expense. If he or she fails to
do so, the harbormaster shall remove the same and the owner shall be liable for
the expense of removal.
   (F)   No person shall willfully or carelessly destroy, damage, disturb,
deface or interfere with any buoy, float, life preserver, navigational marker
or other similar property in the jurisdiction of the city.
   (G)   No person shall climb into or upon any vessel moored, docked or
anchored in Mariners’ Wharf without the consent of the owner or other person
having charge thereof.
   (H)   No person shall operate commercial enterprise sale of goods from the
boat while docked in Mariners’ Wharf.
(2005 Code, § 58-2)  (Ord. passed 7-11-1983)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03  WATERFRONT PARK.
   (A)   All that riverfront property located between the Pasquotank River to
the east, Water Street to the west, and Riverside Avenue to the south, known as
Waterfront Park shall be set apart for the purpose of this section to be used
as a public wharf.
   (B)   Whenever any group, association or organization desires to use public
park facilities for a particular purpose, such as picnics, parties or
theatrical or entertainment performances, a representative of the group shall
first obtain permission from the Parks and Recreation Director at least 45 days
before the function shall be held.
   (C)   No group, association or organization shall use Waterfront Park for
the purpose of holding a fish fry, pig roast or other activity that has to do
with dispensing food or drink. Dog Corner Park, located at the corner of
Southern and Riverside Avenues, has been reserved for this purpose.
   (D)   Persons who desire to picnic in Waterfront Park may do so; provided,
they leave the premises in good order.
   (E)   The City Council reserves the right to suspend these regulations for
the following listed activities:
      (1)   North Carolina Potato Festival; and
      (2)   Any other such other time as the Council may direct.
   (F)   No one will be permitted to fish or crab within 50 feet of either side
of the boat ramp at Waterfront Park.
(2005 Code, § 58-3)  (Ord. passed 7-11-1983; Ord. 08101, passed 10-6-2008) 
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04  FUELING OF VESSELS OR BOATS.
   It shall be unlawful for any vessel or boat to be fueled by any commercial
or other fuel dealer at city parks, docks or street rights-of-way. Petroleum
distributors are prohibited from selling or dispensing any type of fuel to
vessels or boats while moored at city parks, docks or street rights-of-way.
(2005 Code, § 58-5)  (Ord. passed 3-6-1995)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05  COMMERCIAL FISHING REGULATED ON CITY-OWNED PROPERTY.
   (A)   Commercial fishing vessels will not be permitted to use city parks,
docks or street rights-of-way to moor vessels other than at the time of
launching and/or retrieving that vessel.
   (B)   The loading and/or unloading of fish, crab, eel or other marine life
at city parks, docks or street rights-of-way is prohibited; such marine life
must remain in the fishing vessel at the time of launching and/or retrieving
the vessel.
   (C)   The loading and/or unloading of commercial fishing equipment such as
nets, pots, traps or baits at city parks, docks or street rights-of-way is
prohibited; such equipment must remain in the vessel at the time of launching
and/or retrieving the vessel.
(2005 Code, § 58-6)  (Ord. passed 6-3-1996)  Penalty, see §
91.99
SENIOR CITIZENS ADVISORY COMMITTEE
§ 91.35  COMMITTEE CREATED; DUTIES.
   There is hereby created a Senior Citizen Advisory Committee, which shall:
   (A)   Investigate the needs of senior citizens in the city and the county
and make recommendations to the City Council and County Commissioners in regard
to the most suitable methods of financing, organizing and administering a
senior citizens program;
   (B)   Advise the City Council and County Commissioners or its designated
officials on the most appropriate senior citizens program which shall include
facilities and source of financing;
   (C)   Promote public support for a city/county senior citizens program;
   (D)   Assist in the coordination of all senior citizens programs in the
city/county; and
   (E)   Perform such other duties in relation to a city/county senior citizens
program as may be assigned by the City Council.
(2005 Code, § 58-59)  (Ord. passed 9-3-1991)
§ 91.36  COMPOSITION; COMPENSATION; TERMS.
   The Senior Citizens Advisory Committee shall be composed of six members;
three of whom are residents of the city and three of whom are residents of the
county who reside outside of the city limits. Three of the members, those that
reside in the city, shall be appointed by the City Council. Those three members
who reside within the county, but outside the city limits, shall be appointed
by the County Commissioners. All members will serve without compensation; two
of whom shall be appointed for terms of four years, two of whom shall be
appointed for terms of three years and two of whom shall be appointed for terms
of two years. Any vacancy arising from a cause other than expiration of term
shall be filled only for the unexpired portion of the term. No member shall
serve more than two consecutive terms without an intervening period of three
years. A term shall begin on July 1 of the appointed year.
(2005 Code, § 58-60)  (Ord. passed 9-3-1991)
§ 91.37  MEETINGS.
   The Senior Citizens Advisory Committee shall hold quarterly meetings and may
hold regular meetings at least once each month on such days and at such hours
as may be fixed by the Chairperson upon 24 hours’ notice to the members of the
Committee. A full account of all meetings shall be recorded in a minute book to
be kept by the Secretary.
(2005 Code, § 58-61)  (Ord. passed 9-3-1991)
§ 91.38  OFFICERS.
   The Senior Citizens Advisory Committee shall annually elect a Chairperson
from its members. The election shall be held at the July meeting.
(2005 Code, § 58-62)  (Ord. passed 9-3-1991)
§ 91.39  REPORT TO CITY COUNCIL AND COUNTY COMMISSIONERS.
   The Senior Citizens Advisory Committee shall make a report of its activities
and plans to the City Council and County Commissioners from time to time as it
is deemed necessary or at the request of the Council and Commissioners.
(2005 Code, § 58-63)  (Ord. passed 9-3-1991)
SKATE FACILITY
§ 91.45  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Authority. The city hereby exercises its authority to enact skate
facility regulations pursuant to G.S. §§ 99E-21, 99E-22, 99E-23, 99E-24, and
99E-25.
   (B)   Jurisdiction. The jurisdiction of this subchapter shall be described
as any part of the city where a skate facility has been erected that is owned
and operated by the city.
   (C)   Short title. This subchapter shall be known as the Skate Facility
Ordinance of Elizabeth City, North Carolina, and may be cited as the Skate
Facility Ordinance.
   (D)   Purpose. The purpose of this subchapter is to promote the public
safety, health, and welfare of the citizens of the city through the regulation
of any skate facility owned and operated by the city. This subchapter is
adopted pursuant to the authority contained in G.S. § 99E-21.
(Ord. 2018-03-04, passed 3-26-2018)
§ 91.46  HOURS, TIMES AND CONDITIONS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   The skate facility is open daily from 8:00 a.m. until 10:00 p.m., or
as may be amended by the city from time to time. There will be no trespassing
when the park is closed.
   (B)   The park will be closed during wet, snowy or icy conditions or during
park maintenance periods, as may be deemed necessary by the City Manager or his
or her designee.
   (C)   The city reserves the right to close the skate facility or modify its
hours of operation for any reason at the direction and discretion of the City
Manager and/or his or her designee.
(Ord. 2018-03-04, passed 3-26-2018)
§ 91.47  PARK SUPERVISION AND PERSONAL LIABILITY.
   (A)   All persons entering the skate facility are deemed to have knowledge
that the skate facility is a non-supervised activity site designed for
skateboarding and in-line skating only, and all use of the skate facility is at
the risk of the user.
   (B)   Skaters must be at least seven years old to use the skate park; any
person ten years old or younger must have parental/guardian supervision.
   (C)   All persons entering the skate facility are deemed to have agreed to
indemnify, defend, and hold harmless the city, its officers, employees, agents,
and volunteers for, from and against any accident, injury, including death,
and/or loss of property or damage thereto sustained as a result of using the
skate facility pursuant to General Assembly of North Carolina Session Law 2003-
334, Senate Bill 774.
(Ord. 2018-03-04, passed 3-26-2018)
§ 91.48  SKATE FACILITY RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The following rules and regulations shall apply to the riding of skateboards
or using in-line skates at any facility or park owned or operated by the city
that has been designated a skate facility:
   (A)   Within the skate facility, it shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Ride, operate, or use a skateboard or in-line skates unless that
person is wearing a helmet designed for skateboarding or in-line skating with a
chin strap, elbow pads designed for skateboarding or in-line skating with
plastic elbow caps, and knee pads designed for skateboarding or in-line skating
with plastic knee caps, which equipment shall be in good repair at all times
during use.
      (2)   Ride, operate, or utilize a skateboard or in-line skates unless
such equipment is in good repair at all times during use.
      (3)   Be on or use an individual apparatus within the skate facility
while another person is using it.
      (4)   Place or utilize additional obstacles or other materials (including
but not limited to ramps or jumps) within the skate facility.
      (5)   Use the skate facility amenities when the surfaces of the amenities
are wet or other conditions exist which could adversely affect the safety of
skateboarders or in-line skaters.
      (6)   Use, operate, or possess any source of amplified music, including
but not limited to: stereos, boom boxes, and amplifiers.
      (7)   Enter or otherwise use the skate facility unless actively
skateboarding or in-line skating in accordance with these regulations.
      (8)   Use, consume, or have within his or her custody or control, food or
beverages, within the skate facility.
      (9)   Use, consume, or have within his or her custody or control,
alcohol, tobacco products, or illegal drugs within the skate facility.
      (10)   Enter upon the skate facility grounds while under the influence of
alcoholic beverages, illegal drugs, or prescription drugs.
      (11)   Use or possess glass containers, bottles, or other breakable glass
products within the skate facility.
      (12)   Use or engage in profanity, reckless and boisterous behavior
(including, but not limited to: tandem riding, pushing, horseplay, and
bullying) or any activity which could endanger the safety of persons using the
skate facility or spectators.
      (13)   Engage in graffiti, tagging, or other defacing of city property or
the property of others within any skate facility.
      (14)   Ride, operate, or utilize any device other than a skateboard or
in-line skates (prohibited devices include, but are not limited to, bicycles,
roller skateboards, motor vehicles, or motorized skateboards) within any skate
facility.
      (15)   No person shall enter or remain in or upon the skate facility
premises: 1) while closed, as determined by the City Manager or his or her
designee, or 2) between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.
      (16)   Use or have within his or her custody or control, board wax or
other similar items, within the skate facility.
      (17)   No person shall enter in or upon the skate facility premises with
any animal.
(Ord. 2018-03-04, passed 3-26-2018)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.49  ENFORCEMENT.
   This subchapter may be enforced by the Elizabeth City/Pasquotank County
Parks & Recreation Department Director and/or his or her designee(s), or
members of the Elizabeth City Police Department.
(Ord. 2018-03-04, passed 3-26-2018)
§ 91.50  FACILITY SIGNAGE.
   The skate facility shall be posted with signs at the following locations:
   (A)   At the entrance to the skate facility; and
   (B)   On the fences of the skate facility, facing the interior of the skate
facility, and in such places inside the park as may be deemed appropriate by
the city. The signs may, but shall not be required to, summarize the rules and
regulations governing the use of the skate facility. Each sign shall contain,
in letters not less than one-half inch in height the following language:
WARNING
   SKATEBOARDING AND IN-LINE SKATING ARE HAZARDOUS RECREATIONAL ACTIVITIES. USE
OF THIS FACILITY MAY RESULT IN SERIOUS INJURIES OR DEATH. ELIZABETH CITY DOES
NOT ASSUME RESPONSIBILITY FOR INJURIES OR DEATH. EACH PERSON ENTERING THE
FACILITY ASSUMES ALL RISK OF INJURY OR DEATH. (GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF NORTH
CAROLINA, SESSION LAW 2003-334, SENATE BILL 774) SKATEBOARDERS AND IN-LINE
SKATERS MUST BE AT LEAST SEVEN (7) YEARS OLD TO USE THE SKATE FACILITY;
SKATEBOARDERS AND IN-LINE SKATERS TEN (10) YEARS OLD OR YOUNGER MUST HAVE
PARENTAL/GUARDIAN SUPERVISION. NO PERSON SHALL ENTER OR REMAIN UPON THE SKATE
FACILITY PREMISES WHILE CLOSED, OR BETWEEN THE HOURS OF 10:00 P.M. AND 8:00
A.M. ANIMALS ARE PROHIBITED IN THE SKATE FACILITY.
   IT IS UNLAWFUL FOR ANY PERSON TO RIDE, OPERATE, OR UTILIZE A SKATEBOARD OR
IN-LINE SKATES UNLESS THE PERSON IS WEARING A HELMET DESIGNED FOR SKATEBOARD OR
IN-LINE SKATE USE WITH A CHIN STRAP, ELBOW PADS DESIGNED FOR SKATEBOARD OR IN-
LINE SKATE USE WITH PLASTIC ELBOW CAPS, AND KNEE PADS DESIGNED FOR SKATEBOARD
OR IN-LINE SKATE USE WITH PLASTIC KNEE CAPS, WHICH EQUIPMENT SHALL BE IN GOOD
REPAIR AT ALL TIMES DURING USE.
   IT IS UNLAWFUL FOR ANY PERSON TO RIDE, OPERATE, OR UTILIZE ANY DEVICE OTHER
THAN NON-MOTORIZED SKATEBOARDS OR IN-LINE SKATES. IT IS UNLAWFUL FOR ANY PERSON
TO: USE, OPERATE, OR POSSESS ANY SOURCE OF AMPLIFIED MUSIC; CONSUME, OR HAVE
WITHIN HIS/HER CUSTODY OR CONTROL, ALCOHOL, TOBACCO PRODUCTS, ILLEGAL DRUGS,
FOOD, BEVERAGES, GLASS CONTAINERS, BOTTLES, OR OTHER BREAKABLE GLASS PRODUCTS
WITHIN THE SKATE FACILITY. ANY PERSON FAILING TO COMPLY WITH THESE REGULATIONS
MAY BE SUBJECT TO EXPULSION FROM THIS FACILITY AND/OR REVOCATION OF ANY
PRIVILEGES FOR ITS USE.
(Ord. 2018-03-04, passed 3-26-2018)
§ 91.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   The fine for littering in any park listed in §§
91.01 and
91.02 of this chapter shall be $100.
(2005 Code, § 58-4)
   (C)   Violation of any provision of §
91.05 of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor as provided by G.S. § 14-4.
(2005 Code, § 58-6)
   (D)   Any person(s) who is found to be in violation of any provision of §§
91.45 through
91.50 shall be subject to expulsion from the skate facility and/or revocation
of any privileges for its use.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1987; Ord. passed 6-3-1996; Ord. 2018-03-04, passed 3-26-2018)
CHAPTER 92:  DOCKS, WHARVES AND HARBORS
Section
   
92.01   Harbor limits defined
   
92.02   Speed limit on Charles Creek
   
92.03   Willful damage to docks
   
92.04   Mooring vessels to public wharves
   
92.05   Vessels which may not be anchored or tied up
   
92.06   Personal watercraft; age for operation; distance from shore
   
92.07   Watercraft speed
   
92.08   Exemptions
Statutory reference:
   Injury to personal property, see G.S. § 14-160
   Removing boats, see G.S. § 14-162
§ 92.01  HARBOR LIMITS DEFINED.
   The harbor limits of the city shall include all that portion of Pasquotank
River and its tributaries, including the banks thereof, which lies within the
corporate limits of the city as now defined, or as may hereinafter from time to
time be defined.
(2005 Code, § 26-1)
§ 92.02  SPEED LIMIT ON CHARLES CREEK.
   (A)   No person shall operate or cause to be operated a vessel on Charles
Creek at a speed greater than six miles (statute miles) per hour.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the mouth of Charles Creek is on a
line which is the westwardly prolongation of the south shoreline of the
Pasquotank River.
(2005 Code, § 26-2)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.03  WILLFUL DAMAGE TO DOCKS.
   No person shall willfully or wantonly collide with, run into, damage or
abuse any public wharf or dock within the city.
(2005 Code, § 26-3)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Damaging city property, see G.S. §§ 14-127, 14-128, 160A-174
§ 92.04  MOORING VESSELS TO PUBLIC WHARVES.
   No vessel shall be moored to any public wharf for a period of longer than 48
hours without a permit issued by the Chief of Police who, at his or her
discretion, may issue or deny a permit for a longer period of time.
(2005 Code, § 26-4)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.05  VESSELS WHICH MAY NOT BE ANCHORED OR TIED UP.
   No person shall moor, tie up or anchor any vessel within the city that is or
may be in such condition as to:
   (A)   Being unseaworthy and in risk of sinking;
   (B)   Being in such disrepair or condition of decay;
   (C)   Contain such debris, trash and other matter as to create or possibly
create a fire hazard within the city;
   (D)   Maintained or kept in an unlocked or in an open condition where
children might be attracted to play or where others might be attracted and in
which vagrants or other persons might trespass unmolested;
   (E)   Be in an open condition in which conduct against the public morals of
the city takes place or may likely take place; or
   (F)   Because of such vessel’s unsightliness and condition of upkeep,
creates conditions contrary to the public health, happiness and morals of the
city.
(2005 Code, § 26-5)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to abate nuisance, see G.S. § 160A-193
§ 92.06  PERSONAL WATERCRAFT; AGE FOR OPERATION; DISTANCE FROM SHORE.
   (A)   No person shall, in any waters of the city:
      (1)   Operate a personal watercraft while carrying a number of passengers
in excess of the number of which the craft was designed by the manufacturer;
      (2)   Operate a personal watercraft at a speed in excess of ten mph from
the point at which Knobbs Creek enters the Pasquotank River to Buoy #8 and also
within any area of the river that abuts the shoreline that is part of the
corporate limits of the city that falls in that area that is between 50 feet to
300 feet from the shore; or
      (3)   Operate, at all, personal watercraft at a distance of less than 50
feet from the shore, except when proceeding to and from waters where operation
of personal watercraft is not prohibited and when launching or landing such
craft, approach or depart from any landing, pier and the like at other than an
angle perpendicular to the shoreline or proceed at a speed greater than that
which is necessary to maintain control of such watercraft until reaching an
area where the craft is not prohibited.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, no person under 14 years
of age shall operate a personal watercraft on any waters of the city, nor shall
the owner of a personal watercraft knowingly allow a person under the age of 14
to operate a personal watercraft on the waters of the city unless:
      (1)   The person is accompanied by a person at least 16 years of age who
physically occupies the watercraft; or
      (2)   The person possess a boating safety certificate or a photographic
identification card certifying that the person has completed a boating safety
course approved by the United States Coast Guard Auxiliary.
   (C)   No livery shall lease, hire or rent a personal watercraft to or for
operation by a person under 14 years of age, except as provided in division (B)
above.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, the term PERSONAL WATERCRAFT means a
small vessel which uses an outboard motor, or an inboard motor powering a water
jet pump, as its primary source of motive power and which is designed to be
operated by a person sitting, standing or kneeling on, or being towed behind
the vessel, rather than in the conventional manner of standing inside the
vehicle, as defined in G.S. § 75A-13.3.
(2005 Code, § 26-6)  (Ord. passed 8-17-1998)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.07  WATERCRAFT SPEED.
   No person shall, in any waters of the city, operate any watercraft at a
speed not to exceed six mph and/or as to not cause a wake from Ward Street down
river to the College of the Albemarle boat dock.
(2005 Code, § 26-7)  (Ord. passed 11-9-1998)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.08  EXEMPTIONS.
   The City Council reserves the right to suspend the regulations in §
92.07 of this chapter for special river activities (i.e., boat races,
professional exhibitions, fishing contests and the like) and other such times
as Council may direct.
(2005 Code, § 26-8)  (Ord. passed 11-9-1998)
CHAPTER 93:  CEMETERIES
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Speed limit for vehicles
   
93.02   Registration of burial
   
93.03   Minimum area, location for new cemeteries
   
93.04   Closing portions of cemeteries
   
93.05   Cemetery flower removal
Burials
   
93.20   Burial in dedicated cemeteries only
   
93.21   Burial by licensed undertaker
   
93.22   Lateral dimensions of grave
   
93.23   Depth of graves
   
93.24   One body per grave; exceptions
   
93.25   Opening new grave in old grave site
Prohibited Conduct
   
93.40   Disturbing funerals
   
93.41   Entrapment and the like of birds
   
93.42   Offensive conduct
   
93.43   Filth, trash, debris, etc.
   
93.44   Property damage
   
93.45   Defacing markers, stones
   
93.46   Use as public thoroughfare
Statutory reference:
   Authority to take possession of land, see G.S. § 65-37
   Damaging municipal property, see G.S. §§ 14-127, 14-128, 160A-174
   Defacing or desecrating grave, see G.S. §§ 14-148 et seq.
   Disorderly conduct, see G.S. § 14-288.4
   Disturbing public meeting, see G.S. § 143-318.7
   Inscription on gravestone charging commission of crime, see G.S. § 14-401.3
   Municipal authority to establish and operate cemeteries, see G.S. § 160A-341
   Regulation of city cemeteries, see G.S. § 160A-348
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01  SPEED LIMIT FOR VEHICLES.
   No person shall drive or operate a motor vehicle within a cemetery at a rate
of speed in excess of 20 mph.
(2005 Code, § 18-1)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.02  REGISTRATION OF BURIAL.
   Every undertaker shall, prior to burial in a cemetery owned by the city,
register such burial with the City Clerk on a form provided by the Clerk. The
gravesite information provided shall be verified and the form signed by the
Parks and Recreation Director or his or her designee prior to being registered
with the Clerk. Gravesites shall be probed by the Parks and Recreation Director
or his or her designee prior to any burial to assure that the plot is
unoccupied. Registration of burial forms shall contain the name, age, sex and
race of the person to be buried and a description of the exact location at
which such person is to be buried.
(2005 Code, § 18-2)  (Ord. 08-08-7, passed 8-25-2008)
§ 93.03  MINIMUM AREA, LOCATION FOR NEW CEMETERIES.
   No new cemetery may be dedicated within the city or within the
extraterritorial area within one mile thereof as same may exist from time to
time, with an area less than five acres and no portion of said dedicated area
shall be within 30 feet of a dwelling or commercial building nor within 100
feet of the source of water supply of any person. Crematoria shall be setback
at least 50 feet from any lot line.
(2005 Code, § 18-3)  (Ord. passed 5-4-1998)
§ 93.04  CLOSING PORTIONS OF CEMETERIES.
   (A)   The City Manager is designated to supervise generally the burial of
the dead within the city and to control the degree of saturation of graves
within a given area.
   (B)   If, after an investigation of the saturation of graves or likely
graves in a given area, it is his or her opinion that it is to the best
interest of the public welfare of the people of the city that further burials
within such area shall be prohibited, the City Manager shall order that within
such area no further burials shall be permitted.
   (C)   No person shall thereafter bury or cause to be buried the remains of
any human body within such area.
   (D)   Upon the issuance of the order by the City Manager, he or she shall
cause same to be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the county,
in two issues, published not more than eight days apart.
   (E)   Any person aggrieved by such order shall have 30 days from the date of
the last publication in which to appeal to the City Council in protest of such
action and, after such hearing by the City Council, shall have the right of
appeal therefrom to the courts of the state.
(2005 Code, § 18-4)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.05  CEMETERY FLOWER REMOVAL.
   City employees in charge of cemetery maintenance may remove dead and
unsightly flowers from grave sites in the city’s cemeteries every 30 days.
(2005 Code, § 18-5)  (Ord. passed 3-1-1982)
BURIALS
§ 93.20  BURIAL IN DEDICATED CEMETERIES ONLY.
   No person shall bury the remains of human bodies within the city limits or
within the extraterritorial area within one mile of the city limits as the same
may exist from time to time, except in dedicated cemeteries.
(2005 Code, § 18-29)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.21  BURIAL BY LICENSED UNDERTAKER.
   Burial of human remains shall be made and performed only by duly licensed
undertakers.
(2005 Code, § 18-30)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.22  LATERAL DIMENSIONS OF GRAVE.
   No single grave shall be smaller than ten feet in length and three and one-
third feet wide. This section shall not apply in the case of cremations.
(2005 Code, § 18-31)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.23  DEPTH OF GRAVES.
   (A)   No person shall bury the remains of a human body at a depth more
shallow than three feet from the top surface of the burial receptacle to the
normal surface of the ground, except in a mausoleum or structure having
specifications of strength equal to or in excess of the following: 2500#
concrete, five inches thick, reinforced with one-fourth-inch round bar placed
four inches from top of slab and on four-inch centers in both directions.
Otherwise, depth shall be unlimited.
   (B)   This section shall not apply in the case of cremated remains.
(2005 Code, § 18-32)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.24  ONE BODY PER GRAVE; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the remains of more than one human body to be
buried in a single grave; provided, however, a mother and an infant child dying
at approximately the same time and buried at the same time or two infant
children dying at approximately the same time or being buried at the same time
may be buried in a single grave.
   (B)   This section shall not apply in the case of cremated bodies.
(2005 Code, § 18-33)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.25  OPENING NEW GRAVE IN OLD GRAVE SITE.
   (A)   In the making of an opening for a grave, no person shall open an old
grave or dig therein or, if such old grave was not known to exist at the time
the opening began, to continue to make such opening, if such person finds or if
there is present the remains of any human person or receptacle in which any
human person has heretofore been buried or which could have been used for the
burial of any human person and was likely to have been used.
   (B)   No person shall fail to place any remains discovered either of the
person or receptacle within such opening and to cover it in a manner so as to
restore it to the same condition as it was before the opening.
(2005 Code, § 18-34)  Penalty, see §
10.99
PROHIBITED CONDUCT
§ 93.40  DISTURBING FUNERALS.
   No person shall disturb any funeral congregation in any cemetery.
(2005 Code, § 18-57)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.41  ENTRAPMENT AND THE LIKE OF BIRDS.
   No person shall catch, shoot, throw at, kill, entrap or otherwise disturb
any bird within a cemetery.
(2005 Code, § 18-58)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.42  OFFENSIVE CONDUCT.
   No person shall use any cemetery or graveyard in the city as a playground,
or make loud noises of any kind, discharge any firearm, use obscenity or
unreasonably loud language or noise, or make an indecent exposure of the person
or commit any other indecent act therein.
(2005 Code, § 18-59)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.43  FILTH, TRASH, DEBRIS, ETC.
   No person shall deposit, or cause to be deposited, any filth, trash, debris,
garbage, refuse, etc., or any unclean or offensive substance in any cemetery.
(2005 Code, § 18-60)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.44  PROPERTY DAMAGE.
   No person shall injure or deface in any way whatever any well, pump,
building, tombstone, monument, seat, bench, chair, railing, enclosure, tree,
shrub, vine, bulb, flower or other things placed, put or growing in any
cemetery, except as allowed in §
93.05 of this chapter.
(2005 Code, § 18-61)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.45  DEFACING MARKERS, STONES.
   No person shall remove the stakes from any burial lot, or any board,
gravestone or other monument which may have been erected at any grave, nor
deface, injure or destroy any such board, gravestone or other monument in any
manner.
(2005 Code, § 18-62)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 14-148
§ 93.46  USE AS PUBLIC THOROUGHFARE.
   No person shall use any cemetery grounds as a public thoroughfare.
(2005 Code, § 18-63)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 94:  PARADES, PICKETS AND PUBLIC GATHERINGS
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Definitions
   
94.02   Participation by minors
   
94.03   Fees for unusual requirements
   
94.04   Parade chairperson to carry permit
   
94.05   Private property
   
94.06   Compliance
Permit for Parade or Public Assembly
   
94.20   Required
   
94.21   Applicability
   
94.22   Special permit
   
94.23   Filing of application
   
94.24   Contents of application
   
94.25   Standards for issuance
   
94.26   Time limitations, hours
   
94.27   Contents
   
94.28   Officials to be notified
   
94.29   Procedures upon denial
Picketing
   
94.40   Standards and regulations for peaceful picketing
   
94.41   When unlawful
   
94.42   Interference with pickets
Statutory references:
   Applicability of traffic laws, see G.S. § 20-171
   Authority to control streets and sidewalks, see G.S. § 160A-296
   Authority to regulate traffic, see G.S. §§ 20-169, 160A-300
   Disturbing public meetings, see G.S. § 143-318.17
   Kneeling or lying down by public buildings, see G.S. § 14-132.1
   Mass gatherings, see G.S. §§ 130A-251 et seq.
   Picketing and parading, see G.S. § 14-225.1
   Possession of weapons by participants, see G.S. § 14-277.2
   Required distance from court, see G.S. § 14-225
   Riots and public disturbances, see G.S. §§ 14-288.1 et seq.
   Walk-a-thons, see G.S. §§ 14-310 et seq.
   Wearing masks, see G.S. §§ 14-12.4 et seq., 14-128
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BLOCK. The portion of a street lying between the points of intersection of
two other streets with such street.
   PARADE. Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant or procession
of any kind including a picket line and any organized event at which a number
of races or other sporting contests are held, including footraces, walk-a-thons
and/or cycling competitions, conducted in or upon any street, park or other
public place in the city.
   PICKET. A person engaged in picketing.
   PICKET LINE. A group of persons engaged in picketing as well as the space
physically occupied by such pickets.
   PICKETING. The individual action or the action in concert of more than one
person, to attempt to influence or persuade others to engage in, or refrain
from engaging in, a course of conduct or an activity, by singularly or in
concert with others, sitting, standing, walking, running, lying, patrolling or
otherwise maneuvering or acting in the vicinity of or in or on a place of
business, or in or on private property or in or on any street, sidewalk or
other public way or place, and orally, by banner, placard, preannounced
purpose, singing, demonstrating or otherwise attempting to carry out the
influencing or persuasion aforesaid or to do or act as aforesaid without regard
to whether or not there is an attempt to influence or persuade others and shall
also be defined as any conduct or course of action that by its nature of common
acceptance shall amount to PICKETING in its naturally or commonly accepted
meaning or as determined to constitute picketing by the courts of the several
states and of the United States where it is necessary to distinguish between
persons engaged in parading and persons engaged in picketing, PICKETING shall
mean a procession which covers the same route more than once or which does not
cover a specified route.
   POLICE. Any law enforcement officer of the city, county, state or of the
United States of America.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street, public easement or thoroughfare lying
between the portion thereof used primarily for vehicular traffic and the
property line abutting such street, public easement or thoroughfare.
(2005 Code, § 54-1)
§ 94.02  PARTICIPATION BY MINORS.
   No minor shall participate in any activity regulated by this chapter unless
the permit granted therefor is a special permit under §
94.22 of this chapter or unless specifically allows the participation of
minors. No parade chairperson shall allow any minor to violate the provisions
of this section. No parent or guardian shall allow any minor under such
person’s care to violate the provisions of this section.
(2005 Code, § 54-2)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.03  FEES FOR UNUSUAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The City Manager, at his or her discretion, may set an appropriate fee to
cover costs of any unusual requirements upon city employees in connection with
a parade.
(2005 Code, § 54-3)
§ 94.04  PARADE CHAIRPERSON TO CARRY PERMIT.
   The parade chairperson or other person leading or heading the activity shall
carry the parade permit upon his or her person during the conduct of the
parade.
(2005 Code, § 54-4)
§ 94.05  PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No parade, procession, picket or public demonstration of any sort
shall enter upon any private property without prior written permission from the
person legally entitled to occupy the property in question.
   (B)   No part of any parade, procession, picket or group demonstration which
takes place on private property shall come within 50 feet of the property line
of any other parcel of private property without prior written permission of the
person legally entitled to occupy such other parcel of private property. Such
permission shall be carried on the person of the parade chairperson.
(2005 Code, § 54-5)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.06  COMPLIANCE.
   A permittee under this chapter shall comply with all permit directions and
conditions as provided in this chapter and with all other applicable laws and
ordinances.
(2005 Code, § 54-6)
PERMIT FOR PARADE OR
PUBLIC ASSEMBLY
§ 94.20  REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall hold any public meeting or public demonstration, or
conduct any parade, or similar activity upon any of the streets, sidewalks or
within any of the parks of the city, or other public place under the control of
the city, without first obtaining a permit therefor from the City Manager.
   (B)   No person shall participate in any gathering, assemblage,
demonstration or parade upon the streets, sidewalks or within any of the parks
of the city, or other public places under the control of the city, unless such
gathering, assemblage, demonstration or parade is held by written permit of the
City Manager.
(2005 Code, § 54-31)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.21  APPLICABILITY.
   The permit provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   Funeral processions;
   (B)   Students going to and from school classes or participating in
educational activities, providing the conduct is under the immediate direction
and supervision of the proper school authorities, except as provided in §
94.22 of this chapter;
   (C)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions; or
   (D)   Groups or associations of less than 20 persons engaging in expressive
activities, at locations other than streets and roads.
(2005 Code, § 54-32)
§ 94.22  SPECIAL PERMIT.
   (A)   At the discretion of the City Manager, a high school parade or similar
function wherein the majority of participants shall be minors may be conducted
under a special parade permit issued pursuant to the provisions of this section
instead of through the normal permitting procedure.
   (B)   Such special parade permit shall be obtained from the City Manager at
least 24 hours before such parade or similar function may begin.
   (C)   The application for such special parade permit shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   Name of person in charge;
      (2)   Route;
      (3)   Number of participants;
      (4)   Time of beginning and approximate time of finishing; and
      (5)   Date of parade.
   (D)   If the City Manager deems it necessary to protect the minors involved
or to safeguard the citizenry as a whole, he or she may change the route, time
or date of such parade before authorizing the permit.
(2005 Code, § 54-33)
§ 94.23  FILING OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an application
with the City Manager on forms provided by him or her.
   (B)   An application for a parade permit shall be filed not less than five
days, nor more than 15 days, before the date on which it is proposed to conduct
the parade.
   (C)   The City Manager, where good cause is shown therefor, shall have the
authority to consider any application under this subchapter which is filed less
than five days before the date the parade is proposed to be conducted.
(2005 Code, § 54-34)
§ 94.24  CONTENTS OF APPLICATION.
   The application for a parade permit shall set forth the following
information:
   (A)   The name, address and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct the parade;
   (B)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of or by an
organization, the name, address and telephone number of the headquarters of the
organization, and of the authorized and responsible heads of the organization;
   (C)   The name, address and telephone number of the person who will be the
parade chairperson and who will be responsible for its conduct;
   (D)   The date when the parade is to be conducted;
   (E)   The route to be traveled, the starting point and the termination
point;
   (F)   The approximate number of persons who, and animals and vehicles which
will constitute the parade, the type of animals and description of the
vehicles;
   (G)   The hours when the parade will start and terminate;
   (H)   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a portion
of the width of the streets proposed to be traversed;
   (I)   The location by streets of any assembly areas for the parade;
   (J)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at any
such assembly area;
   (K)   The interval of space to be maintained between units of the parade;
   (L)   If the parade is designed to be held by, and on behalf of or for any
person other than the applicant, the applicant for the permit shall file a
communication in writing from the person proposing to hold the parade,
authorizing the applicant to apply for the permit on his or her behalf; and
   (M)   Any additional information which the City Manager shall find
reasonably necessary to a fair determination as to whether a permit should be
issued.
(2005 Code, § 54-35)
§ 94.25  STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   The City Manager shall issue a permit as provided for under this subchapter
when, from a consideration of the application and from such other information
as may otherwise be obtained, he or she finds that:
   (A)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (B)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the city to properly police the line of movement
and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the
city;
   (C)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions of the
city other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and areas
contiguous thereto;
   (D)   The concentration of persons, animals and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
   (E)   The conduct of the parade will not interfere with the movement of
firefighting equipment en route to a fire;
   (F)   The conduct of the parade is not reasonably likely to cause injury to
persons or property;
   (G)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point
of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays en route; and
   (H)   The parade is not to be held for the sole purpose of advertising any
product, goods or event, and is not designed to be held purely for private
profit.
(2005 Code, § 54-36)
§ 94.26  TIME LIMITATIONS, HOURS.
   No parade permit shall be issued for an activity to begin later than 7:00
p.m. on any day.
(2005 Code, § 54-37)
§ 94.27  CONTENTS.
   Each parade permit shall state the following information:
   (A)   Starting time;
   (B)   Minimum speed;
   (C)   Maximum speed;
   (D)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
parade;
   (E)   The portions of the streets to be traversed that may be occupied by
the parade;
   (F)   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof;
   (G)   Name of parade chairperson;
   (H)   Whether minors are to participate;
   (I)   Route; and
   (J)   Such other information as the City Manager shall find necessary for
the enforcement of this chapter.
(2005 Code, § 54-38)
§ 94.28  OFFICIALS TO BE NOTIFIED.
   Immediately upon the issuance of a parade permit, the city shall give notice
thereof to the following:
   (A)   The Mayor;
   (B)   The City Attorney;
   (C)   The Fire Chief and Police Chief;
   (D)   The Parks and Recreation Director; and
   (E)   The head of each public utility, the regular routes of whose vehicles
will be affected by the route of the proposed parade.
(2005 Code, § 54-39)
§ 94.29  PROCEDURES UPON DENIAL.
   (A)   Notice. The City Manager shall act upon the application for a parade
permit within two business days after the filing thereof. If he or she
disapproves the application, he or she shall mail to the applicant within five
days after the date upon which the application was filed, a notice of his
action, stating the reasons for his or her denial of the permit.
   (B)   Alternate permit. The City Manager, in denying an application for a
parade permit, shall be empowered to authorize the conduct of the parade on a
date, at a time or over a route different from that named by the applicant. An
applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit shall, within two days after
such notice, file a written notice of acceptance. An alternate parade permit
shall conform to the requirements of, and shall have the effect of a parade
permit under this subchapter.
   (C)   Appeal. Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial
of a parade permit to the City Council. The appeal shall be taken within one
day after notice. The City Council shall act upon the appeal within five days
after its receipt.
(2005 Code, § 54-40)
PICKETING
§ 94.40  STANDARDS AND REGULATIONS FOR PEACEFUL PICKETING.
   It is recognized that peaceful picketing in the furtherance of a lawful
purpose shall be permitted in the city and the following standards and
regulations are herewith promulgated for the regulation of peaceful picketing
for a lawful purpose.
   (A)   Picketing may be conducted only on the sidewalks of the city and may
not be conducted on the portion of a street used primarily for vehicular
traffic nor in any public building or space.
   (B)   Not more than 15 pickets promoting the same objective shall be
permitted to use one of the two sidewalks within a block of the city at any one
time.
   (C)   Pickets may carry written or printed placards or signs not exceeding
two feet in width and two feet in length promoting the objective for which the
picketing is done; provided, however, the words used on said placard or sign
shall not be defamatory in nature or such as would tend to produce violence or
induce a breach of the peace. The staff on such placards or signs shall not
exceed 40 inches in length, must be made of wood, shall not exceed three-
fourths of an inch in diameter or on any side at any point and must be blunt at
each end.
   (D)   Pickets must march in single file and not abreast and may not march
closer together than ten feet, except in passing one another.
   (E)   Pickets shall walk not more than six feet from the curbline of the
sidewalk and shall be in continuous motion.
   (F)   If pickets promoting different objectives desire to use the same
sidewalk for picketing and such use would result in the presence of more than
15 pickets thereon, the Chief of Police shall allot time to each group of
pickets for the use of such sidewalks on a pro rata basis.
   (G)   No person engaged in picketing may make or produce loud, or unusual
noise, including, but not limited to, shouting, clapping or singing of such a
nature as to or be likely to disturb the peace and tranquility of the city or
otherwise to unreasonably interfere with personal or commercial businesses and
the activities of the people of the city or to disturb the public peace.
   (H)   No person engaged in picketing shall interfere with or attempt to
interfere with another in the exercise of his or her right to work or to enter
upon the performance of any lawful vocation or activity by the use of force,
the threat of force, threats of violence or intimidation or by the use of
insulting or threatening language directed toward such person, to induce or
attempt to induce him or her to quit his or her employment or refrain from
seeking employment or to do or cease to do any lawful activity.
(2005 Code, § 54-69)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.41  WHEN UNLAWFUL.
   All picketing done in a manner contrary to the provisions of this subchapter
shall be unlawful.
(2005 Code, § 54-70)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.42  INTERFERENCE WITH PICKETS.
   (A)   No person shall physically interfere with persons engaged in peaceful
picketing in the furtherance of a lawful purpose in the use of the sidewalks or
address profane, indecent, abusive or threatening language to or at such
pickets which would tend to provoke such pickets or others to engage in conduct
which would constitute a breach of the peace.
   (B)   Police officers may, if persons assemble in such numbers as to tend to
intimidate pickets pursuing their lawful objective, through numbers alone or
through use of inflammatory words, direct the dispersal of such persons so
assembled, and may arrest any person who fails to absent himself or herself
from the place of such assemblage when so directed by the police. No person so
assembled shall fail to absent himself or herself from such place or to cease
and desist from such course of conduct after having been directed by the police
to do so.
(2005 Code, § 54-71)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 95:  HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   Trespassing on sanitary landfill
   
95.03   Throwing garbage, trash, leaving junked vehicles in street
   
95.04   Throwing sharp objects in streets
   
95.05   Garbage disposal regulated
   
95.06   Garbage to be promptly removed
   
95.07   Hauling garbage
   
95.08   Dropping loads
   
95.09   Tampering with containers
   
95.10   Removal of dead animals
   
95.11   Trash containers in business district
   
95.12   Accumulation of rubbish
   
95.13   Removal of certain waste material
   
95.14   Downtown Garbage District
Abandoned, Nuisance and Junked Motor Vehicles
   
95.25   Administration
   
95.26   Definitions
   
95.27   Abandoned vehicles unlawful; removal authorized
   
95.28   Nuisance vehicle unlawful; removal authorized
   
95.29   Junked motor vehicles regulated; removal authorized
   
95.30   Pre-towing notice requirements for removal of abandoned, nuisance or
junked motor vehicles
   
95.31   Exception to prior notice requirement
   
95.32   Removal of vehicles; post-towing notice requirements
   
95.33   Owners responsible for cost
   
95.34   Right to probable cause hearing before sale or final disposition of
vehicle
   
95.35   Redemption of vehicle during proceedings
   
95.36   Sale and disposition of unclaimed vehicle
   
95.37   Conditions on removal of vehicles from private property
   
95.38   Protection against criminal or civil liability
   
95.39   Exceptions
   
95.40   Unlawful removal of impounded vehicle
   
95.41   Right of entry
   
95.42   Subchapter cumulative
   
95.43   Special interest restoration vehicle
Public Health Nuisances
   
95.55   Definitions
   
95.56   Community appearance and safety standards
   
95.57   Threats to public health and safety
   
95.58   Investigations
   
95.59   Abatement
   
95.60   Cost of abatement
   
95.61   Remedy not exclusive
   
95.62   Chronic violator
 
   
95.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Abatement of imminent hazard, see G.S. § 130A-20
   Abatement of public health nuisance, see G.S. § 130A-19
   Municipal abatement of public health nuisances, see G.S. § 160A-193
   Removal and disposal of junked and abandoned motor vehicles, see G.S. §
160A-303
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 95.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. All putrescible solid waste, including vegetable matter, animal
offal, carcasses of small animals and industrial products, but excluding human
waste and animal manure. Used milk cartons or other food containers that are
not dry or clean shall be included in this definition.
   HEALTH DIRECTOR. The Director of the Albemarle Regional Health Services or
his or her authorized representative.
   REFUSE. Garbage or rubbish.
   RUBBISH. Non-putrescible solid waste.
(2005 Code, § 42-1)  (Ord. passed 1-7-1980)
§ 95.02  TRESPASSING ON SANITARY LANDFILL.
   No person, other than city and county employees in the regular performance
of their duties, shall enter upon or trespass upon any property used by the
city as a dump or sanitary landfill.
(2005 Code, § 42-2)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.03  THROWING GARBAGE, TRASH, LEAVING JUNKED VEHICLES IN STREET.
   No person shall place or leave or cause to be placed or left, temporarily or
permanently, any trash, refuse, garbage or other litter, including scrapped
automobiles or trucks, or parts thereof, on the right-of-way of any park,
square, street or public alley of the city or within sight of any person
traveling or being on any street of the city; provided, however, nothing herein
shall apply to domestic trash or garbage placed for removal in proper
containers otherwise defined in this chapter.
(2005 Code, § 42-3)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.04  THROWING SHARP OBJECTS IN STREETS.
   No person shall throw, place or deposit any glass or other sharp or cutting
substance or any injurious obstruction in or upon any of the streets,
sidewalks, alleys or other public places maintained or serviced by the city.
(2005 Code, § 42-4)  Penalty, see §
95.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. §§ 136-91, 160A-303.1
§ 95.05  GARBAGE DISPOSAL REGULATED.
   No person shall throw, place or deposit any garbage in any street, alley,
public place or on private property within the city limits, except in garbage
cans or garbage vehicles as provided in this chapter.
(2005 Code, § 42-5)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.06  GARBAGE TO BE PROMPTLY REMOVED.
   No garbage that has become decayed or that shall otherwise be a menace to
health or cleanliness shall be allowed to remain in any dwelling, house, hotel,
boardinghouse, café, restaurant, lunchstand, fruit stand, meat market, store or
other building or on any premises for a longer time than shall be reasonably
necessary to remove and deposit the same in cans as provided in this chapter.
(2005 Code, § 42-6)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.07  HAULING GARBAGE.
   No person shall haul through the streets of the city any noxious or
offensive matter or matter which might or does attract flies, bugs or insects,
such as, but not limited to, dead animals, garbage, animal fats, decayed meat,
discarded meat or bones or similar or other like matter unless same shall be
hauled in a covered container reasonably restricting the emission of noxious
fumes or odors and which shall be impermeable to insects.
(2005 Code, § 42-7)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.08  DROPPING LOADS.
   No person shall haul coal, dirt, sand, gravel, crushed stone, litter, paper
or waste matter of any kind, whether in the foregoing enumeration or not, along
or over any street in the city, except in wagons, carts or other vehicles with
bodies or receptacles for holding such materials so constructed and arranged as
to prevent same from wasting or dropping upon the street.
(2005 Code, § 42-8)  Penalty, see §
95.99
Statutory reference:
   Trash and harmful objects on streets, see G.S. §§ 136-91, 160A-303.1
§ 95.09  TAMPERING WITH CONTAINERS.
   (A)   No person shall open or scavenge in garbage or trash containers. The
provisions of this section shall not apply to persons loading the containers
and city employees dumping containers.
   (B)   No person shall overturn, remove or tamper with any container used for
trash and garbage.
(2005 Code, § 42-9)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.10  REMOVAL OF DEAD ANIMALS.
   The owner or keeper of any dead animal shall, at his or her own expense,
remove such dead animal from the city within six hours of the death of such
animal; provided, however, if such animal shall die between the hours of 4:00
p.m. and the following 6:00 a.m., such animal must be removed by 12:00 noon;
provided further, any such animal dying on the streets of the city shall
immediately be removed by the owner or keeper thereof. The removal of such
animals shall be at the expense of the owner or keeper.
(2005 Code, § 42-10)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.11  TRASH CONTAINERS IN BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   No person shall deposit any trash in any container inside of any building in
the primary fire district in the city unless the container in which such trash
is deposited shall be made of metal or fire-resisting metal.
(2005 Code, § 42-11)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.12  ACCUMULATION OF RUBBISH.
   No person shall permit any accumulation of wastepaper, weeds, litter or
combustible or flammable waste or rubbish of any kind to remain upon any roof
or in any court, yard, vacant lot or other open space. Every owner or occupant
of property shall cut down and remove therefrom all weeds, grass, vines and
other growth, which endangers the same or any other property, or which is
likely to be fired.
(2005 Code, § 42-12)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.13  REMOVAL OF CERTAIN WASTE MATERIAL.
   No person making, using, storing or having charge or control of any
shavings, excelsior, rubbish, sacks, bags, litter or combustible trash or waste
shall fail, neglect or refuse at the close of each day to cause all such
material which is not compactly baled and stacked in an orderly manner to be
removed from the premises or stored in non-combustible containers; provided
that, this section shall not apply to sawmills, planing mills or similar
business establishments, where the usual litter or refuse is reasonably cared
for and disposed of.
(2005 Code, § 42-13)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.14  DOWNTOWN GARBAGE DISTRICT.
   (A)   There shall be established a Downtown Garbage District, which may be
amended from time to time, whereby residents and commercial property owners
within the district shall use a trash compactor provided by the city for
garbage collection.
   (B)   The rate schedule for this district shall be based on a tiered
schedule to include residential, small commercial, medium commercial and heavy
commercial consumers, as set by the City Council from time to time.
(Ord. 07-01-01, passed 1-8-2007)
ABANDONED, NUISANCE AND JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES
§ 95.25  ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   (1)   The City Manager shall be responsible for the administration and
enforcement of this subchapter.
      (2)   The City Manager shall be responsible for administering the removal
and disposition of vehicles determined to be “abandoned” on the public streets
and highways within the city, and on property owned by the city.
      (3)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall be responsible for administering
the removal and disposition of “abandoned”, “nuisance”“junked,” “special
restoration,” or “parts car” motor vehicles located on private property.
   (B)   The city may, on an annual basis, contract with private tow truck
operators or towing businesses to remove, store and dispose of abandoned
vehicles, nuisance vehicles and junked motor vehicles in compliance with this
subchapter and applicable state laws.
   (C)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to limit the legal
authority or powers of officers or employees of the city in enforcing other
laws or in otherwise carrying out their duties.
(2005 Code, § 42-45)  (Ord. passed 5-3-1999; Ord. 2015-11-01, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 95.26  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. A motor vehicle, as authorized and defined in G.S. §
160A-303, and one that:
      (1)   Is left upon the right-of-way of a public street or highway in
violation of a law or ordinance prohibiting parking;
      (2)   Is left on the right-of-way of a public street or highway for
longer than seven days;
      (3)   Is left on property owned or operated by the city for longer than
24 hours; or
      (4)   Is left on private property without the written consent of the
owner/occupant or lessee thereof, for longer than two hours.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES. A vehicle that does not display a current license
plate lawfully upon that vehicle, as authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-
303.2, and that:
      (1)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked;
      (2)   Cannot be self-propelled or moved in the manner in which it
originally was intended to move; or
      (3)   Is more than five years old and appears to be worth less than $100.
   NUISANCE VEHICLE. A vehicle on public or private property that is determined
and declared to be a health or safety hazard, a public nuisance and unlawful,
including a vehicle found to be:
      (1)   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes, other insects, rats or
other pests;
      (2)   A point of heavy growth of weeds or other noxious vegetation over
eight inches in height;
      (3)   A point of collection of pools or ponds of water;
      (4)   A point of concentration of quantities of gasoline, oil or other
flammable or explosive materials as evidenced by odor;
      (5)   A source of danger for children through entrapment in areas of
confinement that cannot be opened from the inside or from exposed surfaces of
metal, glass or other rigid materials;
      (6)   So situated or located that there is a danger of it falling or
turning over;
      (7)   One which is a point of collection of garbage, food waste, animal
waste or any other rotten or putrefied matter of any kind;
      (8)   One which has sharp parts thereof which are jagged or contain sharp
edges of metal or glass; or
      (9)   Any other vehicle specifically declared a health and safety hazard
by the City Council.
   OPEN PLACES. Areas of properties or portions thereof that are open to the
exterior, including building openings, such as carports, or porches, and any
other exterior portions of properties ordinarily exposed to the outside and/or
public view, including front, side and rear yards.
   PARTS VEHICLE.  A motor vehicle that is owned by a person to furnish parts
for restoration of a special interest restoration vehicle, thus enabling a
person to preserve, restore, and maintain a special interest restoration
vehicle.
   SPECIAL INTEREST RESTORATION VEHICLE. A vehicle of an age that is unaltered
from the manufacturer's original specifications and, because of its
significance, including but not limited to, an out-of-production vehicle, is
collected, preserved, restored, or maintained by hobbyist as a leisure pursuit.
(2005 Code, § 42-46)  (Ord. passed 5-3-1999; Ord. 2015-11-01, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 95.27  ABANDONED VEHICLES UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or persons entitled to
possession of a vehicle to cause or allow such vehicle to be abandoned.
   (B)   Upon investigation, properly authorized officials of the city may
determine that a vehicle is abandoned and order the vehicle removed.
(2005 Code, § 42-47)  (Ord. passed 5-3-1999)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.28  NUISANCE VEHICLE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or persons entitled to
possession of a motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee or occupant of the real
property upon which the vehicle is located to leave or allow the vehicle to
remain on the property after it has been declared a nuisance vehicle.
   (B)   Upon investigation, the City Manager or designee may determine and
declare that a vehicle is a health or safety hazard and a nuisance vehicle as
defined above, and order the vehicle removed.
(2005 Code, § 42-48)  (Ord. passed 5-3-1999)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.29  JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES REGULATED; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
the possession of a junked motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee or occupant
of the real property upon which a junked motor vehicle is located to leave or
allow the vehicle to remain on the property after the vehicle has been ordered
removed.
   (B)   Upon investigation, the City Manager or designee may order the removal
of a junked motor vehicle, as defined in this subchapter, after finding in
writing that the aesthetic benefits of removing the vehicle outweigh the
financial burdens imposed on the private property owner. Such finding shall be
based on a balancing of the monetary loss of the apparent owner against the
corresponding gain to the public by promoting or enhancing community,
neighborhood or area appearance. The following, among other relevant factors,
may be considered:
      (1)   Protection of property values;
      (2)   Promotion of tourism and other economic development opportunities;
      (3)   Indirect protection of public health and safety;
      (4)   Preservation of the character and integrity of the community; and
      (5)   Promotion of the comfort, happiness and emotional stability of area
residents.
(2005 Code, § 42-49)  (Ord. passed 5-3-1999)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.30  PRE-TOWING NOTICE REQUIREMENTS FOR REMOVAL OF ABANDONED, NUISANCE OR
JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Except as set forth in §
95.31 of this chapter, an abandoned, nuisance or junked vehicle that is to be
removed shall be towed only after notice to the registered owner or any person
entitled to possession of the vehicle that can reasonably be identified. Notice
shall be given by affixing a notice on the windshield or some other conspicuous
place on the vehicle. The notice shall state that the vehicle will be removed
by the city on a specified date, no sooner than 15 days after the notice is
affixed or mailed, unless the vehicle is moved to a garage or other appropriate
enclosed storage place or depository by the owner or legal possessor prior to
that time. In the case of a nuisance vehicle or a junked motor vehicle, if the
names and mailing addresses of the registered owner or person entitled to the
possession of the vehicle, or the owner, lessee, or occupant of the real
property upon which the vehicle is located can be ascertained in the exercise
of reasonable diligence, the notice shall be given by first class mail to both
the owner of the vehicle and the land owner where the vehicle is located, in
the event that can reasonably be ascertained. The person who mails the notice
shall retain a written record to show the name and address to which the notice
was mailed and the date mailed.
   (B)   With respect to abandoned vehicles on private property, nuisance
vehicles and junked motor vehicles for which notice has been given, if the
registered owner or person entitled to possession does not remove the vehicle,
but chooses to appeal the determination that the vehicle is abandoned, a
nuisance vehicle or in the case of a junked motor vehicle that the aesthetic
benefits of retaining the vehicle outweigh the burdens of removal, such appeal
shall be made to the Board of Zoning Adjustments in writing prior to the
applicable date of abatement and heard at the next regularly scheduled meeting
of the Board of Zoning Adjustments. Any further proceedings to remove the
vehicle shall be stayed until the appeal is heard and decided.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner and or any persons
entitled to possession of a motor vehicle that can reasonably be identified, or
for the owner, lessee, or occupant of the real property upon which the vehicle
is located to just relocate the abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle to
another portion of the same property, another real property location in the
city, or section of right-of-way. The owner or persons entitled to the
possession of the vehicle, or the owner, lessee, or occupant of the real
property upon which the vehicle is located shall correct the abandoned,
nuisance or junked vehicle violation by: 1) obtaining the written consent of
the owner/occupant or lessee thereof to keep the vehicle at the location, if
the vehicle is classified as abandoned; 2) correcting the health and safety
hazards as defined in §
95.26 if classified as a nuisance vehicle; or 3) permanently relocating the
vehicle to an enclosed building or an appropriate storage place or depository
maintained in a lawful place and manner (i.e. automobile junkyard).
(2005 Code, § 42-50)  (Ord. passed 5-3-1999; Ord. 02071, passed 7-15-2002; Ord.
2015-11-01, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 95.31  EXCEPTION TO PRIOR NOTICE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   The requirement that notice be given prior to removal of an abandoned,
nuisance or junked motor vehicle may, as determined by the authorizing
official, be omitted in those circumstances where there is a special need for
prompt action to eliminate traffic obstruction or to otherwise maintain and
protect the public safety and welfare. Such findings shall, in all cases, be
entered by the authorizing official in the appropriate daily records.
   (B)   Circumstances justifying the removal of vehicles without prior notice
include:
      (1)   Vehicles abandoned on the streets. For vehicles left on the public
streets and highways, the City Council hereby determines that immediate removal
of such vehicles may be warranted when they are:
         (a)   Obstructing traffic;
         (b)   Parked in violation of an ordinance prohibiting or restricting
parking;
         (c)   Parked in a no-stopping or standing zone;
         (d)   Parked in bus zones; or
         (e)   Parked in violation of temporary parking restrictions imposed
under code sections.
      (2)   Other abandoned or nuisance vehicles. With respect to abandoned or
nuisance vehicles left on city-owned property other than the streets and
highways, and on private property, such vehicles may be removed without giving
prior notice only in those circumstances where the authorizing official finds a
special need for prompt action to protect and maintain the public health,
safety and welfare. By way of illustration and not of limitation, such
circumstances include vehicles blocking or obstructing ingress or egress to
businesses and residences, vehicles parked in such a location or manner as to
pose a traffic hazard and vehicles causing damage to public or private
property.
(2005 Code, § 42-51)  (Ord. passed 5-3-1999)
§ 95.32  REMOVAL OF VEHICLES; POST-TOWING NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle which has been ordered
removed may, as directed by the city, be removed to a storage garage or area by
the tow truck operator or towing business contracting to perform such services
for the city. Whenever such a vehicle is removed, the authorizing city official
shall immediately notify the last known registered owner of the vehicle, such
notice to include the following:
      (1)   The description of the removed vehicle;
      (2)   The location where the vehicle is stored;
      (3)   The violation with which the owner is charged, if any;
      (4)   The procedure the owner must follow to redeem the vehicle; and
      (5)   The procedure the owner must follow to request a probable cause
hearing on the removal.
   (B)   The city shall attempt to give notice to the vehicle owner by
telephone; however, whether or not the owner is reached by telephone, written
notice, including the information set forth in divisions (A)(1) through (A)(5)
above, shall also be mailed to the registered owner’s last known address,
unless this notice is waived in writing by the vehicle owner or his or her
agent.
   (C)   If the vehicle is registered in the state, notice shall be given
within 24 hours. If the vehicle is not registered in the state, notice shall be
given to the registered owner within 72 hours from the removal of the vehicle.
   (D)   Whenever an abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle is removed,
and such vehicle has no valid registration or registration plates, the
authorizing city official shall make reasonable efforts, including checking the
vehicle identification number to determine the last known registered owner of
the vehicle and to notify the owner of the information set forth in divisions
(A)(1) through (A)(5) above.
(2005 Code, § 42-52)  (Ord. passed 5-3-1999)
§ 95.33  OWNERS RESPONSIBLE FOR COST.
   If an abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle is removed by or at the
direction of the authorizing official, the owner shall pay all reasonable costs
incident to the removal and storage of such vehicle and incident to locating
the owner thereof.
(2005 Code, § 42-53)  (Ord. passed 5-3-1999)
§ 95.34  RIGHT TO PROBABLE CAUSE HEARING BEFORE SALE OR FINAL DISPOSITION OF
VEHICLE.
   After the removal of an abandoned vehicle, nuisance vehicle or junked
vehicle, the owner or any other person entitled to possession is entitled to a
hearing for the purpose of determining if probable cause existed for removing
the vehicle. A request for hearing must be filed in writing within 30 days of
the post-towing notification. Such request for hearing must be filed with the
City Manager or his or her designee and County Magistrate designated by the
Chief District Court Judge to receive such hearing requests. The Magistrate
will set the hearing within 72 hours of receipt of the request, and the hearing
will be conducted in accordance with the provisions of G.S. § 20-219.11, as
amended.
(2005 Code, § 42-54)  (Ord. passed 5-3-1999)
§ 95.35  REDEMPTION OF VEHICLE DURING PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   At any stage in the proceedings, including before the probable cause
hearing, the owner may obtain possession of the removed vehicle by paying the
towing fee, including any storage charges and administrative fees, or by
posting a bond for double the amount of such fees and charges due as a result
of the abatement. Upon regaining possession of a vehicle, the owner or person
entitled to the possession of a vehicle shall not allow or engage in further
violations of this subchapter.
   (B)   In the event that the vehicle has been declared a violation of §§
95.27 or
95.28 of this chapter, the owner of the vehicle or person entitled to
possessions, prior to regaining possession, shall submit in writing his or her
plan to ensure the violation is not repeated and obtain the approval of the
appropriate official of the city, who shall examine the plan for compliance
with this subchapter.
(2005 Code, § 42-55)  (Ord. passed 5-3-1999)
§ 95.36  SALE AND DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLE.
   Any abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle which is not claimed by the
owner or other party entitled to possession within 30 days of official post-
towing notification will be disposed of by the tow truck operator or towing
business having custody of the vehicle. Disposition of such a vehicle shall be
carried out in coordination with the city and in accordance with G.S. Ch. 44A,
Art. 1.
(2005 Code, § 42-56)  (Ord. passed 5-3-1999)
§ 95.37  CONDITIONS ON REMOVAL OF VEHICLES FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   As a general policy, the city will not remove a vehicle from private
property if the owner, occupant or lessee of such property could have the
vehicle removed under applicable state law procedures. In no case will a
vehicle be removed by the city from private property without a written request
of the owner, occupant or lessee, except in those cases where a vehicle is a
nuisance vehicle or is a junked vehicle which has been ordered removed by the
City Manager or designee. The city may require any persons requesting the
removal of an abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle from private property
to indemnify the city against any loss, expense or liability incurred because
of the removal, storage or sale.
(2005 Code, § 42-57)  (Ord. passed 5-3-1999)
§ 95.38  PROTECTION AGAINST CRIMINAL OR CIVIL LIABILITY.
   No person shall be held to answer in any civil or criminal action to any
owner or other person legally entitled to the possession of an abandoned,
nuisance or junked motor vehicle, for disposing of such vehicle as provided in
this subchapter.
(2005 Code, § 42-58)  (Ord. passed 5-3-1999)
§ 95.39  EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall apply to any vehicle which:
   (A)   Is located in a bona fide “automobile graveyard” or “junkyard” as
defined in G.S. § 136.143, in accordance with the Junkyard Control Act, G.S. §§
136-141 et seq.;
   (B)   Is in an enclosed building;
   (C)   Is on the premises of a business enterprise being operated in a lawful
place and manner if the vehicle is necessary to the operation of the
enterprise; or
   (D)   Is in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a
lawful place and manner by the city.
   (E)   Is determined to be and registered with the city as a special interest
vehicle or parts vehicle, as defined in §
95.43.
(2005 Code, § 42-59)  (Ord. passed 5-3-1999; Ord. 2015-11-01, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 95.40  UNLAWFUL REMOVAL OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or attempt to remove from any
storage facility designated by the city any vehicle which has been impounded
pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter unless and until all towing,
impoundment fees and administrative fees which are due have been paid, or bond
in lieu of such fees, has been posted.
(2005 Code, § 42-60)  (Ord. passed 5-3-1999)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.41  RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   For the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this subchapter, the City
Manager or his or her designee may, at all times during regular business hours,
Sundays and legal holidays excepted, enter upon any premises within the city’s
jurisdiction, other than within any building actually occupied for a residence,
for the purpose of determining whether or not the provisions of this subchapter
are being violated for the purpose of determining whether or not any notice by
the city requiring the abatement of the nuisance has been complied with.
(2005 Code, § 42-61)  (Ord. passed 5-3-1999)
§ 95.42  SUBCHAPTER CUMULATIVE.
   Procedures set forth in this subchapter shall be in addition to any other
remedies that may exist under law or ordinances to the abatement of public
nuisances.
(2005 Code, § 42-62)  (Ord. passed 5-3-1999)
§ 95.43  SPECIAL INTEREST RESTORATION VEHICLE.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided by state statute, a person may maintain
one special interest restoration vehicle and up to one parts vehicle as defined
in §
95.26, whether operable or inoperable, in outdoor storage on private property,
if both such vehicles are registered with the city and the outdoor storage area
is maintained in such manner as not to constitute a health hazard and is
located away from public view, or screened from ordinary public view, by means
of an 80% opaque fence, maintained vegetation, or other appropriate means.
   (B)   Persons storing a special interest restoration vehicle for more than
ten days outside a fully enclosed permanent structure or garage for the purpose
of restoration shall obtain a vehicle restoration permit from the City Police
Department:
      (1)   The permit shall allow for one special interest restoration vehicle
and up to one parts vehicle that must be compatible to the vehicle being
restored.
      (2)   The parts vehicle must be stored on the same lot as the special
interest restoration vehicle.
      (3)   The permit allows for outdoor storage of the vehicle(s) for a
period of up to six months.
      (4)   A maximum of two 6-month extensions for the life of the project may
be granted upon request, provided substantial progress can be proven in the
restoration of the vehicle at each extension interval.
      (5)   Progress shall be measured by receipts for the purchase of parts or
services or visible reconstruction or deconstruction.
      (6)   At no time shall the vehicle(s) become a public health nuisance by
collecting water to breed mosquitoes, losing fluid to contaminate the soil or
becoming a harborage for vermin.
      (8)   Upon permit expiration date, the vehicle shall be removed or placed
inside a fully enclosed building as required by this section.
      (9)   The permit shall be placed in the vehicle in a location viewable
from the outside of the vehicle
      (10)   The owner of the property where the vehicle(s) is located, if
different from the owner of the vehicle, shall authorize the permit
application.
   (C)   The special interest restoration permit shall be subject to a fee
established by the City Council, which may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 2015-11-01, passed 11-9-2015)
PUBLIC HEALTH NUISANCES
§ 95.55  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHRONIC VIOLATOR. A person who owns property whereupon, in the previous
calendar year, the city gave a notice of violation at least three times under
any provision of the public nuisance ordinance.
   JUNK. Any item which is usually and customarily referred to or known as junk
or which in the future shall be known as or referred to as JUNK and of a nature
similar to the items described in this subchapter, including, but not limited
to, the following discarded items; automobiles, farm equipment, household
furniture, kitchen appliance, clothing, paper, wooden or paper boxes,
chinaware, building materials, machinery, fixtures or equipment.
      (1)   For the purpose hereof, any worn-out, deteriorated or inoperable
household furniture and/or kitchen appliances placed in open places shall be
presumed to be discarded.
      (2)   For the purpose hereof, an item shall be considered as discarded
when not stored, kept or maintained so as to protect and preserve it from the
elements or from persons or animals.
   OPEN PLACES. Areas of properties or portions thereof that are open to the
exterior, including building openings such as carports or porches, and any
other exterior portions ordinarily exposed to the outside and/or public view,
including front, side and rear yards.
(2005 Code, § 42-83)  (Ord. passed 5-3-1999; Ord. 2012-16, passed 7-23-2012)
§ 95.56  COMMUNITY APPEARANCE AND SAFETY STANDARDS.
   (A)   It is hereby found and determined that there exists within the area
subject to the zoning jurisdiction of the city premises that, because of the
existence of the conditions herein determined to be unlawful, constitute a
visual blight and detriment upon the surrounding neighborhood and create
substantial and unreasonable interference with the reasonable and lawful use
and enjoyment of other premises in the neighborhood, or such conditions inhibit
property values, deter tourism, interfere with the public health and safety, or
otherwise discourage the comfort, happiness and emotional stability and general
welfare of all citizens.
   (B)   No person shall store or place, or cause to be stored or placed, junk
upon the streets or sidewalks of the city or upon his or her own property or
the property of others and permit same to remain for a period exceeding 24
hours, except when it is placed in an enclosed area with a roof thereon.
(2005 Code, § 42-84)  (Ord. passed 5-3-1999)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.57  THREATS TO PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY.
   The existence of any of the following conditions on any lot or parcel of
land within the zoning jurisdiction of the city is hereby declared to be
unlawful and a violation of the provisions of this subchapter, unless it is a
permitted use in accordance with this subchapter:
   (A)   Weeds, grass and other debris. The uncontrolled growth of noxious
weeds, grass, bushes, hedges or any growing material in excess of 12 inches,
causing or threatening to cause a hazard detrimental to the public health and
safety. This section is to be enforced as to any property located within 200
feet of any road or highway right-of-way or within 200 feet of any residential
property;
   (B)   Corner visibility. On corner lots, no obstructions of any kind or
nature to the visibility of vehicles on streets at intersections shall be
erected, maintained or allowed to exist. This area, corner triangle, of
visibility shall not be more than two feet higher than the street or curb level
and not less than ten feet from the property corner. (Note: this also applies
to any shrub, bush, hedge and/or vine within the “corner triangle” on a
person’s property that violates said requirement. In addition, any tree and/or
tree branches that encroach with a “corner triangle” shall have its branches
trimmed to a height no less than eight feet above ground level.);
   (C)   Dead trees and/or limbs. The lack of removal of dead trees and/or
limbs that are causing or threatening to cause a hazard detrimental to the
public health and safety. REMOVAL, herein, means the cutting down of a dead
tree to a stump sufficiently short as not to pose a falling hazard and the
cutting/removal of a dead limb from an otherwise live tree;
   (D)   Placement, storage or accumulation of any junked and/or abandoned
vehicle. For the purposes hereof, any automobile which is partially dismantled
or wrecked; or cannot be self-propelled or moved in the manner in which it was
originally intended to move, or is more than five years old or does not display
a current license plate shall be considered junk, as authorized and defined in
G.S. § 160A-303.2. It shall be unlawful for any person to store or place, or
cause to be stored or placed, a junked vehicle on the streets, sidewalks or on
any other property either public or private, except in an enclosed structure
with a roof thereon;
   (E)   Detached or accessory building. Any deteriorated and/or dilapidated
detached accessory building;
   (F)   Fence or retaining wall. Any fence, retaining wall or similar
landscape features that are not firmly anchored to the ground, maintained in
good structural condition and appearance or free of deterioration. Wooden or
other fence features subject to deterioration or weathering shall be properly
maintained to retard deterioration or provide protection from the weather.
Deteriorated features shall be replaced or repaired, or completely removed;
   (G)   Firewood storage. Firewood that is stored, stacked and/or placed in
excess of a total area of 100 square feet and/or stored, placed or stacked to a
height more than six feet above ground level;
   (H)   Storage of building materials. Building materials shall be stored in a
completely enclosed building when stored on a lot where construction has
stopped or never commenced for a period of one year and there is not a current,
valid, outstanding building permit issued for construction on the same lot;
   (I)   Placement and/or storage of construction fill materials. Unless such
materials are:
      (1)   Stored in a level, safe manner;
      (2)   Placed in gently sloped mounds for a period of time not to exceed
one year; or
      (3)   Approved by the Zoning Administrator or his or her designee as a
reasonable landscape feature evidenced by a comprehensive landscape plan
showing such features for legitimate landscape purposes as part of the total
development of the lot.
   (J)   Vacant buildings. All vacant buildings shall be maintained/secured, so
as to discourage unlawful entry and/or vagrancy. Securing/boarding up of
exterior windows and/or doors of vacant buildings from the outside shall not
exceed six months. Property owners shall be notified a minimum of 30 days prior
to charging a property with this violation;
Editor’s note:
   There is no time frame for securing/boarding up said areas of a vacant
building from the inside where the use of interior curtains, blinds and/or
shades will obscure same from exterior visibility and all window and/or door
glass is intact
   (K)   Animal, vegetable accumulations. Any accumulation of animal or
vegetable matter that is offensive by virtue of odors or vapors or by the
inhabitancy therein of rats, mice, snakes or vermin or any kind which is or may
be dangerous or prejudicial to the public health;
   (L)   Fire hazard, stagnant water, rodent infestation. Any accumulation of
rubbish, trash or junk causing or threatening to cause a fire hazard, or
causing or threatening to cause the accumulation of stagnant water, or causing
or threatening to cause the inhabitation therein of rats, mice, snakes or
vermin of any kind which is or may be dangerous or prejudicial to the public
health;
   (M)   Obstructing drainage ditch. Any natural growth or human-made
obstruction of or impediment of the natural flow of water in any drainage ditch
within the city with dirt, trash, debris or any other matter or substance or by
undersize culvert or other construction serving the purpose of a culvert;
   (N)   Draining offensive fluid. Any drainage into any stream or watercourse,
carrying off water or fluid from any kitchen sink, bathtub, washing machine or
like household or commercial appliance, carrying off and draining into said
stream or watercourse any fluid of an offensive, noxious or dangerous nature
regardless of the source or origin thereof, or the drainage or depositing of
any substance in a stream or watercourse which may, in any way, poison or
contaminate the water therein;
   (O)   Visible address. All buildings that are habitable and/or generally
open to the public, shall have the applicable address numbers/letters placed on
the building so as to be visible from the street. Accessory use buildings on
the same property are exempt from this requirement;
   (P)   Obscene materials and graffiti. Obscene materials and/or graffiti
visible in open places; and
   (Q)   Other conditions detrimental to public health. Any condition
detrimental to the public health that violates the rules and regulations of the
county’s Health Department.
(2005 Code, § 42-85)  (Ord. passed 7-7-1980; Ord. passed 5-6-1985; Ord. passed
7-27-1998; Ord. passed 5-3-1999; Ord. 2012-15, passed 7-23-2012; Ord. 2012-18,
passed 7-23-2012)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.58  INVESTIGATIONS.
   The City Manager or his or her designee, upon his or her own action or upon
receiving any complaint or notice from any person regarding the existence of
any conditions described in §
95.27 of this chapter, shall investigate such conditions as may be necessary to
determine whether, in fact, such conditions constitute a violation of this
subchapter.
(2005 Code, § 42-86)  (Ord. passed 5-6-1985; Ord. passed 5-3-1999)
§ 95.59  ABATEMENT.
   Upon a finding that a condition constitutes a violation of this subchapter,
notice shall be given by mailing a certified letter and a first class letter to
the property owner and/or any other person in possession of or any other person
in control of or any person responsible for such condition, as and in the
manner listed in the county’s Tax Supervisor’s office, advising him or her that
a threat to the public health and safety exists. He or she shall be given 48
hours, excluding Sundays, to remedy the situation, with the exception of junk
vehicles for which the remedy deadline shall be seven days. If the situation is
not completely remedied in total within the applicable period, the city shall
initiate action on its own to clean, remove or otherwise correct and minimize
recurrence of such violation. This action may be, but is not limited to,
cleaning, clearing, spraying, grubbing, bulldozing, hauling or any other
treatment that the City Manager or his or her designee believes is necessary
and advisable.
(2005 Code, § 42-87)  (Ord. passed 5-6-1985; Ord. passed 4-6-1987; Ord. passed
5-3-1999; Ord. 2018-11-02, passed 11-26-2018)
§ 95.60  COST OF ABATEMENT.
   (A)   The actual cost incurred by the city in remedying the threat or
potential violation of this subchapter shall be charged to the property owner
as, and in the manner listed, in the county’s Tax Supervisor’s office. In
addition, the city shall include a fee of administration, investigation,
researching, travel and monitoring of the cleanup in an amount as set from time
to time by the City Council which shall also be paid by the property owner.
   (B)   If charges for the removal or abatement of a public nuisance are not
paid within 30 days after the receipt of a statement of charges, such charges
shall become a lien upon the land or premises where the public nuisance existed
and shall be collected as unpaid taxes, as provided in G.S. § 160A-193.
   (C)   Each day such threat or potential violation of this subchapter exists
after notification to the property owner and/or any other person in possession
of or any other person in control of or any person responsible for such
condition upon such property shall constitute a separate and distinct
misdemeanor punishable by law. This remedy shall be in addition to any
abatement action taken by the city.
(2005 Code, § 42-88)  (Ord. passed 5-6-1985; Ord. passed 4-6-1987; Ord. passed
5-3-1999)
§ 95.61  REMEDY NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The procedure set forth in this subchapter shall be in addition to any other
remedies that may now or hereafter exists under law for the abatement of public
nuisances.
(2005 Code, § 42-89)  (Ord. passed 5-6-1985; Ord. passed 5-3-1999)
§ 95.62  CHRONIC VIOLATOR.
   In accordance with G.S. § 160A-200.1, the city may notify any homeowner and/
or business owner who has been determined to be a chronic violator of the
city’s public nuisance ordinance that, if the violator’s property is found to
be in violation of this subchapter, the city shall, without further notice in
the calendar year in which notice is given, take action to remedy the violation
and the expenses of the action shall become a lien upon the property and shall
be collected as unpaid taxes. The notice shall be sent by certified mail.
(Ord. 2012-17, passed 7-23-2012)
§ 95.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   A violation of §
95.56 of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor and punishable as provided by law.
Also, if the City Manager or his or her designee shall notify the offending
person to remove said junk and such notice is served upon such offending
person, then each and every day that said junk is permitted to remain shall be
considered a separate and distinct misdemeanor and punishable as such.
(2005 Code, § 42-84)  (Ord. passed 5-3-1999)
CHAPTER 96:  FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
General Provisions
   
96.01   Adoption of North Carolina State Fire Code, subsequent editions,
amendments and appendices; permits and certificates
Fire Prevention Code
   
96.15   Primary fire district
   
96.16   Carelessness with fire
   
96.17   Burning within city limits
   
96.18   Investigation of fires
   
96.19   Record of fires
   
96.20   Authority of firefighters; willful interference
   
96.21   False alarm due to malfunction
   
96.22   Giving a false alarm; damaging of a fire alarm, fire detection or fire
extinguishing system
   
96.23   Criteria for live burn training
 
   
96.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Building Regulations; Construction, see
Ch. 150
Statutory reference:
   City authority to establish Fire Department and appoint chief, see G.S. §
160A-291
   Duties of chief, see G.S. § 160A-292
   Municipal authority to regulate or prohibit explosive and corrosive
substances, see G.S. § 160A-183
   Municipalities authorized to install and maintain water mains and hydrants,
see G.S. § 160A-293
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 96.01  ADOPTION OF NORTH CAROLINA STATE FIRE CODE, SUBSEQUENT EDITIONS,
AMENDMENTS AND APPENDICES; PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide the city with rules
and regulations to improve public safety by promoting the control of fire
hazards; regulating the installation, use and maintenance of equipment;
regulating the use of structures, premises and open areas; providing for the
abatement of fire hazards; establishing the responsibilities and procedures for
code enforcement; and setting forth the standards for compliance and
achievement of these objectives.
   (B)   Loss Control and Investigation Division. The 2012 edition of the North
Carolina State Fire Code and any and all subsequent editions, amendments and
appendices thereto recognized and enforced by the NC Department of Insurance,
is hereby adopted by reference as though it were copied herein fully. It shall
be enforced by the Loss Control and Investigation Division of the Fire
Department which is hereby established and which shall be operated under the
supervision of the Chief of the Fire Department.
      (1)   The Fire Marshal shall be the Administrator of the Loss Control and
Investigation Division. The Fire Marshal shall be responsible for the direct
administration and enforcement of the Fire Prevention Code as may be set forth
by the Fire Chief. The Fire Marshal shall be appointed by the Chief of the Fire
Department.
      (2)   The Fire Chief may also designate such number of technical
inspectors as shall from time to time be authorized by the City Council. Such
technical inspectors shall be appointed by the Chief of the Fire Department.
The Inspectors of the Loss Control and Investigation Division shall enforce all
laws and codes of the city covering the following:
         (a)   The prevention of fires;
         (b)   The storage and use of explosives and flammables;
         (c)   The installation and maintenance of automatic and other fire
alarm systems and fire extinguishing equipment;
         (d)   The maintenance and regulation of fire escapes;
         (e)   The means and adequacy of exits, in case of fire, from
factories, schools, hotels, lodginghouses, asylums, hospitals, churches, halls,
theaters, amphitheaters and all other places in which numbers of persons work,
live or congregate, from time to time, for any purpose;
         (f)   The investigation of the cause, origin and circumstances of
fires; and
         (g)   The maintenance of fire cause and loss records.
      (3)   They shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as
set forth in other sections of this Code and as may be conferred and imposed
from time to time by law. The Fire Chief may delegate any of his or her powers
or duties under this Code to the Fire Marshal.
   (C)   Inspection schedule.
      (1)   In order to preserve and to protect public health and safety, and
to satisfy the requirements of G.S. §§ 153A-364 and 160A-424, political
subdivisions assuming inspection duties, as set out in G.S. §§ 153A-351 and
160A-411, shall have a periodic inspection schedule for the purpose of
identifying activities and conditions in buildings, structures and premises
that pose dangers of fire, explosion or related hazards.
      (2)   The following inspection schedule has been adopted as a minimum
schedule by the Division of Engineering of the Department of Insurance. To meet
the requirements under the general statute, the following schedule shall be
conducted in the jurisdiction of the Fire Department:
         (a)   Once every year: hazardous, institutional, high rise, assembly
and residential (except one-family and two-family dwellings), and only interior
common areas of dwelling units of multi-family occupancies;
         (b)   Once every two years: educational (except public schools) and
industrial; and
         (c)   Once every three years: business, mercantile storage, churches
and synagogues.
   (D)   Issuance of notice of violations by Fire Inspectors and civil
penalties.
      (1)   Fire Inspectors of the Loss Control and Investigation Division are
empowered to issue notices of violation when such Fire Inspectors have
reasonable cause to believe that any person has violated any provision of the
North Carolina State Fire Code, and any and all subsequent editions, amendments
and appendices thereto recognized by the NC Department of Insurance, or of this
chapter. The notice of violation may be delivered in person to the violator or,
if the violator cannot be readily found, the notice of violation may be mailed.
The notice of violation shall specify the amount of time given which the
violation must be corrected and shall specify the penalty to be imposed if the
violation is not corrected. The Fire Inspector will base the time limit for
correction of violation on historical data, violations in the past, severity of
violation and circumstances surrounding the violation. The penalty imposed
shall be $200 for violations of the Fire Prevention Code or of this chapter.
However, violations of Ch. 8, § 802, “Exit Obstruction”, and § 803, “Doors”
(Locked Exit or Blocked), and “Overcrowding”, §§ 802.2, and 3101.13, of the
Fire Prevention Code shall be deemed life safety violations which create
imminent danger and shall subject the offender to a penalty of $1,000 for the
first offense, $2,000 for the second offense and $3,000 for the third offense.
      (2)   If the violation is not corrected within the specified time and the
penalty is not paid within the time allowed, the Fire Marshal may have a
criminal summons issued against the violator for the violation of the North
Carolina State Fire Code, and any and all subsequent editions, amendments and
appendices thereto recognized by the NC Department of Insurance, or of this
chapter. Upon conviction, the violator shall be subject, pursuant to the
provisions contained in the North Carolina State Fire Code, and any and all
subsequent editions, amendments and appendices thereto recognized by the NC
Department of Insurance or pursuant to division (C)(1) above, to the penalty
specified in the notice of violation.
      (3)   If the violation is not corrected within the specified time, the
violator shall be guilty of a new and separate offense.
      (4)   Nothing in this section shall preclude the issuance of an arrest
warrant where appropriate.
   (E)   Criminal violations. Any person who shall violate or fail to comply
with any provision of this chapter or of the North Carolina State Fire Code,
and any and all subsequent editions, amendments and appendices thereto
recognized by the NC Department of Insurance, as adopted, amended or augmented
by this chapter, or who shall violate or fail to comply with any order made
under this chapter or the State Fire Code, and any and all subsequent editions,
amendments and appendices thereto recognized by the NC Department of Insurance
or who shall build in violation of any detailed statement or plans submitted
under this chapter or the North Carolina State Fire Code, and any and all
subsequent editions, amendments and appendices thereto recognized by the NC
Department of Insurance, or any certificate or permit issued thereunder, shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned
not more than 30 days. The imposition of one penalty for any violation shall
not excuse the violation or permit it to continue, and all such violations
shall be corrected within the time specified pursuant to this section.
   (F)   Permits and fees. Applications for permits required pursuant to the
North Carolina State Fire Code, and any and all subsequent editions, amendments
and appendices thereto recognized by the NC Department of Insurance, shall be
made to the Fire Marshal on forms provided by the city. All applications shall
be accompanied by the applicable permit fee as established by the city. The
required permit fees shall be set out in a fee schedule. Printed schedules of
the permit fees shall be available to the public at the Fire Marshal’s office
and shall be on file in the City Clerk’s office. The Fire Marshal is authorized
to waive the permit fee for governmental, religious or charitable
organizations.
      (1)   All permits and certificates that are required in the North
Carolina Fire Code, and any and all subsequent editions, amendments and
appendices thereto recognized by the NC Department of Insurance: $25;
      (2)   Installation of fire suppression system: $25 plus $1 per sprinkler
head in said structure;
      (3)   Installation of underground or aboveground fuel tanks, piping and
or system used for storage of any flammable or combustible liquids: $50;
      (4)   Installation of auto fire extinguisher system: $50; and
      (5)   Installation of auto fire alarm system: $50.
   (G)   Recommendation by Fire Marshal. It shall be the Fire Marshal who will
investigate and recommend to the Chief of the Fire Department such additional
ordinances, or amendments to existing ordinances, as he or she may deem
necessary for safeguarding life and property against fire.
   (H)   Code deemed police power of city. The North Carolina State Fire Code,
and any and all subsequent editions, amendments and appendices thereto
recognized by the NC Department of Insurance, shall be deemed an exercise of
the police powers of the city for the preservation and protection of the public
health, peace, safety and welfare; and all the provisions of the Fire Code
shall be liberally construed for that purpose.
(2005 Code, § 34-1)  (Ord. passed 3-5-1979; Motion passed 2-1-1993)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to adopt technical code by reference, see G.S. § 160A-76(b)
FIRE PREVENTION CODE
§ 96.15  PRIMARY FIRE DISTRICT.
   The fire limits of the city shall be as follows: beginning at the east end
of Burgess Street where the center thereof intersects the west side of
Pasquotank River, thence running westerly along the center of Burgess Street to
the center of Water Street, thence southerly along the center of Water Street
to its intersection with the easterly prolongation of the north side of Pearl
Street, thence westerly along the north side of Pearl Street to a point 150
feet west of the west side of Poindexter Street, thence southerly parallel to
Poindexter Street to the center of Poindexter Creek, thence along the center of
Poindexter Creek to the east side of Martin Street, thence southerly along the
west side of Martin Street to the center of Colonial Avenue, thence westerly
along the center of Colonial Avenue to the center of Elliott Street, thence
southerly along the center of Elliott Street to the center of Main Street,
thence easterly along the center of Main Street to the center of Pool Street,
thence southerly along the center of Pool Street to the center of Fearing
Street, thence easterly down the center of Fearing Street to the center of
McMorrine Street, thence southerly down the center of McMorrine Street to the
center of Grice Street, thence westerly along the center of Grice Street to the
center of Pool Street, thence southerly along the center of Pool Street to the
center of Ehringhaus Street and the eastwardly prolongation thereof to the west
side of Pasquotank River, thence northerly along the west side of Pasquotank
River to the point of beginning.
(2005 Code, § 34-21)  (Motion passed 2-1-1993)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to set fire limits, see G.S. § 160A-435
§ 96.16  CARELESSNESS WITH FIRE.
   No person shall deliberately, or through carelessness or negligence, set
fire to or cause the burning of any material, in such manner as to endanger the
safety of any person or property.
(2005 Code, § 34-22)  (Motion passed 2-1-1993)  Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.17  BURNING WITHIN CITY LIMITS.
   (A)   No person shall burn or cause to be burned any trash, refuse, shaving,
paper, litter, natural vegetation or other material of any kind outside any
house, on or in any street, sidewalk, alley, lot or yard within the city
limits.
   (B)   A fire can be utilized for recreational purposes in a commercially
purchased “fire pit” that has a screen over the fire. Only small kindling
materials shall be burned in the fire pit.
   (C)   Any fire that is reported as a nuisance must be extinguished
immediately. All current warnings regarding burn bans from the North Carolina
Forestry Service or air quality must be adhered to at all times.
(2005 Code, § 34-23)  (Motion passed 2-1-1993)  Penalty, see §
96.99
Statutory reference:
   Air pollution control, see G.S. §§ 143-215 et seq.
§ 96.18  INVESTIGATION OF FIRES.
   The Loss Control and Investigation Division shall investigate the cause,
origin and circumstances of every fire occurring in the city by which property
has been destroyed or damaged and, so far as possible, shall determine whether
the fire is the result of carelessness or design. Such investigations shall
begin immediately upon the occurrence of such a fire. The Fire Marshal shall
take charge immediately of the physical evidence, shall notify the proper
authorities designated by law to pursue the investigation of such matter, and
shall further cooperate with the authorities in the collection of evidence and
in the prosecution of the case. Every fire shall be reported in writing to the
Loss Control and Investigation Division within two days after the occurrence of
the same by the Fire Department officer in whose jurisdiction the fire has
occurred and shall contain a report of all facts relating to the cause, origin
and circumstances of such fire; the extent of the damage thereof and the
insurance upon such property; and such other information as may be required,
including the injury, death or rescue of persons.
(2005 Code, § 34-24)  (Ord. passed 3-5-1979; Motion passed 2-1-1993)
§ 96.19  RECORD OF FIRES.
   The Fire Marshal shall compile and keep a record of all fires and of all the
facts concerning the same, including injuries, deaths, rescue of persons and
statistics, as to the extent of such fires and the damage caused thereby and
whether such losses were covered by insurance and, if so, in what amount. Such
record shall be made daily from the reports made by the Technical Inspectors
under the provisions of this Code. The Fire Marshal shall make an annual report
of the activities of the Loss Control and Investigation Division and shall
transmit this report to the Chief of the Fire Department. All such records
shall be made public.
(2005 Code, § 34-25)  (Ord. passed 3-5-1979; Motion passed 2-1-1993)
§ 96.20  AUTHORITY OF FIREFIGHTERS; WILLFUL INTERFERENCE.
   Members and employees of the Fire Department shall have authority to do all
acts reasonably to extinguish fires and protect life and property from fire.
(2005 Code, § 34-26)  (Motion passed 2-1-1993)
§ 96.21  FALSE ALARM DUE TO MALFUNCTION.
   In the event a fire alarm system activates falsely or otherwise malfunctions
more than three times within 30 days and the Fire Department responds in
reliance thereon, the fire alarm system’s owner shall immediately determine and
correct the defect or source of false alarm and malfunction. The Fire Official
shall notify the fire alarm system’s owner in writing to correct the defect or
malfunction within 15 days from the date of receipt of such written notice.
(2005 Code, § 34-27)  (Ord. passed 12-5-1985; Motion passed 2-1-1993)  Penalty,
see §
96.99
§ 96.22  GIVING A FALSE ALARM; DAMAGING OF A FIRE ALARM, FIRE DETECTION OR FIRE
EXTINGUISHING SYSTEM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to wantonly and willfully give or cause
to be given, or to advise, counsel or aid and abet anyone in giving, a false
alarm of fire, or to break the glass key protector, or to pull the slide, arm
or lever of any station or signal box of any fire alarm system, except in case
of fire, or willfully misuse or damage a portable fire extinguisher, or in any
way to willfully interfere with, damage or deface, any part or portion of any
fire alarm, fire detection, smoke detection or fire extinguishing system.
(2005 Code, § 34-28)  (Motion passed 2-1-1993)  Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.23  CRITERIA FOR LIVE BURN TRAINING.
   (A)   Notification shall be initiated to the City Manager by the property
owner for a request to use a structure for live burn training.
   (B)   A chief fire officer and the Fire Marshal shall go to the structure
and determine if it would provide good, quality training.
   (C)   At this inspection, factors such as proximity to other homes, water
supply, traffic consideration, power line consideration and collapse zones
shall be determined.
   (D)   If the structure is determined suitable to provide quality training
the property owner, before a notary public, shall sign an approved authorized
city Fire Department release and indemnity agreement relinquishing the city’s
Fire Department, the city and its insurers from any and all liability and
responsibility associated with the burn.
   (E)   There shall be an asbestos inspection performed with all proper
documentation attached.
   (F)   Before the live burn, the requirement of a ten-day notification to the
state’s Health Hazards Control Branch in Raleigh shall be made. In addition,
the 48-hour notification to Air Quality in Washington, North Carolina, shall be
performed.
   (G)   Seven days prior to the burn, a public service announcement shall be
advertised in local print media, notifying residents of the date of the live
fire burn and any traffic considerations.
   (H)   Other requirements to be performed within the residential neighborhood
shall be the placement of door hangers on nearby homes 48 hours prior to the
burn and door to door/face to face notification on the day of the fire within a
one-block radius of the training site.
   (I)   As a usual practice and to avoid interference with outside activities,
live fire burn training shall not be conducted in residential neighborhoods
between the months of May through September, without prior City Council
approval.
   (J)   The property owner shall be responsible for clearing the lot of all
debris within ten days after receiving notification that the training has been
completed. If the landowner fails to comply with this requirement, the city
shall do the same and all costs incurred relative to the cleanup shall be
assessed to the landowner and the property, as with tax liens, all by law
provided.
   (K)   Preference shall be afforded to requests to burn governmental and
institutional structures.
   (L)   Upon the completion of all requirements, each request shall first be
approved by City Council prior to the performance of the burn.
(2005 Code, § 34-29)  (Ord. passed 5-1-2000)
§ 96.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, including the owner of property which is burning, who
shall willfully interfere in any manner with firefighters engaged in the
performance of their duties, as per §
96.20 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and punishable in the
discretion of the court.
(2005 Code, § 34-26)
   (C)   If such written notice, as set out in §
96.21 of this chapter, is provided by the Fire Official and the fire alarm
system owner fails to correct the defect or malfunction within 15 days after
receipt of such notice, each false alarm or malfunction thereafter shall
subject the owner to a civil penalty of $250 payable to the city until the
defect or malfunction is corrected. The Fire Official shall make such
assessments of civil penalties and provide written notice thereof to the owner
with the dates on which notice to correct were given and on which false alarms
were received thereafter. Payment of such penalty shall not excuse the duty to
correct the malfunction. Imposition of this penalty shall be in addition to any
other fines or penalties provided for by statute or ordinance.
(2005 Code, § 34-27)  (Ord. passed 12-5-1985; Motion passed 2-1-1993)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING, REGISTRATION AND TAXATION
      
111.   ADVERTISING AND ADVERTISEMENTS
      
112.   RESERVED
      
113.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
114.   TAXICABS
CHAPTER 110:  GENERAL LICENSING, REGISTRATION AND TAXATION
Section
Business Registration
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Construction of this subchapter
   
110.03   Requirement for registration; fee
   
110.04   Period of registration; due date
   
110.05   Separate businesses
   
110.06   Exemptions
   
110.07   Registration application
   
110.08   Reasons for refusal or revocation of a registration
   
110.09   Unqualified agents; right to a conference
   
110.10   Administrator to issue registration; payment of fee a prerequisite
   
110.11   Registration fee
   
110.12   Revocation
   
110.13   Form and contents of registration
   
110.14   Assignments
   
110.15   Changes in the business conducted during the year
   
110.16   Administrator to furnish duplicates
   
110.17   Record of conferences
   
110.18   Providing notice to an agent or person
   
110.19   Duty to determine whether registration is required
   
110.20   Administrator to investigate
   
110.21   Duty to permit inspection
   
110.22   Duty to post registration
   
110.23   Appeal
Specific Businesses
   
110.35   Carnivals
   
110.36   Reserved
   
110.37   Firearms
   
110.38   Pool and billiard parlors
   
110.39   Horse-drawn vehicles for hire
 
   
110.99   Penalty
BUSINESS REGISTRATION
§ 110.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The person designated by the City Manager to operate the
business registration program required by this subchapter.
   AGENT. An individual acting on behalf of a person, as defined herein.
   BUSINESS. Each trade, occupation, profession, business and franchise subject
to registration under this subchapter.
   CITY. The City of Elizabeth City.
   PERSON. Any individual, trustee, executor, other fiduciary, corporation,
unincorporated association, partnership, sole proprietorship, limited liability
company, company, firm or other legal entity.
   SEASONAL IN NATURE. When it is conducted for profit six months out of the
year or less.
(Ord. 2015-08-07, passed 8-24-2015)
§ 110.02  CONSTRUCTION OF THIS SUBCHAPTER.
   This subchapter is enacted for regulation purposes only. In addition,
issuance of a registration in accordance with this subchapter does not excuse a
person from compliance with any other applicable ordinance or statute. This
subchapter does not prevent the city from requiring registration for additional
businesses.
(Ord. 2015-08-07, passed 8-24-2015)
§ 110.03  REQUIREMENT FOR REGISTRATION; FEE.
   (A)   Unless exempt as described in §
110.06 of this chapter, each person who conducts a business within the city is
subject to this subchapter. One conducts a business “within the city” if one
maintains a business location within the city; or if, either personally or
through agents, one:
      (1)   Solicits business within the city limits; or
      (2)   Picks up or delivers goods or services within the city limits.
   (B)   The initial annual and seasonal business registration fee shall be in
the amount of $20, and may be amended by the City Council from time to time.
(Ord. 2015-08-07, passed 8-24-2015)
§ 110.04  PERIOD OF REGISTRATION; DUE DATE.
   (A)   Annual registrations. Unless the section of this subchapter applicable
to a particular business provides otherwise, a registration issued in
accordance with this subchapter is good for the 12-month period beginning
October 1 and ending September 30.
   (B)   Registrations for periods shorter than one year. If the section of
this subchapter applicable to a particular business so provides, a registration
may be issued for a period of one day, one week or some comparable period of
less than a full registration year. A person may not commence to conduct a
business within the city until the business registration is obtained and may
not continue such a business beyond the period for which the registration is
issued.
(Ord. 2015-08-07, passed 8-24-2015)
§ 110.05  SEPARATE BUSINESSES.
   A separate registration is required for each place of business unless two or
more places of business under common ownership are contiguous to each other,
communicate directly with and open into each other and are operated as a unit.
(Ord. 2015-08-07, passed 8-24-2015)
§ 110.06  EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to all businesses within the
city municipal jurisdiction unless specifically exempted or excluded from
registering by this subchapter, by the laws of the state or by laws of the
United States.
(Ord. 2015-08-07, passed 8-24-2015)
§ 110.07  REGISTRATION APPLICATION.
   (A)   A person shall apply to the Administrator for each registration
required by this subchapter before commencing business.
   (B)   The application, which shall be submitted on forms provided by the
City Administrator, shall contain:
      (1)   The name of the owner and, if applicable the agent for the
business, a complete statement as to whether the agent is an individual, a
partnership, a corporation or some other entity;
      (2)   The nature of the business;
      (3)   The physical location of where the business is conducted;
      (4)   An address where notices and statements may be mailed to as
required by this subchapter;
      (5)   Whether the business is regulated by a state occupational licensing
board subject to G.S. Ch. 93B and, if so, the serial number of the state
registration the business or the agent for the business currently holds; and
      (6)   Any other information the Administrator determines to be necessary
to issue the registration or otherwise regulate the business appropriately.
   (C)   The application shall be accompanied by the payment of a registration
fee, which is described in §
110.11 of this chapter. In compliance with state law, this fee shall not exceed
the cost to the city of the administrative process of the production and
issuance of the registration, or to otherwise monitor the business.
(Ord. 2015-08-07, passed 8-24-2015)
§ 110.08  REASONS FOR REFUSAL OR REVOCATION OF A REGISTRATION.
   The Administrator shall refuse to issue a registration or may revoke a
registration for either of the following reasons:
   (A)   The owner or agent misrepresents a fact relevant to his or her
qualifications for a registration; and
   (B)   The owner or agent refuses to provide necessary information, as
determined by the Administrator in his or her discretion.
(Ord. 2015-08-07, passed 8-24-2015)
§ 110.09  UNQUALIFIED AGENTS; RIGHT TO A CONFERENCE.
   (A)   After receipt of the completed application, if the Administrator
believes that a reason exists for refusing a registration under §
110.08 of this chapter, the Administrator shall not issue the registration. At
the agent’s request, the Administrator shall in accordance with §
110.18 of this chapter, give the owner or agent a written statement of the
reason for refusing the registration. The owner or agent may, within ten days
after the day the statement is received, request a conference to discuss the
refusal. In the request, the owner or agent shall specify why the application
for a registration should not be refused. The Administrator shall arrange the
conference within three business days of receiving the request.
   (B)   If the Administrator refuses to issue a registration, the owner or
agent may reapply for a registration at any time thereafter. If the reason for
which the application was refused no longer exists, and if no other reason
exists for refusing to issue a registration, the Administrator shall issue the
registration in compliance with §
110.10 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-08-07, passed 8-24-2015)
§ 110.10  ADMINISTRATOR TO ISSUE REGISTRATION; PAYMENT OF FEE A PREREQUISITE.
   After receipt of the completed application and payment of the registration
fee, if the Administrator believes that no reason exists for refusal of a
registration under §
110.08 of this chapter, the Administrator shall issue the registration.
(Ord. 2015-08-07, passed 8-24-2015)
§ 110.11  REGISTRATION FEE.
   The fee required of every owner or agent for any business conducted or
engaged in within the city as required by this subchapter shall be set forth
and made a part of the schedule of fees and charges adopted by the City
Council, as amended from time to time. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the fee
shall in no case be more than the maximum permitted by state law for that
particular business or enterprise.
(Ord. 2015-08-07, passed 8-24-2015)
§ 110.12  REVOCATION.
   (A)   (1)   The Administrator may revoke a registration if a reason exists
to revoke it as set forth in §
110.08 of this chapter. Before revoking a registration, the Administrator shall
give the person written notice of the grounds for revocation, in accordance
with §
110.08 of this chapter. The person may, within ten days after the day on which
notice is mailed, request a conference with the Administrator in writing. The
request shall specify the reasons why the registration should not be revoked.
      (2)   The Administrator shall arrange the conference within three
business days of receiving the request.
   (B)   If the person fails to request a conference within ten days after the
day on which notice is mailed, the Administrator shall revoke the registration.
If the person requests a conference, the Administrator may not revoke the
registration until after the conference.
   (C)   If the Administrator revokes a registration, the person whose
registration has been revoked may apply for a new registration at any time
thereafter. If the reason for which the registration was revoked no longer
exists and if no other reason exists for refusing to issue a registration, the
Administrator shall issue the registration in accordance with §
110.10 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-08-07, passed 8-24-2015)
§ 110.13  FORM AND CONTENTS OF REGISTRATION.
   A registration shall show the name of the person, and any agent who may act
on the person’s behalf, the place where the business is conducted (if it is to
be conducted at one place), the nature of the business and the period for which
the registration is issued. The Administrator shall keep an exact copy of each
registration issued.
(Ord. 2015-08-07, passed 8-24-2015)
§ 110.14  ASSIGNMENTS.
   (A)   A registration may be assigned if:
      (1)   A business under this subchapter and carried on at a fixed place is
sold as a unit to any person; and
      (2)   The purchaser is to continue the same business at the same place.
   (B)   Such a change shall be reported to the Administrator in accordance
with §
110.15 of this chapter. Otherwise, each registration issued under this
subchapter is a separate registration and is not assignable.
(Ord. 2015-08-07, passed 8-24-2015)
§ 110.15  CHANGES IN THE BUSINESS CONDUCTED DURING THE YEAR.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   A person or an assignee shall report any change in the information
contained in the registration application to the Administrator within ten days
after the change occurs.
      (2)   If information shown on the registration itself is affected, the
person or assignee shall surrender the registration to the Administrator when
reporting the change.
   (B)   Fee for change. If the change does not result in a separate
registration fee, the Administrator shall reissue a registration reflecting the
change upon payment of a processing fee of $5.
   (C)   Change requiring refusal of a registration. If the change creates a
reason for revoking the registration under §
110.08 of this chapter, the Administrator shall refuse to reissue a
registration and shall instead begin proceedings to revoke the registration in
accordance with §
110.12 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-08-07, passed 8-24-2015)
§ 110.16  ADMINISTRATOR TO FURNISH DUPLICATES.
   Upon satisfactory proof that a registration has been lost or destroyed, the
Administrator shall furnish a duplicate for a processing fee of $5.
(Ord. 2015-08-07, passed 8-24-2015)
§ 110.17  RECORD OF CONFERENCES.
   The Administrator shall maintain, for three years, a record of each
conference held in accordance with this subchapter. The record shall contain
the agent’s and person’s name, the date of the conference and a brief statement
of the issues discussed and the result reached. After three years, the
Administrator may dispose of the record in accordance with G.S. § 121-5.
(Ord. 2015-08-07, passed 8-24-2015)
§ 110.18  PROVIDING NOTICE TO AN AGENT OR PERSON.
   Whenever this subchapter requires the Administrator to give a written
statement or notice to an agent or a person, the Administrator may do so in one
of three ways:
   (A)   By personally delivering the statement or notice to the agent or
person;
   (B)   By mailing the statement or notice by first class mail to the address
on the application; or
   (C)   By causing the statement or notice to be served on the agent or person
in accordance with the procedures for service of process under Rule 4, North
Carolina Rules of Civil Procedure.
(Ord. 2015-08-07, passed 8-24-2015)
§ 110.19  DUTY TO DETERMINE WHETHER REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED.
   Each person or his or her designated agent has the duty to determine whether
the business he or she conducts is required to be registered under this
subchapter and, if so, whether that registration has been obtained.
(Ord. 2015-08-07, passed 8-24-2015)
§ 110.20  ADMINISTRATOR TO INVESTIGATE.
   If the Administrator has reason to believe that a person is conducting a
business in the city in violation of this subchapter, the Administrator shall
conduct an investigation to determine the status of the business.
(Ord. 2015-08-07, passed 8-24-2015)
§ 110.21  DUTY TO PERMIT INSPECTION.
   Each person who conducts a business, as defined in §
110.03 of this chapter, in the city shall permit the Administrator to inspect
the business premises during normal business hours to determine the nature of
the business conducted there.
(Ord. 2015-08-07, passed 8-24-2015)
§ 110.22  DUTY TO POST REGISTRATION.
   A business shall post the registration or registrations conspicuously in the
place of business registered. If the person has a regular place of business,
the registration must be kept where it may be inspected at all times by the
proper city officials.
(Ord. 2015-08-07, passed 8-24-2015)
§ 110.23  APPEAL.
   (A)   Any agent/person refused or denied a registration under this
subchapter may appeal to the City Manager for review of such refusal or denial.
   (B)   Such appeal shall be in writing, and shall be delivered to the City
Clerk within 30 days after notice of such refusal or denial has been sent or
otherwise delivered to the agent/person.
(Ord. 2015-08-07, passed 8-24-2015)
SPECIFIC BUSINESSES
§ 110.35  CARNIVALS.
   (A)   (1)   CARNIVAL shall mean a temporary traveling or transportable
amusement center conducted on a site where there may or may not be an admission
charge, and which may include a aggregation of rides, entertainment, shows,
games of skill or chance, booths, exhibitions, concessions or any combination
thereof.
      (2)   This definition shall exclude indoor and/or outdoor amusement
enterprises and parks whereby the amusement center is perpetual, seasonal or
otherwise (i.e., amusement park).
   (B)   An applicant for a carnival event must conduct the same either within
the applicant’s property or within property upon which the applicant has
written permission from the owner to use.
   (C)   No person shall maintain or operate any carnival within the city
limits for a longer period of time than three days at any one opening and not
more than one carnival per year per location per applicant on city-owned or
private property shall be allowed. No more than three carnivals may occur in
any one calendar year. Eligible carnival requests will be considered on a
first-come first-served basis. Requests for carnival events should be filed in
a timely fashion so as to fulfill the requisite application deadlines. Any
person who shall maintain or operate any carnival within the limits of the city
contrary to this section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (D)   Carnival events shall not include vaudeville, freak shows, peep shows
and other adult sexually-oriented entertainment.
(2005 Code, § 14-1)  (Ord. 2014-08-2, passed 8-25-2014)  Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   City may regulate carnivals and other amusements, see G.S. § 160A-181
§ 110.36  RESERVED.
§ 110.37  FIREARMS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   No merchant within the city shall engage in the business of
showing, selling or exchanging pistols without being licensed by the City
Council to engage in such business.
      (2)   An application shall be filed on forms approved by the Chief of
Police for the issuance of a pistol sale or exchange license with the City
Council and shall be passed upon by the Council in formal session.
      (3)   Such applications, among other things, must show the name and
address of all employees of the merchant to be licensed who are authorized to
make sales of pistols.
      (4)   Such application shall be denied if such merchant or any of his or
her employees has had a criminal conviction involving the use of any weapon or
violence or moral turpitude.
(2005 Code, § 14-3)
   (B)   Employees to be licensed. All employees of a merchant licensed to make
a sale of pistols shall apply to the Chief of Police for a license to sell
pistols as an employee of a licensed merchant. Such application shall be passed
upon by the City Council and, if approved, a license shall be granted. It shall
be unlawful for any employee of a licensed merchant to engage in the sale of
pistols without being first licensed in accordance with this section.
(2005 Code, § 14-4)
   (C)   Monthly report.
      (1)   Each merchant to whom a pistol sale or exchange license is issued
shall, monthly, report to the Chief of Police all sales or exchanges made,
which reports shall give the date of sale, the name of the purchaser or
transferor, the caliber of the pistol and such serial number as may be
available. A failure to make such report shall be grounds for revocation of the
license.
      (2)   In the case of a secondhand pistol, such report shall list both
transferor and purchaser of each pistol.
(2005 Code, § 14-5)
   (D)   Security requirements for businesses that buy, sell, trade or
otherwise store firearms.
      (1)   Purpose. This section is enacted to reduce the potential for
situations where employees of certain businesses are exposed to potential death
and/or injuries because of the actions of people with criminal intent. It is
also intended to assist law enforcement with the criminal investigation of
crimes that occur at certain businesses. The businesses made subject to this
division (D) have certain characteristics which may tend to increase the
potential risk of criminal activity at those businesses.
      (2)   Terms defined. For the purpose of this division (D), the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         ALARM SYSTEM. An assembly or equipment, mechanical or electrical, or
both, designed and used to signal the occurrence of an illegal or unauthorized
entry or attempted entry or other illegal activity on the premises of the alarm
user which requires or solicits urgent attention and to which the police are
expected to respond.
         ALARM USER. A person, firm, partnership, corporation, association or
other legal entity in control of a building, structure, facility or portion
thereof within the city in which an alarm system is used.
         BARRICADES. Devices for preventing entry through windows and doors
(including bars) and also known as GUARDS.
         BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS or ESTABLISHMENTS. Those establishments listed
and defined in this division (D) as follows:
            1.   FIREARM DEALER means an establishment required to obtain a
federal firearms license to buy or sell firearms; and/or
            2.   PAWN BROKER means a business required to obtain a Conditional
Use Permit issued by the City Council, pursuant to the city’s Unified
Development Ordinance, and also covered by G.S. Ch. 45.
         MINIMUM TECHNOLOGICAL STANDARDS FOR VIDEO SURVEILLANCE SYSTEMS.
Standards which are not antiquated (i.e., VHS tapes and the like) and do not
otherwise impede the Police Department’s ability to successfully view,
retrieve, store and/or keep video images or recordings needed for criminal
investigative purposes.
         TAMPER-PROOF SAFE. Lockable, secure metal storage container with a key
or combination style lock, capable of housing firearms; safe must be able to
prevent access to unauthorized persons during the event of a burglary or
otherwise unlawful possession.
         SECURITY ENHANCEMENT. Installation of security measures including
video surveillance systems, barricades and/or tamper-proof safes, and alarm
systems which aid in the safeguarding of property and curtailing criminal
activity, specifically crimes associated with firearms.
         VIDEO SURVEILLANCE SYSTEM (VSS). A continuous digital surveillance
system including cameras, cabling, monitors and digital video recorders (DVR),
which has been approved by the Chief of Police or his or her designee in
accordance with this division (D).
      (3)   Video surveillance system requirements.
         (a)   Every business establishment, as defined in this section, is
hereby required to install a video surveillance system in accordance with this
division (D). All establishments which have installed a video surveillance
system prior to the effective date of this division (D) shall ensure said
systems are in full compliance with this division (D). All video surveillance
systems shall be maintained in proper working order at all times; be kept in
continuous operation 24 hours a day, seven days a week; and meet the minimum
technological standards established in this division (D).
         (b)   If a crime occurs, cr any employee of an establishment believes
or suspects a crime has occurred at the establishment premises, the
establishment shall contact the Police Department immediately and the
establishment shall provide the Police Department immediate access to the media
containing the recorded event. The establishment shall retain the continuous
digital images recorded by this system for no less than 30 days. If the video
surveillance system is web-enabled or has wireless capability, the
establishment shall enable the Police Department to directly access the live
system during incidents requiring a police response or intervention.
         (c)   To ensure minimum technological standards are in place, the
Police Department shall review the video surveillance system of an
establishment at least bi-annually to ensure the system is consistent with the
technology needed by the Police Department to investigate criminal activity or
suspected criminal activity.
         (d)   The video surveillance system shall have no less than one camera
dedicated to each register or check-out, entrance/exit, loading dock and
parking lot or area designated for customer and/or employee parking use. The
placement of cameras included in video surveillance systems required under this
section must be approved by the Police Department. The Chief of Police or his
or her designee will conduct an assessment of each site required to install a
video surveillance system prior to installation of said system and, upon
approval, will issue an approval notice which will be placed in plain view
inside the establishment premises. This approval notice will also inform
customers and employees of the presence of the video surveillance system.
         (e)   The video surveillance system shall be subject to regular
inspection by the Chief of Police or his or her designee, who is authorized to
inspect any such system at reasonable times to determine whether it conforms to
the standards established in this section. If the video surveillance system
does not so conform, the establishment in question shall take immediate steps
to bring the system back Into compliance, following notice of such non-
compliance.
      (4)   Barricade requirements.
         (a)   All barricades (also known as guards) shall, at a minimum, be
constructed of rigid metal, free of sharp projections, edges or rough surfaces.
Barricades/guards shall be so constructed as to reject the passage of a solid
12-inch sphere at every space and interval. Window barricades/guards may not be
installed in the windows providing access to fire escapes. In the case of a
fire escape, the guard mechanism shall be constructed to repel entry into a
business after hours, but not to deny exit from a building from the interior.
Optional above minimum standard precautions include installation of a metal
roll-down type door or window covering, similar to what is referred to as a
roll-down hurricane shutter.
         (b)   All access points located ten feet above ground, including, but
not limited to, windows, doors and those areas accessible by fire escape shall
be barricaded after business hours. Barricades must be constructed to reject
passage of any object more than 12 inches in diameter from any direction. Fire
escape stairs and drop ladders shall be chained and locked in the up position.
If the fire escape cannot be rendered reasonably inaccessible in this manner,
all windows along the fire escape must be barricaded.
         (c)   Every licensed firearms dealer who shall buy, sell, trade or
transfer any type of firearm is hereby required to install barricades or guards
on all access points of the business. The barricades shall be maintained and in
proper working order at all times and meet standards as established in this
section; the only exception to installation of barricades is defined in
divisions (D)(6)(a) and (D)(6)(b) below.
         (d)   The barricade system shall be subject to regular inspection by
the Chief of Police or his or her designee, who is authorized to inspect any
such system at reasonable times to determine whether it conforms to the
standards as established in this division (D).
      (5)   Alarm system requirements.
         (a)   Every business establishment, as defined in this section, is
hereby required to install an alarm system in accordance with this division
(D). All establishments which have installed an alarm system prior to the
effective date of this division (D) shall ensure said systems are in full
compliance with this section. All alarm systems shall be maintained in proper
working order at all times; be kept in continuous operation 24 hours a day,
seven days a week; and be able to communicate effectively with emergency
communications (i.e., 9-1-1).
         (b)   The alarm system shall be monitored by a monitoring company and
ensure that there is always effective communication with the emergency
communication center (i.e., 9-1-1).
         (c)   The alarm system shall be subject to regular inspection by the
Chief of Police or his or her designee, who is authorized to inspect any such
system at reasonable times to determine whether it conforms to this section. If
the alarm system does not so conform, the establishment in question shall take
immediate steps to bring the system back into compliance, following notice of
such non-compliance.
         (d)   The alarm user shall maintain its alarm system in good operating
condition and free of false alarms. The alarm user shall ensure that all
persons with access to the premises have an adequate understanding of the alarm
system so as to prevent unintended activation of the alarm system. The alarm
user shall provide the city’s Police Department the names of at least two
persons other than the alarm user who have access to keys to the premises would
be available to assist the police to secure the premises or reset a
malfunctioning alarm. Any changes in the information contained on the
application shall be promptly submitted to the city’s Police Department within
ten days of any such change.
      (6)   Exemptions.
         (a)   Any business establishment within the jurisdictional limits of
the city, as defined in division (D)(1) above that operates 24 hours a day,
seven days a week, shall be exempt from complying with the barricade
requirements contained within this division (D).
         (b)   Any business establishment, not staffed 24 hours a day, seven
days a week, that removes firearms each night before closing shall be exempt
from the barricade requirements as defined in division (D)(4) above, if all
firearms are placed in a tamper-proof safe.
      (7)   Temporary exemptions/extensions granted. The City Manager or his or
her designee may exempt a business for a period of up to 12 months if he or she
finds that the business has or will undertake alternative security procedures
which are substantially equal to or more effective in preventing criminal
activity ana in assisting in the apprehension of the perpetrators of crime or
for the protection of employees. In addition, the Chief of Police or his or her
designee may; authorize alternate procedures on an experimental basis. Such an
exemption shall carry a maximum duration of 12 months, and a business must
either reapply for an exemption at the end of the exemption period or obtain
the city’s approval of security enhancements no later than 30 days prior to the
end of the exemption period. The City Manager or his or her designee may also
authorize temporary extensions of time for installation when an establishment
demonstrates to the satisfaction of the city that it is temporarily unable to
comply for good cause shown.
      (8)   Appeal process. Any establishment found to be in violation of this
chapter by the City Manager or his or her designee shall have the right to a
hearing before the City Manager or his or her designee. Within ten days of
mailing of the written notice of violation by the Chief of Police or his or her
designee, the owner or principal business operator of an establishment to which
a notice of violation has been issued may appeal by requesting a hearing before
the City Manager. Such a request must be made in writing and must set forth the
specific grounds for the appeal. Within ten days after any timely request for a
hearing, the City Manager or his or her designee shall set a time and place for
the hearing. That hearing shall be conducted no sooner than five days after the
date of the notice which sets the hearing and no later than 20 days after
receipt of the request for a hearing. All parties involved shall have the right
to offer testimonial, documentary and tangible evidence bearing on the issues
to be represented by counsel, and to confront and cross-examine any witness
against them. The decision of the City Manager or his or her designee to grant
or deny the appeal shall be in writing and shall be rendered within one week of
the hearing. The decision shall be considered a final administrative action for
purposes of further review pursuant to state law.
(Ord. 2015-08-04, passed 8-24-2015)  Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate firearms, see G.S. § 160A-189
   Weapons dealers, see G.S. § 105-80
§ 110.38  POOL AND BILLIARD PARLORS.
   (A)   Defined. A POOL PARLOR or BILLIARD PARLOR shall be any place of
business having three or more pool tables or a combination of such tables
totaling three for which a charge is directly or indirectly made for the
playing of any game or contest thereon or any place of business having fewer
tables than designated above if the primary purpose of said place of business
is the operation of tables for the playing of pool or billiards for which a
charge is directly or indirectly made for the playing of any game or contest
thereon.
(2005 Code, § 14-192)
   (B)   License required. No person shall maintain or operate any pool or
billiard parlor without first having secured from the City Council a license
therefor.
(2005 Code, § 14-193)
   (C)   License application.
      (1)   Applications for licenses required by this section shall be made on
forms provided by the city.
      (2)   Forms shall be completed under oath and filed with the City Clerk.
      (3)   Such application shall be filed in ample time to afford due
investigation by the appropriate officials of the city prior to such meeting at
which the petitioner desires to present such application.
(2005 Code, § 14-194)
   (D)   Prohibited acts. No licensee or his or her servant, agent or employee
shall:
      (1)   Suffer or permit the licensed premises to become disorderly;
      (2)   Suffer or permit any person to bet upon any game played on any
table in the licensed premises.
(2005 Code, § 14-195)
   (E)   Revocation of license.
      (1)   The City Council may at any time for cause, and after a hearing for
which reasonable notice has been given to the licensee, revoke any license
issued under the provisions of this section.
      (2)   If any licensee should be convicted on two occasions for violations
of this section, his or her license shall automatically be revoked.
(2005 Code, § 14-196)
(Ord. passed 3-6-1995; Ord. 02094, passed 9-9-2002)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.39  HORSE-DRAWN VEHICLES FOR HIRE.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      HORSE-DRAWN VEHICLE FOR HIRE. Any hack, carriage, wagon or similar
vehicle which is operated by being drawn by a horse or mule or other beast of
burden, for the transportation for hire of passengers.
      VEHICLE FOR HIRE LICENSE. The license issued to any person who is the
owner or operator of any vehicle for hire under this section.
   (B)   Operating regulations.
      (1)   No person shall transport a passenger for hire in a horse-drawn
vehicle on the streets of the city until he or she has obtained a license to do
so in accordance with the provisions of this section.
      (2)   The application for such a license shall be in writing and shall be
filed with the City Manager. A separate application shall be filed for every
vehicle for hire and a license obtained for each such vehicle. The application
shall include such information deemed reasonably necessary by the City Manager
to determine whether the license shall be issued in accordance with the
criteria set forth in this section. All such information shall include, but
shall not be limited to, the following:
         (a)   The name of the person having a beneficial interest in the
business operating the vehicle for hire;
         (b)   Copies of certificates or other evidence of title for the
vehicles to be operated or copies of leases for any leased vehicles;
         (c)   Copies of articles of incorporation, partnership agreements,
assumed name certificates or other documents indicating the legal status of the
applicant; and
         (d)   Certificates of insurance to comply with the requirements of
this section.
      (3)   The City Manager shall determine whether or not licenses shall be
issued in accordance with this section for the privilege of operating one or
more vehicles for hire. No license shall be issued unless the applicant has
complied with the provisions of this section.
      (4)   A license shall be issued only in the name of the person having a
beneficial interest in the business operating the vehicle for hire.
      (5)   A license shall expire on a yearly basis on a date determined by
the City Manager.
      (6)   The license issued for the operation of any vehicle for hire is not
transferable.
      (7)   Upon the issuance of a license, the licensee shall pay a privilege
license to the city for each vehicle for hire in the amount of $250. Annual
renewal fee of licenses under this section shall be $250.
      (8)   No person shall operate or cause to be operated any horse-drawn
vehicle for hire over the streets of the city without first taking out and
keeping force and effect at all times a policy of liability insurance for
claims arising from bodily injury and/or property damage, including accidental
death which may arise directly or indirectly from the operation of such
vehicle. The insurance shall be in a minimum amount of $500,000 combined single
limits for bodily injury and/or property damage unless otherwise limited by law
or regulation. The certificate of insurance attested by the insurance carrier
or his or her agent, stating and itemizing the insurance coverage carried by
such operation shall be filed with the City Manager. The insurance carrier or
its agents shall also certify on these documents that it will notify the City
Manager by registered or certified mail at least 20 days prior to any
cancellation or non-renewal of these coverages.
      (9)   Drivers of licensed horse-drawn vehicles under this section shall
maintain stands in a sanitary condition at all times. Any failure on part of
such driver to conform to the requirements of this section shall be unlawful
and shall subject such driver to the penalties provided by §
110.99 of this chapter.
      (10)   The Director of the Department of Public Works shall establish a
livery stand for horse-drawn vehicles on such public streets in such places and
in such manner and number as he shall determine to be of the greatest benefit
and convenience to the public and every stand shall be designated by
appropriate signs.
      (11)   Those horse-drawn vehicles operating pursuant to this section
shall be allowed to rest and stage only at the designated horse-drawn vehicle
for hire stands.
      (12)   Those horse-drawn vehicles operating pursuant to this section
shall display its current license in a conspicuous place on the vehicle at all
times.
      (13)   Every operator of a horse-drawn vehicle operating under this
section shall be subject to all provisions applicable to the driver of any
vehicle except those which, by their very nature, can have no application.
      (14)   The operator of a horse-drawn vehicle under this section shall
adhere to a predetermined and pre-approved route. Said route shall be approved
by the City Manager.
      (15)   A veterinarian shall be responsible for determining the fitness of
horses and their humane treatment operating under this section and shall issue
a certificate of fitness to the city. Said veterinarian have the powers to
determine:
         (a)   Physical fitness of the animal and limitations on work and
condition of work;
         (b)   Condition and fitness of harness; and
         (c)   Care and treatment of such animals.
      (16)   Inspection of animals operating under this section shall be made
by veterinarian at least once every three months.
      (17)   (a)   The operator of any horse-drawn vehicle for hire shall be
responsible for any and all wastes created by the operation of the vehicle.
This shall include the livery stand as well as all city streets on which the
vehicle travels. Draft animal manure and urine must immediately, and without
any delay whatsoever, be treated with a chemical deodorizing solution and
manure must be removed immediately and without any delay whatsoever from the
street by the license holder or some person immediately available on behalf of
the license holder.
         (b)   Each carriage must be equipped with a suitable scoop shovel and
airtight container for the temporary storage of removed manure. Horse diapers,
designed, affixed and maintained to prevent excrement from being deposited on
the street surface must be used at all times upon draft animals.
         (c)   All manure must be disposed of properly.
      (18)   Any license issued hereunder shall be revoked by the City Manager
for any violation by the holder of any provision of this section or any other
ordinance of the city or whenever there is a violation by the holder of any
condition, provision or qualification set forth in the application of such
license.
(2005 Code, § 86-85)  (Ord. 03083, passed 8-18-2003)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Criminal remedies. Conducting business within the city without a
valid registration issued in accordance with §§
110.01 through
110.23 of this chapter, or without posting a registration in compliance with §
110.22 of this chapter is a misdemeanor, punishable as provided in G.S. § 14-4.
Each day that a person conducts business in violation of §§
110.01 through
110.23 of this chapter is a separate offense.
      (2)   Equitable remedies. In addition to the criminal remedies set forth
in division (B)(1) above and in compliance with G.S. § 160A-175(d), the city
may seek an injunction against any person who conducts a business in violation
of §§
110.01 through
110.23 of this chapter.
   (C)   (1)   The Chief of Police or his or her designee is authorized to
investigate all alleged violations of §
110.37(D) of this chapter. A violation of any provision of §
110.37(D) of this chapter by any owner or principal operator of an
establishment shall result in a notice of violation from the Chief of Police or
his or her designee to said establishment at the address provided by the
establishment. The notice of violation required under §
110.37(D) of this chapter shall be in writing, set forth the grounds for the
violation, and inform the owner or principal business operator of the
establishment that he or she has ten days from the date of mailing of the
notice to file a written request for a hearing.
      (2)   A business which is otherwise required to install the security
enhancements defined in this section may apply, on an annual basis, to the
Chief of Police or his or her designee for exemption from the provisions of
this section.
      (3)   Violators shall have 30 days after receipt of the notice to provide
the Police Department proof that the violation has been corrected. If the
violation continues after the 30-day period, the Chief of Police or designee
shall issue a citation against the violator and, subject in any event to the
appeal process afforded under this chapter, the violator shall pay a civil
penalty not to exceed $500. The City Attorney is authorized to bring a civil
action in any court of competent jurisdiction to recover such civil penalties.
      (4)   For purposes of §
110.37(D) of this chapter, each day that a violation continues shall be a
separate violation, in addition, to the foregoing, the violation of any
provision of §
110.37(D) of this chapter shall be and is hereby declared to be a public
nuisance and contrary to the public interest and shall, at the discretion of
the city, create a cause of action for injunctive relief. A business found to
be an exception to this code would be one that is open 24 hours a day and
firearms are kept in a secured location where they are not readily accessible
to the public. An example would be firearms locked in an impenetrable display
case and a customer would require assistance from an employee in order to
physically take possession of the firearm.
(Ord. 2015-08-04, passed 8-24-2014; Ord. 2015-08-07, passed 8-24-2015)
CHAPTER 111:  ADVERTISING AND ADVERTISEMENTS
Section
   
111.01   Distribution of medicine samples
   
111.02   Crying of wares; use of sound-making devices
   
111.03   Marking or painting advertising on sidewalks and streets prohibited
   
111.04   Posting bills on poles
   
111.05   Scattering handbills
   
111.06   Placing advertising matter in or on motor vehicles
§ 111.01  DISTRIBUTION OF MEDICINE SAMPLES.
   No person shall leave any sample of medicine of any kind at the dwelling
house or in the yard of any person in the city, except as may be delivered
through the US Postal Service or a commercial carrier.
(2005 Code, § 14-29)  (Ord. passed 6-2-1980)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.02  CRYING OF WARES; USE OF SOUND-MAKING DEVICES.
   No person shall advertise any article of any kind for sale by crying out the
same on the streets, sidewalks or public places of the city, nor shall any
person advertise in any way on the streets, sidewalks or public places of the
city any article or any event by the use of a megaphone, bell, horn or other
noise-making device, except as may be approved by the City Manager or his or
her designee.
(2005 Code, § 14-30)  (Ord. passed 6-2-1980)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Noise, see G.S. § 160A-184
§ 111.03  MARKING OR PAINTING ADVERTISING ON SIDEWALKS AND STREETS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall advertise or attempt to advertise by marking or painting on
any of the streets or sidewalks within the city, except as approved by the City
Manager or his or her designee.
(2005 Code, § 14-31)  (Ord. passed 6-2-1980)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.04  POSTING BILLS ON POLES.
   No person shall post any bills, posters, signs or advertisements on any
telegraph, telephone, electric light or other pole along any of the streets of
the city; provided that, this section shall not be construed to include street
signs placed on the poles by the city for designating names of streets. Each
sign, poster, bill or advertisement posted in violation of this section shall
constitute a separate offense.
(2005 Code, § 14-32)  (Ord. passed 6-2-1980)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.05  SCATTERING HANDBILLS.
   No person shall promiscuously distribute handbills or advertisements of any
kind by placing or throwing the same on any street or lot or otherwise; and
such handbills or advertisements shall be enclosed in an envelope, or clipped,
and placed under or in the door of each house where such advertising matter is
left.
(2005 Code, § 14-33)  (Ord. passed 6-2-1980)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.06  PLACING ADVERTISING MATTER IN OR ON MOTOR VEHICLES.
   No person shall distribute advertising or printed matter of any kind by
placing the same in or on any motor vehicle that is parked on any street or in
other public places.
(2005 Code, § 14-34)  (Ord. passed 6-2-1980)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 112:  RESERVED
CHAPTER 113:  PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
General Provisions
   
113.01   Soliciting; permit required
   
113.02   Application; fee; bond
   
113.03   Compliance with rules and regulations
   
113.04   Door-to-door canvassing without invitation
   
113.05   Pushcarts and food trucks and trailers; central business district
Peddlers and Itinerant Merchants; Permits
   
113.20   Permit required
   
113.21   Applicability
   
113.22   Application
   
113.23   Other requirements; bond; fee
   
113.24   Zoning considerations
   
113.25   Issuance
   
113.26   Denial; appeal
   
113.27   Revocation
   
113.28   Expiration
 
   
113.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Carnivals and the like, see §
110.35
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate begging, see G.S. § 160A-179
   Authority to regulate itinerant merchants and solicitation campaigns, see
G.S. § 160A-178
   Charitable solicitation, see G.S. Ch. 131C
   City may regulate activities of peddlers, solicitors and itinerant
merchants, see G.S. § 160A-178
   Soliciting on streets, see G.S. § 20-175
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 113.01  SOLICITING; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Persons wishing to engage in door-to-door sales or solicitation, or on-the-
street sales or solicitation, shall apply for a permit to perform such sales or
solicitation.
(2005 Code, § 14-126)  (Ord. 2015-08-05, passed 8-24-2015)
§ 113.02  APPLICATION; FEE; BOND.
   Persons wishing to engage in door-to-door or on-the-street sales or
solicitations shall file a timely application therefor with the City Manager or
his or her designee, pay such fee as may be established by the City Council and
pay a bond as may be required.
(2005 Code, § 14-127)  (Ord. 2015-08-05, passed 8-24-2015)
§ 113.03  COMPLIANCE WITH RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   Persons wishing to engage in door-to-door or on-the-street solicitation
shall, upon the granting of a permit therefor, comply with all rules and
regulations of the city.
(2005 Code, § 14-128)  (Ord. 2015-08-05, passed 8-24-2015)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.04  DOOR-TO-DOOR CANVASSING WITHOUT INVITATION.
   (A)   No peddler, hawker, itinerant merchant, transit vendor or solicitor
for the sale of merchandise or periodicals, whether the same be delivered at
the time of the soliciting or later delivered by mail or otherwise, shall go in
or upon private residences, offices or places of business, not having been
requested or invited to do so by the owner, or occupant thereof, for the
purpose of soliciting the sale of merchandise or periodicals.
   (B)   Each day’s violation of this section shall constitute a separate
offense; providing nothing in this section shall apply to the sale of one’s own
products as a farmer or a sale by the individual of the products of his or her
own labor.
(2005 Code, § 14-129)  (Ord. 2015-08-05, passed 8-24-2015)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.05  PUSHCARTS AND FOOD TRUCKS AND TRAILERS; CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, the term PUSHCART shall be defined
as a manually maneuvered cart or a self-propelled cart operating within the
central business district, which shall meet the design requirements pursuant to
division (K) below.
   (B)   Pushcarts or food trucks and trailers operating under this section
(all hereinafter referred to as “vehicle”) utilizing street parking within the
central business district shall be contained to one parking space and shall not
impede either pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
   (C)   The operator of a vehicle at outdoor locations on public property, as
described in this section, shall first apply for and obtain a specialty
peddler’s permit issued by the City Manager under the provisions of this
section.
   (D)   The fee for a specialty peddler’s permit shall be in an amount as set
forth and made a part of the schedule of fees and charges adopted by the City
Council, as amended from time to time, to be paid by the permittee at the time
of issuance and annually thereafter on September 1 of each year. The initial
fee shall be pro-rated to coincide with the city’s billing cycle. The permittee
may allow persons authorized by the permittee to sell food and/or cut flowers
from the vehicle. The permittee shall maintain records of sales activities of
the persons authorized by the permittee to engage in such activity and the
permittee shall collect and remit to the state’s Department of Revenue the
appropriate local and state sales taxes from all sales made pursuant to this
permit.
   (E)   The City Manager is authorized to require, in accordance with the
issuance of the permit under this section, evidence of adequate insurance for
the protection of the general public in connection with the operation of the
vehicle.
   (F)   The City Manager is authorized to require a refundable deposit to
guarantee payment for any damages and for clean-up expenses incurred in
connection with the vehicle’s activities.
   (G)   Upon approval of the permit application and payment of the fee, the
applicant shall be issued a permit which should be affixed to the vehicle in a
conspicuous place at all times.
   (H)   Permits issued under the authority of this section shall be non-
transferable either as to individuals, location or item.
   (I)   It shall be unlawful to sell novelties, souvenirs or any merchandise
other than food or cut flowers from a vehicle.
   (J)   It shall be unlawful for any permittee to place or install on any
street, sidewalk or other public property any of the contents of his or her
vehicle for the purpose of selling or displaying same.
   (K)   The Director of Parks and Recreation or his or her designated
representative shall have the authority to determine if the aesthetic value of
the pushcart is in conformity with this regulation. The pushcart body shall not
exceed six feet in length, four feet in width or five feet in height, including
wheels. The bottom of the pushcart shall be at least six inches from the
ground. There shall be an umbrella or canopy over the pushcart. The pushcart
must have sides at least one foot high.
   (L)   Food containers shall remain inside the vehicle at all times and under
no circumstances are to be placed on city streets or sidewalks. At no time
shall cut flowers be sold from a stand, table or any other type vehicle than
that described herein.
   (M)   The permittee shall have posted on the vehicle, on both sides, the
prices of all food items or flowers being sold and no item may be sold for more
than the posted price.
   (N)   No vehicle shall be left unattended for more than 30 minutes. If a
vehicle is left unattended for more than 30 minutes, it will be subject to
removal by the Police Department to a public warehouse. If the permittee wishes
to claim his or her vehicle, he or she will pay a towing and storage fee in an
amount established by the City Manager.
   (O)   Vehicles will be allowed to operate on the parking lot area of
Mariners’ Wharf Park and Waterfront Park. At no time shall a vehicle be located
on a public street, sidewalk or grassy area of the park. If at any time a
vehicle is deemed by the Police Department to be interfering with either
pedestrian or vehicular traffic or creating a disturbance, the vehicle shall be
immediately removed upon request of the Police Department.
   (P)   The City Manager is authorized to designate the number of vehicles and
the location of same within the allowed geographical area.
   (Q)   The permittee of a vehicle shall be responsible for the removal of all
garbage generated by the operation of the vehicle.
   (R)   Noise-making devices such as, but not limited to, bells, whistles and
gongs may not be used to advertise or announce sales.
   (S)   Every person propelling a vehicle shall be subject to the provisions
of a driver of any vehicle, except those, by which of their very nature, can
have no application.
   (T)   In the event of a city-wide festival taking place in either Mariners’
Wharf Park or Waterfront Park, the operator of a vehicle under this section
will be disallowed from operating during the time of the festival unless
authorized to do so by the organizers of the event.
   (U)   The City Manager is authorized to impose additional conditions and
limitations on the issuance of such permit as may be necessary to protect the
safety and well-being of the citizens of the city.
   (V)   Any permit issued hereunder shall be revoked by the City Manager for
any violation by the holder, of any provision of this section or any other
ordinance of the city or whenever there is a violation by the holder of any
condition, provision or qualification set forth in this section.
   (W)   Operators of vehicles under this section shall comply with any and all
other pertinent local, state and federal laws regulations.
   (X)   The fee for a permit issued under division (C) above shall be in the
amount of $250.
(2005 Code, § 14-169)  (Ord. 03082, passed 8-13-2003; Ord. 2015-08-05, passed
8-24-2015)  Penalty, see §
113.99
PEDDLERS AND ITINERANT
MERCHANTS; PERMITS
§ 113.20  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-178, it shall be unlawful for any itinerant
merchants, salespersons, promoters, drummers, peddlers or hawkers to engage in
any business activities, as hereinafter defined, within the city unless
permitted to do so as provided in this subchapter.
   (B)   A one-time only, up to three days permit shall be issued to the entity
or body organizing a special city-wide festival or event. Said permit shall
authorize the participation of itinerant vendors engaging in business
activities within the geographical area covered by the festival during the
festival’s operation. For the purpose of determining the licensing fee to be
charged, the following scale shall be used:
 
1—10 vendors    $100
11—20 vendors   $200
21—30 vendors   $300
31 vendors and up $400
 
   (C)   Only those merchants as described in §
113.21 of this chapter shall be counted in determining the number of vendors.
(2005 Code, § 14-159)  (Ord. passed 10-7-1996; Ord. 03041, passed 4-7-2003;
Ord. 2015-08-05, passed 8-24-2015)
§ 113.21  APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   For purposes of this subchapter, itinerant merchants, salesmen,
promoters, drummers, peddlers or hawkers engaging in business activities within
the city shall mean and include all persons, who engage in or conduct in the
city either in one locality or in traveling from place to place, a temporary or
transient business of selling or soliciting orders for the sale of goods, wares
or merchandise with the intention of continuing in said business in the city
for a period not to exceed 180 days; and who rent, lease, use or occupy, either
in whole or in part, for the purpose of carrying on such business, any room,
building, lot or parcel of land, or motor vehicle including trucks and semi-
trailers for the exhibition and sale of such goods, wares and merchandise.
   (B)   This definition and this section shall not apply to:
      (1)   Charitable activities, engaged in by representatives of a tax-
exempt organization (i.e., a 501(c)(3) organization);
      (2)   A farmers’ market;
      (3)   Sales of food or agricultural produce where stock or anticipated
sales are valued or anticipated at $1,000 or less per day;
      (4)   Sales made to dealers by commercial travelers or selling agents in
the usual course of business; or
      (5)   Bona fide sales of goods, wares or merchandise for future delivery
in interstate commerce where no measurements or design specifications are made,
or prepared in the city, or no payment or deposit is collected in the city for
placement of orders, or where no permit may be required or collected under the
United States Constitution or laws of the United States.
(2005 Code, § 14-160)  (Ord. 2015-08-05, passed 8-24-2015)
§ 113.22  APPLICATION.
   (A)   Any person, as defined in §
113.21 of this chapter, who desires to engage in such business activities
within the city must be permitted to do so by the city prior to commencement of
such business activity in the city. Failure to secure a permit before
commencing business, as defined in §
113.21 of this chapter, is unlawful and in violation of this subchapter. A
permit may be granted to an applicant by the city upon compliance with this
section.
   (B)   Applicant shall submit a written and verified application to the
city’s Finance Director or his or her designee at least 20 days prior to the
scheduled date to commence business in the city. This application shall set
forth:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant:
      (2)   The name and address of the owner of the goods, wares or
merchandise to be sold;
      (3)   The location and dates of the proposed business activity or sale in
the city;
      (4)   The name and address of the owner of the property upon which the
business activity or sale will be conducted;
      (5)   Inventory of goods, wares or merchandise which applicant intends to
offer for sale with quantity, wholesale cost and prices at which each item is
proposed to be sold, if sales are not to be made from inventory then a copy of
the catalogue or other sales materials will be furnished;
      (6)   Statement of gross receipts for all sales in the city by applicant
in the preceding five years and dates of each; and
      (7)   The applicant’s previous places of employment and names and
addresses of previous employers during preceding ten years.
(2005 Code, § 14-161)  (Ord. 2015-08-05, passed 8-24-2015)
§ 113.23  OTHER REQUIREMENTS; BOND; FEE.
   (A)   At the time the permit application is made, the applicant shall
further furnish to the Finance Director or his or her designee the following:
      (1)   Permit processing fee in an amount as set forth and made a part of
the schedule of fees and charges adopted by the City Council, as amended from
time to time;
      (2)   Written consent of the owner of the land upon which applicant
proposes to conduct business from in the city;
      (3)   A certified copy of the charter or articles of incorporation of
applicant, if corporate and if a foreign corporation, certified copy of
authority to do business in the state and proof of legal appointment of a
process agent in the state; and
      (4)   Duly executed bond.
   (B)   The required bond shall be in the sum of $5,000 or 10% of anticipated
sales, estimated from inventory furnished, whichever is greater. The surety of
such bond shall be a surety company authorized to do business in the state. The
bond shall be payable to the city to the extent any taxes, fees or fines as
determined by the city’s Director of Finance are not paid and upon judicial
determination, to those authorized to file suit thereunder. Such bond shall be
conditioned upon faithful observance of all the conditions of this section, and
shall also indemnify any purchaser at such sale, who suffers any loss by reason
of defective merchandise or any misrepresentation, in said sale. The terms of
said bond shall allow any purchaser seeking such indemnification to maintain an
action against applicant as the principal thereon and the surety thereon. The
bond shall be effective for one year after the termination of the sale for
which it is made and until all actions are concluded and any judgments
satisfied, or until the amount of the bond is exhausted by payments on such
claims.
   (C)   The fee for a permit issued under division (A) above shall be in the
amount of $200.
(2005 Code, § 14-162)  (Ord. 2015-08-05, passed 8-24-2015)
§ 113.24  ZONING CONSIDERATIONS.
   (A)   The activity for which application is made according to the provisions
of this subchapter and any permit issued, shall only be lawful in a commercial
zoning district in the city as determined by the official zoning ordinance of
the city and the official zoning map. Failure to so locate same is a basis for
denying or revoking a business permit to conduct such activity.
   (B)   Such activity for which application is made and any permit issued must
meet a minimum 30-foot setback from any public street or thoroughfare. Failure
to so meet this setback is a basis for denying or revoking a permit to conduct
such activity.
(2005 Code, § 14-163)  (Ord. 2015-08-05, passed 8-24-2015)
§ 113.25  ISSUANCE.
   If, upon review of all the information and documents filed by applicant, the
Finance Director or his or her designee shall be of the opinion that the
applicant is of good and reputable business character and has met all
requirements of this section then the Finance Director or his or her designee
shall issue applicant a permit for the sale or business activity applied for
which shall be valid only for the sale or business activity applied for.
(2005 Code, § 14-164)  (Ord. 2015-08-05, passed 8-24-2015)
§ 113.26  DENIAL; APPEAL.
   If the applicant fails to timely file all the information and documents
required or if, upon review, the Finance Director or his or her designee
determines same not to meet all requirements of this subchapter or he or she
fails to find the applicant to be of good and reputable business character, the
Finance Director or his or her designee shall in writing deny the application
for permit with reasons stated for such denial. Appeal from a decision of such
denial shall be to the City Manager or his or her designee.
(2005 Code, § 14-165)  (Ord. 2015-08-05, passed 8-24-2015)
§ 113.27  REVOCATION.
   Any person who shall receive a permit as stated in §
113.22 of this chapter may conduct the business activity or sale permitted, but
may not vary, exceed or in any way deviate from the activity or sale originally
allowed by such permit. Any variance or activity beyond the express terms of
the permit shall be unlawful and shall be grounds for the city to revoke such
permit.
(2005 Code, § 14-166)  (Ord. 2015-08-05, passed 8-24-2015)
§ 113.28  EXPIRATION.
   Any permit issued pursuant to this subchapter shall not exceed or authorize
such business activity for more than five days, if any person wishes to conduct
such business activity for more than five days, he or she must submit a new
application and the other fees and documents required by this subchapter and
receive a permit for each time period up to five days from the expiration of
any permit issued or to be issued. If one day or more elapses between scheduled
business activity during which time there is no business activity, a new and
separate permit must be obtained for each time segment of scheduled business
activity.
(2005 Code, § 14-167)  (Ord. 2015-08-05, passed 8-24-2015)
§ 113.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who shall be found to be in violation of any provisions of §§
113.20 through
113.28 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, on conviction
thereof, shall be fined in an amount not exceeding $500 for each violation or
by imprisonment for not more than six months, or by both. Each day in which any
such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
(2005 Code, § 14-168)  (Ord. 2015-08-05, passed 8-24-2015)
CHAPTER 114:  TAXICABS
Section
General Provisions
   
114.001   Definitions
   
114.002   Owners and drivers distinguished
   
114.003   Office of Inspector of Taxicabs is created
Licenses, Permits and Certificates
   
114.015   Issuance or denial of license
   
114.016   Schedule for hearing applications
   
114.017   Duration; application for renewals
   
114.018   Transferability of taxicab certificate
   
114.019   Substitution of vehicles
   
114.020   Failure to begin operations within 60 days
   
114.021   Regularity of operation
   
114.022   Revocation of taxicab business license upon failure to pay license
fee
   
114.023   Revocation of permit to drive, business license or vehicle for hire
permit
   
114.024   Waiting period after denial of application
   
114.025   Police Department; record of licenses to own and permits to drive
   
114.026   Information to be filed by owner
   
114.027   Driver’s permit required
   
114.028   Application for the driver’s permit; fingerprinting required for
criminal records check
   
114.029   Condition governing issuance of driver’s permit
   
114.030   Fee; term; renewal
   
114.031   Issuance or denial by inspector and term
   
114.032   Information to appear on issued permit
   
114.033   Display of permit while driving taxicab
   
114.034   Driver’s manifest required
   
114.035   Purchase of registration plate; inspector furnish DMV Form MVR-314
   
114.036   Conditions governing issuance
   
114.037   Temporary permit
Passengers and Drivers; Conduct
   
114.050   Solicitation of passengers
   
114.051   Restriction in number of passengers
   
114.052   Accepting additional passengers
   
114.053   Deception of passengers
   
114.054   Lost articles
   
114.055   Unauthorized passengers
   
114.056   Compliance with passenger’s request
   
114.057   Prior notice and payment of fare
   
114.058   Conduct of driver and driver's appearance
   
114.059   Name of owner to be permanently affixed on taxicab
   
114.060   Information to be displayed for passengers
   
114.061   Inspections of taxicabs
   
114.062   Vehicle equipment
   
114.063   Condition of taxicab
   
114.064   Maintenance of taxicab
   
114.065   Inspection receipt
   
114.066   Issuance/display of taxicab sticker
   
114.067   Rate of fares
   
114.068   Reserved
   
114.069   Use of tobacco products and other substances
   
114.070   Authority for removal of taxicabs from streets
   
114.071   Reporting accidents
   
114.072   Sleeping, lounging or lying in taxicabs prohibited
   
114.073   Travel to passenger location
   
114.074   Advertisement billboards
 
   
114.999   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Insurance, see G.S. § 160A-304
   Power to tax and regulate, see G.S. § 20-37
   Registration, see G.S. § 20-87
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 114.001  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS LICENSE. A certificate of public convenience and necessity granted
to the owner of a vehicle for hire business by the city.
   COUNCIL. The City Council.
   DRIVER. Any person who drives a taxicab.
   DRIVER’S PERMIT CARD. A card issued by the Inspector to a taxicab driver for
display within a taxicab indicating that driver has been approved to drive a
taxicab.
   INSPECTOR. The Inspector of Taxicabs of the city.
   OWNER. Any person who has control of the operation or maintenance and
collection of the revenue of a vehicle for hire business and to whom a business
license for the operation of a vehicle for hire business has been issued.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, association, corporation or other
organization owning or operating or proposing to operate any taxicab within the
city.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any place that is generally open to and used by the public or
a substantial group of the public, whether it be publicly or privately owned,
including, but not limited to, streets, sidewalks, highways, alleys, rights-of-
way, public vehicular areas and parking lots, transportation facilities,
theaters, restaurants, ships, bowling alleys, schools and school grounds,
places of business and amusement, playgrounds, parks, similar areas that are
open to the public and other common areas open to or accessible to the public.
   RATE CARD. The card provided by the owner of a taxicab which is approved by
the Inspector and which describes the schedule of fares, approved by the City
Council, charged by the taxicabs.
   TAXICAB. Any motor vehicle, seating nine or fewer passengers, operated upon
any street or highway on call or demand, accepting or soliciting passengers
indiscriminately for hire between such points along streets or highways as may
be directed by the passenger so being transported.
   TAXICAB PERMIT or VEHICLE FOR HIRE PERMIT. A privilege license issued and
required for each vehicle operated under a business license.
(G.S. § 20-87.1-b)
(2005 Code, § 86-19)  (Ord. 05085, passed 8-8-2005; Ord. 1011, passed 1-25-
2010)
§ 114.002  OWNERS AND DRIVERS DISTINGUISHED.
   (A)   To own one or more taxicabs shall mean to engage in the vehicle for
hire or taxicab business with such taxicabs in the city by causing taxicabs
which are under a person’s ownership or control to be propelled, either by
himself or herself or by someone under his or her direction or supervision, for
the purpose of carrying passengers for hire. An owner is a person who owns one
or more taxicabs.
   (B)   To drive a taxicab shall mean to be physically in control of a taxicab
whether or not such taxicab is in motion, when such taxicab is being used for,
or is available or ready to be used for the carrying of passengers for hire. A
driver is one who drives a taxicab.
(2005 Code, § 86-20)  (Motion passed 2-1-1993; Ord. 05085, passed 8-8-2005;
Ord. 1011, passed 1-25-2010)
§ 114.003  OFFICE OF INSPECTOR OF TAXICABS IS CREATED.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Office of Inspector of Taxicabs, who shall
be appointed by and directly responsible to the Chief of Police.
   (B)   The Inspector shall be responsible for the taking of applications from
persons applying for ownership and/or to drive a taxicab, be responsible for
the inspecting or causing to be inspected taxicabs and shall make all
investigations relative to the licensing of drivers thereof.
   (C)   The Inspector shall maintain necessary records related to the issuance
of a business license to include: copies of articles of incorporation,
partnership agreements, assumed name certificates or other documents indicating
the legal status of the applicant.
   (D)   The Police Department shall at all times maintain a complete record of
every taxicab owned and every permit to drive in the city pursuant to a license
or permit duly issued. Such record shall consist of the application for a
business license, a list of drivers permitted to drive each taxicab and
complete information as to public liability insurance coverage associated with
each taxicab.
(2005 Code, § 86-21)  (Motion passed 2-1-1993; Ord. 05085, passed 8-8-2005;
Ord. 1011, passed 1-25-2010)
LICENSES, PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES
§ 114.015  ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF BUSINESS LICENSE.
   The City Council shall have power and it shall be its duty to order a
certain license issued or to refuse to issue a certain license sought. The City
Council may attach to the exercise of the rights granted by such license such
terms and conditions as, in its judgment, the public convenience and necessity
may require.
(2005 Code, § 86-22)  (Motion passed 2-1-1993; Ord. 05085, passed 8-8-2005;
Ord. 1011, passed 1-25-2010)
§ 114.016  SCHEDULE FOR HEARING APPLICATIONS.
   Each applicant for a business license, in excess of the approved number,
shall be scheduled for a hearing at the next regularly scheduled meeting of the
work session; provided, such application shall be filed with the City Clerk at
least ten days prior to such regularly scheduled meeting, then upon the
recommendation of the work session said application will be submitted to the
City Council at the next regularly scheduled meeting, otherwise, the hearing
will be held at such time as Council shall determine.
(2005 Code, § 86-23)  (Motion passed 2-1-1993; Ord. 05085, passed 8-8-2005)
§ 114.017  DURATION; APPLICATION FOR RENEWALS.
   A business license issued under this chapter shall constitute a privilege
from the city for the operation of a vehicle for hire business within the city
subject to the provisions of this chapter for one year, unless a shorter period
of time is specified in the license. Applications for renewal shall be filed
annually.
(2005 Code, § 86-24)  (Motion passed 2-1-1993; Ord. 05085, passed 8-8-2005;
Ord. 1011, passed 1-25-2010)
§ 114.018  TRANSFERABILITY OF TAXICAB CERTIFICATE.
   The holder of a business license may be allowed to sell/transfer a business
license to any other person as long as the sale/transfer is approved by the
City Council and the purchaser/receiver meets the qualifications of this
chapter.
(2005 Code, § 86-25)  (Motion passed 2-1-1993; Ord. 05085, passed 8-8-2005;
Ord. 1011, passed 1-25-2010)
§ 114.019  SUBSTITUTION OF VEHICLES.
   No vehicle may be substituted for any currently permitted vehicle which is
out of service for any reason. If the owner wishes to place additional vehicles
in service then those vehicles must be permitted separately.
(2005 Code, § 86-26)  (Motion passed 2-1-1993; Ord. 05085, passed 8-8-2005;
Ord. 1011, passed 1-25-2010)
§ 114.020  FAILURE TO BEGIN OPERATIONS WITHIN 60 DAYS.
   If a business license is granted to an applicant and the applicant shall
fail, in accordance with the provisions of the certificate, to begin operations
with 60 days after the date of such license, then the license shall become null
and void.
(2005 Code, § 86-27)  (Motion passed 2-1-1993; Ord. 05085, passed 8-8-2005;
Ord. 1011, passed 1-25-2010)
§ 114.021  REGULARITY OF OPERATION.
   Each person having complied with the provisions of this chapter and obtained
a license to own a taxicab shall be required to operate the taxicab in his or
her business with reasonable regularity. The business license of each taxicab
owner shall be subject to revocation if the owner fails to operate the taxicab
for any period of 60 days. Each operator of a taxicab who fails to operate it
over any period of 60 days shall be given ten days’ notice to appear before the
Inspector to show cause why his or her business license should not be revoked.
If, upon such hearing, it shall appear that the taxicab is not being operated
in the interest of the convenience and necessity of the public and not being
operated with reasonable regularity, the Inspector is authorized to revoke the
license. The owner of the taxicab has the right to appeal this decision to the
Council on the form provided by the Police Department.
(2005 Code, § 86-28)  (Motion passed 2-1-1993; Ord. 05085, passed 8-8-2005)
§ 114.022  REVOCATION OF TAXICAB BUSINESS LICENSE UPON FAILURE TO PAY LICENSE
FEE.
   Any operator who fails to pay the taxicab license fee required by this
chapter by 5:00 p.m. September 30 of each year shall automatically cause his or
her license to be terminated and automatically revoked. The operator must may
$25 late fee plus the application fees to have his or her license reinstated.
(2005 Code, § 86-29)  (Motion passed 2-1-1993; Ord. 05085, passed 8-8-2005;
Ord. 1011, passed 1-25-2010; Ord. 2019-02-01, passed 2-11-2019)
§ 114.023  REVOCATION OF PERMIT TO DRIVE, BUSINESS LICENSE OR VEHICLE FOR HIRE
PERMIT.
   (A)   The Inspector may, at any time after approval, revoke any business
license, driver permit or vehicle for hire permit issued by authority of this
chapter for any one of the following causes:
      (1)   Failure to operate the taxicab specified in the license in such
manner as to serve the public adequately, efficiently and safely;
      (2)   Failure to maintain motor equipment in good repair;
      (3)   Failure to carry liability insurance in at least the amount
required by law, G.S. § 20-280(b);
      (4)   Five violations of this chapter or three convictions within a one-
year period of time of any city, county or state traffic or safety ordinance or
law. For the purpose of this division (A)(4), a conviction is a violation.
Violations resulting in not guilty verdicts are discounted;
      (5)   Violation of state laws relating to alcoholic beverages,
prostitution, conviction of a felony or misdemeanor carry a penalty of at least
two years in prison or any misdemeanor conviction involving drugs or drug
paraphernalia;
      (6)   Failure to report accidents to the Inspector;
      (7)   Willful failure to comply with any provision of this chapter or
other provisions of this code or other city ordinances or state laws related to
the operation of taxicabs;
      (8)   Violating ordinances, fixing fares or failure to post cab fares
charged;
      (9)   Any driver convicted of any misdemeanor or felony, excluding
infractions, while operating a taxicab for the city shall be permanently
barred;
      (10)   Conviction of any crime relating to the use of a weapon of any
type;
      (11)   Repeated and persistent acts impugning the driver’s truthfulness
or veracity, including, but not limited to, fraud or deception; and
      (12)   Addiction to or habitual use of any alcoholic beverage or any
controlled substance as defined under state law, as defined by G.S. Ch. 18B, or
any controlled substance, as defined by G.S. Ch. 90.
   (B)   No permit to drive shall be revoked until the driver has had at least
five days’ notice by personal service or registered mail of the charges against
him or her, and of the time and place of the hearing. If, after the hearing, it
is found that the driver is guilty of one or more of the violations listed
herein, the Inspector shall have the power to revoke the license, or to
condition a revocation upon compliance of its order within any time fixed by
it.
   (C)   Permits to drive a taxicab issued prior to the date of revision of the
ordinance from which this section is derived are not subject to revocation as a
result of such revisions as they pertain to prior convictions of felony or
misdemeanor offenses. Permits to drive a taxicab are grandfathered in and will
remain valid under the revised ordinance. Grandfathered permits are subject to
all other revisions. The driver loses “grandfather” status if permit to drive
isn’t used for sixty consecutive days, and the burden of proof rests with the
driver.
   (D)   If a business license is revoked as provided for herein, the aggrieved
business license holder may appeal that revocation by filing with the City
Clerk written notice of appeal on the prescribed form. The appeal must be filed
within 14 calendar days of revocation. Upon the city’s receipt of an appeal
filed in a timely manner and payment of an administrative appeal fee of $50, a
hearing will be set before the City Council. The City Council may, following
the hearing and receiving such evidence as it shall deem appropriate, either
uphold the revocation or reinstate the permit (either unconditionally or with
such conditions it deems appropriate). The revocation of a business license
shall be stayed during the pending of the appeal and the city shall not take
steps to enforce the revocation order during such time, unless additional
grounds for revocation arise during the period of the appeal.
(2005 Code, § 86-30)  (Motion passed 2-1-1993; Ord. 05085, passed 8-8-2005;
Ord. 08-01-01, passed 1-14-2008; Ord. 1011, passed 1-25-2010)
§ 114.024  WAITING PERIOD AFTER DENIAL OF APPLICATION.
   Upon the Inspector denying the application of any person to own a business
license or permit to drive a taxicab or where any person has had his or her
owner’s permit or driver’s permit revoked under the terms of this chapter, such
person, in either case, shall not again receive consideration for the issuance
of such license or permit until a period of 12 months has elapsed since the
last action taken by the Inspector in denial of such license or permit.
(2005 Code, § 86-31)  (Motion passed 2-1-1993; Ord. 05085, passed 8-8-2005;
Ord. 1011, passed 1-25-2010)
§ 114.025  POLICE DEPARTMENT TO MAINTAIN RECORD OF LICENSES TO OWN AND PERMITS
TO DRIVE.
   (A)   The Police Department shall at all times maintain a complete record of
every taxicab owned and every permit to drive in the city pursuant to a license
or permit duly issued.
   (B)   Such record shall consist of the application for a business license, a
list of drivers permitted to drive each taxicab and complete information as to
public liability insurance coverage.
(2005 Code, § 86-32)  (Motion passed 2-1-1993; Ord. 05085, passed 8-8-2005)
§ 114.026  INFORMATION TO BE FILED BY OWNER.
   (A)   Every owner of a taxicab shall file with the Inspector his business
address, home address, business and home telephone numbers and a list showing
the serial numbers and makes of all taxicabs owned and operated by them and the
names of all drivers under their service supplying permit numbers and addresses
of each driver and shall, within 48 hours after any change in connection
therewith, report such.
   (B)   The owner of a taxicab shall hold a taxicab license and see that each
license is placed in each taxicab respective to each taxicab that has been
approved and have it placed plainly visible to those passengers sitting both on
the front and rear seats thereof.
   (C)   The owner of a taxicab shall see that each driver under his or her
service has a driver’s permit. Failure to do so may result in revocation of
business license.
(2005 Code, § 86-33)  (Motion passed 2-1-1993; Ord. 05085, passed 8-8-2005;
Ord. 1011, passed 1-25-2010)  Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.027  DRIVER’S PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall drive any taxicab upon the streets of the city until a
driver’s permit has been issued.
(2005 Code, § 86-34)  (Motion passed 2-1-1993; Ord. 05085, passed 8-8-2005;
Ord. 1011, passed 1-25-2010)  Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.028  APPLICATION FOR THE DRIVER’S PERMIT; FINGERPRINTING REQUIRED FOR
CRIMINAL RECORDS CHECK.
   (A)   Applications for a permit to drive required by this chapter may be
obtained from the Inspector of Taxicabs. Each application for a permit for the
driver shall contain:
      (1)   Full name;
      (2)   Age;
      (3)   Date of birth;
      (4)   Physical description;
      (5)   Address;
      (6)   Social Security number;
      (7)   Driver’s license number and state of issuance;
      (8)   Prospective employer;
      (9)   Previous employer;
      (10)   Sworn statement providing any previous arrests and/or convictions
involving any state or federal charge;
      (11)   Proof of citizenship or status as legally documented worker (i.e.,
visa); and
      (12)   Statement providing applicant’s history of use of alcohol or
drugs.
   (B)   The Inspector shall check the driver’s history of the applicant
through the use of the computerized files of the department of motor vehicles
and shall check the criminal history of the applicant through the use of the
State Bureau of Investigation/Department of Criminal Information -
Identification Section’s Computerized Criminal History (CCH).
   (C)   The applicant is required to provide his or her fingerprints which
will be submitted to state and national criminal history checks of his or her
criminal record. The city shall forward the applicant’s fingerprints to the
State Bureau of Investigation (SBI) for a search of the state’s criminal
history record file and the SBI shall forward a set of the fingerprints to the
Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) for a national criminal history check in
accordance with G.S. § 160A-304. This information shall be kept privileged and
private and shall not be a public record under G.S. Ch. 132. The receipt by the
Taxicab Inspector of the criminal history record check shall be used solely to
determine eligibility for a permit.
(2005 Code, § 86-35)  (Ord. 021103, passed 11-4-2002; Ord. 05085, passed 8-8-
2005; Ord. 1011, passed 1-25-2010)
§ 114.029  CONDITION GOVERNING ISSUANCE OF DRIVER’S PERMIT.
   (A)   No taxicab driver’s permit shall be issued unless the applicant has
been issued a valid state driver’s license, and shall not be subject to any
physical defects which might render him or her unfit for the safe operation of
a taxicab.
   (B)   No permit shall be issued to a person who has been convicted within
five years of any offense involving intoxicating liquors or other mind-altering
substances unless the issuance thereof would be in the interest of the public
welfare.
(2005 Code, § 86-36)  (Motion passed 2-1-1993; Ord. 05085, passed 8-8-2005;
Ord. 1011, passed 1-25-2010)  Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.030  FEE; TERM; RENEWAL.
   (A)   Upon issuance of a taxicab driver’s permit, subject to the provisions
of this chapter, the person to whom such permit is issued shall pay the fee
required by the city, as such fees may change from time to time. Such permit
shall be renewed annually. Upon application for renewal, the applicant shall be
subject to the same investigation as required for initial issuance and shall
pay such renewal fee as may be required by the city privilege license fees.
   (B)   Upon filing of an application for a permit, the applicant shall avail
himself or herself to the Chief of Police or his or her designee for the taking
of fingerprints.
   (C)   The applicant is responsible for providing a certified check to the
city, made payable to the North Carolina Department of Justice in an amount
equal to the fees charged by the state’s Bureau of Investigation (SBI) and
Federal Bureau of investigation (FBI) for fingerprint investigations. These
fees are non-refundable.
(2005 Code, § 86-37)  (Ord. 05085, passed 8-8-2005; Ord. 1011, passed 1-25-
2010)
§ 114.031  ISSUANCE OR DENIAL BY INSPECTOR AND TERM.
   (A)   The Taxicab Inspector shall be given the authority to issue a permit
to the applicant wishing to obtain a permit. If, upon checking the criminal and
driving history of the applicant, the Inspector finds that the applicant for a
permit has not been convicted of a felony within the last five years and has
never been convicted of felony crimes involving moral turpitude, is of good
moral character, good physical condition, of sound mind, without infirmities
which might render him or her unfit for the safe operation of a taxicab, that
the applicant is not a habitual user of intoxicating liquors or narcotic drugs,
and has not been a habitual violator of the traffic laws, the Inspector shall
issue to the applicant a permit to drive a taxicab within the city. Persons
failing to meet the conditions of this division (A) may still be issued a
permit upon recommendation of the Taxicab Inspector and approval of the Chief
of Police after a liability risk review by the City Attorney. Failure to meet
the conditions of this division (A) are grounds to deny a permit. Any person
denied the permit has the right to appeal to the City Council through the use
of the form provided by the Police Department.
   (B)   In the event the information contained in a Computerized Criminal
History (CCH) is used to disqualify an applicant from obtaining a permit, the
Inspector shall provide the applicant with the opportunity to challenge the
accuracy of the information contained in the record. The applicant shall be
given 60 days to correct, complete or decline to complete the information.
Applicants wishing to correct, complete or otherwise challenge a record must
avail themselves of the procedure set forth in Rule. 0404, Para. (c) of the
North Carolina Administrative Code .0400 — Justice Division of Criminal
Information. In the event a successful challenge or correction is made by the
applicant, the Inspector shall verify that change or correction by re-
submitting the applicants fingerprints cards for verification.
   (C)   Driver’s permits shall be issued annually under the terms of this
chapter, and shall run for a period of one year with the renewal date being
October 1 and the expiration date being September 31. Any permits issued during
the year shall have an identical date of expiration.
   (D)   The Inspector shall have the right to refuse any permit to any
applicant for any of the grounds enumerated under §
114.023 of this chapter.
   (E)   Permits to drive a taxicab issued prior to the date of the revision of
the ordinance from which this section is derived are not subject to revocation
as the result of a conviction of a felony or misdemeanor offense occurring
prior to the revision of the ordinance from which this section is derived. This
section is added to grandfather in existing permits. The driver loses
“grandfather” status if permit to drive isn’t used for 60 consecutive days and
the burden of proof rests upon the driver.
(2005 Code, § 86-38)  (Ord. 05085, passed 8-8-2005; Ord. 1011, passed 1-25-
2010; Ord. 2019-02-01, passed 2-11-2019)
§ 114.032  INFORMATION TO APPEAR ON ISSUED PERMIT.
   Upon approval by the Taxicab Inspector, there shall be issued on a form
prepared by the Inspector and Chief of Police, a taxicab driver’s permit which
shall contain a photograph of the driver, his or her right thumbprint, permit
number, date issued, expiration date, name, age, weight, height, race, color of
hair and eyes, employer and signature of the driver. Said driver’s permit shall
be signed by the Chief of Police or the Inspector of Taxicabs.
(2005 Code, § 86-39)  (Motion passed 2-1-1993; Ord. 05085, passed 8-8-2005;
Ord. 1011, passed 1-25-2010)
§ 114.033  DISPLAY OF PERMIT WHILE DRIVING TAXICAB.
   Each taxicab driver’s permit shall be displayed by the driver at all times
while driving the taxicab. Such permit shall be displayed in a place plainly
visible to those passengers sitting both on the front and rear seats thereof
and no driver shall drive a taxicab without such a permit and without same
being plainly visible to the passengers.
(2005 Code, § 86-40)  (Motion passed 2-1-1993; Ord. 05085, passed 8-8-2005;
Ord. 1011, passed 1-25-2010)  Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.034  DRIVER’S MANIFEST REQUIRED.
   Every driver shall maintain a manifest upon which are recorded all trips
made each day, showing time and place of origin and destination, the number of
passengers, and the amount of fare for each trip. All such completed manifests
shall be open for inspection at any reasonable time to any city police officer
whose duty it is to enforce the provisions of this section. The forms for such
records shall be provided to the driver by the owner and shall be of a
character approved by the Chief of Police or the Inspector of Taxicabs.
(2005 Code, § 86-41)  (Motion passed 2-1-1993; Ord. 05085, passed 8-8-2005) 
Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.035  PURCHASE OF REGISTRATION PLATE; INSPECTOR FURNISH DMV FORM MVR-314.
   The Taxicab Inspector shall complete and furnish to each owner the DMV Form
MVR-314 to allow them to purchase a taxicab registration plate.
(2005 Code, § 86-60)  (Motion passed 2-1-1993; Ord. 05085, passed 8-8-2005;
Ord. 1011, passed 1-25-2010)
§ 114.036  CONDITIONS GOVERNING ISSUANCE.
   A taxicab driver’s permit shall not be issued if the applicant is subject to
any physical defects which might render him or her unfit for the safe operation
of a taxicab. No permit shall be issued to a person who has been convicted
within five years of any offense involving intoxicating liquors or other mind-
altering substances unless the issuance thereof would be in the interest of the
public welfare.
(2005 Code, § 86-61)  (Motion passed 2-1-1993; Ord. 05085, passed 8-8-2005)
§ 114.037  TEMPORARY PERMIT.
   A temporary taxicab driver’s permit may be granted by the Inspector of
Taxicabs, after prior approval of the Chief of Police, if, in his or her
opinion, the issuance of such temporary permit is in the public interest, such
permit to be valid only 30 days.
(2005 Code, § 86-62)  (Ord. 1011, passed 1-25-2010)
PASSENGERS AND DRIVERS; CONDUCT
§ 114.050  SOLICITATION OF PASSENGERS.
   (A)   (1)   No driver shall solicit passengers for a taxicab when sitting in
the driver’s compartment of such taxicab or while standing immediately adjacent
to the curbside thereof.
      (2)   The driver of any taxicab shall remain in the driver’s compartment
or immediately adjacent to their vehicle at all times when such vehicle is upon
the public street, except upon a request to assist in handling of baggage of a
passenger or prospective passenger.
   (B)   No driver shall solicit patronage in a loud tone of voice or by sign
or in a manner that may annoy any reasonable person, obstruct the movement of
any person or vehicle, or follow any person for the purpose of soliciting
patronage.
   (C)   No driver shall solicit passengers at the terminal of any other common
carrier.
(2005 Code, § 86-42)  (Ord. 05085, passed 8-8-2005; Ord. 1011, passed 1-25-
2010)  Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.051  RESTRICTION IN NUMBER OF PASSENGERS.
   No driver shall permit more persons to be carried in a taxicab than the
seating capacity of the taxicab, as determined by the manufacturer of that type
of vehicle, including the driver.
(2005 Code, § 86-43)  (Ord. 05085, passed 8-8-2005; Ord. 1011, passed 1-25-
2010)  Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.052  ACCEPTING ADDITIONAL PASSENGERS.
   No driver shall permit any other person to occupy or ride in his or her
taxicab, unless the person first employing the taxicab shall consent to the
acceptance of additional passengers.
(2005 Code, § 86-44)  (Ord. 05085, passed 8-8-2005; Ord. 1011, passed 1-25-
2010)  Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.053  DECEPTION OF PASSENGERS.
   No driver shall deceive or attempt to deceive any passenger who may ride in
the taxicab, or who may desire to ride in such taxicab as to the destination or
the rate of fare to be charged, or shall convey any passenger, or cause any
passenger to be conveyed to a place other than that directed by the passenger,
by the most direct route, unless so requested by the passenger.
(2005 Code, § 86-45)  (Ord. 05085, passed 8-8-2005; Ord. 1011, passed 1-25-
2010)  Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.054  LOST ARTICLES.
   The driver of a taxicab shall make every effort possible to return any lost
article that may be found in the taxicab to the rightful owner as soon as
possible after the discovery of such article. If the owner cannot be located
the lost article shall be turned over to the city’s Police Department as soon
as possible.
(2005 Code, § 86-46)  (Ord. 05085, passed 8-8-2005; Ord. 1011, passed 1-25-
2010)  Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.055  UNAUTHORIZED PASSENGERS.
   No taxicab shall be used other than as a vehicle for hire unless the driver
is off duty. No individual, except the owner or driver, shall be allowed to
ride in the taxicab which is in service unless such individual is a fare paying
passenger.
(2005 Code, § 86-47)  (Ord. 05085, passed 8-8-2005; Ord. 1011, passed 1-25-
2010)  Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.056  COMPLIANCE WITH PASSENGER’S REQUEST.
   (A)   Each driver shall comply with all reasonable and lawful requests of
the passenger as to the speed of travel and the route to be taken.
   (B)   The driver shall, upon request of any passenger, give such passenger
the correct name and address of such driver and such other information as will
identify the vehicle, driver and owner thereof.
   (C)   Persons with handicaps who ask a driver for assistance with a handicap
device (i.e., wheelchair and the like) shall not be charged any additional fee
for such assistance.
(2005 Code, § 86-48)  (Ord. 05085, passed 8-8-2005; Ord. 1011, passed 1-25-
2010)  Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.057  PRIOR NOTICE AND PAYMENT OF FARE.
   The driver shall inform the passenger of the lawful fare prior to
transporting the passenger and if the driver so desires, the driver may demand
the fare to be paid prior to transporting any persons or property.
(2005 Code, § 86-49)  (Ord. 05085, passed 8-8-2005; Ord. 1011, passed 1-25-
2010)  Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.058  CONDUCT OF DRIVER AND DRIVER’S APPEARANCE.
   (A)   The driver of a taxicab shall at all times be courteous and polite.
The driver shall refrain from any profanity, vulgar language or gestures and
any other speech or comments that may be considered offensive to any reasonable
person. This shall include any offensive comments in regards to race, religion,
gender, ethnic origin or sexual orientation.
   (B)   While operating a taxicab for hire on the streets of the city, a
taxicab driver shall be properly attired in accordance with the following
standards.
      (1)   A driver’s clothing and shoes shall be neat and in good repair,
free of holes, tears, stains or soil.
      (2)   Undershirts, bare midriff or backless attire, shorts, cut-off jeans
and miniskirts are prohibited while the taxicab is for hire; provided, however,
shorts may be worn if the length is not more that two inches above the knee.
      (3)   Proper hygiene is required.
(2005 Code, § 86-50)  (Ord. 05085, passed 8-8-2005; Ord. 1011, passed 1-25-
2010)  Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.059  NAME OF OWNER TO BE PERMANENTLY AFFIXED ON TAXICAB.
   (A)   (1)   The owner of said company shall cause to be permanently affixed
to the taxicab; the owner’s name, taxicab company, taxicab number (cab number
issued by the Inspector) and telephone number with permanent paint or other
permanent lettering (professionally affixed) on both sides and on the rear of
each cab.
      (2)   All lettering/numbers on the sides of cab must be a minimum of
three inches high.
      (3)   Lettering/numbers on the rear of cab must be a minimum of one inch
high and must be of contrasting color.
   (B)   In addition to permanently affixing the company name, a lighted globe
shall be placed on top of the taxicab with identifying company and telephone
number and must be illuminated whenever the taxicab is engaged.
(2005 Code, § 86-51)  (Ord. 05085, passed 8-8-2005; Ord. 1011, passed 1-25-
2010)  Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.060  INFORMATION TO BE DISPLAYED FOR PASSENGERS.
   There shall be posted on the back of the front seat of each taxicab in a
conspicuous place, plainly visible to the passengers, a card showing the
license number of the taxicab, the owner and the rates permitted to be charged.
(2005 Code, § 86-52)  (Motion passed 2-1-1993; Ord. 05085, passed 8-8-2005;
Ord. 1011, passed 1-25-2010)  Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.061  INSPECTIONS OF TAXICABS.
   (A)   The Inspector of Taxicabs from time to time as deemed necessary shall
cause an inspection to be made of all taxicabs licensed hereunder, to ascertain
whether the terms of this chapter have been complied with and to further
ascertain whether the physical condition of said taxicab is such as to be
conducive to the public’s safety.
   (B)   All taxicabs will be subjected to on the spot inspections. These
inspections will include, but are not limited to, checking the driver and
vehicle for proper paperwork, inspection of the cleanliness of the taxicab,
inspecting the operating condition of the taxicab and periodic searches for
drugs or investigation of any suspected violation or criminal activity
occurring within or about the taxicab.
   (C)   Taxicabs are subject to periodic equipment inspections by the Taxicab
Inspector during the year to ensure compliance with this section.
(2005 Code, § 86-53)  (Ord. 05085, passed 8-8-2005; Ord. 1011, passed 1-25-
2010)
§ 114.062  VEHICLE EQUIPMENT.
   In addition to all other applicable regulations, all taxicabs operated in
the city shall be equipped and maintained in a satisfactory condition so as to
comply with the general statutes of the state, and the provisions of this
chapter and among other requirements shall:
   (A)   Have a body of a sedan or enclosed type and shall not exceed the
capacity for a taxicab as prescribed by G.S. § 20-87;
   (B)   Have four doors, two leading into the passenger’s compartment and two
leading into the driver’s compartment, so constructed that they may be opened
from the inside and outside;
   (C)   Have all openings, doors and windows in proper working condition;
   (D)   Be equipped with a heater in order to adequately heat the interior of
the taxicab in cold weather;
   (E)   Have all windshields, side and rear glasses clear and free from all
cracks and clear of dirt or obstruction to clear view;
   (F)   Have front and rear bumpers of original manufacturer’s design and
attachments which shall be in place and in proper repair;
   (G)   Have headlights, brake lights, taillights and turn signals in good
working condition and as installed by the original manufacturer;
   (H)   Be equipped with two-way radio or cellular phone in order that the
taxicab can have direct communication with the dispatch center;
   (I)   Be equipped with any other item which the city may require for the
convenience and safety of the passengers. Produce at the time of inspection and
a current state safety inspection certificate as required by G.S. § 20-183.3;
and
   (J)   Must produce license, registration and proof of insurance.
(2005 Code, § 86-54)  (Ord. 05085, passed 8-8-2005; Ord. 1011, passed 1-25-
2010)  Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.063  CONDITION OF TAXICAB.
   Every vehicle operating under this chapter shall be kept in a clean and
orderly condition as required by the chapter. The owner and driver shall keep
the body of the taxicab, interior and exterior, safe, clean and orderly and its
general appearance shall be kept as close as possible to the manufacturer’s
original appearance with respect to construction and finish of the car, normal
wear and tear expected, unless an approved color scheme is adopted, and all
doors, fenders and the like shall be of the same color.
(2005 Code, § 86-55)  (Ord. 05085, passed 8-8-2005; Ord. 1011, passed 1-25-
2010)  Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.064  MAINTENANCE OF TAXICAB.
   At any point that a cab is involved in a accident or has visible sheet metal
or body damage in excess of $300, or is unsafe for operation as determined by
the Inspector, it shall be removed from service and repaired prior to going
back into service.  An owner has 60 days to get the taxicab repaired and back
operable or he or she must show just cause why there will be additional delay.
Any damage under $300 must be repaired within 60 days or the Inspector may
remove that vehicle from service.
(2005 Code, § 86-56)  (Ord. 05085, passed 8-8-2005; Ord. 1011, passed 1-25-
2010)  Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.065  INSPECTION RECEIPT.
   (A)   Upon completion of a taxicab inspection, the Taxicab Inspector shall
provide the driver and/or owner with an inspection receipt which must be kept
in the taxicab at all times. The inspection receipt must state:
      (1)   The make, model, year and vehicle identification number (VIN) of
the taxicab;
      (2)   The date of inspection;
      (3)   The name of the Taxicab Inspector;
      (4)   A list of the components of the inspection performed and whether or
not they passed or failed; and
      (5)   Serial number of the inspection sticker.
   (B)   If any component does not pass inspection, that component must be
repaired prior to the certificate of inspection being issued. The taxicab
inspection receipt must be made available to any city police officer upon
request.
(2005 Code, § 86-57)  (Ord. 05085, passed 8-8-2005; Ord. 1011, passed 1-25-
2010)
§ 114.066  ISSUANCE/DISPLAY OF TAXICAB STICKER.
   Upon a successful inspection, each owner shall be issued a taxicab sticker.
The sticker shall be of a design approved by the Inspector of Taxicabs. The
sticker shall be affixed on the inside of the rear window of the taxicab in the
bottom left-hand corner. Each sticker must indicate when it expires, be of a
unique color to correspond with the year of issuance and must be printed with a
unique serial number that must match information printed on the inspection
receipt.
(2005 Code, § 86-58)  (Ord. 05085, passed 8-8-2005; Ord. 1011, passed 1-25-
2010)
§ 114.067  RATE OF FARES.
   (A)   (1)   The City Council shall from time to time adopt a schedule of
rates to be charged by taxicabs for hauling passengers.
      (2)   The schedule of rates so fixed shall remain in effect until changed
by the City Council. The schedule of rates shall be at all times prominently
posted and displayed in such taxicab so as to be visible to the passengers
therein, and a copy shall be filed in the office of the Chief of Police or
Inspector of Taxicabs.
   (B)   No person shall charge or attempt to charge any passenger a greater
fare than that to which the taxicab is entitled under the provisions of this
chapter.
(2005 Code, § 86-59)  (Motion passed 2-1-1993; Ord. 05085, passed 8-8-2005;
Ord. 1011, passed 1-25-2010)
§ 114.068  RESERVED.
§ 114.069  USE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS AND OTHER SUBSTANCES.
   No driver, owner or passenger will be allowed to use tobacco products,
alcoholic beverages, illegal drugs or other impairing substances while in a
taxicab.
(Ord. 1011, passed 1-25-2010)  Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.070  AUTHORITY FOR REMOVAL OF TAXICABS FROM STREETS.
   The Chief of Police or his or her designee shall have the authority to
remove from service on the streets of the city any vehicle used as a taxicab
until all deficiencies have been corrected. An order of the Taxicab Inspector
to remove a vehicle from the City streets may be appealed to the Chief of
Police and, if so desired, the City Council. Until the appeal has been heard
and the City Council has ruled otherwise, the taxicab ordered to be removed
from service shall not be used for operations. Any appeal must be heard within
30 days.
(Ord. 1011, passed 1-25-2010)
§ 114.071  REPORTING ACCIDENTS.
   The owner of a license shall report all accidents involving taxicabs to the
Inspector or the Chief of Police within 72 hours of the accident. The Inspector
will inspect the taxicab and will provide written instruction to the owner,
stating if the taxicab can or cannot be operated until such damage is repaired.
(Ord. 1011, passed 1-25-2010)
§ 114.072  SLEEPING, LOUNGING OR LYING IN TAXICABS PROHIBITED.
   While any taxicab is parked in a public place, the driver will remain awake
and alert at all times. Sleeping, lounging in a reclining posture or lying in a
taxicab is prohibited in a public place.
(Ord. 1011, passed 1-25-2010)  Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.073  TRAVEL TO PASSENGER LOCATION.
   No charge shall be made for time and/or mileage for traveling to the
location of a prospective passenger.
(Ord. 1011, passed 1-25-2010)  Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.074  ADVERTISEMENT BILLBOARDS.
   Advertisement billboards will be placed on the rooftop of taxicab only.
Rooftop billboards shall be no greater than: dimensions of overall length 50
inches, width 44 inches and height 18 inches.
(Ord. 1011, passed 1-25-2010)  Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.999  PENALTY.
   Any one or all of the following procedures, among others, may be used by the
city to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (A)   Injunction. Any violation of this chapter or any condition, order, or
requirement adopted pursuant hereto may be restrained, corrected, abated,
mandated or enjoined by appropriate proceeding pursuant to state law.
   (B)   Civil penalties. Any person who violates any provisions of this
chapter shall be subject to assessment of civil penalties in the amount of $10
per day, with each day that such violation continues to be considered a
separate violation subjecting the violator to a separate, additional civil
penalty. If the civil penalty imposed is not paid within 30 days of its being
imposed, the violator may be subject to criminal prosecution under G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. 1011, passed 1-25-2010)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
131.   NOISE
      
132.   CURFEW; YOUTH PROTECTION
CHAPTER 130:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
130.01   Obscene conduct
   
130.02   Consumption of alcoholic beverages in public places
   
130.03   Disturbing public meetings
   
130.04   Displaying obscene pictures
   
130.05   Injuring or defacing property
   
130.06   Bypassing meter
   
130.07   Congregations obstructing free passage
   
130.08   Playing in streets
   
130.09   Loitering for the purpose of engaging in drug-related activity
   
130.10   Discharging firearms or other projectiles
   
130.11   Swimming in city waterways
   
130.12   Trimming trees on public rights-of-way
   
130.13   Prostitution
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01  OBSCENE CONDUCT.
   In order to protect the public health, safety and welfare and especially to
protect minors who may reasonably be expected to be in public places and to be
affected by obscene acts and language therein:
   (A)   No person shall expose himself or herself in an indecent manner on any
street, sidewalk or any other public place; and/or
   (B)   No person shall commit any obscene act on any street, sidewalk or
other public place.
(2005 Code, § 50-1)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Indecent exposure, see G.S. § 14-190.9
   Protection of minors from lewdness, see G.S. §§ 14-190.1 et seq.
§ 130.02  CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   (A)   No person shall drink, give away, display or have in his or her
possession any alcoholic or malt beverages on city-owned or leased streets,
sidewalks, cemeteries, parking lots, public parks or public buildings in the
city, except as expressly allowed under division (B) below.
   (B)   The serving, sale and/or consumption of alcoholic beverages on city-
owned or leased streets, sidewalks, parking lots or public parks is permitted
at special events with prior approval of the City Manager under the following.
      (1)   The City Manager shall confer with the Chief of Police prior to
approving an application to consume alcohol on public property.
      (2)   The City Manager shall notify the City Council of the special event
where alcoholic beverages will be served. The City Council shall have five days
to voice any concern and/or request official action.
      (3)   Any organization using city property for such special event shall
be required to secure all proper State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board
licenses and permits for the particular event held.
      (4)   The organization serving alcoholic beverages on the city property
shall comply in all respects with current regulations of the state’s Alcoholic
Beverage Control Board.
      (5)   The City Manager shall designate the time and place where alcoholic
beverages may be served.
      (6)   The City Council reserves the right to make such other rules and
regulations as may be necessary to govern the use of the premises where
alcoholic beverages may be served.
      (7)   Only non-profit organizations, as defined under G.S. § 18B-1002(a)
(5), shall be eligible under this section.
(2005 Code, § 50-2)  (Ord. passed 8-6-1979; Ord. passed 6-4-2001; Ord. 05101,
passed 10-10-2005)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Intoxicated and disruptive in public, see G.S. § 14-144
§ 130.03  DISTURBING PUBLIC MEETINGS.
   No person shall willfully or wantonly disturb any public meeting or
gathering.
(2005 Code, § 50-3)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Carrying weapon into assembly, see G.S. § 14-269.3
   Disorderly conduct in public building, see G.S. § 14-132
   Disrupting meeting, see G.S. § 143-318.17
   Intoxicated and disruptive in public, see G.S. § 14-444
   Required distance from court, see G.S. § 14-225
   Riots and civil disorders, see G.S. §§ 14-288.1 et seq.
§ 130.04  DISPLAYING OBSCENE PICTURES.
   No person shall display on any street or alley, or in any store, shop or
public place in the city, any obscene pictures or words of any kind.
(2005 Code, § 50-4)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Obscene literature and exhibitions, see G.S. §§ 14-190.1 et seq.
   Offenses against public morals, see G.S. Ch. 19
§ 130.05  INJURING OR DEFACING PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall willfully or negligently injure, interfere with,
deface or mutilate in any way whatsoever any public property.
   (B)   No person shall willfully or negligently injure or interfere with any
property used in the city’s water, sewer, police or fire alarm system, nor with
any property of any person operating under a public franchise in the city.
(2005 Code, § 50-5)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Injuring police dog, see G.S. § 14-163.1
   Injury to appliances, meters, fixtures and the like, see G.S. §§ 14-151 et
seq.
   Injury to bridge, see G.S. § 14-146
   Injury to graves, see G.S. §§ 14-148, 14-149
   Injury to landmark, see G.S. § 14-147
   Injury to municipal property, see G.S. § 160A-174
   Trespass to posted property, see G.S. §§ 14-159.6 et seq.
   Trespass to public lands, buildings and the like, see G.S. §§ 14-130 et seq.
§ 130.06  BYPASSING METER.
   (A)   No person shall cause any water or electric meter to be bypassed or in
any way altered, changed or modified so as to affect the true and accurate
reading of the actual amount of water or electricity passing through the line
on either side of the meter for which the meter was designed and installed to
record.
   (B)   When a meter has been bypassed or modified as prohibited by this
section, the finding that same has been bypassed or modified shall be prima
facie evidence that it was done by the person in whose name the service is
furnished or in whose name the service is billed by the Public Utilities
Commission.
(2005 Code, § 50-6)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 14-151.1
§ 130.07  CONGREGATIONS OBSTRUCTING FREE PASSAGE.
   No person shall congregate on the streets or sidewalks of the city in such a
way as to obstruct or interfere with the free passage into or out of any public
business or private property. It shall be the duty of the police officer who
observes a violation of this section first to warn the offenders and, upon
their failure to heed the warning, to arrest them.
(2005 Code, § 50-7)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate use of streets, sidewalks and the like, see G.S. §
160A-296
   Failure to disperse, see G.S. § 14-238.5
   Picketing and parading, see G.S. § 14-225.1
§ 130.08  PLAYING IN STREETS.
   (A)   No person shall play at any game upon any street or use any street for
the purpose of recreation, except upon a play street designated as such by
authority of the City Council.
   (B)   No person shall engage in any game or recreational activity upon any
sidewalk or public place in the city in any manner so as to:
      (1)   Impede pedestrian traffic;
      (2)   Endanger property;
      (3)   Endanger the life, limb or health of any person;
      (4)   Prevent the full and complete use of such sidewalk or public place
by other persons for the intended purposes thereof;
      (5)   Constitute a breach of the peace; and/or
      (6)   Constitute unreasonable disturbance to persons of ordinary
sensibilities.
(2005 Code, § 50-8)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.09  LOITERING FOR THE PURPOSE OF ENGAGING IN DRUG-RELATED ACTIVITY.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, PUBLIC PLACES means any street,
sidewalk, bridge, alley or alleyway, plaza, park, driveway, parking lot or
transportation facility, or doorways and entranceways to any building which
fronts on any of those places, or a motor vehicle in or on any of those places,
or any property owned by the city.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, a KNOWN UNLAWFUL DRUG USER, POSSESSOR
OR SELLER is a person who has, within the knowledge of the arresting officer,
been convicted in any court within the state of any violation involving the
use, possession or sale of any of the substances referred to in the state’s
Controlled Substances Act, G.S. Ch. 90, any violation of any substantially
similar laws of any political subdivision of the state or of any other state or
of federal law.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for a person to remain or wander about in a
public place and to do the following for the purpose of engaging in a violation
of any subdivision of the state’s Controlled Substances Act, G.S. Ch. 90, Art.
5:
      (1)   Repeatedly beckon to, stop or attempt to stop passers-by or
repeatedly attempt to engage passers-by in conversation;
      (2)   Repeatedly stop or attempt to stop motor vehicles; and/or
      (3)   Repeatedly interfere with the free passage of other persons; or
repeatedly pass to or receive from passers-by, whether on foot or in a vehicle,
money or objects.
   (D)   In the trial of any person charged with a violation of any of the
provision of this section, testimony of a prior controlled substance
conviction, or testimony concerning the reputation of any place, structure or
building, and of the person who resides in or frequents the same, and of the
defendant with regards to whether such person is a known unlawful drug user,
processor or seller, shall be admissible in evidence in support of the charge.
(2005 Code, § 50-9)  (Ord. passed 9-5-1989)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.10  DISCHARGING FIREARMS OR OTHER PROJECTILES.
   (A)   No person shall fire any pistol, weapon, gun or other firearm within
the city for sport or amusement, except during a special event that is:
      (1)   Approved by the City Manager and Chief of Police; and
      (2)   Is held in an area deemed safe, by the Police Department firearms
staff, to conduct such an event.
   (B)   No person shall shoot or project any stone, rock, shot or other hard
substance by means of a slingshot, bean shooter, shot shooter, air rifle,
popgun, bow or other similar contrivance; provided that archery shooting may be
engaged in on such grounds as may be set aside and approved therefor by the
City Manager and officially designated by him or her as archery ranges; and
unless otherwise exempt pursuant to §
90.32.
(2005 Code, § 50-10)  (Ord. passed 4-2-2001; Ord. 2019-02-02, passed 2-25-
2019)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.11  SWIMMING IN CITY WATERWAYS.
   No person shall swim, dive or in any way while engaged in swimming
activities enter or leave the water of the Pasquotank River and its tributaries
from any piece of real estate owned by the city, either in fee simple, as a
street right-of-way, as lessee or in which the city has any other proprietary
interest; provided, however, nothing herein contained shall prohibit emergency
lifesaving or rescue activities.
(2005 Code, § 50-11)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.12  TRIMMING TREES ON PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   No person engaged in the business of a commercial tree trimming
company or operation shall trim any tree, bush or shrub on any of the public
rights-of-way within the city or on other property owned by the city without
first having obtained a written permit from the City Manager.
   (B)   All persons engaged in the business of a commercial tree trimming
company or operation, either on private property or with the permission
provided in division (A) above, shall immediately after trimming any tree, bush
or shrub and on the day of such trimming clean the area in which such trimming
was conducted and cause all debris to be removed from such area and cause such
area to be restored to a condition equally clear of debris as same existed
before such trimming.
(2005 Code, § 50-12)  (Ord. passed 5-5-1980)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Cutting anyone else’s timber, see G.S. § 14-135
   Cutting timber on state land, see G.S. § 14-130
   Cutting timber on town watershed without disposing of boughs and debris, see
G.S. § 14-383
   Falling tree on power lines, see G.S. § 14-157
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 136-93
§ 130.13  PROSTITUTION.
   (A)   The term PROSTITUTION shall be construed to include the offering or
receiving of the body for indiscriminate sexual intercourse, vaginal
intercourse, cunnilingus, fellatio and analingus or anal intercourse for hire.
The term ASSIGNATION shall be construed to include the making of any
appointment or engagement for prostitution or any act in furtherance of such
appointment or engagement. No person shall willfully engage in any act of
prostitution, assignation, solicitation or loitering for the purposes of
engaging in prostitution for hire.
   (B)   Prostitution and various acts abetting prostitution are unlawful, as
follows:
      (1)   To keep, set up, maintain or operate any place, structure, building
or conveyance for the purpose of prostitution or assignation;
      (2)   To occupy any place, structure, building or conveyance for the
purpose of prostitution or assignation; or for any person to permit any place,
structure, building or conveyance owned by him or her or under his or her
control to be used for the purpose of prostitution or assignation, with
knowledge or reasonable cause to know that the same, is or is to be used for
such purpose;
      (3)   To receive, or to offer or agree to receive any person into any
place, structure, building or conveyance for the purpose of prostitution or
assignation, or to permit any person to remain there for such purpose;
      (4)   To direct, take or transport or to offer or agree to take or
transport, any person to any place, structure or building or to any other
person, with knowledge or reasonable cause to know that the purpose of such
directing, taking or transporting is prostitution or assignation;
      (5)   To procure, or to solicit, or to offer to procure or solicit for
the purpose of prostitution or assignation;
      (6)   To reside in, enter or remain in any place, structure or building
or to enter or remain in any conveyance for the purpose of prostitution or
assignation; and
      (7)   To engage in prostitution or assignation, or to aid or abet
prostitution or assignation by any means whatsoever.
   (C)   For the purpose of this division (C), the term PUBLIC PLACE means any
street, sidewalk, bridge, alley or alleyway, plaza, park, driveway, parking lot
or transportation facility, or the doorways and entranceways to any building
which fronts on any of those placed, or a motor vehicle in or on any of those
places. Loitering for the purpose of engaging in prostitution is an offense, as
follows:
      (1)   If a person remains or wanders about in a public place;
      (2)   Repeatedly beckons to, stops or attempts to stop passers-by, or
repeatedly attempts to engage passers-by in conversation;
      (3)   Repeatedly stops or attempts to stop motor vehicles; and/or
      (4)   Repeatedly interferes with the free passage of other persons.
(2005 Code, § 50-13)  (Ord. 03081, passed 8-4-2003)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Loitering for purpose of engaging in prostitution, see G.S. § 14-204.1
   Prostitution, see G.S. §§ 14-203 et seq.
§ 130.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Violation of any provision of §
130.09 of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor, as provided by G.S. § 14-4.
(2005 Code, § 50-9)
   (C)   Any person charged and convicted with a violation of §
130.13 of this chapter shall be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor and shall be
fined not more than $500 at the discretion of the courts, as provided by G.S. §
14-4.
(2005 Code, § 50-13)
(Ord. passed 9-5-1989; Ord. 03081, passed 8-4-2003)
CHAPTER 131:  NOISE
Section
   
131.01   Definitions
   
131.02   Unlawful; enumeration
   
131.03   Standards
   
131.04   Maximum permitted sound levels by use occupancy
   
131.05   Regulation of noise on public right-of-way and property
   
131.06   Prohibited noises
   
131.07   Exceptions
   
131.08   Permits
   
131.09   Motor vehicle noise; mufflers; off-road vehicles
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. All words
used in this chapter not defined below shall be in conformance with applicable
publications of the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) or its
successor body.
   A AND/OR C WEIGHTED SOUND LEVEL. The sound pressure level in decibels
measured on a sound level meter using the A-weighted network. The level so read
is defined db(A) and/or db(C).
   CLASSIFICATION OF USE OCCUPANCIES. Use occupancies are as follows.
      (1)   AGRICULTURAL. All premises which are bona fide farms or which are
characterized by farming activities as the primary use of the premises.
      (2)   COMMERCIAL AND BUSINESS. All premises where sales, professional or
other commercial activities are legally permitted; except that, residences with
lawful home occupations are considered residential.
      (3)   CONSIDERATION OF ZONING CLASSIFICATION. In classifying uses under
this definition, the zoning classification of an area may be considered,
however, the actual use of premises shall control when the use and the zoning
classification conflict. Any area not otherwise classified under this division
(3) shall be considered commercial.
      (4)   MANUFACTURING AND IN-DUSTRIAL. All premises where goods or wares
are made warehoused or stored or where manufacturing is legally permitted.
      (5)   MULTIPLE USE. Twenty times the logarithm to the base ten of the
ratio of the pressure of the sound measured to the reference pressure, which is
20 micronewtons per square meter.
      (6)   PUBLIC SPACE. Any area owned, utilized or occupied by a municipal,
county, state or federal agency, including, but not limited to, park or
recreation areas, streets and sidewalks.
      (7)   RESIDENTIAL USE. All premises containing habitually occupied
sleeping quarters. However, premises containing transient commercial sleeping
quarters are considered commercial uses. Hospital, nursing homes, schools,
libraries, fraternity and sorority houses and churches are considered
RESIDENTIAL USES.
   EMERGENCY WORK. Any work performed for the purpose of preventing or
alleviating physical trauma or property damage threatened or caused by an
existing or imminent peril.
   HOLIDAY. The following days will be recognized as holidays restrictive use
category shall prevail: St. Patrick’s Day, Halloween and December 31.
   DECIBEL (DB). A unit for describing the amplitude of sound, equal for the
purpose of granting permits to exceed maximum sound level.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   MUFFLER. An apparatus consisting of a series of chambers or baffle plates
designed for the purpose of transmitting gases while reducing sound emanating
from such apparatus.
   NOISE. Any sound which disturbs humans or which causes or tends to cause an
adverse psychological or physiological effect on humans.
   OUTDOOR AMPLIFIED SOUND. Any sound using amplifying equipment, whose source
is outside or whose source is inside and the sound propagates to the outside
through open doors or windows or other openings in the building or through the
building structure.
   OWNER OF REAL PROPERTY. The owner, or listing owner of real property as
defined in G.S. § 105-302. PROPERTY OWNER is the legal owner, not the
individual renting or leasing the property.
   PERSON. Any individual, association, partnership or corporation and includes
any officer, employee, department, agency or instrumentality of the United
States, the state or any political subdivision thereof.
   PLAINLY AUDIBLE. Any sound produced by a sound-amplification system which
can be clearly heard at a distance of 75 feet or more. Measurement standards
shall be the auditory senses, based upon the direct line of sight. Words or
phrases need not be discernible and bass reverberations are included.
   SLOW RESPONSE. A measuring technique to obtain an average value when
measuring a noise level that fluctuates over a range of four dB or more. By way
of illustration only, a sound level meter set on SLOW RESPONSE would record a
sound level between two and six decibels less than the reading for a steadying
signal of the same frequency and amplitude when a tone of 1,000 Hz and for a
duration of one-half second is applied.
   SOUND. An oscillation in pressure, particle displacement, particle velocity
or other physical parameter, in a medium with internal forces that causes
compression and rarefaction of that medium. The description of SOUND may
include any characteristic of such sound, including duration, intensity and
frequency.
   SOUND-AMPLIFICATION SYSTEM. Any radio, tape player, compact disc player,
loudspeaker or other electronic device used for the amplification of sound.
   SOUND LEVEL. The weighted sound pressure level obtained by the use of a
sound level meter and frequency weighing network, such as A, B or C as
specified in American National Standards Institute specifications for sound
level meters (ANSI SI.41971 or the latest approved version thereto). If the
frequency weighing employed is not indicated, the A-weighing shall apply.
   SOUND LEVEL METER. An instrument which includes a microphone, amplifier, RSM
detector, integrator or time average, output meter and weighing network used to
measure sound pressure levels.
   SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL. Twenty times the logarithms to the base of ten of the
ratio of the root mean square (RMS) sound pressure to the reference pressure of
20 micronewtons per square meter.
   TENANT. One who resides on or has the temporary use of occupation of real
property owned by another person. In the case of residential property, TENANT
shall be construed to mean any individual actually residing at the residential
location, whether such person is listed on a lease or not.
(2005 Code, § 50-35)  (Ord. passed 1-8-1996; Ord. passed 6-2-1997; Ord. 0931,
passed 3-9-2009)
§ 131.02  UNLAWFUL; ENUMERATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to create or
assist in creating any unreasonably loud, disturbing sound levels in the city,
taking into consideration volume, duration, frequency and other characteristics
of the sound.
   (B)   The following activities, among others, are hereby declared to be
unreasonably loud, disturbing sound levels, but said enumeration shall not be
deemed to be exclusive:
      (1)   Instruments; sound amplifiers. The playing of any musical
instrument or electronic sound-amplification equipment in such manner or with
such volume, particularly during the hours between 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.,
that would unreasonably disturb persons of ordinary and reasonable
sensibilities in the vicinity;
      (2)   Animals. The keeping of any animal or bird which makes frequent or
long, continued sounds that would unreasonably disturb persons of ordinary and
reasonable sensibilities in the vicinity;
      (3)   Vehicles. The use of any automobile, motorcycle or vehicle so out
of repair, or in such a condition as to create unreasonably loud, disturbing
sounds;
      (4)   Garages. The operating of any garage or service station in any
residential area so as to cause unreasonably loud, disturbing sounds to be
emitted between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. on any day;
      (5)   Specific locations. The creation of unreasonably loud, disturbing
sound levels adjacent to any school, educational facility, church or court
during normal operating hours or within 150 feet of any hospital which a person
of ordinary and reasonable sensibilities would recognize as likely to
unreasonably interfere with the working of such institutions; provided that,
conspicuous signs are displayed indicating that such area is a school,
educations facility, church, court or hospital area;
      (6)   Excavations. The erection, including excavation, demolition,
alteration of repair of any building in a residential or business district
other than between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. on any day, except in
the case of urgent necessity in the interest of public safety and then only
under the direction of an appropriate city official; and
      (7)   Advertising. The use of any electronic sound-amplification
equipment for advertising or solicitation purposes, except with an appropriate
permit.
   (C)   A sworn law enforcement officer upon being informed of any initial
noise complaint shall first issue a written warning to the alleged offender. On
any subsequent complaint from the same location, a sworn officer shall, if the
proper noise measuring equipment is available and a sworn law enforcement
officer that is trained to use such equipment is available, measure the sound
and proceed in accordance with divisions (B) above and (D) below, and this
division (C). In the event the equipment or operator is not available, he or
she shall cause a summons to be issued.
   (D)   Any citizen may, without the benefit of noise measuring equipment or
contacting a sworn law enforcement officer, appear before a magistrate of the
county and attempt to obtain a summons.
(2005 Code, § 50-37)  (Ord. passed 1-8-1996; Ord. passed 6-2-1997; Ord. 0931,
passed 3-9-2009)  Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03  STANDARDS.
   (A)   Standards, instrumentation, personnel, measurement procedures and
reporting procedures to be used in the measurement of sound shall be as
specified in this section and in administrative directives issued by the City
Manager.
   (B)   Sound level measurement shall be made with a sound level meter using
the A-weighing and C-weighing scale, set on “slow”. A violation under either
scale constitutes a violation of this chapter.
   (C)   The City Manager shall issue an administrative directive adopting
standards and procedures for sound level measurement and enforcement consistent
with this section.
(2005 Code, § 50-38)  (Ord. passed 1-8-1996; Ord. passed 6-2-1997; Ord. 0931,
passed 3-9-2009)  Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.04  MAXIMUM PERMITTED SOUND LEVELS BY USE OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   The use of sound-amplifying equipment is limited to the conditions
specified in this section.
   (B)   Outdoor amplified sound, including a live musical group or individual
using sound-amplifying equipment, may be produced only if an authorized agent
of the sponsoring business, organization or group had been granted an “outdoor
amplified sound permit”. This permit must be signed by a representative of the
business, organization or group holding or sponsoring the event at which the
outdoor amplified sound will be produced.
   (C)   Except as allowed in division (D) below, no personnel shall operate or
cause to be operated any source of sound in such a manner as to create a sound
level which at its peak exceeds the limits set forth for the use occupancy
categories in Table I below when measured at or beyond the property line of the
property from which the sound originates. For purposes of measurement, the back
of the curb, the outside edges of driveways, fences, hedges or other physical
features commonly associated with property boundaries are presumed to be at a
point which is at or beyond the property line. In all cases, the maximum sound
level permitted by use occupancy shall be determined on the basis of the use
occupancy of the property from which the sound originates and not by the use
occupancy of any surrounding property. Sound which originates from a dwelling
unit in a duplex or other multi-family housing unit shall be measured from any
point which is at least 25 lineal feet, whether inside or outside a building,
from the nearest point of the enclosed or habitable space of the dwelling unit
from which the sound originates.
 
Table I: Sound Levels by Use Occupancy
Use Occupancy Category               Time         Sound Level Limit (dB(A))
Manufacturing, industrial or         At all times 75
agricultural
                                     7:00 a.m. -  65
Public space, commercial or business 11:00 p.m.
                                     11:00 p.m. - 55
                                     7:00 a.m.
                                     7:00 a.m. -  60
Residential                          11:00 p.m.
                                     11:00 p.m. - 55
                                     7:00 a.m.
 
   (D)   Sound levels in excess of the limits established in Table I will be
permitted in public space, commercial or business space, manufacturing,
industrial or agricultural space, but not on residential space, as follows:
 
Table II
                                                       Without    With Permit
Days and Times                                         Permit (dB to Exceed (dB
                                                       (A))       (A))
Friday evening (5:00 p.m. - 11:00 p.m.)                70         80
Saturday evening (10:00 p.m. - 11:00 p.m.)             70         80
Holidays (as defined in § 131.01) (12:00 noon - 11:00 70         80
p.m.)
 
   (E)   No property owner shall allow a noise-related nuisance or health or
safety hazard to be created or maintained by or on account of tenants of the
property owner. For purposes of this division (E), a noise-related nuisance or
health or safety hazard shall be deemed to exist when a tenant or group of
tenants at a specific location receives a third citation for a chapter
violation pursuant to this section. The property owner shall be liable for the
costs of remedying the nuisance or health or safety hazard in accordance with
the provisions of §
131.99 of this chapter. A property owner may be held liable for the cost of
abating the nuisance or remedying the health or safety hazard only if the
property owner has been notified in writing, via actual delivery of certified
mail, of the first two ordinance violations. A property owner shall be liable
for the costs of abating the nuisance or remedying the health or safety hazard
upon the third and any subsequent action by the same tenant at a specific
location; provided, the third violation occurs at least 15 days from the date
of actual receipt of notice of the second violation. It shall be a complete
defense to a citation under this section if the owner of the real property
involved can prove that he or she is actively pursuing an eviction process was
begun prior to the date of the third or any subsequent violation by the same
tenant at a specific location.
(2005 Code, § 50-39)  (Ord. passed 1-8-1996; Ord. passed 6-2-1997; Ord. 0931,
passed 3-9-2009)  Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.05  REGULATION OF NOISE ON PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY AND PROPERTY.
   (A)   Findings. The city, having received an increasing number of complaints
from the citizens of the city concerning radio and other noises emanating from
vehicles on the public streets and ways and properties of the city, and having
made certain observations on the subject, hereby finds and declare that:
      (1)   Excessive noise, when not generated in the course of activity
necessary to carrying on daily life, creates a significant threat to the public
health, safety and welfare;
      (2)   Those noises which are most obnoxious to public health, safety and
welfare in the city are those which are unreasonably loud or which are
generated solely for the purpose of entertainment of a person or group of
persons without regard to the health, welfare and safety of others who are
unable to avoid being subjected to such noises, and which disturb, injure or
endanger the comfort, health, peace or safety of reasonable persons of ordinary
sensibilities; or
      (3)   There has been a significant increase in the frequency and volume
of noise from the many portable sound reproducing devices available today, such
as portable radios, tape recorders and cassette players.
   (B)   Intent. It is, therefore, the intent of this section to strike an
appropriate balance between the right of individuals to obtain information and
derive pleasure by listening to radios and other devices, and the right of the
public to a peaceful and healthful environment. It is not the intent of this
legislation to interfere unduly with freedom of speech or religion by
regulating the initial production or amplification of sound.
(2005 Code, § 50-40)  (Ord. passed 1-8-1996; Ord. passed 6-2-1997)  Penalty,
see §
131.99
§ 131.06  PROHIBITED NOISES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to play, use, operate or permit to
be played, used or operated any radio, tape recorder, cassette player or other
machine or device for reproducing sound, if:
      (1)   It is located in or on any public property, including any public
street, highway, building, sidewalk, park or thoroughfare or any motor vehicle
on a public street, highway or public space; or
      (2)   The sound generated is audible at a distance of 75 feet from the
device producing the sound; and
   (B)   Possession by a person of any of the machines or devices enumerated in
this section shall be prima facie evidence that person operates, or those
persons operate, the machine or device.
(2005 Code, § 50-41)  (Ord. passed 1-8-1996; Ord. passed 6-2-1997)  Penalty,
see §
131.99
§ 131.07  EXCEPTIONS.
   The following are exempt from the provisions of Table I and Table II of §
131.04(C) and (D) of this chapter:
   (A)   Sound emanating from scheduled outdoor athletic events;
   (B)   Construction operations from 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. on any day for
which building permits have been issued or construction operation not requiring
permits; providing, all equipment is operated in accord with the manufacturer’s
specifications and with all standard equipment manufacturer’s mufflers and
noise-reducing equipment in use and in proper operation condition;
   (C)   Noise of safety warning devices, emergency pressure relief valves and
all church bells and governmental clock towers. For purposes of this division
(C), the term CHURCH BELLS shall not include electronic devices or artificial
sound reproduction systems intended to sound like church bells;
   (D)   Noise resulting from any authorized emergency vehicle;
   (E)   Noise resulting from parades, lawful picketing or other public
demonstrations protected by G.S. § 14-413, or for which a local permit had been
granted by the city; provided, such activity is of a temporary duration lasting
no longer than two hours during any 24-hour period. Regulation of noise
emanating from activities under permit shall be according to the conditions and
limits stated in this division (E) and according to any additional conditions
stated on the permit;
   (F)   Unamplified and amplified sound at events conducted, sponsored or
sanctioned by the city;
   (G)   All noises coming from the normal operations of properly equipped
aircraft, not including scale model aircraft;
   (H)   Noise from noisemakers on holidays and fireworks on holidays or at
times allowed under a pyrotechnics permit issued pursuant to G.S. Ch. 14, Art.
54;
   (I)   Lawnmowers and agricultural equipment used between daylight hours 7:00
a.m. to 9:00 p.m. when operated with all the manufacturer’s standard mufflers
and noise-reducing equipment in use and in proper operating condition;
   (J)   Unamplified and amplified sound at community concerts conducted,
sponsored or sanctioned by the city;
   (K)   Practice sessions or performances by marching bands;
   (L)   Noise from trains and associated railroad rolling stock when operated
in proper repair and manner; and
   (M)   Emergency work, as defined in section §
131.01 of this chapter.
(2005 Code, § 50-43)  (Ord. passed 1-8-1996; Ord. passed 6-2-1997)
§ 131.08  PERMITS.
   (A)   Who may apply. A person or group of persons that may produce or cause
to be produced sound in excess of the limits set in Table I of §
131.04(C) of this chapter only if a “permit to exceed” had been obtained. With
a permit granted pursuant to this section, maximum sound levels shall be as set
out in Table II of §
131.04(D) of this chapter.
   (B)   Application for permit. Any person or group of persons desiring an
outdoor amplified sound permit or a permit to exceed shall apply as provided in
this section, and shall provide all information required. All applications for
a permit to exceed shall be submitted to the Chief of Police or his or her
designee at least 72 hours prior to the scheduled event; failure to comply with
this requirement shall be grounds for denying the permit.
   (C)   Estimated maximum number of people attending. The applicant is
cautioned that the estimated number of people attending this is placed on the
application is the maximum number that they can allow to attend. Any number of
people in excess of the estimated maximum will be grounds for immediate
revocation of the permit. The applicant is responsible for not allowing the
maximum number to be exceeded.
   (D)   Action by Chief of Police. The Chief of Police or his or her designee
shall act upon all requests for permits. In considering and acting on all
requests for permits pursuant to this section, the Chief of Police shall
consider, but shall not be limited to, the following, in issuing or denying
such permit: the timeliness of the application; the nature of the requested
activity; previous experience with the applicant; the time of the event; other
activities in the vicinity of the location proposed; the frequency of the
application; the cultural or social benefits of the proposed activity; the
effect of the activity on any residential area of the city; and previous
violations, if any, of the applicant. In assessing other activities in the
vicinity and the frequency of applications in the vicinity, the Chief shall not
issue more than two permits per month within a 1,000-foot radius of each other,
or issue permits for events on consecutive weekends (Friday and Saturday)
within a 1,000-foot radius of each other. In considering or acting upon a
request for a permit to exceed, the Chief of Police or appointed designee shall
limit permits granted at any specific location to no more than two permits to
exceed per year.
   (E)   Conditions on permit. Permits to exceed and outdoor amplified sound
permits shall specify the duration for which non-compliance shall be permitted
and shall prescribe the conditions or requirements necessary to minimize
adverse effects upon the community or surrounding neighborhood. The Chief of
Police or his or her designee may require, but shall not be limited to, the
following:
      (1)   No sound speakers may be set up more than ten feet off the ground;
      (2)   The permit holder change the arrangement of amplifying equipment or
sound instruments upon the request of any police officer of the city so as to
minimize the disturbance to others resulting from the position or orientation
of the amplifying equipment or from atmospherically or geographically caused
dispersal of sound beyond the property lines;
      (3)   Adjoining property owners surrounding the location proposed as the
site of the permitted event be notified by the applicant at least 72 hours
prior to the scheduled event, and also advised of the time by which clean-up of
the area will be accomplished. Notice to the adjoining property owners shall
include a statement indicating that comments or concerns regarding the issuance
of a permit at the proposed location may be made to the Chief of Police prior
to the event. These conditions are mandatory on all permit to exceed
applicants;
      (4)   No permitted event may last more than four hours in duration. This
is a mandatory condition;
      (5)   No event may extend beyond 11:00 p.m. This is a mandatory
condition; and
      (6)   The site of the event, and the area surrounding the site of the
event, will be cleaned, by the applicant, of all the trash, litter and debris
by 10:00 a.m. the following day, or by sunset on the day of the event, if the
event ends at least four hours before sunset.
   (F)   Cooperation with police. The permit holder shall agree to cooperate
with the Police Department in enforcing this chapter by having the signer of
the permit available at the site of the event during the entire time for which
a permit has been issued and capable of assisting the police in enforcing this
chapter. Failure of such signer of a permit to be present or to assist the
police in complying with this section will be cause for revocation of said
permit.
(2005 Code, § 50-44)  (Ord. passed 1-8-1996; Ord. passed 6-2-1997)
§ 131.09  MOTOR VEHICLE NOISE; MUFFLERS; OFF-ROAD VEHICLES.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive, operate, move or
permit to be driven, operated or moved a motor vehicle or combination of
vehicles at any time in such a manner that the sound level of the vehicle
exceeds the levels set forth for that category of vehicles as shown below.
 
Table III: Maximum Motor Vehicle Sound Level in db(A)
Types of Vehicles    Speed Limit 35 mph Speed Limit 35 mph Vehicle Stationary
                     or Less            or More
Motor vehicle with
GVWR of less than    81                 85                 83
10,000 pounds
Motor vehicle with a
GVWR of more than    89                 94                 91
10,000 pounds
Motorcycle           81                 85                 83
Any other motor
vehicle or any
combination of       76                 80                 -
vehicles towed by
any motor vehicle
 
      (2)   Sound levels are to be measured at a distance of 25 feet from the
nearest lane being monitored and at a height of at least four feet above the
immediate surrounding surface.
      (3)   This division (A) shall apply to the total noise from a vehicle and
shall not be construed as limiting or precluding the enforcement of any other
provisions of this section.
      (4)   Traffic, aircraft and other transportation noise sources and other
background noises shall not be considered in taking measurements under this
division (A).
(2005 Code, § 50-45)
   (B)   Mufflers.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or cause to be
operated a motor vehicle unless the exhaust system is free from defects which
affect sound reduction.
      (2)   No person shall remove or render inoperative, or cause to be
removed or rendered inoperative, other than for purposes of maintenance, repair
or replacement, any muffler or sound dissipative device on a motor vehicle.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person to modify the exhaust system of
a motor vehicle by the installation of a muffler cut-out or bypass, and no
person shall operate a motor vehicle which has been so modified.
(2005 Code, § 50-46)
   (C)   Off-road vehicles.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or cause to be
operated a recreational or off-road motor vehicle individually, in a group or
in an organized racing event on public or private property in such a manner
that the sound level exceeds the maximum permissible levels set forth
previously in division (A) above for motorcycles, adjusted to a distance of 25
feet from the path of the vehicle when operated on public space, or at the
boundary of private property when operated on private property.
      (2)   This division (C) shall apply to all recreational vehicles, whether
or not fully licensed or registered including, but not limited to, commercial
or non-commercial racing vehicles, motorcycles, go-carts, amphibious craft and
dune buggies.
      (3)   Use of such vehicles off-road except for emergency purposes, and
except to attain access from private property to public rights-of-way, shall be
completely prohibited between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
(2005 Code, § 50-47)
(Ord. passed 1-8-1996; Ord. passed 6-2-1997)  Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of any provision of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor as
provided by G.S. § 14-4.
(2005 Code, § 50-42)
   (B)   (1)   Any violation of §
131.04 of this chapter shall subject the offender to a civil penalty in the
amount of $100 for first offense; $250 for second offense; $500 for third
offense; $750 for fourth offense; and $1,000 for fifth and any subsequent
offense within the same 12-month period as the first offense.
      (2)   Each day’s continuing violation shall be a separate and distinct
offense.
      (3)   Notwithstanding division (B)(1) above, provisions of this section
may be enforced through equitable remedies issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction.
      (4)   In addition to or in lieu of remedies authorized in divisions (B)
(1) through (B)(3) above, violations of §
131.04 of this chapter may be prosecuted as a misdemeanor in accordance with
G.S. § 160A-175.
      (5)   A property owner shall be liable for the cost of abating the
nuisance or remedying the health or safety hazard created by a tenant for a
third or subsequent violation of §
131.04 of this chapter, as specified in §
131.04 of this chapter. A property owner shall be liable for the actual cost of
abatement/remedy taking into account the cost of law enforcement personnel
salaries, law enforcement equipment, administrative overhead, law enforcement
recordkeeping, mailing and notification costs and other costs directly or
indirectly attributable to the cost of abating the nuisance or remedying the
health or safety hazard. In no case shall the cost assessed under this
provision be less than $100 for the third violation by the tenant (initial
assessment of property owner), or less than $75 for any subsequent assessment
for the same-tenant violation. If costs assessed pursuant to this division (B)
are not paid by the property owner within 30 days of receipt of a statement of
costs from the city, the cost may be placed as a lien on the property the
hazard existed. However, any violation of a maximum sound level of 85 dBA under
provisions of a permit to exceed shall subject the offender to immediate
revocation of the permit and to a civil penalty in the amount of $200. Upon
revocation of a permit, maximum sound levels shall be reduced to those
otherwise permitted under this section.
(2005 Code, § 50-36)
(Ord. passed 1-8-1996; Ord. passed 6-2-1997; Ord. 0931, passed 3-9-2009)
CHAPTER 132:  CURFEW; YOUTH PROTECTION
Section
Curfew
   
132.01   Purpose
   
132.02   Definitions
   
132.03   Offenses
   
132.04   Exceptions
   
132.05   Enforcement
Truancy
   
132.20   Purpose
   
132.21   Definitions
   
132.22   Offenses
   
132.23   Exceptions
   
132.24   Enforcement
   
132.25   Subpoenas
 
   
132.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   City may impose curfew on minors under 18, see G.S. § 16A-198
CURFEW
§ 132.01  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to protect juveniles from victimization
and exposure to criminal activity by establishing a curfew for juveniles under
the age of 18 years in the city. This curfew section is intended to reinforce
and promote the health, safety and welfare of both juveniles and adults by
creating an environment offering better protection and security for all
concerned.
(2005 Code, § 50-90)  (Ord. passed 6-2-1997)
§ 132.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DIRECT ROUTE. The shortest reasonable path of travel or a commonly used
route to reach a final destination without any detour or stop along the way.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to, a
fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident or any situation requiring
immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or death. This term also
shall include any action that is reasonably necessary in order to respond to
the medical needs of a family member of the juvenile regardless of whether the
juvenile’s action is taken in order to prevent death or serious injury.
   GUARDIAN. A person who is court-appointed to be the guardian of a juvenile.
   JUVENILE. Any person who has not reached 18 years of age and is not married,
emancipated or a member of the armed services of the United States.
   PARENT. A person who is a natural parent, adoptive parent, foster parent or
stepparent of another person or a person to whom legal custody has been given
by court order.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any place that is generally open to and used by the public or
a substantial group of the public, whether it be publicly or privately owned,
including, but not limited to, streets, sidewalks, highways, alleys, rights-of-
way, public vehicular areas and parking lots, transportation facilities,
theaters, restaurants, ships, bowling alleys, schools and school grounds,
places of business and amusement, playgrounds, parks, similar areas that are
open to the public and other common areas open to or accessible to the public.
   REMAIN. To linger or stay in a public place, or to fail to leave the
premises when requested to do so by a police officer, or to fail to leave the
premises of an establishment when requested to do so by the owner/operator or
employees of the premises.
   RESTRICTED HOURS. The time of night referred to herein is based upon the
prevailing standard of time, whether Eastern Standard Time or Eastern Daylight
Savings Time, generally observed at that hour by the public in the city. The
term RESTRICTED HOURS shall mean:
      (1)   10:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m. on Sunday through Thursday; and
      (2)   11:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m. on Friday and Saturday.
(2005 Code, § 50-91)  (Ord. passed 6-2-1997; Ord. 08108, passed 10-27-2008)
§ 132.03  OFFENSES.
   (A)   A juvenile commits an offense by being present in or remaining in any
public place or on the premises of any establishment within the city during the
restricted hours.
   (B)   A parent or guardian of a juvenile commits an offense if he or she
knowingly permits or, by insufficient control, allows the juvenile to remain in
any public place or on the premises of any establishment within the city during
the restricted hours. The term KNOWINGLY includes knowledge that a parent
should reasonably be expected to have concerning the whereabouts of a juvenile
in that parent’s legal custody. This requirement is intended to hold a
neglectful or careless parent up to a reasonable community standard of parental
responsibility through an objective test. It shall, therefore, be no defense
that a parent was completely indifferent to the activities or conduct or
whereabouts of such juvenile.
   (C)   It shall be a violation of this section for any person 18 years of age
or older to aid or abet a juvenile in the violation of division (A) above.
   (D)   It shall be a violation of this subchapter for a parent or guardian to
refuse to take custody during the restricted hours of a juvenile for whom the
parent or guardian is responsible, within a reasonable period of time.
(2005 Code, § 50-93)  (Ord. passed 6-2-1997)  Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.04  EXCEPTIONS.
   A juvenile who is in a public place or establishment during the restricted
hours shall not be in violation of this subchapter if:
   (A)   The juvenile is accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or other
adult person 21 years of age or older authorized by the parent or guardian of
such juvenile and having the lawful care and custody of the minor;
   (B)   The juvenile is upon an emergency errand directed by his or her
parent, guardian or other adult person 21 years of age or older having the
lawful care and custody of the minor, or is reacting to or responding to an
emergency;
   (C)   The juvenile is engaged in a lawful employment activity or using a
direct route to or from a place of employment;
   (D)   The juvenile is attending or traveling directly to or from an activity
involving the exercise of the First Amendment rights of free speech, freedom of
assembly or free exercise of religion;
   (E)   The juvenile is in a motor vehicle with parental consent for normal
travel with interstate and intrastate travel through the city being excepted in
all cases from this section;
   (F)   The juvenile is attending or traveling to or from, by direct route, an
official school, religious or recreational activity that is supervised by
adults and sponsored by a public or private school, the city or other
governmental entity, a civic organization or another similar entity that
accepts responsibility for the juvenile; and/or
   (G)   The juvenile is married or emancipated or is a member of the armed
services of the United States.
(2005 Code, § 50-94)  (Ord. passed 6-2-1997)
§ 132.05  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Before taking any enforcement action under this subchapter, a police
officer shall ask the apparent offender’s name, age and reason for being in the
public place or establishment during the restricted hours.
   (B)   The officer shall not prepare a juvenile arrest report, issue a
citation or make an arrest under this subchapter unless the officer reasonably
believes that an offense has occurred and that, based on any response and other
circumstances, no exceptions or defense in §
132.04 of this chapter are present.
(2005 Code, § 50-95)  (Ord. passed 6-2-1997)
TRUANCY
§ 132.20  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to protect minors from victimization and
exposure to criminal activity by establishing a truancy ordinance for minors
under the age of 18 years in the city. This subchapter is intended to reinforce
and promote the health, safety and welfare of both minors and adults by
creating an environment offering better protection and security for all
concerned.
(2005 Code, § 50-117)  (Ord. passed 9-15-1997)
§ 132.21  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DIRECT ROUTE. The shortest reasonable path of travel or a commonly used
route to reach a final destination without any detour or stop along the way.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to, a
fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident or any situation requiring
immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or death. This term also
shall include any action that is reasonably necessary in order to respond to
the medical needs of a family member of the minor regardless of whether the
minor’s action is taken in order to prevent death or serious injury.
   GUARDIAN. A person who is court-appointed to be the guardian of a minor.
   MINOR. Any person who has not reached his or her eighteenth birthday and is
not married, emancipated or a member of the armed services of the United
States.
   PARENT. A person who is a natural parent, adoptive parent, foster parent or
stepparent of another person or a person to whom legal custody has been given
by court order.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any place that is generally open to and used by the public or
a substantial group of the public, whether it be publicly or privately owned,
including, but not limited to, streets, sidewalks, highways, alleys, rights-of-
way, public vehicular areas and parking lots, transportation facilities,
theaters, restaurants, ships, bowling alleys, schools and school grounds,
places of business and amusement, playgrounds, parks, similar areas that are
open to the public and other common areas open to or accessible to the public.
   RESTRICTED HOURS. The time of day referred to herein is based upon the
prevailing standard of time, whether Eastern Standard Time or Eastern Daylight
Savings Time, generally observed at that hour by the public in the city. The
term RESTRICTED HOURS shall mean:
      (1)   8:30 a.m. on Monday until 2:30 p.m. on Monday;
      (2)   8:30 a.m. on Tuesday until 2:30 p.m. on Tuesday;
      (3)   8:30 a.m. on Wednesday until 2:30 p.m. on Wednesday;
      (4)   8:30 a.m. on Thursday until 2:30 p.m. on Thursday; and
      (5)   8:30 a.m. on Friday until 2:30 p.m. on Friday.
(2005 Code, § 50-118)  (Ord. passed 9-15-1997)
§ 132.22  OFFENSES.
   (A)   A minor between the ages of seven years and 17 years, inclusive,
commits an offense by being present in or remaining in any public place or on
the premises of any establishment within the city during the restricted hours.
   (B)   A parent or guardian of a minor commits an offense if he or she
knowingly permits or, by insufficient control, allows the minor to remain in
any public place or on the premises of any establishment within the city during
the restricted hours. The term KNOWINGLY includes knowledge that a parent
should reasonably be expected to have concerning the whereabouts of a minor in
that parent’s legal custody. This requirement is intended to hold a neglectful
or careless parent up to a reasonable community standard of parental
responsibility through an objective test. It shall, therefore, be no defense
that a parent was completely indifferent to the activities or conduct or
whereabouts of such minor.
   (C)   It shall be a violation of this subchapter for any person 18 years of
age or older to aid or abet a minor in the violation of division (A) above.
   (D)   It shall be a violation of this subchapter for a parent or guardian to
refuse to take custody during the restricted hours of a minor for whom the
parent or guardian is responsible, within a reasonable period of time.
(2005 Code, § 50-120)  (Ord. passed 9-15-1997)  Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.23  EXCEPTIONS.
   A minor who is in a public place or establishment during the restricted
hours shall not be in violation of this subchapter if:
   (A)   The minor is accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or other adult
person 21 years of age or older authorized by the parent or guardian of such
minor and having the lawful care and custody of the minor;
   (B)   The minor is upon an emergency errand directed by his or her parent,
guardian or other adult person 21 years of age or older having the lawful care
and custody of the minor, or is reacting to or responding to an emergency;
   (C)   The minor is engaged in a lawful employment activity or using a direct
route to or from a place of employment;
   (D)   The minor is attending or traveling directly to or from an activity
involving the exercise of the First Amendment rights of free speech, freedom of
assembly or free exercise of religion;
   (E)   The minor is in a motor vehicle with parental consent for normal
travel with interstate and intrastate travel through the city being excepted in
all cases from this subchapter;
   (F)   The minor is attending or traveling to or from, by direct route, an
official school, religious or recreational activity that is supervised by
adults and sponsored by a public or private school, the city or other
governmental entity, a civic organization or another similar entity that
accepts responsibility for the minor;
   (G)   The minor is married or emancipated, or is a member of the armed
services of the United States;
   (H)   The minor is enrolled in a valid home study program as authorized by
state statute;
   (I)   The minor has completed all course study requirements for high school
graduation;
   (J)   The minor, being over 16 years of age, has formally withdrawn from
school;
   (K)   The minor has written proof from school authorities that he or she is
excused from school attendance at that particular time; and/or
   (L)   When the minor is participating in an approved school or study
activity which requires the minor to be off school property.
(2005 Code, § 50-121)  (Ord. passed 9-15-1997)
§ 132.24  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Before taking any enforcement action under this subchapter, a police
officer shall ask the apparent offender’s name, age and reason for being in the
public place or establishment during the restricted hours.
   (B)   A police officer shall transport any minor found in violation of §
132.22 of this chapter to the city’s Police Department. The police officer
shall immediately contact the Elizabeth City/Pasquotank County school system
attendance counselor. The police officer shall immediately thereafter contact
the parent or legal guardian of the minor. A minor transported to the city’s
Police Department will be released to the custody of his or her parent or legal
guardian at the city’s Police Department.
   (C)   The officer shall not prepare a juvenile petition, issue a citation or
make an arrest under this subchapter unless the officer reasonably believes
that an offense has occurred and that, based on any response and other
circumstances, no exception or defense in §
132.23 of this chapter is present.
   (D)   If a minor is suspended or expelled from school, that minor’s parent
or legal guardian, for the duration of the suspension or expulsion, shall:
      (1)   Personally supervise the minor or arrange for a responsible adult
21 years of age or older to supervise the minor at the times that the minor
would have been required to be in attendance at school and he had not been
expelled or suspended; and
      (2)   Prohibit the minor from being in any public place at the times the
minor would have been required to be in attendance at school had he or she not
been suspended or expelled unless:
         (a)   The minor is accompanied by his or her parent or legal guardian
or a responsible adult, 21 years of age or older, selected by the parent or
legal guardian to supervise the minor; and/or
         (b)   The minor is employed pursuant to a work permit or schooling
certificate during the actual working hours or traveling directly to or from
the job site.
(2005 Code, § 50-122)  (Ord. passed 9-15-1997)
§ 132.25  SUBPOENAS.
   Both the parent or legal guardian and the minor must be subpoenaed by the
officer for appearance in court for any second or subsequent violation of this
subchapter.
(2005 Code, § 50-123)  (Ord. passed 9-15-1997)
§ 132.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person other than a juvenile charged with violation of §§
132.01 through
132.05 of this chapter for the first time shall be given a warning citation.
Upon subsequent violation, the person shall be charged with such violation and,
if found guilty, such person shall be subject to punishment as provided in G.S.
§ 14-4.
      (2)   A juvenile who violates any provision of §§
132.01 through
132.05 of this chapter is subject to being adjudicated delinquent. The court
may, in its discretion, impose any dispositional alternative that is provided
in the state’s Juvenile Code for any juvenile who is a delinquent.
(2005 Code, § 50-92)
   (C)   (1)   Any person other than a minor charged with a violation of §§
132.20 through
132.25 of this chapter for the first time shall be given a warning citation.
Upon subsequent violation, the person shall be charged with such violation and,
if found guilty, such person shall be subject to punishment as provided in G.S.
§ 14-4.
      (2)   A minor who violates any provision of §§
132.20 through
132.25 of this chapter is subject to being adjudicated delinquent. The court
may, in its discretion, impose any dispositional alternative that are provided
in the state’s general statutes for any minor who is delinquent.
(2005 Code, § 50-119)
(Ord. passed 6-2-1997; Ord. passed 9-15-1997)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   RENTAL HOUSING CODE
      
152.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
153.   SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS
      
154.   FLOODS
      
155.   ENVIRONMENT; WATERSHEDS
      
156.   STORM WATER MANAGEMENT
      
157.   URBAN FORESTRY
      
158.   AIRPORT ZONING
      
159.   UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CHAPTER 150:  BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Demolition of buildings
   
150.02   Ownership of utility extensions
Codes
   
150.15   Applicability
   
150.16   Statutory rights and remedies
   
150.17   Purpose
   
150.18   Building codes
   
150.19   Housing code adopted
   
150.20   Copies filed
   
150.21   Amendments
   
150.22   Load control switches
Permits, Inspection and Compliance
   
150.35   Issuance of permit
   
150.36   Inspections; right to enter
   
150.37   Deviations
   
150.38   Expiration of permit
Downtown Maintenance Code
   
150.50   Short title
   
150.51   Scope and applicability
   
150.52   Maintenance standards for downtown commercial structures
   
150.53   Investigation
   
150.54   Complaint and hearing
   
150.55   Service of complaints and orders
   
150.56   Failure to comply with orders
   150.57   Appeals
 
   
150.99   Penalty
Federal law reference:
Compliance of federal buildings with local building codes and zoning laws,
consideration of local laws and cooperation with local officials required, see
40 U.S.C. § 3312
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of published technical code by reference, see G.S. § 160A-76(b)
   Effect upon local codes, see G.S. § 143-138(e)
   Electrical wiring of houses, buildings, and structures, see G.S. § 143-143.2
   North Carolina State Building Code, see G.S. § 143-138
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01  DEMOLITION OF BUILDINGS.
   (A)   No person, who causes a building or structure to be demolished or who
does the demolition work, shall abandon such demolition prior to complete
demolition. No person shall delay the continuance of demolition for a period of
more than ten days, weather conditions permitting.
   (B)   No person who demolishes or who orders demolition done shall permit or
cause debris from a demolished building or structure to remain on any lot for a
period of more than ten days, weather conditions permitting, from the date of
the building or structure being completely demolished.
   (C)   Violation of this section shall be a public health nuisance and shall
be appropriately remediable by the city.
(2005 Code, § 10-1)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02  OWNERSHIP OF UTILITY EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   Any person within an area of one mile of the city limits, as extended
from time to time, who connects on, extends or utilizes any utility of the
city, including, but not limited to, the water, sewage, electrical and drainage
system of the city or the streets or easements of the city, as a condition to
his or her connecting onto, extending or utilizing said facilities shall by so
doing, convey to the city all his or her rights, title and interest in and to
all fixtures, equipment, easements, rights and privileges added thereon. This
shall become effective upon such area being incorporated within the city
limits. No compensation shall be payable to any person by the city for such
taking.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall vest ownership in the city of the
customer’s lines leading from the lot property lines to the dwelling or
buildings where same would remain the individual’s property if installed within
the city under the existing regulations as same may exist from time to time.
(2005 Code, § 10-2)
CODES
§ 150.15  APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter and of the regulatory codes adopted
by the provisions of this subchapter shall apply where applicable to the
location, design, materials, equipment, construction, installation, erection,
reconstruction, alteration, repair, maintenance, moving, demolition, removal,
use or occupancy of any:
      (1)   Building or structure or any appurtenances connected or attached
thereto;
      (2)   Plumbing system, including, but not limited to, house sewers,
building drains, wastes and vent systems, hot and cold water supply systems or
fixtures and appurtenances thereto;
      (3)   Electrical wiring systems, devices, appliances, equipment or
fixtures and appurtenances thereto; and
      (4)   Heating or cooling equipment system or fixtures and appurtenances
thereto.
   (B)   The adoption of this subchapter and the codes adopted by provision of
this subchapter shall constitute a resolution within the meaning of G.S. § 143-
138 and it is the intent of the city to adopt and enforce the North Carolina
State Building Code and the other codes specifically set forth in this
subchapter where such are applicable.
(2005 Code, § 10-25)  (Ord. passed 3-3-1986(2))
§ 150.16  STATUTORY RIGHTS AND REMEDIES.
   The rights and remedies contained in G.S. §§ 160A-421, 160A-422 and 160A-423
are incorporated herein by reference as if expressly set forth and shall be
applicable to all permits or work and activity described in this subchapter.
(2005 Code, § 10-26)  (Ord. passed 3-3-1986(2))
§ 150.17  PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to ensure that:
   (A)   All buildings or structures which are, after 3-3-1986, constructed,
reconstructed, erected, altered, extended, enlarged, repaired, demolished or
moved shall conform to the requirements, minimum standards and other provisions
of the state’s Building Code or the state’s Model Housing Code or other codes
of the city, whichever may be applicable;
   (B)   Every building or structure intended for human habitation, occupancy
or use shall have plumbing, plumbing systems or plumbing fixtures installed,
constructed, altered, extended, repaired or reconstructed in accordance with
the minimum standards, requirements and other provisions of the state’s
Plumbing Code and other codes of the city;
   (C)   All electrical wiring, installations and appurtenances shall be
erected, altered, repaired, used and maintained in accordance with the minimum
standards, requirements and other provisions of the state’s Electrical Code and
other codes of the city; and
   (D)   All heating or cooling equipment and systems or appurtenances thereto
shall be installed, erected, extended, altered, repaired, used and maintained
in accordance with the minimum standards, requirements and other provisions of
the applicable codes adopted in this subchapter and other codes of the city.
(2005 Code, § 10-27)  (Ord. passed 3-3-1986(2))
§ 150.18  BUILDING CODES.
   (A)   The North Carolina Building Codes, as adopted from time to time and as
published by the North Carolina Building Code Council, are hereby adopted by
reference as fully as though set forth herein.
   (B)   The state’s Building Code and the fire resistance ratings as adopted
by the state’s Building Code Council and as amended, is hereby adopted by
reference as fully as though set forth herein as the building code of the city
to the extent such code is applicable for safe and stable design, methods of
construction, minimum standards and use of materials in buildings or structures
hereafter erected, enlarged, altered, repaired or otherwise constructed or
reconstructed.
(2005 Code, § 10-28)
§ 150.19  HOUSING CODE ADOPTED.
   The Elizabeth City Minimum Housing Code, 2001 Edition, and any and all
amendments thereto, is hereby adopted by reference as fully as though set forth
herein as the residential housing code for existing residential buildings in
the city.
(2005 Code, § 10-29)  (Ord. passed 11-19-2001; Ord. 08-08-01, passed 8-11-2008)
Statutory reference:
   Minimum housing standards, see G.S. §§ 160A-441 et seq.
§ 150.20  COPIES FILED.
   An official copy of each regulatory code adopted by this subchapter, and
official copies of all amendments thereto, shall be kept on file in the office
of the city’s Building Inspector. Such copies shall be the official copies of
the codes and the amendments.
(2005 Code, § 10-30)
§ 150.21  AMENDMENTS.
   Amendments to the regulatory codes adopted by reference in this subchapter
which are, from time to time, adopted and published by the agencies or
organizations referred to herein shall be effective in the city at the time
such amendments are filed with the city’s Building Inspector.
(2005 Code, § 10-31)
§ 150.22  LOAD CONTROL SWITCHES.
   (A)   A load management system is established on the city’s electric
distribution system that can be used to reduce the system coincident peak
demand.
   (B)   All residential units with electric water heaters and central heat
pump/air conditioner appliances served by the city’s electrical distribution
system and that are within the city’s zoning jurisdiction shall have load
control switches. All switch installations shall be performed by licensed
electrical contractors or qualified municipal employees; and the full cost of
equipment installation and maintenance shall be paid by the city.
   (C)   The city’s load management division may waive these requirements in
accordance with any of the following exceptions.
      (1)   The city determines there is not sufficient room for the
installation and servicing of load control switches, or due to incompatible
equipment contained in the residential structure.
      (2)   The occupant requests in writing to be exempt from this requirement
due to health related reasons, which have been attested by a treating physician
in writing.
(2005 Code, § 10-32)  (Ord. 05013, passed 1-24-2005; Ord. 2016-09-02, passed 9-
12-2016)
PERMITS, INSPECTION AND COMPLIANCE
§ 150.35  ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   No person shall commence or proceed with the work or activities
described and included within §§
150.15 through
150.22 of this chapter without first securing from the Inspections Department
any permit required by the state’s Building Code, all or other applicable codes
adopted by this chapter and other city codes which may be applicable to the
work or activity. A permit shall be in writing and shall contain a provision
that the work or activity done shall comply with the state’s Building Code and
any other applicable codes of the city. No permits shall be issued unless the
plans and specifications are identified by the name and address of the author
thereof. If the general statutes require that plans for certain types of work
or activity be prepared only by a registered architect or registered engineer,
no permit shall be issued unless the plans and specifications bear the state
seal of a registered architect or a registered engineer. When any provision of
the general statutes or of any city code require that work or activity be done
by a licensed specialty contractor of any kind, no permit for the work shall be
issued unless the work is to be performed by such a duly licensed contractor.
   (B)   No permit issued under G.S. Ch. 143, Art. 9 or 9C, shall be required
for any construction, installation, repair, replacement or alteration costing
$15,000 or less in any single-family residence or farm building unless the work
involves:
      (1)   The addition, repair or replacement of load-bearing structures;
      (2)   The addition, excluding replacement of same size and capacity, or
change in the design of plumbing;
      (3)   The addition, replacement or change in the design of heating, air
conditioning or electrical wiring, devices, appliances or equipment;
      (4)   The use of materials not permitted by the state’s Uniform
Residential Building Code; or
      (5)   The addition, excluding replacement of like grade of fire
resistance, of roofing.
(2005 Code, § 10-53)  (Ord. passed 3-3-1986(2))  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.36  INSPECTIONS; RIGHT TO ENTER.
   As the work or activity pursuant to a permit progresses, the Inspections
Department shall make as many inspections thereof as may be necessary to
satisfy them that the work is being done according to the provisions of any
applicable codes and ordinances and of the terms of the permit. In exercising
this power, the Inspections Department shall have a right to enter on any
premises within the jurisdiction of the Department at all reasonable hours for
the purposes of inspection or other enforcement action upon presentation of
proper credentials.
(2005 Code, § 10-54)  (Ord. passed 3-3-1986(2))
§ 150.37  DEVIATIONS.
   After a permit has been issued, no changes or deviations from the terms of
the application, plans and specifications, or the permit, except where changes
or deviations are clearly permissible under the state’s Building Code, or other
applicable codes adopted by this chapter, shall be made until specific written
approval of proposed changes or deviations has been obtained from the
Inspections Department.
(2005 Code, § 10-55)  (Ord. passed 3-3-1986(2))
§ 150.38  EXPIRATION OF PERMIT.
   A permit issued pursuant to this subchapter shall expire by limitation six
months after the date of issuance if the work authorized by the permit has not
been commenced. If, after commencement, the work is discontinued for a period
of 12 months, the permit therefor shall immediately expire. No work authorized
by any permit that has expired shall thereafter be performed until a new permit
has been secured.
(2005 Code, § 10-56)  (Ord. passed 3-3-1986(2))  Penalty, see §
150.99
DOWNTOWN MAINTENANCE CODE
§ 150.50  SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “Downtown Maintenance Code” and may be
cited as such.
(2005 Code, § 10-86)  (Ord. passed 4-6-1998; Ord. 2017-02-02, passed 2-13-2017)
§ 150.51  SCOPE AND APPLICABILITY.
   The city recognized that it has an obligation to protect its citizens from
conditions in and about commercial properties which threaten or may be
injurious to public health, safety and welfare. In addition, the city
recognizes that aesthetic considerations may constitute a valid basis for the
exercise of police power if the public benefit outweighs private harm
including: protection of property values, preservation of the character and
integrity of the community, promotion of the comfort, happiness, and emotional
stability of area residents.
   (A)   The provisions of the subchapter shall apply to all commercial
premises, buildings, structures and accessories thereto within Elizabeth City's
Central Business District zoning classification. The Minimum Housing Code for
the City of Elizabeth City shall apply to residential structures; for
combination structures, both codes will apply, with the more restrictive
provision controlling in case of a conflict between the two. This code
establishes minimum standards for the initial and continued occupancy and/or
use of all such buildings, and does not replace or modify standards otherwise
established for the construction, repair, alteration, preservation or use of
the building, equipment or facilities subject to the code.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner of all buildings,
structures, and/or premises to ensure that said buildings, structures, and/or
premises are maintained in compliance with all applicable provisions set out
here. Abatement of the following violations below may require varying levels of
conformance with the Historic Preservation District Overlay of the Elizabeth
City Historic Preservation Commission (HPC) and, in turn, requiring varying
levels of review and approval that may include the National Register of
Historic Districts and standards for historic preservation set out by the
Secretary of Interior.
   (C)   The provisions of this code apply whether the structure or building is
occupied or vacant. All unoccupied or vacant structures or buildings shall be
secured by the owner (or their representatives or any party in interest) to
reasonably prevent the entry of unauthorized persons or the occurrences of
damage creating conditions not permitted by law.
   (D)   In the event any provision, standard or requirement of this subchapter
is found to be in conflict with any provision of any other ordinance or code of
the city or state, the provision which establishes the higher standard or more
stringent requirement for the promotion and protection of the health, safety,
or welfare of citizens and the peace and dignity of the city shall control.
(Ord. 2016-03-02, passed 3-28-2016; Ord. 2017-02-02, passed 2-13-2017)
§ 150.52  MAINTENANCE STANDARDS FOR DOWNTOWN COMMERCIAL STRUCTURES.
   (A)   All commercial premises shall be maintained in a state of good repair
that prevents further decay from wind, rain, and external weather and
reasonably secures the building from any unauthorized entry by humans, animals
or birds. All commercial premises shall be free of nuisances and any hazards to
the safety of occupants, customers or other persons utilizing the premises or
to pedestrians and/or vehicles passing thereby, and shall remain in compliance
with all enforceable state and/or local building and fire codes. Without
limitation of the foregoing requirement, the existence of any of the following
conditions shall be deemed to be a violation of this section and must be
corrected:
      (1)   Such damage by fire, wind or other causes as to render the building
unsafe;
      (2)   Dilapidation, decay, unsanitary conditions or disrepair, which is
dangerous to the health, safety and welfare of the occupants or other people in
the city;
      (3)   Defects significantly increasing the hazards of fire, accident or
other calamities; or
      (4)   Any violation of the city fire prevention code which constitutes a
condition which is unsafe and/or especially dangerous to life;
   (B)   To facilitate and ensure that the conditions listed above are
satisfied, all owners and/or tenants of commercial premises shall be required
to comply with the following:
      (1)   Commercial waste. Control the accumulation of garbage, trash, or
rubbish, which creates health and sanitation concerns. All garbage and solid
waste, including cigarette butts, shall be disposed of in approved containers
in a safe and sanitary way;
      (2)   Sidewalks. Remove ice, snow, leaves, dirt or other natural waste
from sidewalks on a regular basis. All waste shall be disposed of in approved
containers or neatly placed at the back of curb for sanitation service pick up;
      (3)   Structures. Remove all broken glass, loose shingles, loose wood,
crumbling stone or brick, loose or broken plastic or other dangerous objects or
similar hazardous conditions immediately. Exterior surfaces shall be maintained
in such material or treated in such a manner as to prevent deterioration and
shall be repaired or replaced with like or similar material according to its
original use. Approval must be received from the Elizabeth City HPC for
historical structures with proposed material changes; Prompt repairs of broken
glass to previous or original condition, wooden frames or hard surface
materials should be completed in short term to maintain the appearance and
safety of the building;
      (4)   Loose building objects and appurtenances. Objects and elements
protruding from building walls, roof and environs which are unsafe or not
properly secured or which can create a hazard must be removed.  For example,
abandoned electrical boxes and conduits, wires, sign brackets, advertising sign
structures, attached or freestanding awnings, marquees and their supporting
members and other similar attachments and structures shall be maintained in
good repair and shall not cause a safety hazard to the occupants, pedestrians
or other residents of, or visitors to the city;
      (5)   Exterior porches, balconies, and fire escapes. All exterior
porches, landings, balconies, stairs and fire escapes shall maintain the
bannister height required by applicable fire and/or building code. They shall
be maintained to minimize the hazard of falling, and the same shall be kept
structurally sound, in good repair and free of defects;
      (6)   Storm water appurtenances. Loose gutters and downspouts shall be
replaced or repaired as necessary and shall be appropriately located so as not
to drain across the sidewalk, or cause a hazard to pedestrian, vehicular
traffic or adjacent or nearby property;
      (7)   Secondary structures. Attached or unattached accessory structures
shall be kept in good repair and not cause a safety hazard;
      (8)   Windows. Loose windows must be repaired and have sashes of proper
size and design and shall be free from rotten wood, broken joints or broken or
loose mullions. Broken or cracked glass that could be in danger of falling or
shattering shall be removed. Covering an opening left by broken glass with
sheets of wood will not be permitted for more than 30 days. Temporary boarding
materials, including wood and paper, shall be replaced immediately, unless a
valid building permit has been issued for the property and renovation activity
has occurred within 30 days, as noticed by the building inspector and/or code
enforcement officer.
      (9)   Walls. Where a wall of a building has become exposed as a result of
demolition of adjacent buildings, said wall must have all doors, windows, vents
or other similar openings closed with material of the type comprising the wall.
No protrusions or loose material shall be in the wall. The exposed wall shall
be painted, stuccoed or bricked so as to render the wall no longer a potential
threat to the public health, safety and welfare and to ensure that the wall
does not detract from the aesthetics and value of adjacent property and
weatherproofed, if necessary, due to the construction or construction material
to prevent deterioration of the wall. The party causing the exposure of the
wall shall bear the obligation of compliance with this division.
      (10)   Painting. All exterior surfaces which have been painted shall be
maintained free of peeling and flaking. Where 10% or more of the aggregate of
any painted surface shall have peeling or flaking or previous paint worn away,
the entire wall shall be repainted.
(2005 Code, § 10-87)  (Ord. passed 4-6-1998; Ord. 2016-03-02, passed 3-28-2016;
Ord. 2017-02-02, passed 2-13-2017)
Cross-reference:
   Cleaning sidewalks, see §
152.12
§ 150.53  INVESTIGATION.
   The City Manager or his or her designee is hereby designated to have the
authority and powers provided in G.S. § 160A-149(b) and to conduct any
investigations hereunder. The Zoning Administrator is hereby designated as the
person responsible for conducting any hearing under §
150.54, which hearing shall be conducted as specified in G.S. § 160A-439(c).
Whenever it appears to the code enforcement officer that a nonresidential or
mixed use building or structure has not been properly maintained so that the
safety or health of its occupants or members of the general public may be
jeopardized for failure of the property to meet the minimum standards
established by §
150.52, the code enforcement officer shall undertake a preliminary
investigation. If entry into the structure for purposes of investigation is
necessary, such entry shall be made pursuant to a duly issued administrative
search warrant by the courts or with permission of the owner, the owner's
agent, a tenant, or other person legally entitled to permit entry. The code
enforcement officer shall have permission to inspect all exterior areas of the
building, structure, or premises as allowed by §
95.41, Right of entry.
(Ord. 2016-03-02, passed 3-28-2016; Ord. 2017-02-02, passed 2-13-2017)
§ 150.54  COMPLAINT AND HEARING.
   (A)   Subject to the exception noted in § 150.55(C), if the preliminary
investigation discloses evidence that a building is in violation of the minimum
standards, the code enforcement officer shall issue and cause to be served upon
the owner of and parties in interest in the nonresidential building or
structure a complaint stating the charges and containing a notice that a
hearing will be held before the Zoning Administrator at a place within the
county scheduled not less than ten days nor more than 30 days after the serving
of the complaint. The owner shall have the right to file an answer to the
complaint and to appear in person, or otherwise, and give testimony at the
place and time fixed in the complaint notice. Any person desiring to do so may
attend such hearing and give evidence relevant to the matter being heard. The
rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity shall not be
controlling in hearings under this section but any evidence received must be
relevant and material. Following the hearing, the Zoning Administrator shall
dismiss the complaint if no violation is determined. If the Zoning
Administrator finds that violations of this subchapter exist, the Zoning
Administrator shall order compliance setting forth a maximum of up to 90 days
within which to correct the violations.
   (B)   Any order issued following the hearing shall state, in writing,
findings of fact in support of the Zoning Administrator’s determination and
shall be served upon the property owner.
   (C)   Any orders issued under this section shall be subject to the
procedures and limitations set forth in G.S. § 160A-439(e), which is
incorporated herein by reference as if set forth herein verbatim.
(Ord. 2016-03-02, passed 3-28-2016; Ord. 2017-02-02, passed 2-13-2017)
§ 150.55  SERVICE OF COMPLAINTS AND ORDERS.
   (A)   Complaints and all orders issued under this chapter shall be served by
the code enforcement officer upon persons either personally or by certified
mail. When service of a complaint or order is accomplished personally or by or
certified mail, such service is hereby deemed to be complete on the day of
delivery to or receipt by the person served. When service is made by certified
mail, a copy of the complaint or order shall also be sent by regular mail.
Service shall be deemed sufficient if the certified mail is unclaimed or
refused and/or the regular mail is not returned by the post office within ten
days after mailing. If regular mail is used, a notice of the pending
proceedings shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises affected.
   (B)   If the identities of any owners or the whereabouts of persons are
unknown and the same cannot be ascertained by the appropriate city officer in
the exercise of reasonable diligence, or, if the owners are known but have
refused to accept service by certified mail and the officer makes an affidavit
to that effect, then the serving of such complaint or order upon the owners or
other persons may be made by publication in a newspaper of general circulation
in the city at least once per week or two successive weeks. When service is
made by publication, a copy of the complaint or order shall be posted in a
conspicuous place on the premises affected by the complaint or order; in the
case of the complaint, it must be posted at least ten days prior to the
hearing.
   (C)   Unless the noted violation presents an imminent threat to public
safety, the code enforcement officer shall after having conducted a site
inspection and recorded the apparent violations, communicate with the property
owner(s) by sending a courtesy letter informing him or her of said violations.
The courtesy communication shall offer the opportunity for a meeting at a
mutually convenient time to discuss the noted violations and attempt a
reasonable timetable  for the property owner to voluntarily correct the noted
violations. The courtesy communication period, including the opportunity to
meet, shall not extend longer than 15 business days from the date of the
courtesy letter. Neither the courtesy letter nor the aforementioned voluntary
abatement period shall extend the abatement period specified in any official
notice of violation.
(Ord. 2016-03-02, passed 3-28-2016; Ord. 2017-02-02, passed 2-13-2017, 2-27-
2017)
§ 150.56  FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ORDERS.
   (A)   Action by City Council upon failure to comply with order.
      (1)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to repair, alter, or
improve or to vacate and close the nonresidential building or structure, the
City Council may adopt an ordinance ordering the Chief Building Inspector to
proceed to effectuate the purpose of this section with respect to the
particular property or properties that the Zoning Administrator found to be
jeopardizing the health or safety of its occupants or members of the general
public. The property or properties shall be described in the ordinance. The
ordinance shall be recorded in the office of the register of deeds and shall be
indexed in the name of the property owner or owners in the grantor index.
Following adoption of an ordinance, the Chief Building Inspector may cause the
building or structure to be repaired, altered, or improved or to be vacated and
closed. The Chief Building Inspector may cause to be posted on the main
entrance of any nonresidential building or structure so closed a placard with
the following words: “This building is unfit for any use; the use or occupation
of this building for any purpose is prohibited and unlawful.” Any person who
occupies or knowingly allows the occupancy of a building or structure so posted
shall be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor.
      (2)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to remove or demolish
the nonresidential building or structure, the City Council may adopt an
ordinance ordering the Chief Building Inspector to proceed to effectuate the
purpose of this section with respect to the particular property or properties
that the Zoning Administrator found to be jeopardizing the health or safety of
its occupants or members of the general public. No ordinance shall be adopted
to require demolition of a nonresidential building or structure until the owner
has first been given a reasonable opportunity to bring it into conformity with
the minimum standards established by the City Council. The property or
properties shall be described in the ordinance. The ordinance shall be recorded
in the office of the register of deeds and shall be indexed in the name of the
property owner or owners in the grantor index. Following adoption of an
ordinance, the Chief Building Inspector may cause the building or structure to
be removed or demolished.
   (B)   Action by City Council upon abandonment of intent to repair.
      (1)   If the City Council has adopted an ordinance or the Zoning
Administrator has issued an order requiring the building or structure to be
repaired or vacated and closed and the building or structure has been vacated
and closed for a period of two years pursuant to the ordinance or order, the
City Council may make findings that the owner has abandoned the intent and
purpose to repair, alter, or improve the building or structure and that the
continuation of the building or structure in its vacated and closed status
would be inimical to the health, safety, and welfare of the municipality in
that it would continue to deteriorate, would create a fire or safety hazard,
would be a threat to children and vagrants, would attract persons intent on
criminal activities, or would cause or contribute to blight and the
deterioration of property values in the area. Upon such findings, the City
Council may, after the expiration of the two-year period, enact an ordinance
and serve such ordinance on the owner, setting forth the following:
         (a)   If the cost to repair the nonresidential building or structure
to bring it into compliance with the minimum standards is less than or equal to
50% of its then current value, the ordinance shall require that the owner
either repair or demolish and remove the building or structure within 90 days;
or
         (b)   If the cost to repair the nonresidential building or structure
to bring it into compliance with the minimum standards exceeds 50% of its then
current value, the ordinance shall require the owner to demolish and remove the
building or structure within 90 days.
      (2)   In the case of vacant manufacturing facilities or vacant industrial
warehouse facilities, the building or structure must have been vacated and
closed pursuant to an order or ordinance for a period of five years before the
City Council may take action under this division (B). The ordinance shall be
recorded in the office of the register of deeds in the county wherein the
property or properties are located and shall be indexed in the name of the
property owner in the grantor index. If the owner fails to comply with the
ordinance, the Zoning Administrator shall effectuate the purpose of the
ordinance.
   (C)   Liens.
      (1)   The amount of the cost of repairs, alterations, or improvements, or
vacating and closing, or removal or demolition by the Chief Building Inspector
shall be a lien against the real property upon which the cost was incurred,
which lien shall be filed, have the same priority, and be collected as the lien
for special assessment provided in G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 10.
      (2)   If the real property upon which the cost was incurred is located in
an incorporated city, the amount of the costs is also a lien on any other real
property of the owner located within the city limits except for the owner’s
primary residence. The additional lien provided in this division (C)(2) is
inferior to all prior liens and shall be collected as a money judgment.
      (3)   If the nonresidential building or structure is removed or
demolished by the Chief Building Inspector, he or she shall offer for sale the
recoverable materials of the building or structure and any personal property,
fixtures, or appurtenances found in or attached to the building or structure
and shall credit the proceeds of the sale, if any, against the cost of the
removal or demolition, and any balance remaining shall be deposited in the
superior court by the Chief Building Inspector, shall be secured in a manner
directed by the court, and shall be disbursed by the court to the persons found
to be entitled thereto by final order or decree of the court. Nothing in this
section shall be construed to impair or limit in any way the power of the
governing body to define and declare nuisances and to cause their removal or
abatement by summary proceedings or otherwise.
   (F)   This subchapter may be enforced by any one, all, or any combination of
the remedies authorized in the code and under applicable North Carolina law.
(Ord. 2016-03-02, passed 3-28-2016; Ord. 2017-02-02, passed 2-13-2017)
§ 150.57  APPEALS.
   Appeals may be taken from any decision or order of the Zoning Administrator
to the city’s Board of Adjustment, in which even the requirements of G.S. §
160A-388 and Article VII of the city’s Unified Development Ordinance shall
control the appeal.
(Ord. 2017-02-02, passed 2-13-2017)
§ 150.99  PENALTY.
   The failure to comply with any order entered pursuant to the provisions of
the Downtown Maintenance Code shall subject the owner of any property not in
compliance with such order to a civil penalty not to exceed $100 per day for
every day such property remains in violation following the issuance of such
order.
(2005 Code, § 10-53)
(Ord. passed 3-3-1986(2); Ord. 2017-02-02, passed 2-13-2017)
CHAPTER 151:  RENTAL HOUSING CODE
Section
   
151.01   Purpose
   
151.02   Scope
   
151.03   Definitions
   
151.04   Refuse
   
151.05   Insects, rodents and vermin
   
151.06   Sanitary facilities
   
151.07   Mechanical requirements
   
151.08   Substandard dwellings
   
151.09   Enforcement
   
151.10   Other remedies unaffected
   
151.11   Inspections; duty of owners and occupants
   
151.12   License required for leased residential properties
   
151.13   Methods of service of complaints or orders
   
151.14   Conflict with other provisions
   
151.15   Exemption from provisions of this chapter
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish minimum standards to safeguard
life, limb, health, property and public welfare by regulating and controlling
the use, occupancy and maintenance of all residential dwellings and structures
or portions thereof within the incorporated limits of the city that are income/
producing residential properties or properties or portions thereof for which
payment of any kind is received for the use or occupancy of the property or
portion thereof.
(2005 Code, § 10-118)  (Ord. passed 9-12-2005)
§ 151.02  SCOPE.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to all buildings or
portions thereof used, or designed or intended to be used, for human
habitation, except owner-occupied dwellings. For purposes of this chapter,
OWNER shall include the record title-holder of the property in question or his
or her child, parent, grandchild, heirs, successors, assigns or any spouse of
those individuals.
   (B)   Dwellings, dwelling units, roominghouses and rooming units shall
comply with all the requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   This chapter is designed to apply in situations where an owner, as
defined in §
151.03 of this chapter, receives some financial benefit of one kind or another
as a result of his or her allowing another individual to use or occupy real
property, or a portion of that real property, for residential purposes.
(2005 Code, § 10-119)  (Ord. passed 9-12-2005)
§ 151.03  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, certain terms, phrases, words and their
derivatives shall be construed as specified in either this section or as
specified in the Building Code. Whenever the terms “dwelling”, “dwelling unit”,
“roominghouse”, “rooming unit” or “premises” are used in this chapter, they
shall be construed as though they were followed by the words “or any part
thereof”. For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVED. Acceptable to the authority having jurisdiction (AHJ).
   BUILDING CODE. The applicable North Carolina State Building Code, or the
Elizabeth City Minimum Housing and/or Rental Housing Code, as the same may be
amended from time to time.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. The official or other designated authority charged with
the administration and enforcement of the Elizabeth City Minimum Housing Code
or Rental Housing Code, or that official’s designee.
   DWELLING. Any building, which is wholly, or partly used or intended to be
used for living or sleeping by human occupants that is not occupied by the
owner thereof. This term shall include dwelling units, roominghouses and
rooming units, as defined herein.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling and
forming a single habitable unit with facilities, which are used, or intended to
be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating.
   HOT WATER. Hot water supplied to plumbing fixtures at a temperature of not
less than 110°F.
   OCCUPANT. Any person, with permission from the landlord, who is living,
sleeping, cooking or eating in, or having actual possession of, a dwelling,
dwelling unit or rooming unit, or a legal dependent of that person.
   OWNER. Any individual, person, firm, corporation or legal entity, who
jointly or severally along with others, shall be in actual possession of, or
have charge, care and control of any structure or dwelling unit or premises
within the city as owner, employee or agent of the owner, or as trustee,
guardian or fiduciary of the estate or person of the titleholder.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, corporation, association, legal entity or
partnership.
   PLUMBING. All of the following supplied facilities and equipment: gas or
fuel pipes, gas or fuel burning equipment, water pipes, garbage disposal units,
waste pipes, water closets, sinks, installed dishwashers, lavatories, bathtubs,
shower baths, installed clothes-washing machines, catchbasins, drains, vents
and any other similar supplied fixtures, together with all connections to
water, sewer, gas or fuel lines.
   ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
used or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for cooking or
eating purposes.
   ROOMINGHOUSE. Any dwelling, or that part of a dwelling containing one or
more rooming units in which space is let by the owner and/or owner-occupant to
any person who is not the husband or wife, son or daughter, mother or father,
or sister or brother of the owner or operator, or a person who is married to
one of those individuals.
   TENANT. One who rents or leases from a landlord.
(2005 Code, § 10-120)  (Ord. passed 9-12-2005)
§ 151.04  REFUSE.
   Every owner of a building containing five or more dwelling units shall
supply facilities or refuse containers, dumpsters, as approved by the city for
the sanitary and safe storage or disposal of refuse. In the case of a building
with less than five dwelling units, it shall be the responsibility of the
tenant and/or occupant to provide an approved trash can, if not already
provided by the owner. The city may require additional trash cans in any
instance in which city officials deems it necessary to do so.
(2005 Code, § 10-122)  (Ord. passed 9-12-2005)
§ 151.05  INSECTS, RODENTS AND VERMIN.
   Exterior windows and doors of a dwelling or rooming unit shall be reasonably
weather-tight, lockable, rodent-proof and shall be kept in good working
condition and good repair. Exterior windows adjoining kitchens, bathrooms and
habitable rooms shall be provided with screens. Exterior exit doors shall also
be provided with screens. If central air conditioning is provided in the
dwelling unit, then said doors are exempt from the screen requirements.
(2005 Code, § 10-123)  (Ord. passed 9-12-2005)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.06  SANITARY FACILITIES.
   (A)   Dwellings. Dwelling units shall be provided with a kitchen sink, and
an interior bathroom or lavatory equipped with facilities consisting of a flush
toilet, sink and either a bathtub or shower. Toilets and bathtubs or showers
shall be located within a room, which affords privacy by means of a standard
doorframe and door.
   (B)   Fixtures. All plumbing drainage fixtures shall be connected to the
city’s sanitary sewer or an approved private sewage disposal system, if the
city’s sewer was not available at the time of installation. All plumbing
fixtures shall be connected to an approved system of water supply and provided
with hot and cold running water necessary for its normal operation. Every
dwelling shall have supplied water heating facilities which are installed in an
approved manner and are maintained and operated in a safe and good working
condition and are properly connected with the hot water lines to the kitchen
sink, lavatory washbowl or basin, and bathtub or shower. All plumbing fixtures
and sanitary facilities shall be installed and maintained in a safe and
sanitary condition and in accordance with applicable requirements of the
Building Code.
(2005 Code, § 10-124)  (Ord. passed 9-12-2005)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.07  MECHANICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Heating. Every dwelling and every dwelling unit shall be provided with
primary heating facilities, so that under normal, average weather conditions is
capable of maintaining a minimum room temperature of 70°F in all habitable
rooms, kitchens and toilet rooms measured three feet above the floor near the
center of the room and two feet inward from the center of each exterior wall.
Unvented fuel-burning heaters and portable heaters are not permitted as the
primary heating source. Heating devices, appliances or equipment shall be of an
approved type. All chimneys, vents, heating facilities and equipment shall be
installed and maintained in a safe working condition and in accordance with the
state’s Building Code.
   (B)   Smoke detectors. Every dwelling, dwelling unit, roominghouse and
rooming unit shall have an Underwriters Laboratory, Inc. (UL) listed smoke
detector installed on every habitable floor level and outside each bedroom
area. Detectors shall sound an alarm, audible from all sleeping areas.
Detectors may be battery operated or may receive their primary source of power
from the building’s electrical system, with battery back-up, and shall be
installed in accordance with the approved manufacturer’s installation
instructions.
   (C)   Carbon monoxide detectors. Every dwelling, dwelling unit, roominghouse
and rooming unit with solid fuel burning heating facilities, equipment or
appliances with an intended source of fuel being natural gas, LP gas, oil or
wood shall have an Underwriters Laboratory, Inc. (UL) listed carbon monoxide
detector installed. Detectors shall sound an alarm, audible from all sleeping
areas. Detectors may be battery operated or may receive their primary source of
power from the building’s electrical system, with battery back-up, and be
installed in accordance with the approved manufacturer’s installation
instructions.
(2005 Code, § 10-125)  (Ord. passed 9-12-2005)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.08  SUBSTANDARD DWELLINGS.
   (A)   General. Any dwelling, dwelling unit, roominghouse or rooming unit, or
the premises on which the same is located, that contains inadequate sanitation,
structural hazards, hazardous electrical wiring or equipment, or inadequate
heating equipment, all as defined in this section, or that otherwise endangers
life, limb, health, property, safety or the welfare of the public or the
occupants thereof, shall be deemed and hereby are declared to be substandard
dwellings for purposes of this chapter. In determining whether a dwelling is
substandard as provided in this section, references shall be made to other
appropriate sections of this chapter, other ordinances and/or articles in the
general Building Code of the city.
   (B)   Inadequate sanitation. Dwellings, or portions thereof, shall be deemed
substandard when they have inadequate sanitation, including, but not limited
to, the following:
      (1)   Lack of, or inadequate garbage and rubbish storage and removal
facilities, failure to maintain the property in a clean, sanitary condition,
and/or any violation of §
151.99 of this chapter;
      (2)   Infestation of insects, vermin or rodents, and/or any violation of
§
151.05 of this chapter;
      (3)   Lack of, or inadequate bathroom, lavatory, flush toilet, washbowl
or basin, bathtub or shower, or kitchen sink, and/or any violation of §
151.06(A) of this chapter; and
      (4)   Lack of, or inadequate plumbing fixtures, or lack of connection to
required sewage disposal system, and/or any violation of §
151.06(B) of this chapter.
   (C)   Structural hazards. Dwellings, or portions thereof, shall be deemed
substandard when they are or contain structural hazards. Structural hazards
shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   Deteriorated or inadequate foundation;
      (2)   Defective or deteriorated flooring or floor supports;
      (3)   Flooring or floor supports of insufficient size to carry imposed
loads with safety;
      (4)   Members of walls, partitions or other vertical supports that split,
lean, list or buckle due to defective materials or deterioration;
      (5)   Members of walls, partitions or other vertical supports that are of
insufficient size to carry imposed loads with safety;
      (6)   Members of ceilings, roofs, ceiling and roof supports or other
horizontal members that leak, sag, split or buckle due to defective materials
or deterioration;
      (7)   Members of ceilings, roofs, ceiling and roof supports or other
horizontal members that are of insufficient size to carry imposed loads with
safety;
      (8)   Fireplaces or chimneys that list, bulge, leak gases or smoke, or
settle due to defective material or deterioration;
      (9)   Fireplaces or chimneys that are of insufficient size or strength to
carry imposed loads with safety; and
      (10)   Fireplaces or chimneys that, as a result of inadequate or faulty
flashing, permit leaks or seepage.
   (D)   Hazardous electrical wiring or equipment. Dwellings, or portions
thereof, shall be deemed substandard when they contain hazardous electrical
wiring or equipment, including any electrical equipment, wiring or appliances
that are not installed and/or maintained in good condition or a safe manner in
accordance with the Building Code, and all applicable laws.
   (E)   Inadequate mechanical equipment. Dwellings, or portions thereof, shall
be deemed substandard when they have inadequate mechanical equipment, including
any violation of §
151.07 of this chapter.
   (F)   Inadequate insulation. Dwellings, or portions thereof, shall be deemed
substandard when they have inadequate insulation, meaning that they have less
than R-19 or equivalent insulation in all attic areas above heated or cooled
areas.
(2005 Code, § 10-126)  (Ord. passed 9-12-2005)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.09  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Authority. The City Manager or his or her designee is hereby
authorized and directed to enforce all of the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Right of entry. When it is necessary to make an inspection to enforce
the provisions of this chapter, or when the Building Official has reasonable
cause to believe that there exists in a dwelling a condition which is contrary
to or in violation of this chapter which makes the dwelling substandard, the
Building Official may enter the dwelling at reasonable times to inspect or to
perform the duties imposed by this chapter; provided that, if said dwelling is
occupied that credentials be presented to the occupant if requested. If said
dwelling is unoccupied, the Building Official shall first make a reasonable
effort to locate the owner or other person having charge or control of the
dwelling and request entry. If entry is refused, the Building Official shall
have recourse to the remedies provided by law to secure entry.
   (C)   Enforcement procedures. Enforcement procedures under this chapter
shall be as specified in the city’s Minimum Housing Code.
   (D)   Responsibilities defined. Owners remain liable for violations of
duties imposed by this chapter even though an owner may have, by agreement or
otherwise, imposed on the occupant or tenant or any other individual or entity
the duty of furnishing required equipment or of complying with this chapter.
(2005 Code, § 10-127)  (Ord. passed 9-12-2005)
§ 151.10  OTHER REMEDIES UNAFFECTED.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to limit or forbid the city or
any other person or entity from pursuing any other remedies available at law or
in equity to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(2005 Code, § 10-128)  (Ord. passed 9-12-2005)
§ 151.11  INSPECTIONS; DUTY OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of making inspections, the City Manager or any of his
or her designees is hereby authorized to enter, examine and survey at all
reasonable times all dwellings, dwelling units, rooming units and premises.
   (B)   The owner or occupant of every dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming
unit, or the person in charge thereof, shall give the inspecting person free
access to such dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming unit, and its premises at all
reasonable times for the purposes of such inspection, examination and survey.
   (C)   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall give the owner
thereof, or his or her agent or employee, access to any part of such dwelling
or dwelling unit, and its premises, at all reasonable times for the purpose of
making such repairs or alterations as are necessary to effect compliance with
the provisions of this chapter or with any lawful order issued pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter or any related ordinance.
   (D)   If any owner or occupant of any dwelling, or portion thereof, refuses
to permit the inspecting person reasonable access, the inspecting person shall
have the right to enforce the terms of this chapter in any lawful manner,
including the right to obtain an administrative search warrant pursuant to G.S.
§ 15-27.2.
(2005 Code, § 10-129)  (Ord. passed 9-12-2005)
§ 151.12  LICENSE REQUIRED FOR LEASED RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES.
   The owner of every dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming unit leased for
consideration shall pay an application fee in accordance with the schedule of
fees adopted by the City Council each fiscal year, based on the criteria
established in that schedule, to obtain a license to comply with the duties
imposed pursuant to this chapter and other related codes, and each person so
license shall provide the following information to the City Manager or his or
her appropriate designee:
   (A)   The identification of the dwelling unit by location;
   (B)   The name, address and telephone number where the owner, agent and/or
owner/operator who has charge, care or control of a building or part thereof in
which the dwelling units are leased for consideration can be contacted; and
   (C)   An acknowledgment by the licensee that he has complied with the terms
of this chapter and other related codes to the best of their knowledge and
belief.
(2005 Code, § 10-130)  (Ord. passed 9-12-2005)
§ 151.13  METHODS OF SERVICE OF COMPLAINTS OR ORDERS.
   Service of complaints and orders shall be made in the manner required by
G.S. § 160(a)-445 and shall be deemed sufficient when one of the methods
allowed by that statute has been followed.
(2005 Code, § 10-131)  (Ord. passed 9-12-2005)
§ 151.14  CONFLICT WITH OTHER PROVISIONS.
   In the event any provision, standard or requirement of this chapter is found
to be in conflict with any provision of any other code of the city, or with any
provision of state or federal law, the provision which establishes the higher
standard or more stringent requirement for the promotion and protection of the
health and safety of the residents of the city shall prevail.
(2005 Code, § 10-132)  (Ord. passed 9-12-2005)
§ 151.15  EXEMPTION FROM PROVISIONS OF THIS CHAPTER.
   Properties owned by local, state and federal governmental entities shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter.
(2005 Code, § 10-133)  (Ord. passed 9-12-2005)
§ 151.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dwelling or dwelling
unit to fail, neglect or refuse to repair, alter or improve the same, or fail
to vacate and close and remove or demolish the same, upon order of the City
Manager or his or her designee duly made and served as herein provided, within
the time specified in such order, and each day that such failure, neglect or
refusal to comply with such order continues shall constitute a separate and
distinct offense. It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dwelling unit, with
respect to which an order has been issued pursuant to this chapter, to occupy
or permit the occupancy of same after the time prescribed in such order for its
repair, alteration or improvement or its vacation and closing, and each day
that such occupancy continues after such prescribed time shall constitute a
separate and distinct offense.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for an owner of any dwelling unit, dwelling or
rooming unit leased for consideration to fail to obtain a license as required
in this chapter.
      (3)   The violation of any provision of this chapter shall constitute a
misdemeanor, as provided by G.S. § 14-4, and shall subject the violator to a
minimum fine of $250 and a maximum fine of $500, or imprisonment for not more
than 30 days. The owner/operator of any dwelling unit, dwelling or rooming unit
that is subject to its initial inspection following the adoption of this
chapter who may be in violation of any provision in this chapter shall not be
liable for the fine referenced above for any such violation so long as, within
30 days of notice of violation of this chapter, he or she obtains the required
license and pays a fee equivalent to twice the otherwise applicable fee for the
license. He or she shall not be subject to additional penalties for failure to
obtain the required license. However, if the required license is not obtained
before the expiration of this 30-day time period, the owner/operator shall be
subject to the other penalties and fines as provided by this chapter.
      (4)   The violation of any provision of this chapter shall also subject
the offender to a civil penalty of $50. Each day that any violation continues
shall constitute a separate violation and a separate offense for the purposes
of imposition of penalties. In addition to the penalties and other remedies
provided, the City Manager may institute any appropriate action or proceedings
to prevent, restrain, correct or abate a violation of this chapter.
(2005 Code, § 10-121)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or other entity
to knowingly allow another person to occupy any dwelling, dwelling unit,
roominghouse, rooming unit or portion thereof, that is a substandard dwelling,
as defined by §
151.08 of this chapter. A violation of this section is a misdemeanor and is
punishable as set forth in division (A) above.
(2005 Code, § 10-126)
(Ord. passed 9-12-2005)
CHAPTER 152:  STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
152.01   New construction; permit required
   
152.02   Altering existing grade
   
152.03   Property below level of street, sidewalk to be enclosed
   
152.04   Street, sidewalk cuts
   
152.05   Obstructions other than display of goods; permit
   
152.06   Display of goods
   
152.07   Overhanging awnings and marquees
   
152.08   Gates, cellar doors, manholes, gratings
   
152.09   Plantings in right-of-way
   
152.10   Clear view at intersections
   
152.11   Grass and weeds to be kept off streets, sidewalks
   
152.12   Cleaning sidewalks
   
152.13   Removing dirt or other material from street
   
152.14   Discharging liquids
   
152.15   Burning
   
152.16   Throwing articles from windows
   
152.17   Barbed wire fences
   
152.18   Opening paper street
   
152.19   Acceptance of streets
   
152.20   Curb and gutter; petition to pave street
   
152.21   Renaming city streets
Statutory reference:
   Appropriation to cities, see G.S. §§ 136-41.1 et seq.
   Assessments, see G.S. §§ 160A-216 et seq.
   Building setback lines, see G.S. § 160A-306
   Closing streets, see G.S. § 160A-299
   Compliance of new streets to DOT standards, see G.S. § 136-102.6
   Curb cuts, see G.S. § 160A-307
   Damaging signs, see G.S. § 136-33
   Highway system and streets inside city, see G.S. §§ 136-66.2 et seq.
   Powers as to streets generally, see G.S. § 160A-296
   Traffic signs, see G.S. § 136-31
   Use of map book, see G.S. § 160A-77
§ 152.01  NEW CONSTRUCTION; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall construct or lay out or cause to be constructed or laid out
any street, including curb and driveway through curb, or sidewalk without first
having submitted to the City Manager or his or her designee a plan of same,
showing the grade, type of construction and proposed method of drainage
thereof. If the City Manager or his or her designee shall approve of such plan
and construction, he or she shall issue a letter authorizing the applicant to
proceed according to the plans submitted. It shall be unlawful for the
applicant to proceed other than as set forth in this permit.
(2005 Code, § 74-1)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.02  ALTERING EXISTING GRADE.
   No person shall alter or change the grade on any existing street or sidewalk
without the approval of the City Manager.
(2005 Code, § 74-2)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.03  PROPERTY BELOW LEVEL OF STREET, SIDEWALK TO BE ENCLOSED.
   All persons owning or occupying property adjoining streets and sidewalks
which is below the grade or level of said street or sidewalk shall enclose
same.
(2005 Code, § 74-3)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.04  STREET, SIDEWALK CUTS.
   (A)   No person shall make any opening in any street or sidewalk in the city
without a permit therefor issued by the City Manager or his or her designee.
The permit shall prescribe the safety requirements which must be complied with
and the time within which work must be completed. The person so applying shall
pay the cost of resurfacing and repairing such streets in the city after the
cutting thereof. The cost of repairing such streets shall be computed by the
City Manager or his or her designee  based upon the cost of labor and material
required.
   (B)   A permit issued under the provisions of this section is revocable by
the City Manager or his or her designee at any time.
   (C)   Upon completion of the backfilling of the street opening to the
satisfaction of the City Manager by the person holding the permit, such person
shall proceed with resealing. The person to whom the permit is issued shall
maintain proper safety measures until the street is resealed.
(2005 Code, § 74-4)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.05  OBSTRUCTIONS OTHER THAN DISPLAY OF GOODS; PERMIT.
   (A)   No person shall obstruct or block any street or sidewalk in the city
without a written permit therefor from the City Manager. Such permit shall
provide for reasonable restrictions on the manner, means and duration of the
obstruction of said streets and sidewalks and prescribe appropriate safety
measures which must be complied with by the applicant.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for such applicant to proceed with the
obstruction without first having complied with the safety requirements set
forth in the permit and those safety requirements which might subsequently be
required by the City Manager in the light of the conditions created by the
obstruction as same from time to time exist.
(2005 Code, § 74-5)  (Ord. passed 9-9-1996)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.06  DISPLAY OF GOODS.
   A merchant may, with a permit from the City Manager, display his or her
goods, wares and merchandise on the sidewalk for the length of his or her
property frontage, allowing for at least half of the sidewalk not be obstructed
to allow for pedestrian traffic. Such permits shall only be issued for special
joint merchant sales’ events via downtown merchant/ vendor associations,
downtown-wide festivals and traditional national sales (i.e., Labor Day, day
after Thanksgiving, day after Christmas and the like). Additionally, such
permits shall be for only one day duration.
(2005 Code, § 74-6)  (Ord. passed 9-9-1996)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.07  OVERHANGING AWNINGS AND MARQUEES.
   No person shall erect or cause to be erected a permanent or temporary awning
or marquee over any street of the city. Such will be permitted over sidewalks
upon the issuance of a permit therefor from the Building Inspector; provided,
no temporary awning shall be erected lower than seven feet above a sidewalk and
no permanent awning or marquee shall be erected lower than nine feet above the
sidewalk; provided further, such awning or marquee shall not be erected in
violation of any other part of this code.
(2005 Code, § 74-7)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.08  GATES, CELLAR DOORS, MANHOLES, GRATINGS.
   No person shall use or construct any gate on any street, alley or sidewalk
so that it shall open outwardly on the street, alley or sidewalk and no person
shall have a cellar door, manhole or grating in any street or sidewalk of the
city, except upon written permission of the City Manager. When a permit has
been issued, no person shall allow such cellar door or grating to remain open,
except when in actual use and when properly protected.
(2005 Code, § 74-8)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.09  PLANTINGS IN RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   No person shall plant or cause to be planted any tree, shrub, vine, plant,
flower or other form of plant life, excepting grass, upon the right-of-way of
any street or sidewalk within the city, nor shall any owner or occupant of
adjacent property allow any tree, shrub, vine, flower or any other form of
plant life to spread to or grow on, upon or over the right-of-way of any street
or sidewalk within the city; provided, however, same may overhang a sidewalk if
of a height to afford a ten-foot clearance over such sidewalk or may overhang a
street if of a height to afford an 18-foot clearance over such street. No tree
shall be planted and allowed to expand its roots in such a manner as to push up
and break the sidewalks of the city.
(2005 Code, § 74-9)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.10  CLEAR VIEW AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall plant or allow to remain on property owned or occupied
by him or her any shrub, vine, flower or other form of plant life, having a
height in excess of two feet in the corner triangle of an intersection nor
allow a tree to remain in such corner triangle unless the branches thereof are
trimmed to a height of eight feet above the ground, all in order to furnish an
unobstructed view of traffic at the intersection.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the term CORNER TRIANGLE is that
triangular space of land, outside of the right-of-way, at the intersection of
the rights-of-way of two or more streets or sidewalks, two sides of which are
lines beginning at the point at which the nearer sides of the right-of-way of
such street or sidewalk intersect, or would intersect if extended to the point
of meeting, and extend along such nearer sides of the right-of-way away from
the intersection a distance of ten feet and the third side of which is a line
connecting such ten-foot points.
(2005 Code, § 74-10)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.11  GRASS AND WEEDS TO BE KEPT OFF STREETS, SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   No occupant or owner of property shall permit grass or weeds to grow
over any brick, concrete, tar, asphalt, stone or other hard-surface sidewalk or
street.
   (B)   Each occupant or owner shall keep the grass plot adjacent to such
sidewalk or street neatly mowed.
(2005 Code, § 74-11)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.12  CLEANING SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   The owner or occupant of any store, office or other place of business
on the first floor abutting the street shall keep the sidewalk in front of his
or her place of business clean.
   (B)   The owner of every lot abutting any sidewalk which is paved shall
remove all snow, ice or similar accumulation from such sidewalk by 10:00 a.m.
of each day unless it is continuing to snow, hail or sleet at the time, in
which case same must be removed immediately upon completion of such weather
condition.
(2005 Code, § 74-12)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.13  REMOVING DIRT OR OTHER MATERIAL FROM STREET.
   No person shall remove any dirt, sand, loam, sod, clay, gravel or other
material from any of the streets, alleys or sidewalks of the city; provided,
this section shall not apply to persons erecting, laying out or altering
streets or sidewalks under permit of the City Manager.
(2005 Code, § 74-13)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.14  DISCHARGING LIQUIDS.
   No person shall run or allow to be run or pour water or liquids of any kind
upon any street or sidewalk within the city, except rainwater may be piped
under the sidewalk within the city to the street gutter; provided, in cases of
exceptionally hard rains, surface drainage shall be permitted.
(2005 Code, § 74-14)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.15  BURNING.
   No person shall burn any materials on any street or sidewalk of the city.
(2005 Code, § 74-15)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.16  THROWING ARTICLES FROM WINDOWS.
   No person shall throw or cause to be thrown from any upper window or door of
any store or building or from the roof of any house or elsewhere anything which
may in any manner endanger or annoy persons on any street or sidewalk or which
might cause damage to streets or sidewalks or vehicles operating on the street.
(2005 Code, § 74-16)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.17  BARBED WIRE FENCES.
   No person shall erect or maintain, or cause to be erected or maintained, any
barbed wire or barbed wire fence on the line or border of any sidewalk or
street or on any property line between property owners or so closely thereto as
to be likely to injure any person.
(2005 Code, § 74-17)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.18  OPENING PAPER STREET.
   No paper street shall be opened unless the petitioner shall have first
provided a surety bond to the city in an amount which shall cover the cost of
all improvements required of new streets by the city’s subdivision regulations.
Such cost shall be as estimated by the Director of Public Utilities.
(2005 Code, § 74-18)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.19  ACCEPTANCE OF STREETS.
   No street shall be accepted by the city unless all improvements required by
the city’s subdivision regulations are in place at the time of acceptance.
(2005 Code, § 74-19)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.20  CURB AND GUTTER; PETITION TO PAVE STREET.
   (A)   Curbs and gutters shall be required on newly paved streets.
   (B)   This section shall apply only to existing dirt, gravel or recorded
paper streets for which paving would normally be done or authorized by the city
and assessed against the property adjacent to it.
   (C)   The street to be paved must be a minor residential street, not a part
of the city thoroughfare plan or one which for some other reason carries
considerable traffic.
   (D)   No street will be considered for paving by the City Council unless
also accompanied by a petition for curb and gutter.
   (E)   Only those streets where it is determined and approved by the City
Council that topographic features and other natural conditions would create a
circumstance where curb and gutter would be detrimental to the area will be
allowed to be paved without curb and gutter.
(2005 Code, § 74-20)  (Ord. passed 12-3-1979)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.21  RENAMING CITY STREETS.
   (A)   The request for a street name change shall be made by application to
the City Clerk. The application shall be accompanied by a petition signed by
every property owner and tenant along the street. At least 51% of the property
owners/tenants of property fronting the subject street shall express their
approval of the proposed name change.
   (B)   At the time of the application, a processing fee in an amount as set
by the City Council be paid to the city.
   (C)   The assignment of a new name to an existing city street shall not
duplicate or closely approximate, phonetically, the names of existing streets
in the city planning and zoning jurisdiction, Pasquotank and Camden Counties as
determined by the Director of the E-911 Central Communications Center.
   (D)   Consideration shall be made by City Council whether the current street
name signifies any historical person, event or period which would require
preservation of the name.
   (E)   Prior to the renaming of an existing city street, a public hearing
shall be held to receive public comment for consideration.
(2005 Code, § 74-21)  (Ord. 03061, passed 6-2-2003)
CHAPTER 153:  SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS
Section
   
153.01   Definitions
   
153.02   Locations where prohibited
   
153.03   Name of sign maker to appear on sign
   
153.04   Ground signboards
   
153.05   Projecting signs
   
153.06   Illumination of commercial signs
   
153.07   Roof signs
   
153.08   Wall signs
   
153.09   Maintenance of signs
   
153.10   Correction of unsafe signs
   
153.11   Removal of unlawful signboards
   
153.12   Signs prohibiting carrying of concealed weapons on municipal property
§ 153.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GROUND SIGNBOARD. Any signboard erected, constructed or maintained for the
purpose of displaying outdoor advertising by means of posters, pictures,
pictorial or reading matter, when such sign is supported by uprights or braces
placed upon the ground and not attached to any part of a building.
   ILLUMINATED SIGN, COMMERCIAL. Any letter work, model, sign, device or
representation used in the nature of advertisement, announcement or direction,
illuminated by electricity and extending over the sidewalk beyond the building
line and a commercial illuminated sign shall be divided for the purpose of this
chapter into two classes, “projecting commercial signs”, which are those
affixed at right angles to the building wall and which extend over the
sidewalk, and “flat commercial signs”, which are those attached in a rigid
manner, and lying parallel to the building wall.
   ROOF SIGNBOARD. Any sign erected, constructed or maintained upon the roof of
any building.
   WALL BULLETIN. Any painted sign, or poster on any surface or plane that may
be affixed to the front, rear or side wall of any building.
(2005 Code, § 66-1)
§ 153.02  LOCATIONS WHERE PROHIBITED.
   No signboard of any description shall be installed, erected or constructed
in such manner as to obstruct any fire escape or any window or door leading
thereto, nor shall any sign be attached in any form, shape or manner to a fire
escape.
(2005 Code, § 66-2)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.03  NAME OF SIGN MAKER TO APPEAR ON SIGN.
   Every ground signboard, roof signboard or wall bulletin shall plainly be
marked with the name of the person erecting and maintaining such signboard.
(2005 Code, § 66-3)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.04  GROUND SIGNBOARDS.
   (A)   No ground signboard constructed entirely of wood, or partly of wood
and metal shall be at any point higher than 14 feet above the level of the
ground, and the bottom part of such sign shall be at least two feet above the
ground leaving an open space of at least two feet between the bottom of the
signboard and the ground. Every ground signboard shall be stoutly and firmly
constructed and anchored in a secure and substantial manner.
   (B)   Any person occupying any vacant lot or premises with a ground
signboard shall be subject to the same duties and responsibilities as the owner
of the lot or premises, with respect to keeping the same clean, sanitary,
inoffensive and free and clear of all noxious substances in the vicinity of
such ground signboards and with respect to the removal of snow from sidewalk
and curb in front thereof.
(2005 Code, § 66-4)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.05  PROJECTING SIGNS.
   (A)   No sign projecting at right angles from the building wall shall extend
over any sidewalk of the city nearer than 18 inches of the inside line of the
curbing of the street, nor shall the sign be erected above the sidewalk lower
than ten feet above the level of the sidewalk; provided, however, if such sign
is erected at a height of at least 14 feet above the surface of the street, it
shall be permissible for the sign to extend outward from the building to within
six inches of the street side of the curb.
   (B)   Every projecting sign must be constructed and braced to withstand a
horizontal wind pressure of 40 pounds for every square foot of surface exposed.
Every projecting wall sign shall be securely attached to the building wall, by
iron or metal anchors, bolts, supports, chains, stranded chains or steel rods,
and all supports, braces, anchors, unless galvanized, shall be kept in repair
and painted once every year.
(2005 Code, § 66-5)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.06  ILLUMINATION OF COMMERCIAL SIGNS.
   No commercial sign shall be illuminated otherwise than by electricity, and
all commercial signs shall be constructed entirely of metal or other
incombustible matter or material, except the insulation thereof, including
upright supports and braces for the same, and shall be firmly attached to the
building, and so constructed as not to become dangerous.
(2005 Code, § 66-6)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.07  ROOF SIGNS.
   (A)   (1)   No sign shall be placed upon the roof of any building so as to
prevent the passage from one part of the roof to any other part thereof, or
interfere with the openings in such roof.
      (2)   No signboard that is placed upon the roof of any building shall
project beyond the edge of the roof in any direction.
      (3)   All roof signs shall be so constructed as to leave a clear space of
not less than five feet between the roof level and the lowest part of the
structure, and at least five feet clearance between the vertical supports
thereof.
      (4)   Every roof sign shall be set back at least four feet from the face
of any front or rear wall.
      (5)   No roof sign structure having a tight, closed or solid surface
shall be, at any point over 20 feet above the roof level.
      (6)   Roof sign structures, not having a tight, closed or solid surface,
may be erected upon a fireproof building to a height not exceeding 50 feet
above the roof level, and upon non-fireproof buildings to a height not to
exceed 40 feet, above the roof level, but the surface and portions of the
structure covered and exposed to wind pressure shall not exceed 30% of the area
thereof.
      (7)   All such signs shall be thoroughly secured to the building upon
which they are installed, erected or constructed, by iron or metal anchors,
bolts, supports, chains, stranded cables, steel rods or braces.
   (B)   Every roof sign shall be constructed entirely of steel construction,
including the uprights and braces of the same, excepting only ornamental
molding and buttons behind the steel facing, and the decorative latticework may
be of wood construction. All roof signs must be so constructed as to withstand
a wind pressure of not less than 40 pounds to the square foot of area subject
to such pressure, and when erected upon buildings which are not constructed
entirely of fireproof material, the bearing plates of the signboard shall bear
directly upon the masonry walls or upon steel girders which are supported on
masonry walls and intermediate columns in buildings.
(2005 Code, § 66-7)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.08  WALL SIGNS.
   (A)   A wall sign may be placed upon the front, rear or side wall of any
building, providing it does not extend beyond the building wall surface more
than six inches; and, provided further that, all such wall signs must be safely
and adequately attached to the building wall by means of iron or metal anchors,
bolts or expansion screws.
   (B)   The surface face of all wall bulletins must be of sheet metal, but the
ornamental molding surrounding same may be of wooden construction.
(2005 Code, § 66-8)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.09  MAINTENANCE OF SIGNS.
   Every sign, and all the supports, braces, guys and anchors thereof, shall be
kept in repair, and unless galvanized shall be thoroughly and properly painted
at least once a year, and the Planning Director may order a removal of any sign
that is not maintained in accordance with the requirements of this section.
(2005 Code, § 66-9)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.10  CORRECTION OF UNSAFE SIGNS.
   Should any ground signboard, roof signboard or wall bulletin be or become
insecure, or in danger of falling, the person maintaining the same shall upon
written notice from the Building Inspector forthwith, in case of immediate
danger, and in any case, within ten days, secure the same, in a manner to be
approved by the Building Inspector, in conformity with the provisions of this
chapter.
(2005 Code, § 66-10)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.11  REMOVAL OF UNLAWFUL SIGNBOARDS.
   (A)   If any sign is installed, erected or constructed in violation of any
of the terms of this chapter, the Planning Director shall notify, by personal
notice or registered mail, the owner, or lessee thereof to alter such sign, so
as to comply with this chapter, and to secure the necessary permit therefor, or
to remove the sign.
   (B)   If such order is not complied with within ten days, the Planning
Director shall remove such sign at the expense of the owner or lessee thereof.
(2005 Code, § 66-11)
Editor's Note:
   The city's Unified Development Ordinance also regulates signs, and the
provisions therein must also be observed
§ 153.12  SIGNS PROHIBITING CARRYING OF CONCEALED WEAPONS ON MUNICIPAL
PROPERTY.
   (A)   Posting of signs required. The City Manager is hereby authorized and
instructed to post conspicuous signage at appropriate locations on or within
each park and each building or portion of a building owned, leased as lessee,
operated, occupied, managed or controlled by the city, as well as the
appurtenant premises to such buildings, indicating that carrying a concealed
handgun is prohibited therein.
   (B)   Location of signs. Signs on buildings shall be visibly posted on the
exterior of each entrance by which the general public can access the building.
The City Manager shall exercise discretion in determining the number and
appropriate location of signs to be placed on or within appurtenant premises
and parks.
(2005 Code, § 66-12)  (Ord. passed 12-28-1995)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 154:  FLOODS
Section
General Provisions
   
154.01   Statutory authority
   
154.02   Findings of fact
   
154.03   Statement of purpose
   
154.04   Objectives
   
154.05   Definitions
   
154.06   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
154.07   Basis for establishing the special flood hazard areas
   
154.08   Establishment of floodplain development permit
   
154.09   Compliance
   
154.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
154.11   Interpretation
   
154.12   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
154.13   Effect on rights and liabilities under the existing flood damage
prevention ordinance
   
154.14   Effect upon outstanding building permits
Administration
   
154.25   Appointment of Floodplain Administrator
   
154.26   Floodplain development application, permit, and certification
requirements
   
154.27   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
   
154.28   Corrective procedures
   
154.29   Variance procedures
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
154.40   General standards
   
154.41   Specific standards
   
154.42   Reserved
   
154.43   Standards for floodplains without established base flood elevations
   
154.44   Standards for riverine floodplains with BFE but without established
floodways or non-encroachment areas
   
154.45   Floodways and non-encroachment areas
 
   
154.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.01  STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Legislature of the State of North Carolina has in G.S. Ch. 143, Art. 21,
Part 6; Ch. 160A, Art. 19, Parts 3, 5, and 8; Ch. 160A, Art. 8, delegated to
local governmental units the responsibility to adopt regulations designed to
promote the public health, safety, and general welfare. Therefore, the City
Council of the City of Elizabeth City, North Carolina, does ordain as follows.
(Ord. 2018-10-03, passed 10-22-2018)
§ 154.02  FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities and by the
occupancy in flood prone areas of uses vulnerable to floods or other hazards.
(Ord. 2018-10-03, passed 10-22-2018)
§ 154.03  STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions within flood prone areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water or erosion hazards or that result in damaging increases
in erosion, flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities that
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and all other development that may
increase erosion or flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Ord. 2018-10-03, passed 10-22-2018)
§ 154.04  OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are to:
   (A)   Protect human life, safety, and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business losses and interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities (i.e., water and
gas mains, electric, telephone, cable and sewer lines, streets, and bridges)
that are located in flood prone areas;
   (F)   Minimize damage to private and public property due to flooding;
   (G)   Make flood insurance available to the community through the National
Flood Insurance Program;
   (H)   Maintain the natural and beneficial functions of floodplains;
   (I)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas; and
   (J)   Ensure that potential buyers are aware that property is in a special
flood hazard area.
(Ord. 2018-10-03, passed 10-22-2018)
§ 154.05  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE. A structure located on the same
parcel of property as the principal structure and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure. Garages, carports, and
storage sheds are common urban ACCESSORY STRUCTURES. Pole barns, hay sheds and
the like qualify as ACCESSORY STRUCTURES on farms, and may or may not be
located on the same parcel as the farm dwelling or shop building.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING BUILDING). An extension or increase in the floor
area or height of a building or structure.
   ALTERATION OF A WATERCOURSE. A dam, impoundment, channel relocation, change
in channel alignment, channelization, or change in cross-sectional area of the
channel or the channel capacity, or any other form of modification which may
alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or velocity of the riverine
flow of water during conditions of the base flood.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated Zone AO or AH on a community’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with base flood depths determined to be from one to
three feet. These areas are located where a clearly defined channel does not
exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate, and where
velocity flow may be evident.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. See SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA).
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). A determination of the water surface elevations
of the base flood as published in the Flood Insurance Study. When the BFE has
not been provided in a special flood hazard area, it may be obtained from
engineering studies available from a federal, state, or other source using FEMA
approved engineering methodologies. This elevation, when combined with the
freeboard, establishes the regulatory flood protection elevation.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   CHEMICAL STORAGE FACILITY. A building, portion of a building, or exterior
area adjacent to a building used for the storage of any potentially hazardous
or dangerous chemical or chemically reactive products.
   COASTAL A ZONE (CAZ). An area within a special flood hazard area, landward
of a V zone or landward of an open coast without mapped V zones; in a Coastal A
Zone, the principal source of flooding must be astronomical tides, storm
surges, seiches, or tsunamis, not riverine flooding. During the base flood
conditions, the potential for wave heights shall be greater than or equal to
one and one-half feet. COASTAL A ZONES are not normally designated on FIRMs.
(See LIMIT OF MODERATE WAVE ACTION (LiMWA).)
   COASTAL AREA MANAGEMENT ACT (CAMA). North Carolina’s Coastal Area Management
Act, this act, along with the Dredge and Fill Law and the Federal Coastal Zone
Management Act, is managed through North Carolina Department of Environmental
Quality (NCDEQ) Division of Coastal Management (DCM).
   COASTAL BARRIER RESOURCES SYSTEM (CBRS). Consists of undeveloped portions of
coastal and adjoining areas established by the Coastal Barrier Resources Act
(CoBRA) of 1982, the Coastal Barrier Improvement Act (CBIA) of 1990, and
subsequent revisions, and includes areas owned by federal or state governments
or private conservation organizations identified as otherwise protected areas
(OPA).
   COASTAL HIGH HAZARD AREA. A special flood hazard area extending from
offshore to the inland limit of a primary frontal dune along an open coast and
any other area subject to high velocity wave action from storms or seismic
sources. The area is designated on a FIRM, or other adopted flood map as
determined in §
154.07, as Zone VE.
   DESIGN FLOOD. See REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
   DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY. Any activity defined as development which will
necessitate a floodplain development permit. This includes buildings,
structures, and non-structural items, including (but not limited to) fill,
bulkheads, piers, pools, docks, landings, ramps, and erosion control/
stabilization measures.
   DIGITAL FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (DFIRM). The digital official map of a
community, issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), on which
both the special flood hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to
the community are delineated.
   DISPOSAL. As defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(6), the discharge, deposit,
injection, dumping, spilling, leaking, or placing of any solid waste into or on
any land or water so that the solid waste or any constituent part of the solid
waste may enter the environment or be emitted into the air or discharged into
any waters, including groundwaters.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building which has its lowest elevated
floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear walls, posts, piers,
pilings, or columns.
   ENCROACHMENT. The advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation,
buildings, structures, or development into a special flood hazard area, which
may impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING BUILDING AND EXISTING STRUCTURE. Any building and/or structure for
which the start of construction commenced before the community entered the
NFIP, dated June 20, 1973.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A
manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities
for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) was
completed before the community entered the NFIP, dated June 20, 1973.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD INSURANCE. The insurance coverage provided under the National Flood
Insurance Program.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, issued by
the FEMA, on which both the special flood hazard areas and the risk premium
zones applicable to the community are delineated. (See also DFIRM.)
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). An examination, evaluation, and determination
of flood hazards, corresponding water surface elevations (if appropriate),
flood hazard risk zones, and other flood data in a community issued by the
FEMA. The FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY report includes Flood Insurance Rate Maps
(FIRMs) and Flood Boundary and Floodway Maps (FBFMs), if published.
   FLOOD PRONE AREA. See FLOODPLAIN.
   FLOOD ZONE. A geographical area shown on a Flood Hazard Boundary Map or
Flood Insurance Rate Map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the
area.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The individual appointed to administer and enforce
the floodplain management regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. Any type of permit that is required in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter, prior to the commencement of
any development activity.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited
to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations, and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances, and other applications of police power. This term describes
federal, state, or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide
standards for preventing and reducing flood loss and damage.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation facilities,
structures, and their contents.
   FLOOD-RESISTANT MATERIAL. Any building product [material, component, or
system] capable of withstanding direct and prolonged contact (minimum 72 hours)
with floodwaters without sustaining damage that requires more than low-cost
cosmetic repair. Any material that is water-soluble or is not resistant to
alkali or acid in water, including normal adhesives for above-grade use, is not
FLOOD-RESISTANT. Pressure-treated lumber or
naturally decay-resistant lumbers are acceptable flooring materials. Sheet-type
flooring coverings that restrict evaporation from below and materials that are
impervious, but dimensionally unstable are not acceptable. Materials that
absorb or retain water excessively after submergence are not FLOOD-RESISTANT.
Please refer to Technical Bulletin 2, Flood Damage-Resistant Materials
Requirements, and available from the FEMA. Class 4 and 5 materials, referenced
therein, are acceptable FLOOD-RESISTANT materials.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse, including the area
above a bridge or culvert when applicable, and the adjacent land areas that
must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively
increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   FLOODWAY ENCROACHMENT ANALYSIS. An engineering analysis of the impact that a
proposed encroachment into a floodway or non-encroachment area is expected to
have on the floodway boundaries and flood levels during the occurrence of the
base flood discharge. The evaluation shall be prepared by a qualified North
Carolina licensed engineer using standard engineering methods and models.
   FREEBOARD. The height added to the BFE to account for the many unknown
factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the height
calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as wave
action, blockage of bridge or culvert openings, and the hydrological effect of
urbanization of the watershed. The BFE plus the freeboard establishes the
regulatory flood protection elevation.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY. A facility which cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located in close proximity to water, limited to a
docking or port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or
passengers, shipbuilding, or ship repair. The term does not include long-term
storage, manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITY. As defined in G.S. Ch. 130A, Article 9,
a facility for the collection, storage, processing, treatment, recycling,
recovery, or disposal of hazardous waste.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE (HAG). The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface, prior to construction, immediately next to the proposed walls of the
structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE.
      (1)   Any structure that is:
         (a)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places
(a listing maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
         (b)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
         (c)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic landmarks
in communities with a Certified Local Government (CLG) Program; or
         (d)   Certified as contributing to the historical significance of a
historic district designated by a community with a Certified Local Government
(CLG) Program.
      (2)   Certified Local Government (CLG) Programs are approved by the U.S.
Department of the Interior in cooperation with the North Carolina Department of
Cultural Resources through the State Historic Preservation Officer as having
met the requirements of the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966 as
amended in 1980.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). An official determination issued by FEMA that
amends or revises an effective Flood Insurance Rate Map or Flood Insurance
Study. LETTERS OF MAP CHANGE include:
      (1)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). An official amendment, by letter,
to an effective National Flood Insurance Program map. A LOMA is based on
technical data showing that a property had been inadvertently mapped as being
in the floodplain, but is actually on natural high ground above the base flood
elevation. A LOMA amends the current effective Flood Insurance Rate Map and
establishes that a specific property, portion of a property, or structure is
not located in a special flood hazard area.
      (2)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). A revision based on technical data
that may show changes to flood zones, flood elevations, special flood hazard
area boundaries and floodway delineations, and other planimetric features.
      (3)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). A determination that
a structure or parcel of land has been elevated by fill above the BFE and is,
therefore, no longer located within the special flood hazard area. In order to
qualify for this determination, the fill must have been permitted and placed in
accordance with the community’s floodplain management regulations.
      (4)   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR). A formal review and
comment as to whether a proposed project complies with the minimum NFIP
requirements for such projects with respect to delineation of special flood
hazard areas. A CLOMR does not revise the effective Flood Insurance Rate Map or
Flood Insurance Study; upon submission and approval of certified as-built
documentation, a LETTER OF MAP REVISION may be issued by FEMA to revise the
effective FIRM.
   LIGHT DUTY TRUCK. Any motor vehicle rated at 8,500 pounds gross vehicular
weight rating or less
which has a vehicular curb weight of 6,000 pounds or less and which has a basic
vehicle frontal area of 45 square feet or less as defined in 40 CFR 86.082-
2 and is:
      (1)   Designed primarily for purposes of transportation of property or is
a derivation of such a vehicle, or
      (2)   Designed primarily for transportation of persons and has a capacity
of more than 12 persons; or
      (3)   Available with special features enabling off-street or off-highway
operation and use.
   LIMIT OF MODERATE WAVE ACTION (LiMWA). The boundary line given by FEMA on
coastal map studies marking the extents of Coastal A Zones (CAZ).
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG). The lowest elevation of the ground, sidewalk,
or patio slab immediately next to the building, or deck support, after
completion of the building.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access, or limited storage in an area other than
a basement area is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR, provided that such
an enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MAP REPOSITORY. The location of the official flood hazard data to be applied
for floodplain management. It is a central location in which flood data is
stored and managed; in North Carolina, FEMA has recognized that the application
of digital flood hazard data products carry the same authority as hard copy
products. Therefore, the NCEM’s Floodplain Mapping Program websites house
current and historical flood hazard data. For effective flood hazard data the
NC FRIS website (http://FRIS.NC.GOV/FRIS) is the map repository, and for
historical flood hazard data the FloodNC website (http://FLOODNC.GOV/NCFLOOD)
is the map repository.
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, not including the land value and that of
any accessory structures or other improvements on the lot. MARKET VALUE may be
established by independent certified appraisal; replacement cost depreciated
for age of building and quality of construction (actual cash value); or
adjusted tax assessed values.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of the initial floodplain management regulations
and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NON-ENCROACHMENT AREA (NEA). The channel of a river or other watercourse,
including the area above a bridge or culvert when applicable, and the adjacent
land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot as
designated in the Flood Insurance Study report.
   OTHERWISE PROTECTED AREA (OPA). See COASTAL BARRIER RESOURCES SYSTEM (CBRS).
   POST-FIRM. Construction or other development for which the start of
construction occurred on or after April 3, 1978, the effective date of the
initial Flood Insurance Rate Map.
   PRE-FIRM. Construction or other development for which the start of
construction occurred before April 3, 1978, the effective date of the initial
Flood Insurance Rate Map.
   PRIMARY FRONTAL DUNE (PFD). A continuous or nearly continuous mound or ridge
of sand with relatively steep seaward and landward slopes immediately landward
and adjacent to the beach and subject to erosion and overtopping from high
tides and waves during major coastal storms. The inland limit of the primary
frontal dune occurs at the point where there is a distinct change from a
relatively steep slope to a relatively mild slope.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. At least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure is above ground.
   PUBLIC SAFETY and/or NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV).
      (1)   A vehicle, which is:
         (a)   Built on a single chassis;
         (b)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
         (c)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck;
         (d)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use;
and
         (e)   Fully licensed and insured, and ready for highway use.
      (2)   For the purpose of this chapter, tiny homes/houses and park models
that do not meet the items listed above are not considered RECREATIONAL
VEHICLES and should meet the standards of and be permitted as residential
structures.
   REFERENCE LEVEL. The top of the lowest floor for structures within special
flood hazard areas designated as Zones A, AE, AH, AO, or A99.
   REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. The base flood elevation plus the
freeboard. In special flood hazard areas where base flood elevations (BFEs)
have been determined, this elevation shall be the BFE plus two feet freeboard.
In special flood hazard areas where no BFE has been established, this elevation
shall be at least four feet above the highest adjacent grade.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. To bring the structure or other development into
compliance with state and community floodplain management regulations, or, if
this is not possible, to reduce the impacts of its noncompliance. Ways that
impacts may be reduced include protecting the structure or other affected
development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement provisions of this
chapter or otherwise deterring future similar violations, or reducing federal
financial exposure with regard to the structure or other development.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, and the like.
   SALVAGE YARD. Any non-residential property used for the storage, collection,
and/or recycling of any type of equipment, and including but not limited to
vehicles, appliances and related machinery.
   SAND DUNES. Naturally occurring accumulations of sand in ridges or mounds
landward of the beach.
   SHEAR WALL. Walls used for structural support but not structurally joined or
enclosed at the end
(except by breakaway walls). SHEAR WALLS are parallel or nearly parallel to the
flow of the water.
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY. Any facility involved in the disposal of
solid waste, as defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(35).
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SITE. As defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(36), any place
at which solid wastes are disposed of by incineration, sanitary landfill, or
any other method.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). The land in the floodplain subject to a 1%
or greater chance of being flooded in any given year, as determined in §
154.07.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement, or other
improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The ACTUAL START means
either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site,
such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. PERMANENT CONSTRUCTION does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the ACTUAL START
OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of the building, whether or not that alteration affects
the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, a manufactured home, or a gas,
liquid, or liquefied gas storage tank that is principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure during any
one-year period whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before
damaged condition would equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the
structure before the damage occurred. See definition of SUBSTANTIAL
IMPROVEMENT.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any combination of repairs, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement of a structure, taking place
during any one-year period for which the cost equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred substantial
damage, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
      (1)   Any correction of existing violations of state or community health,
sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been identified by the
community code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure and the alteration is approved by variance issued pursuant
to §
154.29.
   TECHNICAL BULLETIN AND TECHNICAL FACT SHEET.
      (1)   A FEMA publication that provides guidance concerning the building
performance standards of the NFIP, which are contained in Title 44 of the U.S.
Code of Federal Regulations at Section 60.3. The bulletins and fact sheets are
intended for use primarily by state and local officials responsible for
interpreting and enforcing NFIP regulations and by members of the development
community, such as design professionals and builders. New bulletins, as well as
updates of existing bulletins, are issued periodically as needed. The bulletins
do not create regulations; rather they provide specific guidance for complying
with the minimum requirements of existing NFIP regulations.
      (2)   It should be noted that Technical Bulletins and Technical Fact
Sheets provide guidance on the minimum requirements of the NFIP regulations.
State or community requirements that exceed those of the NFIP take precedence.
Design professionals should contact the community officials to determine
whether more restrictive state or local regulations apply to the building or
site in question. All applicable standards of the state or local building code
must also be met for any building in a flood hazard area.
   TEMPERATURE CONTROLLED. Having the temperature regulated by a heating and/or
cooling system, built-in or appliance.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in §§
154.25 through
154.29 and §§
154.40 through
154.45 is presumed to be in violation until such time as that documentation is
provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION (WSE). The height, in relation to NAVD 1988, of
floods of various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or
riverine areas.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel, or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
(Ord. 2018-10-03, passed 10-22-2018)
§ 154.06  LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all special flood hazard areas within the
jurisdiction, including extra-territorial jurisdictions (EDs), of the city.
(Ord. 2018-10-03, passed 10-22-2018)
§ 154.07  BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   The special flood hazard areas are those identified under the Cooperating
Technical State (CTS) agreement between the State of North Carolina and FEMA in
its FIS dated December 21, 2018 for Pasquotank County and associated DFIRM
panels, including any digital data developed as part of the FIS, which are
adopted by reference and declared a part of this chapter. Future revisions to
the FIS and DFIRM panels that do not change flood hazard data within the
jurisdictional authority of the city are also adopted by reference and declared
a part of this chapter. Subsequent letter of map revisions (LOMRs) and/or
physical map revisions (PMRs) shall be adopted by the city within three months
of notification by FEMA.
(Ord. 2018-10-03, passed 10-22-2018)
§ 154.08  ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities within special flood hazard areas determined in accordance with the
provisions of §
154.07.
(Ord. 2018-10-03, passed 10-22-2018)
§ 154.09  COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted,
altered, or developed in any way without full compliance with the terms of this
chapter and other applicable regulations.
(Ord. 2018-10-03, passed 10-22-2018)
§ 154.10 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another ordinance conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 2018-10-03, passed 10-22-2018)
§ 154.11  INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted to the
city under state statutes.
(Ord. 2018-10-03, passed 10-22-2018)
§ 154.12  WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
consideration. Larger floods can and will occur. Actual flood heights may be
increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not imply that land
outside the special flood hazard areas or uses permitted within such areas will
be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability
on the part of the city or by any officer or employee thereof for any flood
damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. 2018-10-03, passed 10-22-2018)
§ 154.13  EFFECT ON RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES UNDER THE EXISTING FLOOD DAMAGE
PREVENTION ORDINANCE.
   (A)   This chapter in part comes forward by reenactment of some of the
provisions of the flood damage prevention ordinance enacted 1-1-1975 as
amended, and it is not the intention to repeal but rather to reenact and
continue to enforce without interruption of such existing provisions, so that
all rights and liabilities that have accrued thereunder are reserved and may be
enforced. The enactment of this chapter shall not affect any action, suit, or
proceeding instituted or pending. All provisions of the flood damage prevention
ordinance of the city enacted on 1-1-1975, as amended, which are not reenacted
herein, are repealed.
   (B)   The date of the initial flood damage prevention ordinance for
Pasquotank County is January 23,1976.
(Ord. 2018-10-03, passed 10-22-2018)
§ 154.14  EFFECT UPON OUTSTANDING FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMITS.
   Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the plans,
construction, size, or designated use of any development or any part thereof
for which a floodplain development permit has been granted by the Floodplain
Administrator or his or her authorized agents before the time of passage of
this chapter; provided, however, that when construction is not begun under such
outstanding permit within a period of six months subsequent to the date of
issuance of the outstanding permit, construction or use shall be in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2018-10-03, passed 10-22-2018)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 154.25  DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Zoning Administrator, hereinafter referred to as the “Floodplain
Administrator,” is hereby appointed to administer and implement the provisions
of this chapter. In instances where the Floodplain Administrator receives
assistance from others to complete tasks to administer and implement this
chapter, the Floodplain Administrator shall be responsible for the coordination
and community’s overall compliance with the National Flood Insurance Program
and the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2018-10-03, passed 10-22-2018)
§ 154.26  FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT APPLICATION, PERMIT, AND CERTIFICATION
REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Application requirements. Application for a floodplain development
permit shall be made to the Floodplain Administrator prior to any development
activities located within special flood hazard areas. The following items shall
be presented to the Floodplain Administrator as part of a floodplain
development permit:
      (1)   A plot plan drawn to scale which shall include, but shall not be
limited to, the following specific details of the proposed floodplain
development:
         (a)   The nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area of
development/disturbance; existing and proposed structures, utility systems,
grading/pavement areas, fill materials, storage areas, drainage facilities, and
other development;
         (b)   The boundary of the special flood hazard area as delineated on
the FIRM or other flood map as determined in §
154.07, or a statement that the entire lot is within the special flood hazard
area;
         (c)   Flood zone(s) designation of the proposed development area as
determined on the FIRM or other flood map as determined in §
154.07;
         (d)   The boundary of the floodway(s) or non-encroachment area(s) as
determined in §
154.07;
         (e)   The base flood elevation (BFE) where provided as set forth in §§
154.07,
154.27, or
154.43;
         (f)   The old and new location of any watercourse that will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
         (g)    The boundary and designation date of the Coastal Barrier
Resource System (CBRS) area or otherwise protected areas (OPA), if applicable;
and
         (h)   The certification of the plot plan by a registered land surveyor
or professional engineer may be required at the discretion of the Floodplain
Administrator.
      (2)   Proposed elevation, and method thereof, of all development within a
special flood hazard area including but not limited to:
         (a)   Elevation in relation to NAVD 1988 of the proposed reference
level (including basement) of all structures;
         (b)   Elevation in relation to NAVD 1988 to which any non-residential
structure in Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A99 will be floodproofed; and
         (c)   Elevation in relation to NAVD 1988 to which any proposed utility
systems will be elevated or floodproofed.
      (3)   If floodproofing, a floodproofing certificate (FEMA Form 086-0-34)
with supporting data, an operational plan, and an inspection and maintenance
plan that include, but are not limited to, installation, exercise, and
maintenance of floodproofing measures.
      (4)   A foundation plan, drawn to scale, which shall include details of
the proposed foundation system to ensure all provisions of this chapter are
met. These details include but are not limited to:
         (a)   The proposed method of elevation, if applicable (i.e., fill,
solid foundation perimeter wall, solid backfilled foundation, open foundation
on columns/posts/piers/piles/shear walls); and
         (b)   Openings to facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic
flood forces on walls in accordance with §
154.41(A)(4) when solid foundation perimeter walls are used in Zones A, AE, AH,
AO, A99.
      (5)   Usage details of any enclosed areas below the lowest floor.
      (6)   Plans and/or details for the protection of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems to be located and
constructed to minimize flood damage.
      (7)   Certification that all other local, state and federal permits
required prior to floodplain development permit issuance have been received.
      (8)   Documentation for placement of recreational vehicles and/or
temporary structures, when applicable, to ensure that the provisions of §§
154.41(F) and (G) are met.
      (9)   A description of proposed watercourse alteration or relocation,
when applicable, including an engineering report on the effects of the proposed
project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the effects to
properties located both upstream and downstream; and a map (if not shown on
plot plan) showing the location of the proposed watercourse alteration or
relocation.
   (B)   Permit requirements. The floodplain development permit shall include,
but not be limited to:
      (1)   A complete description of all the development to be permitted under
the floodplain development permit (e.g., house, garage, pool, septic, bulkhead,
cabana, pier, bridge, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or
drilling operations, or storage of equipment or materials, etc.).
      (2)   The special flood hazard area determination for the proposed
development in accordance with available data specified in §
154.07.
      (3)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
reference level and all attendant utilities.
      (4)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
protection of all public utilities.
      (5)   All certification submittal requirements with timelines.
      (6)   A statement that no fill material or other development shall
encroach into the floodway or non-encroachment area of any watercourse unless
the requirements of §
154.45 have been met.
      (7)   The flood openings requirements, if in Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A99.
   (C)   Certification requirements.
      (1)   Elevation certificates.
         (a)   An elevation certificate (FEMA Form 086-0-33) is required after
the reference level is established. Within seven calendar days of establishment
of the reference level elevation, it shall be the duty of the permit holder to
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the elevation of the
reference level, in relation to NAVD 1988. Any work done within the seven-day
calendar period and prior to submission of the certification shall be at the
permit holder’s risk. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate
data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
permit holder immediately and prior to further work being permitted to proceed.
Failure to submit the certification or failure to make required corrections
shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the project.
         (b)   A final finished construction elevation certificate (FEMA Form
086-0-33) is required after construction is completed and prior to certificate
of compliance/occupancy issuance. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of final as-built
construction of the elevation of the reference level and all attendant
utilities. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data
submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
permit holder immediately and prior to certificate of compliance/occupancy
issuance. In some instances, another certification may be required to certify
corrected as-built construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure
to make required corrections shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a
certificate of compliance/occupancy.
      (2)   Floodproofing certificate. A final finished construction
floodproofing certificate (FEMA Form 086-0-34), with supporting data, an
operational plan, and an inspection and maintenance plan are required prior to
the issuance of a certificate of compliance/occupancy. It shall be the duty of
the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of
the floodproofed design elevation of the reference level and all attendant
utilities, in relation to NAVD 1988. Floodproofing certificate shall be
prepared by or under the direct supervision of a professional engineer or
architect and certified by same. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the
certificate data, the operational plan, and the inspection and maintenance
plan. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the applicant
prior to certificate of occupancy. Failure to submit the certification or
failure to make required corrections shall be cause to deny a floodplain
development permit. Failure to construct in accordance with the certified
design shall be cause to deny a certificate of compliance/occupancy.
      (3)   If a manufactured home is placed within Zones A, AE, AH, AO, or A99
and the elevation of the chassis is more than 36 inches in height above grade,
an engineered foundation certification is required in accordance with the
provisions of §
154.41(C)(2).
      (4)   If a watercourse is to be altered or relocated, a description of
the extent of watercourse alteration or relocation; a professional engineer’s
certified report on the effects of the proposed project on the flood-carrying
capacity of the watercourse and the effects to properties located both upstream
and downstream; and a map showing the location of the proposed watercourse
alteration or relocation shall all be submitted by the permit applicant prior
to issuance of a floodplain development permit.
      (5)   Certification exemptions. The following structures, if located
within Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A99, are exempt from the elevation/floodproofing
certification requirements specified in items divisions (C)(1) and (2) above:
         (a)   Recreational vehicles meeting requirements of §
154.41(F)(1);
         (b)   Temporary structures meeting requirements of §
154.41(G); and
         (c)   Accessory structures that are 600 square feet or less or $3,000
or less in cost and which meet the requirements of §
154.41(H).
   (D)   Determinations for existing buildings and structures. For applications
for building permits to improve buildings and structures, including
alterations, movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, change of occupancy,
additions, rehabilitations, renovations, substantial improvements, repairs of
substantial damage, and any other improvement of or work on such buildings and
structures, the Floodplain Administrator, in coordination with the Building
Official, shall:
      (1)   Estimate the market value, or require the applicant to obtain an
appraisal of the market value prepared by a qualified independent appraiser, of
the building or structure before the start of construction of the proposed
work; in the case of repair, the market value of the building or structure
shall be the market value before the damage occurred and before any repairs are
made;
      (2)   Compare the cost to perform the improvement, the cost to repair a
damaged building to its pre-damaged condition, or the combined costs of
improvements and repairs, if applicable, to the market value of the building or
structure;
      (3)   Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage; and
      (4)   Notify the applicant if it is determined that the work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage and that compliance
with the flood resistant construction requirements of the N.C. Building Code
and this chapter is required.
(Ord. 2018-10-03, passed 10-22-2018)
§ 154.27  DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Floodplain Administrator shall perform, but not be limited to, the
following duties:
   (A)   Review all floodplain development applications and issue permits for
all proposed development within special flood hazard areas to assure that the
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied.
   (B)   Review all proposed development within special flood hazard areas to
assure that all necessary local, state and federal permits have been received,
including any required under Section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334.
   (C)   Notify adjacent communities and the North Carolina Department of
Public Safety, Division of Emergency Management, State Coordinator for the
National Flood Insurance Program prior to any alteration or relocation of a
watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA).
   (D)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is maintained.
   (E)   Prevent encroachments into floodways and non-encroachment areas unless
the certification and flood hazard reduction provisions of §
154.45 are met.
   (F)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to NAVD 1988) of the reference
level (including basement) and all attendant utilities of all new and
substantially improved structures, in accordance with the provisions of §
154.26(C).
   (G)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to NAVD 1988) to which all new
and substantially improved structures and utilities have been floodproofed, in
accordance with the provisions of §
154.26(C).
   (H)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to NAVD 1988) of all public
utilities in accordance with the provisions of §
154.26(C).
   (I)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, obtain
certifications from a registered professional engineer or architect in
accordance with the provisions of §§
154.26(C) and 
154.41(B).
   (J)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of boundaries
of the special flood hazard areas, floodways, or non-encroachment areas (for
example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions), make the necessary interpretation. The person
contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity
to appeal the interpretation as provided in this chapter.
   (K)   When BFE data has not been provided in accordance with the provisions
of §
154.07, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any BFE data, along with
floodway data or non-encroachment area data available from a federal, state, or
other source, including data developed pursuant to §
154.43(B)(3), in order to administer the provisions of this chapter.
   (L)   When BFE data is provided but no floodway or non-encroachment area
data has been provided in accordance with the provisions of §
154.07, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any floodway data or non-
encroachment area data available from a federal, state, or other source in
order to administer the provisions of this chapter.
   (M)   When the lowest floor and the lowest adjacent grade of a structure or
the lowest ground elevation of a parcel in a special flood hazard area is above
the BFE, may advise the property owner of the option to apply for a letter of
map amendment (LOMA) from FEMA. The Floodplain Administrator is to maintain a
copy of the LOMA issued by FEMA in the floodplain development permit file.
   (N)   Permanently maintain all records that pertain to the administration of
this ordinance and make these records available for public inspection,
recognizing that such information may be subject to the Privacy Act of 1974, as
amended.
   (O)   Make on-site inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant to
a floodplain development permit progresses, the Floodplain Administrator shall
make as many inspections of the work as may be necessary to ensure that the
work is being done according to the provisions of the local ordinance and the
terms of the permit. In exercising this power, the Floodplain Administrator has
a right, upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises
within the jurisdiction of the community at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
   (P)   Issue stop-work orders as required. Whenever a building or part
thereof is being constructed, reconstructed, altered, or repaired in violation
of this chapter, the Floodplain Administrator may order the work to be
immediately stopped. The stop-work order shall be in writing and directed to
the person doing or in charge of the work. The stop-work order shall state the
specific work to be stopped, the specific reason(s) for the stoppage, and the
condition(s) under which the work may be resumed. Violation of a stop-work
order constitutes a Class 1 misdemeanor, punishable pursuant to §
154.99.
   (Q)   Revoke floodplain development permits as required. The Floodplain
Administrator may revoke and require the return of the floodplain development
permit by notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason(s) for the
revocation. Permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the
approved application, plans, and specifications; for refusal or failure to
comply with the requirements of state or local laws; or for false statements or
misrepresentations made in securing the permit. Any floodplain development
permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state or local law may
also be revoked.
   (R)   Make periodic inspections throughout the special flood hazard areas
within the jurisdiction of the community. The Floodplain Administrator and each
member of his or her inspections department shall have a right, upon
presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
territorial jurisdiction of the department at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
   (S)   Follow through with corrective procedures of §
154.28.
   (T)   Review, provide input, and make recommendations for variance requests.
   (U)   Maintain a current map repository to include, but not limited to,
historical and effective FIS report, historical and effective FIRM and other
official flood maps and studies adopted in accordance with the provisions of §
154.07, including any revisions thereto including letters of map change, issued
by FEMA. Notify appropriate state officials and FEMA of mapping needs.
   (V)   Coordinate revisions to FIS reports and FIRMs, including letters of
map revision based on fill (LOMR-Fs) and letters of map revision (LOMRs).
(Ord. 2018-10-03, passed 10-22-2018)
§ 154.28  CORRECTIVE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Violations to be corrected. When the Floodplain Administrator finds
violations of applicable state and local laws; it shall be his or her duty to
notify the owner or occupant of the building of the violation. The owner or
occupant shall immediately remedy each of the violations of law cited in such
notification.
   (B)   Actions in event of failure to take corrective action. If the owner of
a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action, the
Floodplain Administrator shall give the owner written notice, by certified or
registered mail to the owner’s last known address or by personal service,
stating:
      (1)   That the building or property is in violation of the floodplain
management regulations;
      (2)   That a hearing will be held before the Floodplain Administrator at
a designated place and time, not later than ten days after the date of the
notice, at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by
counsel and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
      (3)   That following the hearing, the Floodplain Administrator may issue
an order to alter, vacate, or demolish the building; or to remove fill as
applicable.
   (C)   Order to take corrective action. If, upon a hearing held pursuant to
the notice prescribed above, the Floodplain Administrator shall find that the
building or development is in violation of this chapter, he or she shall issue
an order in writing to the owner, requiring the owner to remedy the violation
within a specified time period, not less than 60 calendar days, nor more than
180 calendar days. Where the Floodplain Administrator finds that there is
imminent
danger to life or other property, he or she may order that corrective action be
taken in such lesser period as may be feasible.
   (D)   Appeal. Any owner who has received an order to take corrective action
may appeal the order to the city’s Board of Adjustment by giving notice of
appeal in writing to the Floodplain Administrator and the Clerk within ten days
following issuance of the final order. In the absence of an appeal, the order
of the Floodplain Administrator shall be final. The city’s Board of Adjustment
shall hear an appeal within a reasonable time and may affirm, modify and
affirm, or revoke the order.
   (E)   Failure to comply with order. If the owner of a building or property
fails to comply with an order to take corrective action for which no appeal has
been made or fails to comply with an order of the governing body following an
appeal, the owner shall be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. §
143-215.58 and shall be punished at the discretion of the court.
(Ord. 2018-10-03, passed 10-22-2018)
§ 154.29  VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment as established by the city, hereinafter
referred to as the “Appeal Board,” shall hear and decide requests for variances
from the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board may appeal
such decision to the court, as provided in G.S. Ch. 7A.
   (C)   Variances may be issued for:
      (1)   The repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon the
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure’s continued designation as a historic structure and that the variance
is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure;
      (2)   Functionally dependent facilities if determined to meet the
definition as stated in §
154.05, provided provisions of §§
154.29(I)(2), (3), and (5) have been satisfied, and such facilities are
protected by methods that minimize flood damages during the base flood and
create no additional threats to public safety; or
      (3)   Any other type of development provided it meets the requirements of
this section.
   (D)    In passing upon variances, the Appeal Board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location as defined
under §
154.05 as a functionally dependent facility, where applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      (11)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (E)   A written report addressing each of the above factors shall be
submitted with the application for a variance.
   (F)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of
this chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes and objectives of this
chapter.
   (G)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the BFE and the elevation to which the
structure is to be built and that such construction below the BFE increases
risks to life and property, and that the issuance of a variance to construct a
structure below the BFE may result in increased premium rates for flood
insurance up to $25 per $100 of insurance coverage. Such notification shall be
maintained with a record of all variance actions, including justification for
their issuance.
   (H)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions and report any variances to the FEMA and the State of North Carolina
upon request.
   (I)   Conditions for variances.
      (1)   Variances shall not be issued when the variance will make the
structure in violation of other federal, state, or local laws, regulations, or
ordinances.
      (2)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway or
non-encroachment area if the variance would result in any increase in flood
levels during the base flood discharge.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (4)   Variances shall only be issued prior to development permit
approval.
      (5)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, or
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   (J)   A variance may not be issued for new solid waste disposal facilities
or sites, hazardous waste management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical
storage facilities that are located in special flood hazard areas.
(Ord. 2018-10-03, passed 10-22-2018)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 154.40  GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas, the following provisions are required:
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be designed
(or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, and
lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage in accordance
with the FEMA Technical Bulletin 2, Flood Damage-Resistant Materials
Requirements.
   (C)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damages.
   (D)   All new electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, and other service equipment shall be located at or above the RFPE or
designed and installed to prevent water from entering or accumulating within
the components during the occurrence of the base flood. These include, but are
not limited to, HVAC equipment, water softener units, bath/kitchen fixtures,
ductwork, electric/gas meter panels/boxes, utility/cable boxes, water heaters,
and electric outlets/switches.
      (1)   Replacements part of a substantial improvement, electrical,
heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning equipment, and other service
equipment shall also meet the above provisions.
      (2)   Replacements that are for maintenance and not part of a substantial
improvement, may be installed at the original location provided the addition
and/or improvements only comply with the standards for new construction
consistent with the code and requirements for the original structure.
   (E)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into floodwaters.
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (H)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the repair, reconstruction, or
replacement of a building or structure existing on the effective date of this
chapter and located totally or partially within the floodway, non-encroachment
area, or stream setback, provided there is no additional encroachment below the
regulatory flood protection elevation in the floodway, non-encroachment area,
or stream setback, and provided that such repair, reconstruction, or
replacement meets all of the other requirements of this chapter.
   (I)   New solid waste disposal facilities and sites, hazardous waste
management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage facilities shall not
be permitted and a variance shall not be allowed. A structure or tank for
chemical or fuel storage incidental to an allowed use or to the operation of a
water treatment plant or wastewater treatment facility may be located in a
special flood hazard area only if the structure or tank is either elevated or
floodproofed to at least the regulatory flood protection elevation and
certified in accordance with the provisions of §
154.26(C).
   (J)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall be
consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
   (K)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water
systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
   (L)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (M)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
received all necessary permits from those governmental agencies for which
approval is required by federal or state law, including Section 404 of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334.
   (N)   When a structure is partially located in a special flood hazard area,
the entire structure shall meet the requirements for new construction and
substantial improvements.
   (O)   When a structure is located in multiple flood hazard zones or in a
flood hazard risk zone with multiple base flood elevations, the provisions for
the more restrictive flood hazard risk zone and the highest BFE shall apply.
(Ord. 2018-10-03, passed 10-22-2018)
§ 154.41  SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas where BFE data has been provided, as set
forth in §§
154.07 or
154.43, the following provisions, in addition to the provisions of §
154.40, are required:
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any existing residential structure (including manufactured homes) shall have
the reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the regulatory
flood protection elevation, as defined in §
154.05.
   (B)   Non-residential construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any existing commercial, industrial, or other non-residential
structure shall have the reference level, including basement, elevated no lower
than the regulatory flood protection elevation, as defined in §
154.05. Structures located in Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A99 may be floodproofed to
the regulatory flood protection elevation in lieu of elevation provided that
all areas of the structure, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, below the regulatory flood protection elevation are watertight with
walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water, using structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and the effect of buoyancy. For AO Zones, the floodproofing elevation
shall be in accordance with §
154.40(B). A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the floodproofing standards of this division (B) are satisfied. Such
certification shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator as set forth in
§
154.26(C), along with the operational plan and the inspection and maintenance
plan.
   (C)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   New and replacement manufactured homes shall be elevated so that
the reference level of the manufactured home is no lower than the regulatory
flood protection elevation, as defined in §
154.05.
      (2)   Manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement, either
by certified engineered foundation system, or in accordance with the most
current edition of the State of North Carolina Regulations for Manufactured
Homes adopted by the Commissioner of Insurance pursuant to G.S. § 143-143.15.
Additionally, when the elevation would be met by an elevation of the chassis 36
inches or less above the grade at the site, the chassis shall be supported by
reinforced piers or engineered foundation. When the elevation of the chassis is
above 36 inches in height, an engineering certification is required.
      (3)   All enclosures or skirting below the lowest floor shall meet the
requirements division (D) below.
      (4)   An evacuation plan must be developed for evacuation of all
residents of all new, substantially improved or substantially damaged
manufactured home parks or subdivisions located within flood prone areas. This
plan shall be filed with and approved by the Floodplain Administrator and the
local Emergency Management Coordinator.
   (D)   Elevated buildings. Fully enclosed area, of new construction and
substantially improved structures, which is below the lowest floor:
      (1)   Shall not be designed or used for human habitation, but shall only
be used for parking of vehicles, building access, or limited storage of
maintenance equipment used in connection with the premises. Access to the
enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow for parking of vehicles
(garage door) or limited storage of maintenance equipment (standard exterior
door), or entry to the living area (stairway or elevator). The interior portion
of such enclosed area shall not be finished or partitioned into separate rooms,
except to enclose storage areas;
      (2)   Reserved;
      (3)   Shall be constructed entirely of flood- resistant materials at
least to the regulatory flood protection elevation; and
      (4)   Shall include, in Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A99 flood openings to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on walls by allowing for the
entry and exit of floodwaters. To meet this requirement, the openings must
either be certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed
the following minimum design criteria:
         (a)   A minimum of two flood openings on different sides of each
enclosed area subject to flooding;
         (b)   The total net area of all flood openings must be at least one
square inch for each square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding;
         (c)   If a building has more than one enclosed area, each enclosed
area must have flood openings to allow floodwaters to automatically enter and
exit;
         (d)   The bottom of all required flood openings shall be no higher
than one foot above the higher of the interior or exterior adjacent grade;
         (e)   Flood openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other
coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions; and
         (f)   Enclosures made of flexible skirting are not considered
enclosures for regulatory purposes, and, therefore, do not require flood
openings. Masonry or wood underpinning, regardless of structural status, is
considered an enclosure and requires flood openings as outlined above.
   (E)   Additions/improvements.
      (1)   Additions and/or improvements to pre-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
         (a)   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvements
must be designed to minimize flood damages and must not be any more
nonconforming than the existing structure.
         (b)   A substantial improvement, with modifications/rehabilitations/
improvements to the existing structure or the common wall is structurally
modified more than installing a doorway, both the existing structure and the
addition must comply with the standards for new construction.
      (2)   Additions to pre-FIRM or post-FIRM structures that are a
substantial improvement with no modifications/rehabilitations/improvements to
the existing structure other than a standard door in the common wall, shall
require only the addition to comply with the standards for new construction.
      (3)   Additions and/or improvements to post-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
         (a)   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvements
only must comply with the standards for new construction consistent with the
code and requirements for the original structure.
         (b)   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
      (4)   Any combination of repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition
or improvement of a building or structure taking place
during a one-year period, the cumulative cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the improvement or repair is started
must comply with the standards for new construction. For each building or
structure, the one-year period begins on the date of the first improvement or
repair of that building or structure subsequent to the effective date of this
chapter. If the structure has sustained substantial damage, any repairs are
considered substantial improvement regardless of the actual repair work
performed. The requirement does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a building required to correct
existing health, sanitary or safety code violations identified by the Building
Official and that are the minimum necessary to assume safe living conditions.
         (b)   Any alteration of a historic structure provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure.
   (F)   Recreational vehicles. Recreational vehicles shall either:
      (1)   Temporary placement.
         (a)   Be on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days; or
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use. (A recreational
vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is
attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities, and has no
permanently attached additions.)
      (2)   Permanent placement. Recreational vehicles that do not meet the
limitations of temporary placement shall meet all the requirements for new
construction.
   (G)   Temporary non-residential structures. Prior to the issuance of a
floodplain development permit for a temporary structure, the applicant must
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a plan for the removal of such structure
(s) in the event of a hurricane, flash flood or other type of flood warning
notification. The following information shall be submitted in writing to the
Floodplain Administrator for review and written approval:
      (1)   A specified time period for which the temporary use will be
permitted. Time specified may not exceed three months, renewable up to one
year;
      (2)   The name, address, and phone number of the individual responsible
for the removal of the temporary structure;
      (3)   The time frame prior to the event at which a structure will be
removed (i.e., minimum of 72 hours before landfall of a hurricane or
immediately upon flood warning notification);
      (4)   A copy of the contract or other suitable instrument with the entity
responsible for physical removal of the structure; and
      (5)   Designation, accompanied by documentation, of a location outside
the special flood hazard area, to which the temporary structure will be moved.
   (H)   Accessory structures.
      (1)   When accessory structures (sheds, detached garages, and the like)
are to be placed within a special flood hazard area, the following criteria
shall be met:
         (a)   Accessory structures shall not be used for human habitation
(including working, sleeping, living, cooking or restroom areas);
         (b)   Accessory structures shall not be temperature-controlled;
         (c)   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential;
         (d)   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the
building site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
         (e)   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance with
the provisions of §
154.40(A);
         (f)   All service facilities such as electrical shall be installed in
accordance with the provisions of §
154.40(D); and
         (g)   Flood openings to facilitate automatic equalization of
hydrostatic flood forces shall be provided below regulatory flood protection
elevation in conformance with the provisions of division (D)(4) above.
      (2)   An accessory structure with a footprint less than 600 square feet
or that costs $3,000 or less and satisfies the criteria outlined above is not
required to meet the elevation or floodproofing standards of division (B)
above. Elevation or floodproofing certifications are required for all other
accessory structures in accordance with §
154.26(C).
   (I)   Tanks. When gas and liquid storage tanks are to be placed within a
special flood hazard area, the following criteria shall be met:
      (1)   Underground tanks. Underground tanks in flood hazard areas shall be
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads during conditions of the design flood,
including the effects of buoyancy assuming the tank is empty;
      (2)   Above-ground tanks, elevated. Above-ground tanks in flood hazard
areas shall be elevated to or above the regulatory flood protection elevation
on a supporting structure that is designed to prevent flotation, collapse or
lateral movement during conditions of the design flood. Tank-supporting
structures shall meet the foundation requirements of the applicable flood
hazard area;
      (3)   Above-ground tanks, not elevated. Above-ground tanks that do not
meet the elevation requirements of division (B) above shall be permitted in
flood hazard areas provided the tanks are designed, constructed, installed, and
anchored to resist all flood-related and other loads, including the effects of
buoyancy, during conditions of the design flood and without release of contents
in the floodwaters or infiltration by floodwaters into the tanks. Tanks shall
be designed, constructed, installed, and anchored to resist the potential
buoyant and other flood forces acting on an empty tank during design flood
conditions.
      (4)   Tank inlets and vents. Tank inlets, fill openings, outlets and
vents shall be:
         (a)   At or above the regulatory flood protection elevation or fitted
with covers designed to prevent the inflow of floodwater or outflow of the
contents of the tanks during conditions of the design flood; and
         (b)   Anchored to prevent lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic
and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy, during conditions of
the design flood.
   (J)   Other development.
      (1)   Fences in regulated floodways and NEAs that have the potential to
block the passage of floodwaters, such as stockade fences and wire mesh fences,
shall meet the limitations of §
154.45.
      (2)   Retaining walls, sidewalks and driveways in regulated floodways and
NEAs. Retaining walls and sidewalks and driveways that involve the placement of
fill in regulated floodways shall meet the limitations of §
154.45.
      (3)   Roads and watercourse crossings in regulated floodways and NEAs.
Roads and watercourse crossings, including roads, bridges, culverts, low-water
crossings and similar means for vehicles or pedestrians to travel from one side
of a watercourse to the other side, that encroach into regulated floodways
shall meet the limitations of §
154.45.
(Ord. 2018-10-03, passed 10-22-2018)
§ 154.42  RESERVED.
§ 154.43  STANDARDS FOR FLOODPLAINS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS.
   Within the special flood hazard areas designated as Approximate Zone A and
established in §
154.07, where no BFE data has been provided by FEMA, the following provisions,
in addition to the provisions of §
154.40, shall apply:
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements or new development shall be permitted within a distance of 20 feet
each side from top of bank or five times the width of the stream, whichever is
greater, unless certification with supporting technical data by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating that such encroachments shall
not result in any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood discharge.
   (B)   The BFE used in determining the regulatory flood protection elevation
shall be determined based on the following criteria:
      (1)   When BFE data is available from other sources, all new construction
and substantial improvements within such areas shall also comply with all
applicable provisions of this chapter and shall be elevated or floodproofed in
accordance with standards in §§
154.40 and
154.41.
      (2)   When floodway or non-encroachment data is available from a federal,
state, or other source, all new construction and substantial improvements
within floodway and non-encroachment areas shall also comply with the
requirements of §§
154.41 and
154.45.
      (3)   All subdivision, manufactured home park and other development
proposals shall provide BFE data if development is greater than five acres or
has more than 50 lots/manufactured home sites. Such BFE data shall be adopted
by reference in accordance with §
154.07 and utilized in implementing this chapter.
      (4)   When BFE data is not available from a federal, state, or other
source as outlined above, the reference level shall be elevated or floodproofed
(nonresidential) to or above the regulatory flood protection elevation, as
defined in §
154.05. All other applicable provisions of §
154.41 shall also apply.
(Ord. 2018-10-03, passed 10-22-2018)
§ 154.44  STANDARDS FOR RIVERINE FLOODPLAINS WITH BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS BUT
WITHOUT ESTABLISHED FLOODWAYS OR NON-ENCROACHMENT AREAS.
   Along rivers and streams where BFE data is provided by FEMA or is available
from another source but neither floodway nor non-encroachment areas are
identified for a special flood hazard area on the FIRM or in the FIS report,
the following requirements shall apply to all development within such areas:
   (A)   Standards of §§
154.40 and
154.41; and
   (B)   Until a regulatory floodway or non-encroachment area is designated, no
encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial improvements, or
other development, shall be permitted unless certification with supporting
technical data by a registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating
that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all
other existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point within the
community.
(Ord. 2018-10-03, passed 10-22-2018)
§ 154.45  FLOODWAYS AND NON-ENCROACHMENT AREAS.
   Areas designated as floodways or non-encroachment areas are located within
the special flood hazard areas established in §
154.07. The floodways and non-encroachment areas are extremely hazardous areas
due to the velocity of floodwaters that have erosion potential and carry debris
and potential projectiles. The following provisions, in addition to standards
outlined in §§
154.40 and
154.41, shall apply to all development within such areas:
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements and other developments shall be permitted unless:
      (1)   It is demonstrated that the proposed encroachment would not result
in any increase in the flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood
discharge, based on hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance
with standard engineering practice and presented to the Floodplain
Administrator prior to issuance of floodplain development permit; or
      (2)   A conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR) has been approved by
FEMA. A letter of map revision (LOMR) must also be obtained within six months
of completion of the proposed encroachment.
   (B)   If division (A) is satisfied, all development shall comply with all
applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Manufactured homes are prohibited and may not be granted a variance.
(Ord. 2018-10-03, passed 10-22-2018)
§ 154.99  PENALTY.
   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall constitute a
Class 1 misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. § 143-215.58. Any person who violates this
chapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined not more than $100 or imprisoned for not more than 30 days,
or both. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city from taking such other
lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 2018-10-03, passed 10-22-2018)
CHAPTER 155:  ENVIRONMENT; WATERSHEDS
Section
General Provisions
   
155.001   General definitions
   
155.002   Word interpretation
   
155.003   Short title
   
155.004   Exceptions to applicability
Subdivision of Land
   
155.015   General provisions
   
155.016   Subdivision application and review procedures
   
155.017   Subdivision standards and required improvements
   
155.018   Construction procedures
Development Regulations
   
155.030   Establishment of watershed areas
   
155.031   Watershed area described
   
155.032   Cluster development
   
155.033   Buffer areas required
   
155.034   Interpretation of watershed area boundaries
   
155.035   Application of regulations
   
155.036   Existing development
   
155.037   Watershed protection permit
   
155.038   Building permit required
   
155.039   Watershed protection occupancy permit
   
155.040   Inspections
Public Health Regulations
   
155.055   In general
   
155.056   Abatement
Administration, Enforcement and Appeals
   
155.070   Zoning Administrator; duties
   
155.071   Appeal from the Watershed Zoning Administrator
   
155.072   Changes and amendments to this chapter
   
155.073   Public notice and public hearing required
   
155.074   Fees for application to Watershed Board of Adjustment
   
155.075   Establishment of Watershed Review Board
   
155.076   Watershed Board of Adjustment
 
   
155.999   Penalty
Editor’s note:
   The appendix referred to in this chapter is not printed herein, but is on
file in the office of the city’s Planning Department
   The watershed map referred to in this chapter is not printed herein but is
on file in the office of the city’s Planning Department
   Article XII, Environmental and Special Purpose Regulations, of the city’s
Unified Development Ordinance also regulates watershed requirements, and the
provision therein must also be observed.
Statutory reference:
   Mandatory local programs for watershed protection, see G.S. § 143-214.5(d)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.001  GENERAL DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL USE. The use of waters for stock watering, irrigation and other
farm purposes.
   ANIMAL UNIT. A unit of measurement developed by the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency that is used to compare different types of animal operations.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP). A structural or non-structural management-
based practice used singularly or in combination to reduce non-point source
inputs to receiving waters in order to achieve water quality protection goals.
   BUFFER. Any natural buffer from the wetland boundary line as defined by the
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers or an area of natural or planted vegetation
through which storm water runoff flows in a diffuse manner so that the runoff
does not become channelized and which provides for infiltration of the runoff
and filtering of pollutants. The BUFFER is measured landward from the normal
pool elevation of impounded structures and from the bank of each side of
streams or rivers.
   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or by walls, and
intended for shelter, housing or enclosure of persons, animals or property. The
connection of two buildings by means of an open porch, breezeway, passageway,
carport or other such open structure, with or without a roof, shall not be
deemed to make them one BUILDING.
   BUILT-UPON AREA. The portion of a development project that is covered by
impervious or partially impervious cover including buildings, pavement, gravel
roads and recreation facilities of whatever nature. Wooden slatted decks and
the water area of a swimming pool are considered pervious.
   CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT. The grouping of buildings in order to conserve land
resources and provide for innovation in the design of the project. This term
includes non-residential development as well as single-family residential
subdivisions and multi-family developments that do not involve the subdivision
of land.
   COMPOSTING FACILITY. A facility in which only stumps, limbs, leaves, grass
and untreated wood collected from land clearing or landscaping operations is
deposited.
   CRITICAL AREA. The area adjacent to a water supply intake or reservoir where
risk associated with pollution is greater than from the remaining portions of
the watershed. The CRITICAL AREA is defined as extending one-half mile upstream
from the intake located directly in the stream or river (run-of-the-river), or
the ridge line of the watershed, whichever comes first. Local governments may
extend the CRITICAL AREA as needed. Major landmarks such as highways or
property lines may be used to delineate the outer boundary of the CRITICAL AREA
if these landmarks are immediately adjacent to the appropriate outer boundary
of one-half mile.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any land disturbing activity which adds to or changes the
amount of impervious or partially impervious cover on a land area or which
otherwise decreases the infiltration of precipitation into the soil.
   DISCHARGING LANDFILL. A facility with liners, monitoring equipment and other
measures to detect and/or prevent leachate from entering the environment and in
which the leachate is treated on-site and discharged to a receiving stream.
   DWELLING UNIT. A building, or portion thereof, providing complete and
permanent living facilities for one family.
   EXISTING DEVELOPMENT. Those projects that are built on those projects that
at a minimum have established a vested right under state zoning law as of the
effective date of this chapter, 12-5-1994, based on at least one of the
following criteria:
      (1)   Substantial expenditures of resources (time, labor, money) based on
a good faith reliance upon having received a valid local government approval to
proceed with the project;
      (2)   Having an outstanding valid building permit as authorized by G.S.
§§ 153A-344.1 and 160A-385.1; or
      (3)   Having expanded substantial resources (time, labor, money) and
having an approved site specific or phased development plan as authorized by
G.S. §§ 153A-344.1 and 160A-385.1.
   EXISTING LOT, LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision, a plat of
which has been recorded in the office of the County Register of Deeds prior to
the adoption of this chapter, or a lot described by metes and bounds, the
description of which has been so recorded prior to the adoption of this chapter
or as subsequently approved by the appropriate city officials.
   FAMILY. One or more persons occupying a single dwelling unit; provided that,
unless all members are related by blood or marriage or adoption, no such family
shall contain over five persons; but, further provided that, domestic servants
employed or living on the premises may be housed on the premises without being
counted as a FAMILY.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL. Any substance listed as such in: the Superfund
Amendments and Reauthorization Act (SARA) § 302, Extremely Hazardous
Substances, being 42 U.S.C. § 11002; the Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA), Hazardous Substances, being 42 U.S.C.
§§ 9601 et seq.; or § 311 of the Clean Water Act (CWA) (oil and hazardous
substances), being 33 U.S.C. §1321.
   INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT. Any non-residential development that requires an
NPDES permit for an industrial discharge and/or requires the use or storage of
any hazardous material for the purpose of manufacturing, assembling, finishing,
cleaning or developing any product or commodity.
   LANDFILL. A facility for the disposal of solid waste on land in a sanitary
manner in accordance with the G.S. Ch. 130A, Art. 9. For the purpose of this
chapter, this term does not include composting facilities.
   LOT. A parcel of land occupied or capable of being occupied by a building or
group of buildings devoted to a common use, together with the customary
accessories and open spaces belonging to the same.
   MAJOR VARIANCE. A variance that results in any one or more of the following:
      (1)   The complete waiver of the management requirement;
      (2)   The relaxation, by a factor of more than 10% of any management
requirements that takes the form of a numerical standard; and/or
      (3)   The request for increased density or built-upon area.
   MINOR VARIANCE. A variance that does not qualify as a major variance.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT. All development other than residential
development, agriculture and silviculture.
   PLAT. A map or plan of a parcel of land which is to be, or has been
subdivided according to the city subdivision regulations.
   RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT. Buildings for residence such as attached and
detached single-family dwellings, apartment complexes, condominiums,
townhouses, cottages and the like and their associated outbuildings such as
garages, storage buildings, gazebos and the like and customary home
occupations.
   SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL. Any development where:
      (1)   No building contains more than one dwelling unit;
      (2)   Every dwelling unit is on a separate lot; and
      (3)   Where no lot contains more than one dwelling unit.
   STREET AND ROAD. A right-of-way for vehicular traffic which affords the
principal means of access to abutting properties.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, including, but not limited to,
buildings, which requires location on the land or attachment to something
having permanent location on the land.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person, firm or corporation who subdivides or develops any
land deemed to be a subdivision, as defined in this chapter.
   SUBDIVISION. All divisions of a tract or parcel of land, in addition to the
undivided remaining portion of the original undivided tract, into two or more
lots, building sites or other divisions for the purpose of sale or building
development, whether immediate or future, and includes all division of land
involving the dedication of a new street or a change in existing streets;
however, the following is not included within this definition and is not
subject to any regulations enacted pursuant to this part:
      (1)   The combination or recombination or portions of previously platted
lots where the total number of lots is not increased and the resultant lots are
equal to or exceed the standards of the city as prescribed by the zoning and
subdivision ordinances;
      (2)   The division of land into parcels greater than ten acres where no
street right-of-way dedication is involved and where the resultant lots are
equal to or exceed the standards of the city as prescribed by the zoning and
subdivision ordinances;
      (3)   The public acquisition by purchase of strips of land for the
widening or opening of streets;
      (4)   The division of a tract in single ownership the entire area of
which is no greater than two acres into not more than three lots, where no
street right-of-way dedication is involved and where the resultant lots are
equal to or exceed the standards of the city as prescribed by the zoning and
subdivision ordinances; or
      (5)   The division of a tract in single ownership whose entire area may
be greater than two acres into not more than three lots where:
         (a)   No street right-of-way dedication is involved;
         (b)   No utility extension is necessary;
         (c)   The resultant lots are equal to or exceed the standards of the
city as prescribed by the zoning and subdivision ordinances; and
         (d)   Where, in the opinion of the Planning Director, to require
subdivision and plat approval would cause undue hardship and expense to the
owner.
   TOXIC SUBSTANCE. Any substance or combination of substances, including
disease causing agents, which after discharge and upon exposure, ingestion,
inhalation or assimilation into any organism, either directly from the
environment or indirectly by ingestion through food chains, has the potential
to cause death, disease, behavioral abnormalities, cancer, genetic mutations,
physiological malfunctions (including malfunctions or suppression in
reproduction or growth) or physical deformities in such organisms or their
offspring or other adverse health effects.
   VARIANCE. A permission to develop or use property granted by the Watershed
Board of Adjustment relaxing or waiving a water supply watershed management
requirement adopted by the state’s Environmental Management Commission that is
incorporated into this chapter.
   WATER-DEPENDENT STRUCTURE. Any structure for which the use requires access
to or proximity to or siting within surface waters to fulfill its basic
purpose, such as boat ramps, boathouses, docks and bulkheads. Ancillary
facilities such as restaurants, outlets for boat supplies, parking lots and
commercial boat storage areas are not WATER-DEPENDENT STRUCTURES.
   WATERSHED. The entire land area contributing surface drainage to a specific
point (e.g., the water supply intake).
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. An official or designated person of the City Council
responsible for administration and enforcement of this chapter.
(2005 Code, § 30-1)  (Ord. passed 12-5-1994)
§ 155.002  WORD INTERPRETATION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, certain words shall be interpreted as
follows.
   (A)   The word “structure” shall include the word “building”.
   (B)   The word “lot” shall include the words “plot”, “parcel” or “tract”.
   (C)   The word “shall” is always mandatory and not merely directory.
   (D)   The word “will” is always mandatory and not merely directory.
(2005 Code, § 30-2)  (Ord. passed 12-5-1994)
§ 155.003  SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Water Supply Watershed Ordinance of the
City of Elizabeth City, North Carolina”. The watershed map referred to in this
article, which is identified by the title “Official Watershed Map of the City
of Elizabeth City, North Carolina”, shall be known as the “watershed map”. The
ordinance from which this chapter derives and the map shall be permanently kept
on file in the office of the city’s Planning Department.
(2005 Code, § 30-35)  (Ord. passed 12-5-1994)
§ 155.004  EXCEPTIONS TO APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Nothing contained in this chapter shall repeal, modify or amend any
federal or state law or regulation, or any ordinance which these regulations
specifically replace.
   (B)   It is not intended that these regulations interfere with any
easements, covenants or other agreements between parties. However, if the
provisions of this chapter impose greater restrictions or higher standards for
the use of a building or land, then the provisions of this chapter shall
control.
   (C)   Existing development, as defined in this chapter, is not subject to
the requirements of this chapter. Expansions to structures classified as
existing development must meet the requirements of this chapter, however, the
built-upon area of the existing development is not required to be included in
the density calculations.
   (D)   A preexisting lot owned by an individual prior to the effective date
of this chapter, 12-5-1994, regardless of whether or not a vested right has
been established, may be developed for single-family residential purposes
without being subject to the restrictions of this chapter. However, this
exemption is not applicable to multiple contiguous lots under single ownership.
(2005 Code, § 30-36)  (Ord. passed 12-5-1994)
SUBDIVISION OF LAND
§ 155.015  GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   No subdivision plat of land within the water supply watershed shall be
filed or recorded by the Register of Deeds until it has been approved in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. Likewise, the County Clerk or
the Register of Deeds shall not order or direct the recording of a plat if the
recording of such plat would be in conflict with this chapter.
   (B)   The approval of a plat does not constitute or effect the acceptance by
the city or the public of the dedication of any street or other ground,
easement, right-of-way, public utility line or other public facility shown on
the plat and shall not be construed to do so.
   (C)   All subdivisions shall conform with the mapping requirements contained
in G.S. § 47-30 and the city’s subdivision regulations.
   (D)   All subdivisions of land within the jurisdiction of the city after the
effective date of this chapter, 12-5-1994, shall require compliance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to or concurrent with approval of a final plat
prepared, approved and recorded pursuant to the city’s subdivision regulations.
(2005 Code, § 30-56)  (Ord. passed 12-5-1994)
§ 155.016  SUBDIVISION APPLICATION AND REVIEW PROCEDURES.
   (A)   All proposed subdivisions shall be reviewed by the Zoning
Administrator for conformance with this chapter prior to recording with the
Register of Deeds to determine whether or not the property is located within
the designated water supply watershed. Subdivisions that are not within the
designated watershed area shall not be subject to the provisions of this
chapter and may be recorded provided the Zoning Administrator initials the
plat. Subdivisions within the designated watershed area are subject to the
provisions of this chapter only when an erosion and sedimentation plan is
required under the provisions of state law or approved local program.
Subdivisions within the designated watershed area shall comply with the
provisions of this chapter and all other state and local requirements that may
apply.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator shall conduct a preliminary review of the
subdivision’s preliminary plat; which plat shall be submitted at a scale not to
exceed one inch equals 200 feet. The Zoning Administrator shall submit
recommendations to the Watershed Review Board for final action. The Watershed
Review Board shall either approve, approve conditionally or disapprove each
application by a majority vote of the members present and voting. First
consideration of the application which is deemed complete according to the
checklist included in the appendix to this chapter shall be at the next
regularly scheduled meeting of the Watershed Review Board after the application
is submitted. The Watershed Review Board shall take final action on the
preliminary plat within 45 days of its first consideration. The Zoning
Administrator or the Board may provide public agencies an opportunity to review
the proposed subdivision plat and make recommendations. However, failure of the
agencies to submit their comments and recommendations shall not delay the
Watershed Review Board’s action within the prescribed time limit. Public
agencies may include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   The District Highway Engineer, with regard to proposed streets and
highways;
      (2)   The Director of the Health Department, with regard to proposed
private water system or sewer systems normally approved by the Health
Department;
      (3)   The state’s Division of Environmental Management, with regard to
proposed sewer systems normally approved by the Division, engineered storm
water controls or storm water management in general; and
      (4)   Any other agency or official designated by the Zoning Administrator
or Watershed Review Board.
   (C)   If the Watershed Review Board approves the subdivision, such approval
shall be indicated on two copies of the plat by a certificate and signed by the
Chairperson or other authorized member of the Watershed Review Board.
   (D)   If the Watershed Review Board disapproves or approves conditionally
the application, the reasons for such action shall be stated in writing for the
applicant and entered in the minutes. The subdivider may make changes and
submit a revised plan which shall constitute a separate request for the purpose
of review.
   (E)   All subdivision plats within the watershed boundaries as delineated on
the watershed map shall comply with these requirements for recording of deeds.
   (F)   The subdivider shall provide the Zoning Administrator with evidence
the plat has been recorded with the Register of Deeds within five working days
of it being recorded.
(2005 Code, § 30-57)  (Ord. passed 12-5-1994)
§ 155.017  SUBDIVISION STANDARDS AND REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Adequate building space. All lots shall provide adequate building
space in accordance with the development standards contained in §§
155.030 through
155.040 of this chapter. Lots which are smaller than the minimum required for
residential lots shall be identified on the plat as “not for residential
purposes”.
   (B)   Calculating built upon area; purpose. For the purpose of calculating
built-upon area, total project area shall include total acreage in the tract on
which the project is to be developed.
   (C)   Storm water drainage facilities. Any application for preliminary plat
approval being submitted and lying within the boundaries of the watershed as
depicted on the watershed map shall be accompanied by a proposed storm water
drainage plan. The plan shall provide for a drainage system that diverts storm
water runoff away from surface waters and incorporates best management
practices to minimize water quality impacts. The subdivider shall provide a
written statement that the plan has been submitted to and approved by the
state’s Division of Environmental Management, Water Quality Section.
   (D)   Erosion and sedimentation control. The applications described in
division (C) above shall, where required, be accompanied by a written statement
that a sedimentation and erosion control plan has been submitted to and
approved by the state’s Division of Land Resources, Land Quality Section.
   (E)   Road constructed in critical areas and watershed buffer areas. Where
possible, roads shall be located outside the critical areas and watershed
buffer areas. Roads constructed within these areas shall be designed and
constructed so to minimize their impact on water quality.
(2005 Code, § 30-58)  (Ord. passed 12-5-1994)
§ 155.018  CONSTRUCTION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   No construction or installation of improvements, other than survey
monuments, flags or stakes shall commence in a proposed subdivision within the
watershed boundaries until the subdivision has been reviewed and approved by
the Watershed Review Board.
   (B)   Within the watershed boundaries no building or other permits shall be
issued for erection of a structure on any lot not of record at the time of
adoption of this chapter until all requirements of this chapter have been met.
The subdivider, prior to commencing any work within the subdivision, shall make
arrangements with the Zoning Administrator to provide for adequate inspection.
(2005 Code, § 30-59)  (Ord. passed 12-5-1994)
DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS
§ 155.030  ESTABLISHMENT OF WATERSHED AREAS.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to list and describe the watershed area
adopted in this chapter.
   (B)   For purposes of this chapter, the area within the city’s jurisdiction
is categorized as follows: WS-IV-CA (critical area).
(2005 Code, § 30-79)  (Ord. passed 12-5-1994)
§ 155.031  WATERSHED AREA DESCRIBED.
   (A)   WS-IV Watershed areas - critical area (WS-IV-CA). Only new development
activities that require an erosion/sedimentation control plan under state law
or approved local government program are required to meet the provisions of
this chapter when located in the WS-IV watershed. Single-family residential and
non-residential development shall be allowed at a maximum of two dwelling units
per acre. Any site less than one-half acre shall not exceed 24 percent
impervious coverage.
   (B)   New sludge application sites and landfills are specifically
prohibited.
      (1)   Allowed uses.
         (a)   Agriculture subject to the provisions of the Food Security Act
of 1985, being 16 U.S.C. §§ 3801 et seq., and Food, Agriculture, Conservation
and Trade Act of 1990, being 7 U.S.C. §§ 1421 et seq. Agricultural activities
conducted after 3-1-1994, shall maintain a minimum ten-foot vegetative buffer,
or equivalent control as determined by the Soil and Water Conservation
Commission, along all perennial waters indicated on the most recent versions of
U.S.G.S. 1:24,000 (7.5 minute) scale topographic maps or as determined by local
government studies. Animal operations greater than 100 animal units shall
employ Best Management Practices by 12-31-1997, recommended by the Soil and
Water Conservation Commission;
         (b)   Silviculture, subject to the provisions of the Forest Practices
Guidelines Related to Water Quality (15A NCAC 011.0101 through 011.0209);
         (c)   Residential; and
         (d)   Non-residential development, excluding:
            1.   The storage of toxic and hazardous materials unless a spill
containment plan is implemented;
            2.   Landfills; and
            3.   Sites for land application of sludge/residuals or petroleum
contaminated soils.
      (2)   Density and built-upon limits.
         (a)   Single-family residential development shall not exceed two
dwelling units per acre on a project by project basis. No single-family
residential lot shall be less than one-half acre, except within an approved
cluster development.
         (b)   All other residential and non-residential development shall not
exceed 24% built-upon area on any site less than one-half acre. For the purpose
of calculating the built-upon area on any site less than one-half acre. For the
purpose of calculating the built-upon area, total project area shall include
total acreage in the tract on which the project is to be developed.
      (3)   Erosion/sedimentation control plan waiver.
         (a)   The person conducting the land disturbing activities need not
submit a local erosion control plan if such persons obtain an erosion control
plan waiver certificate from the Zoning Administrator. An application for this
form shall be submitted containing the name, address and telephone number of
the developer and owner, a description and drawing of the proposed development
or activity, the location of the development and any other information
requested by the Zoning Administrator that is necessary to evaluate the
proposed development. The Zoning Administrator shall issue the erosion control
plan waiver certificate if the Zoning Administrator finds that the land-
disturbing activity will result in uncovering less than one acre; and
         (b)   The land-disturbing activity is not to be conducted with any of
the following types of development:
            1.   Any activity involving the temporary or permanent storage
(above ground or below ground) of any toxic or hazardous substance, including
fuel storage facilities;
            2.   Shopping centers;
            3.   Industrial and commercial facilities; and
            4.   Major subdivisions.
(2005 Code, § 30-80)  (Ord. passed 12-5-1994)
§ 155.032  CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT.
   Clustering of development is allowed in the watershed area under the
following conditions.
   (A)   Minimum lot sizes are not applicable to single-family cluster
development projects; however, the total number of lots or dwelling units shall
not exceed the number of lots or dwelling units allowed for single-family
detached developments as provided in §
155.031 of this chapter. Built-upon area or storm water control requirements of
the project shall not exceed that allowed for the critical area or balance of
watershed, whichever applies.
   (B)   All built-upon areas shall be designed and located to minimize storm
water runoff impact to the receiving waters and minimize concentrated storm
water flow.
   (C)   (1)   The remainder of the tract shall remain in a vegetated or
natural state.
      (2)   Where the development has an incorporated property owners
association, the title of the open space area shall be conveyed to the
association for management.
      (3)   Where a property association is not incorporated, a maintenance
agreement shall be filed with the Register of Deeds.
(2005 Code, § 30-81)  (Ord. passed 12-5-1994)
§ 155.033  BUFFER AREAS REQUIRED.
   (A)   A minimum 30-foot vegetative buffer for development activities is
required along all perennial waters indicated on the most recent versions of
U.S.C.G. 1:24,000 (7.5 minute) scale topographic maps or as determined by local
government studies. Desirable artificial stream bank or shoreline stabilization
is permitted.
   (B)   No new development is allowed in the buffer except for water-dependent
structures and public projects such as road crossings and greenways where no
practical alternative exists. These activities should minimize built-upon
surface area, direct runoff away from the surface waters and maximize the
utilization of storm water best management practices.
(2005 Code, § 30-82)  (Ord. passed 12-5-1994)
§ 155.034  INTERPRETATION OF WATERSHED AREA BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of the watershed area,
as shown on the watershed map, the following rules shall apply.
      (1)   Where area boundaries are indicated as approximately following
either street, alley, highway lines or centerlines thereof, such lines shall be
construed to be the watershed boundaries.
      (2)   Where area boundaries are indicated as approximately following lot
lines, such lot lines shall be construed to be the watershed boundaries.
However, a surveyed plat prepared by a registered land surveyor may be
submitted to the city as evidence that one or more properties along these
boundaries do not lie within the watershed area.
      (3)   Where area boundaries lie at a scaled distance more than 25 feet
from any parallel lot line, the location of watershed boundaries shall be
determined by use of the scale appearing on the watershed map.
   (B)   Where area boundaries lie at a scaled distance of 25 feet or less from
any parallel lot line, the location of watershed boundaries shall be construed
to be the lot line.
   (C)   Where other uncertainty exists, the Zoning Administrator shall
interpret the watershed map as to location of such boundaries. This decision
may be appealed to the Watershed Review Board.
(2005 Code, § 30-83)  (Ord. passed 12-5-1994)
§ 155.035  APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No building or land shall be used and no development shall take place,
except in conformity with the provisions of this chapter specified for the
watershed area in which it is located.
   (B)   No area required for the purpose of complying with the provisions of
this chapter shall be included in the area required for another building.
   (C)   Every residential building erected, moved or structurally altered
shall be located on a lot which conforms to the provisions of this chapter,
except as permitted in §
155.036 of this chapter.
   (D)   If a use or class of use is not specifically indicated as being
allowed in a watershed area, such use or class of use is prohibited.
(2005 Code, § 30-84)  (Ord. passed 12-5-1994)  Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.036  EXISTING DEVELOPMENT.
   Any existing development, as defined in this chapter, may be continued and
maintained subject to the provisions provided in this chapter. Expansions to
structures classified as existing development must meet the requirements of
this chapter; however, the built-upon area of the existing development is not
required to be included in the density calculations.
   (A)   Vacant lots. This category consists of vacant lots for which plats or
deeds have been recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds of the county
at the time of the adoption of this chapter. Lots may be used for any of the
uses allowed in the watershed area in which it is located; provided, the
following:
      (1)   Where the lot area is below the minimum specified in this chapter,
the Zoning Administrator is authorized to issue a watershed protection permit;
and
      (2)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, whenever two or more contiguous
residential vacant lots of record are in single ownership at any time after the
adoption of this chapter and such lots individually have less area than the
minimum requirements for residential purposes for the watershed area in which
such lots are located, such lots may be combined to create one or more lots
that meet the standards of this chapter, or if this is impossible, reduce to
the extent possible the non-conformity of the lots.
   (B)   Occupied lots. This category consists of lots, occupied for
residential purposes at the time of the adoption of this chapter. These lots
may continue to be used provided that whenever two or more adjoining lots of
record, one of which is occupied, are in single ownership at any time after
adoption of this chapter, and such lots individually or together have less area
than the minimum requirements for residential purposes for the watershed area
in which they are located, such lots may be combined to create lots which meet
the minimum size requirements or which minimize the degree of non-conformity.
   (C)   Uses of land. This category consists of uses existing at the time of
adoption of this chapter where such use of the land is not permitted to be
established by this chapter in the watershed area in which it is located. Such
uses may be continued, except as follows.
      (1)   When prohibited use of land has been changed to an allowed use, it
shall not thereafter revert to any prohibited use.
      (2)   Prohibited use of land shall be changed only to an allowed use.
      (3)   When prohibited use ceases for a period of at least one year, it
shall not be reestablished.
   (D)   Reconstruction of buildings or built-upon areas. Any existing building
or built-upon area not in conformance with the restrictions of this chapter
that has been damaged or removed may be repaired and/or reconstructed; except
that, there are no restrictions on single-family residential development;
provided:
      (1)   The building or built-upon area is in conformance with all other
applicable codes of the city;
      (2)   Repair or reconstruction is initiated within 12 months and
completed within two years of such damage; and
      (3)   The total amount of space devoted to built-upon area may not be
increased unless storm water control that equals or exceeds the previous
development is provided.
(2005 Code, § 30-85)  (Ord. passed 12-5-1994)
§ 155.037  WATERSHED PROTECTION PERMIT.
   (A)   Except where a single-family residence is constructed on a lot deeded
prior to the effective date of this chapter, 12-5-1994, no building or built-
upon area shall be erected, moved, enlarged or structurally altered, nor shall
any building permit be issued nor shall any change in the use of the building
or land be made until a watershed protection permit has been issued by the
Zoning Administrator. No watershed protection permit shall be issued, except in
conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Watershed protection permit applications shall be filed with the
Zoning Administrator. The application shall include a completed application
form and supporting documentation deemed necessary by the Zoning Administrator.
   (C)   Prior to issuance of a watershed protection permit, the Zoning
Administrator may consult with qualified personnel for assistance to determine
if the application meets the requirements of this chapter.
   (D)   A watershed protection permit shall expire if a building permit or
watershed occupancy permit is not obtained by the applicant within two years
from the date of issuance.
(2005 Code, § 30-86)  (Ord. passed 12-5-1994)
§ 155.038  BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Except for a single-family residence constructed on a lot deeded prior to
the effective date of this chapter, 12-5-1994, no permit required under the
state’s Building Code shall be issued for any activity for which a watershed
protection permit is required until the watershed protection permit has been
issued.
(2005 Code, § 30-87)  (Ord. passed 12-5-1994)
§ 155.039  WATERSHED PROTECTION OCCUPANCY PERMIT.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator or his or her designee shall issue a
watershed protection occupancy permit certifying that all requirements of this
chapter have been met prior to occupancy or use of a building hereafter
erected, altered or moved and/or prior to the change of use of any building or
land.
   (B)   (1)   A watershed protection occupancy permit, either for the whole or
part of a building, shall be applied for coincident with the application for a
watershed protection permit and shall be issued or denied within ten days after
the erection or structural alterations of the building.
      (2)   The building must have received approval by the Building Inspector
for compliance with the state’s Building Code prior to issuance of the
watershed protection occupancy permit.
   (C)   When only a change in use of land or existing building occurs, the
Watershed Zoning Administrator or his or her designee shall issue a watershed
protection occupancy permit certifying that all requirements of this chapter
have been met coincident with the watershed protection permit.
(2005 Code, § 30-88)  (Ord. passed 12-5-1994)
§ 155.040  INSPECTIONS.
   The city’s Inspections Department has the duty in furtherance of this
chapter to:
   (A)   Make all necessary inspections to ensure compliance with this chapter;
   (B)   Issue or deny certificates of compliance;
   (C)   Issue or deny certificates of occupancy;
   (D)   Issue stop-work orders or orders to correct violations;
   (E)   Maintain adequate records of permits issued or denied, inspections
made, corrections ordered and certificates issued; and
   (F)   Take other actions that may be required to adequately enforce this
chapter.
(2005 Code, § 30-89)  (Ord. passed 12-5-1994)
PUBLIC HEALTH REGULATIONS
§ 155.055  IN GENERAL.
   No activity, situation, structure or land use which poses a threat to water
quality and the public health, safety and welfare shall be allowed within the
watershed. Such conditions may arise from inadequate on-site sewage systems
which utilize ground absorption; inadequate sedimentation and erosion control
measures; the improper storage or disposal of junk, trash or other refuse
within a buffer area; the absence or improper implementation of a spill
containment plan for toxic and hazardous materials; the improper management of
storm water runoff; or any other situation found to pose a threat to water
quality.
(2005 Code, § 30-107)  (Ord. passed 12-5-1994)
§ 155.056  ABATEMENT.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator or his or her designee shall monitor land use
activities within the watershed areas to identify situations that may pose a
threat to water quality.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator or his or her designee shall report all
findings to the Watershed Review Board. The Zoning Administrator may consult
with any public agency or official and request recommendations.
   (C)   Where the Watershed Review Board finds a threat to water quality and
the public health, safety and welfare, the Watershed Review Board shall
institute any appropriate action or proceeding to restrain, correct or abate
the condition and/or violation.
(2005 Code, § 30-108)  (Ord. passed 12-5-1994)
ADMINISTRATION, ENFORCEMENT
AND APPEALS
§ 155.070  ZONING ADMINISTRATOR; DUTIES.
   (A)   The city shall appoint a Zoning Administrator, who shall be duly
sworn.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Zoning Administrator to administer and
enforce the provisions of this chapter as follows.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator shall issue watershed protection permits
and watershed protection occupancy permits as prescribed in this chapter. A
record of all permits shall be kept on file and shall be available for public
inspection during regular office hours of the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator or his or her designee shall serve as
Clerk to the Watershed Review Board.
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator shall keep records of all amendments to
this chapter and shall provide copies of all amendments upon adoption to the
supervisor of the classification and standards group, Water Quality Section,
state’s Division of Environmental Management.
      (4)   The Zoning Administrator is granted the authority to administer and
enforce the provisions of this chapter. The Zoning Administrator, or the Zoning
Administrator’s designee, may enter any building, structure, or premises, as
provided by law, to perform any duty imposed by this chapter.
      (5)   The Zoning Administrator shall keep a record of variances to this
chapter. This record shall be submitted to the supervisor of the classification
and standards group, Water Quality Section, Division of Environmental
Management, on an annual basis and shall provide a description of each project
receiving a variance and the reasons for granting the variance.
(2005 Code, § 30-130)  (Ord. passed 12-5-1994)
§ 155.071  APPEAL FROM THE WATERSHED ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the Zoning
Administrator may be appealed to and decided by the Watershed Board of
Adjustment.
   (B)   An appeal from a decision of the Zoning Administrator must be
submitted to the Watershed Board of Adjustment within 30 days from the date the
order, interpretation, decision or determination is made. All appeals must be
made in writing stating the reasons for the appeal. Following submission of an
appeal, the Zoning Administrator shall transmit to the Watershed Board of
Adjustment all papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed
from was taken.
   (C)   An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed,
unless the Zoning Administrator certifies to the Watershed Board of Adjustment
after the notice of appeal has been filed with the Zoning Administrator, that,
by reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would in the Zoning
Administrator’s opinion cause imminent peril to life or property. In that case
proceedings may not be stayed, except by a restraining order, which may be
granted by the Watershed Board of Adjustment or by a court of record on
application, on notice to the Zoning Administrator and on due cause shown.
   (D)   The Watershed Board of Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for
hearing the appeal and give notice of the hearing to the parties and shall
decide the appeal within a reasonable time. At the hearing, any party may
appear in person, by agent or by attorney.
(2005 Code, § 30-131)  (Ord. passed 12-5-1994)
§ 155.072  CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS TO THIS CHAPTER.
   (A)   The City Council may, on its own motion or on petition, after public
notice and hearing, amend, supplement, change or modify the watershed
regulations and restrictions as described in this chapter.
   (B)   No action shall be taken until the proposal has been submitted to the
Watershed Review Board for review and recommendations. The Watershed Review
Board shall have 45 days from the time the proposed amendment is submitted in
which to make its recommendation. If the Watershed Review Board fails to submit
a report within 45 days, the City Council may proceed as though a favorable
report had been received. The City Council is not bound by the recommendations,
if any, of the Watershed Review Board.
   (C)   Under no circumstances shall the City Council adopt amendments,
supplements or changes that would cause this chapter to violate the watershed
protection rules as adopted by the state’s Environmental Management Commission.
All amendments shall be filed with the state’s Division of Environmental
Management, state’s Division of Environmental Health, and the state’s Division
of Community Assistance.
(2005 Code, § 30-132)  (Ord. passed 12-5-1994)
§ 155.073  PUBLIC NOTICE AND PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   Before adopting or amending this chapter, the City Council shall hold a
public hearing on the proposed changes. A notice of the public hearing shall be
given once a week for two successive calendar weeks in a newspaper having
general circulation in the county. The notice shall be published for the first
time not less than ten, nor more than 25, days before the date fixed for the
hearing.
(2005 Code, § 30-133)  (Ord. passed 12-5-1994)
§ 155.074  FEES FOR APPLICATION TO WATERSHED BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   Application fees for variances or appeals to the Watershed Board of
Adjustment shall be established by the City Council, in order to cover
necessary administrative costs and advertising expenses. Fees shall be paid
prior to the placement of an item on any agenda of the Watershed Board of
Adjustment.
(2005 Code, § 30-134)  (Ord. passed 12-5-1994)
§ 155.075  ESTABLISHMENT OF WATERSHED REVIEW BOARD.
   The city’s Planning Board, consisting of seven members appointed by the City
Council, shall serve as the Watershed Review Board. Officers and duties, rules
of conduct for members and meeting procedures shall be conducted in accordance
with the rules of procedure for the city’s Planning Board (7-15-1993 and any
subsequent amendments).
(2005 Code, § 30-135)  (Ord. passed 12-5-1994)
§ 155.076  WATERSHED BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   Establishment. The city’s Zoning Board of Adjustment, consisting of
seven regular members and three alternate members appointed by the City
Council, shall serve as the Watershed Board of Adjustment. Officers and duties,
rules of conduct for members and meeting procedures shall be conducted in
accordance with rules of procedure for the Zoning Board of Adjustment.
(2005 Code, § 30-136)
   (B)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   Administrative review. The Watershed Board of Adjustment shall hear
and decide appeals from any decision or determination made by the Zoning
Administrator in the enforcement of this chapter.
      (2)   Variances. The Watershed Board of Adjustment shall have the power
to authorize, in specific cases, minor variances from the terms of this chapter
as will not be contrary to the public interests where, owing to special
conditions, a literal enforcement of this chapter will result in practical
difficulties or unnecessary hardship, so that the spirit of this chapter shall
be observed, public safety and welfare secured and substantial justice done.
      (3)   Notification and reasonable comment period. The Zoning
Administrator shall notify and allow a reasonable comment period for all other
local governments having jurisdiction in the designated watershed where the
variance is being considered.
      (4)   Applications. Applications for a variance shall be made on the
proper form obtainable from the Zoning Administrator and shall include the
following information:
         (a)   A site plan, drawn to a scale of at least one inch to 50 feet,
indicating the property lines of the parcel upon which the use is proposed; any
existing or proposed structures; parking areas and other built-upon areas;
surface water drainage. The site plan shall be neatly drawn and indicate north
point, name and address of person who prepared the plan, date of original
drawing and an accurate record of any later revisions;
         (b)   A complete and detailed description of the proposed variance,
together with any other pertinent information which the applicant feels would
be helpful to the Watershed Board of Adjustment in considering the application;
and
         (c)   The Zoning Administrator shall notify in writing each local
government having jurisdiction in the watershed. Notice shall include a
description of the variance being requested. Local governments receiving notice
of the variance may, within 30 days from the date notice is issued, submit
comments to the Zoning Administrator prior to a decision by the Watershed Board
of Adjustment. The comments shall become a part of the record of proceedings of
the Watershed Board of Adjustment.
      (5)   Granting of variance. Before the Watershed Board of Adjustment may
grant a variance, it shall make the following three findings, which shall be
recorded in the permanent record of the case, and shall include the factual
reasons on which they are based.
         (a)   There are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships in the
way of carrying out the strict letter of the chapter. In order to determine
that there are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships, the Watershed
Board of Adjustment must find and conclude that the five following conditions
exist:
            1.   If the applicant complies with the provisions of the chapter,
the applicant can secure no reasonable return from, nor make reasonable use of,
his or her property. Merely proving that the variance would permit a greater
profit to be made from the property will not be considered adequate to justify
the granting of a variance. Moreover, the Watershed Board of Adjustment shall
consider whether the variance is the minimum possible deviation from the terms
of the chapter that will make possible the reasonable use of the applicant’s
property;
            2.   The hardship results from the application of the chapter to
the property rather than from other factors such as deed restrictions or other
hardship;
            3.   The hardship is due to the physical nature of the applicant’s
property, such as its size, shape or topography, which is different from that
of neighboring property;
            4.   The hardship is not the result of the actions of an applicant
who knowingly or unknowingly violates the article, or who purchases the
property after the effective date of this chapter, 12-5-1994, and then comes to
the Watershed Board of Adjustment for relief; and
            5.   The hardship is particular to the applicant’s property, rather
than the result of conditions that are widespread. If other properties are
equally subject to the hardship created in the restriction, then granting a
variance would be a special privilege denied to others, and would not promote
equal justice.
         (b)   The variance is in harmony with the general purpose and intent
of the chapter and preserves its spirit.
         (c)   In the granting of the variance, the public safety and welfare
have been assured and substantial justice has been done. The Board of
Adjustment shall not grant a variance if it finds that doing so would in any
respect impair the public health, safety or general welfare.
      (6)   Conditions. In granting the variance, the Watershed Board of
Adjustment may attach conditions regarding the location, character and other
features of the proposed building, structure or use as it may deem advisable in
furtherance of the purpose of this chapter. If a variance for the construction,
alteration or use of property is granted, construction, alteration or use shall
be in accordance with the approved site plan.
      (7)   Refusal to hear an appeal. The Watershed Board of Adjustment shall
refuse to hear an appeal or an application for a variance previously denied if
it finds that there have been no substantial changes in conditions or
circumstances bearing on the appeal or application.
      (8)   Watershed protection permit. A variance issued in accordance with
this section shall be considered a watershed protection permit and shall expire
if a building permit or watershed occupancy permit for the use is not obtained
by the applicant within six months from the date of the decision.
      (9)   Preliminary record. If the application calls for the granting of a
major variance, and if the Watershed Board of Adjustment decides in favor of
granting the variance, the Watershed Board of Adjustment shall prepare a
preliminary record of the hearing with all deliberate speed. The preliminary
record of the hearing shall include:
         (a)   The variance application;
         (b)   The hearing notices;
         (c)   The evidence presented;
         (d)   Motions, offers of proof, objections to evidence and rulings on
them;
         (e)   Proposed findings and exceptions; and
         (f)   The proposed decision, including all conditions proposed to be
added to the permit.
      (10)   Record to be sent to Commission. The preliminary record shall be
sent to the state’s Environmental Management Commission for its review as
follows.
         (a)   If the Commission concludes from the preliminary record that the
variance qualifies as a major variance and that:
            1.   The property owner can secure no reasonable return from, nor
make any practical use of the property unless the proposed variance is granted;
and
            2.   The variance, if granted, will not result in a serious threat
to the water supply; then, the Commission shall approve the variance as
proposed or approve the proposed variance with conditions and stipulations. The
Commission shall prepare a Commission decision and send it to the Watershed
Board of Adjustment. If the Commission approves the variance as proposed, the
Watershed Board of Adjustment shall prepare a final decision granting the
proposed variance. If the Commission approves the variance with conditions and
stipulations, the Board shall prepare a final decision, including such
conditions and stipulations, granting the proposed variance.
         (b)   The Commission shall deny approval of the variance as proposed
if the Commission concludes from the preliminary record that the variance
qualifies as a major variance and that:
            1.   The property owner can secure a reasonable return from or make
a practical use of the property without a variance; or
            2.   The variance, if granted, will result in a serious threat to
the water supply.
         (c)   The Commission shall prepare a Commission decision and send it
to the Watershed Board of Adjustment. The Board shall prepare a final decision
denying the variance as proposed.
(2005 Code, § 30-137)
   (C)   Appeals. Each decision of the Watershed Board of Adjustment is subject
to review by the county’s Superior Court by proceedings in the nature of
certiorari. Any petition for review by the county’s Superior Court shall be
filed with the county’s Clerk of Superior Court within 30 days after the
decision of the Watershed Board of Adjustment is filed in the office of the
Zoning Administrator, or after a written copy of the decision is delivered to
every aggrieved party who has filed a written request for a copy of the
decision with the Zoning Administrator or Chairperson of the Watershed Board of
Adjustment at the time of its hearing of the case, whichever is later. The
decision of the Watershed Board of Adjustment may be delivered to the aggrieved
party either by personal service or by registered or certified mail return
receipt requested.
(2005 Code, § 30-138)
(Ord. passed 12-5-1994)
§ 155.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished by a fine of not more
than $500 or imprisonment for not more than 30 days.
(2005 Code, § 30-7)
   (B)   (1)   If any subdivision, development or land use is found to be in
violation of this chapter, the Administrator or his or her designee may, in
addition to all other remedies available either in law or in equity, institute
a civil penalty in the amount of $50; action or proceedings to restrain,
correct or abate the violation; to prevent occupancy of the building, structure
or land; or to prevent any illegal act, conduct, business or use in or about
the premises.
      (2)   If the Zoning Administrator for the city finds that any of the
provisions of this chapter are being violated, the Zoning Administrator shall
notify in writing the person responsible for such violation, indicating the
nature of the violation, and ordering the action necessary to correct it. The
Zoning Administrator shall order discontinuance of the illegal use of land,
buildings or structures; removal of illegal buildings or structures, or of
additions, alterations or structural changes to illegal structures;
discontinuance of any illegal work being done; or shall take any action
authorized by this chapter to ensure compliance with or to prevent violation of
its provisions. If a ruling of the Zoning Administrator is questioned, the
aggrieved party may appeal such ruling to the Watershed Board of Adjustment.
(2005 Code, § 30-38)
   (C)   Any person who, being the owner or agent of the owner of any land
located within the jurisdiction of the city, thereafter subdivides his or her
land in violation of this chapter or transfers or sells land by reference to,
exhibition of or any other use of a plat showing a subdivision of the land
before the plat has been properly approved under this chapter and recorded in
the office of the Register of Deeds, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. The
description by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer or other document
used in the process of selling or transferring land shall not exempt the
transaction from this penalty. The city may bring an action for injunction of
any illegal subdivision, transfer, conveyance or sale of land and the court
shall, upon appropriate findings, issue an injunction and order requiring the
offending party to comply with this chapter.
(2005 Code, § 30-60)
(Ord. passed 12-5-1994)
CHAPTER 156:  STORM WATER MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
156.01   Authority
   
156.02   Storm Water Utility
   
156.03   Boundaries and jurisdiction
   
156.04   Definitions
   
156.05   Storm water management fee
   
156.06   Exemptions and credits
   
156.07   Back billing
   
156.08   Complaints regarding a bill
   
156.09   Appeal
Storm Water Advisory Board
   
156.20   Authority
   
156.21   Appointment; terms
   
156.22   Meetings; quorum and voting
   
156.23   Conflict of interest
   
156.24   Rules of procedure
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.01  AUTHORITY.
   Pursuant to G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 16, the city is authorized to create a Storm
Water Utility and establish a schedule of storm water fees for property in the
corporate limits and later annexed into the city.
(Ord. 06611, passed 6-26-2006)
§ 156.02  STORM WATER UTILITY.
   A Storm Water Utility is hereby established to provide storm water
management services, as authorized by state law. Storm water service charges
will be determined and modified from time to time so that the total revenues
generated by said charges will be used to ay the principal of and interest on
the debt incurred by the city or utility for storm water purposes and such
expenses as are reasonably necessary or convenient in the planning,
construction, operation and maintenance of the storm water system.
(Ord. 06611, passed 6-26-2006)
§ 156.03  BOUNDARIES AND JURISDICTION.
   The boundaries and jurisdiction of the Storm Water Management Utility shall
extend to the corporate limits of the city, as they may exist from time to
time, and such areas lying outside the corporate limits of the city as shall be
approved by the City Council.
(Ord. 06611, passed 6-26-2006)
§ 156.04  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEVELOPED PROPERTY.
      (1)   Real property which has been altered from its natural state by the
addition and attachment of any improvements such as buildings, structures or
other impervious area.
      (2)   For new construction, property shall be considered DEVELOPED
PROPERTY upon final approval of site improvements by the city.
   EQUIVALENT RESIDENTIAL UNIT (ERU). The total impervious area of a typical
single-family residential property, and is determined as the median impervious
area of a representative sample, as determined by the city, of all developed
residential properties in the single-family residential category.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE AREA. A surface which, because of its composition or
compacted nature, impedes or prevents natural infiltration of water into the
soil, including, but not limited to, roofs, decks, driveways, patios,
sidewalks, parking areas, tennis courts, streets or compacted gravel surfaces.
   PROPERTY OWNER OF RECORD. The person identified as owner by county tax
records.
   REVENUES. All fees, assessments or other income received by the Storm Water
Utility, including, but not limited to, amounts received from the investment or
deposit of monies in any fund or account, and all amounts received as gifts or
donations, and the proceeds from the sale of bonds to finance the storm water
management program, or any other type of funds derived from grants, fees or
loans which by purpose or effect relate to storm water management activities.
   SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY. Developed property which serves the
primary purpose of providing a permanent dwelling unit, regardless of the
zoning district in which such property is located for single-family detached
units, and which may or may not have accessory uses related to the purpose of
providing permanent dwelling facilities.
   STORM WATER UTILITY SERVICE/FEE. The annual monetary amount charged each
parcel of real property for the services provided by the Storm Water Utility
system and program as set forth in the city schedule of rates and fees, a copy
of which is located in the office of the City Clerk and is incorporate by
reference herein.
(Ord. 06611, passed 6-26-2006)
§ 156.05  STORM WATER MANAGEMENT FEE.
   (A)   The availability fee for storm water management shall be effective and
commence on 7-1-2006, for the fiscal year, which begins 7-1-2006 and continues
for 12 months through 6-30-2007. The availability fee shall be initially
assessed and billed on the basis of improved property as defined herein, owned
on 1-1-2006 and this initial fee for 12 months will be billed on the annual ad
valorem tax bill to improve property owners which will be due on 9-1-2006. Each
year thereafter, the billing period will commence with the fiscal years which
begins on July 1 and continues until the following June 30.
   (B)   The availability fee shall be assessed, billed and collected by the
Tax Collector from the owners of all improved property, as defined herein,
within the city.
   (C)   The storm water management fee shall be assessed to owners of
residential and commercial properties on an annual basis at a rate adopted by
the City Council, as amended from time to time.
   (D)   The storm water management fee shall be billed with property taxes,
shall be payable in the same manner as property taxes and in the case of non-
payment, shall be collected in any manner by which the delinquent personal or
real property taxes can be collected and the fees are a lien on the real
property described in the bill that includes the fee.
   (E)   Property owned by the federal, state, county or city governments shall
be subject to the storm water service fee at the applicable rate.
(Ord. 06611, passed 6-26-2006)
§ 156.06  EXEMPTIONS AND CREDITS.
   (A)   Except as provided in this section, no public or private property
shall be exempt from the storm water fee.
   (B)   Only undeveloped land with fewer than 200 square feet of impervious
surface area shall be exempt from the storm water service fee.
(Ord. 06611, passed 6-26-2006)
§ 156.07  BACK BILLING.
   Failure to receive a bill is not justification for non-payment. The owner of
each parcel of developed land shall be ultimately obligated to pay such fee. If
a customer is under-billed or if no bill is sent for developed land, the city
may back bill up to two years.
(Ord. 06611, passed 6-26-2006)
§ 156.08  COMPLAINTS REGARDING A BILL.
   (A)   A customer having a grievance or complaint that a bill is excessive
must file a written notice with the City Manager’s office. If it is determined
that the bill is in error, an adjustment will be made accordingly.
   (B)   No adjustment will be made retroactively for more than a two-year
period.
(Ord. 06611, passed 6-26-2006)
§ 156.09  APPEAL.
   Any customer who believes the provisions of this subchapter have been
applied in error may appeal in the following manner.
   (A)   An appeal must be filed in writing with the City Manager. At the
discretion of the City Manager, the appeal shall include information that shows
the total property area, the impervious surface area and any other features or
conditions which influence the hydrologic response of the property to rainfall
events.
   (B)   A technical review shall be performed to determine the accuracy of the
information in the city’s impervious surface database. The Manager may adjust
the fee or credit as long as the adjustment is in conformance with the intent
of this subchapter. At the conclusion of the review, the Manager shall issue a
written determination stating whether an adjustment to the service rate is
appropriate and, if so, the amount of such adjustment.
   (C)   All decisions of the manager shall be served on the customer
personally or by registered or certified mail. Service shall be based upon the
billing address of the customer.
   (D)   The Manager may make no adjustment to a customer’s bill for more than
the two-year period immediately preceding the date that the customer’s appeal
is received by the Manager.
(Ord. 06611, passed 6-26-2006)
STORM WATER ADVISORY BOARD
§ 156.20  AUTHORITY.
   There is hereby created an advisory board to be known as the “City of
Elizabeth City Storm Water Advisory Board”, hereinafter referred to as the
“Storm Water Advisory Board”, to monitor completion of Storm Water Utility
action items, report on progress to completion, liaise with the county’s Storm
Water Board, oversee the education and outreach efforts and make
recommendations to Council on further action.
(Ord. 2014-08-1, passed 8-25-2014)
§ 156.21  APPOINTMENT; TERMS.
   (A)   There shall be a Storm Water Advisory Board appointed by the City
Council. The membership shall consist of seven members; three City Council
members; and four city residents, with one representative from each of the
city’s four wards.
   (B)   City Council members serving on the Storm Water Advisory Board are
serving by virtue of their elected office. Should the City Council member cease
to hold elected office during his or her term on the Storm Water Advisory
Board, he or she is thereafter ineligible and the City Council shall appoint a
replacement.
   (C)   City residents serving on the Storm Water Advisory Board are serving
by virtue of ward representation. Should the citizen move from the ward being
represented, he or she is thereafter ineligible to represent the ward and shall
be requested to resign from the Board. The City Council shall appoint a
resident of the ward being represented to fill the unexpired term.
   (D)   Storm Water Advisory Board members shall be appointed to serve two-
year staggered terms, but members may continue to serve until their successors
have been appointed. Vacancies may be filled by the City Council for unexpired
terms.
   (E)   Members may be appointed to no more than two successive terms, unless
the City Council determines that the removal of individuals made ineligible by
this subchapter would be detrimental to the functioning of the Board.
   (F)   Three consecutive, unexcused absences on the part of any appointee to
the Storm Water Advisory Board automatically constitutes resignation on the
part of the appointee and generates automatic acceptance of such resignation of
the appointee by the City Council. EXCUSED ABSENCES are defined as absences
caused by events beyond one’s control and are subject to approval by the Storm
Water Advisory Board. Storm Water Advisory Board members may be removed by the
City Council at any time for any other good cause related to performance of
duties.
   (G)   Expiration of current members’ terms:
      (1)   Three City Council members ending in December 2015 with their City
Council term of office;
      (2)   Ward One representative ending 8-1-2015;
      (3)   Ward Two representative ending 8-1-2015;
      (4)   Ward Three representative ending 8-1-2016; and
      (5)   Ward Four representative ending 8-1-2016.
   (H)   After the initial terms stated above, three Council members shall be
appointed to two-year terms in December of odd-numbered years; Ward One and
Ward Two representatives shall be appointed to two-year terms on August 1 of
odd-numbered years; and Ward Three and Ward Four representatives shall be
appointed to two-year terms on August 1 of even-numbered years.
(Ord. 2014-08-1, passed 8-25-2014)
§ 156.22  MEETINGS; QUORUM AND VOTING.
   (A)   The Storm Water Advisory Board shall establish a regular meetings
schedule and shall meet at least quarterly and frequently enough so that it can
perform the duties prescribed by the City Council.
   (B)   Minutes shall be kept of all Storm Water Advisory Board proceedings.
   (C)   All Storm Water Advisory Board meetings shall be open to the public
and, whenever feasible, the agenda for each Board meeting shall be made
available in advance of the meeting.
   (D)   A quorum for the Storm Water Advisory Board shall consist of a
majority of the Board membership (excluding vacant seats). A quorum is
necessary for the Board to take action and all actions shall be taken by vote.
(Ord. 2014-08-1, passed 8-25-2014)
§ 156.23  CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   In the event an issue comes before the Storm Water Advisory Board and a
member of the Board has a financial-, personal- or employment-related interest
in the outcome of the issue, that member shall notify the Board members that he
or she has a potential conflict of interest and will request that he or she be
excused from voting. A majority vote of the remaining members present shall be
required in order to excuse a member from voting on a particular issue.
(Ord. 2014-08-1, passed 8-25-2014)
§ 156.24  RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   The Storm Water Advisory Board shall adopt rules of procedure to provide
guidance on the rules to be followed by the Board. Said procedures shall comply
with all requirements of the state’s Open Meetings Law, being G.S. Ch. 143,
Art. 33C and any other applicable state law, local ordinances, rules and/or
policies, as may be required.
(Ord. 2014-08-1, passed 8-25-2014)
CHAPTER 157:  URBAN FORESTRY
Section
   
157.01   Purpose and intent
   
157.02   Definitions
   
157.03   Urban Forestry Commission
   
157.04   Trimming, pruning, planting and removal of trees and shrubbery
   
157.05   Trees and shrubbery abutting city property to be kept trimmed;
responsibility
   
157.06   Inspection of sites
   
157.07   Notice and appeal
 
   
157.99   Penalty
§ 157.01  PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The city, believing that trees and the urban forest have a profound
effect on the quality of life in the community, deems it necessary and
desirable in the interest of public health, safety and the general welfare to
enact this chapter for the preservation, planting, care, replacement and safe
removal of trees and shrubbery located on city property and rights of way
without denying the reasonable use and enjoyment of real property.
   (B)   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote and regulate the planting
of new trees and shrubbery; to vigorously encourage the management and
protection of existing trees and shrubbery, including their root systems; to
regulate the preservation, replacement and removal of trees and to enhance the
quality of life through sustainable urban forest practices and increase the
benefits that trees provide, including, but not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Absorption of carbon dioxide and returning of oxygen;
      (2)   Enhancement of property values;
      (3)   Improvement of storm water runoff;
      (4)   Increase knowledge and job opportunities in the area of urban
forestry;
      (5)   Maintenance and improvement of the city’s appearance;
      (6)   Prevention of damage to property and person;
      (7)   Provision of shade for cooling;
      (8)   Reduction of soil erosion and the increase of rainwater
infiltration; and
      (9)   Screening of noise, dust and glare
   (C)   This chapter provides full power and authority over all trees, plants
and shrubbery located within the city’s right-of-way, and all parks, cemeteries
and other public grounds owned by the city; and to trees, plants and shrubs
located on private property that constitute a hazard or threat to public
property or public welfare.
(Ord. 08116, passed 11-24-2008)
§ 157.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ARBORIST. An individual trained in arboriculture, forestry, landscape
architecture, horticulture or related fields and experienced in the
conservation, management and preservation of trees.
   ARBORIST, CERTIFIED. A person who is licensed by the International Society
of Arboriculture (ISA) as a professional to perform arboricultural work in the
state.
   CANOPY MANAGER. Designee of the City Manager from among city employees to
oversee management of the city’s urban forestry program.
   CITY RIGHT-OF-WAY. An area of land that is the city’s property. This may
include sidewalks, grass, streets and city owned buildings.
   DESIGNEE. A person that is appointed by the City Manager or department head
to inspect or perform government work. A city employee or contracted private
businessperson can be a designee to include an arborist or horticulturist, when
deemed necessary.
   INTERNATIONAL SOCIETY OF ARBORICULTURE. A worldwide professional
organization dedicated to fostering a greater appreciation for trees and to
promoting research, technology and the professional practice of arboriculture.
   PROPERTY OWNER. The person shown as registered owner of said property as
recorded in the county’s Public Registry of Deeds.
   PRUNING. The act of removing, or cutting back parts of a tree or shrubbery.
   TREE. A living wood plant with an erect perennial trunk and a definitely
formed crown.
   TREE (PROPERTY HOLDING). Determined by which part of the tree is located on
a property. If more than 50% of the tree’s trunk is located on a property, then
it is determined to be the property of that owner.
   TREE TOPPING. The removal or cutting back of major portions of a tree by any
pruning practice resulting in more than one-third of the foliage and limbs
being removed. This includes any pruning that leads to the disfigurement of the
normal shape of the tree. TOPPING is also referred to as HEADING, STUBBING or
DEHORNING.
   SHRUBBERY. A bush, hedge, vine or other low lying plant or growth.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width of every public right-of-way when any
part thereof is open to the use of the public, as a matter of right, for
purposes of vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
   URBAN FOREST. The collection of trees, shrubs, other vegetation and
associated natural features that make up the city tree canopy and its growing
zone.
   URBAN FORESTRY MANAGEMENT PLAN. A document that provides for the inventory,
development, conservation and care of the urban forest resources of the city.
(Ord. 08116, passed 11-24-2008)
§ 157.03  URBAN FORESTRY COMMISSION.
   (A)   The City Council shall establish the Elizabeth City Urban Forestry
Commission (ECUFC), consisting of seven members who are appointed by the Mayor
with the approval of City Council. All members shall reside in the county with
no more than two members living outside of the corporate city limits. Members
of the Commission shall serve without compensation.
   (B)   Members will be appointed to staggered three-year terms. Additionally,
the City Manager may appoint ex-officio non-voting members. The Commission
shall select annually from among its members a Chair and Vice-Chair. Members
may be appointed to no more than three successive terms. ECUFC members may be
removed by the City Council at any time for failure to attend three consecutive
meetings or for failure to attend 30% or more of the meetings held within any
12-month period or for any other good cause related to non-performance of
duties. Vacancies resulting from resignation or from a member’s failure to
attend the required number of meetings shall be filled by the Mayor with
approval of the City Council.
   (C)   The Canopy Manager shall serve as Secretary to the Commission. The
Commission may request information on trees located on city property and shall
receive in a timely fashion, reports from the Director of Public Utilities. The
Commission shall receive regular reports from the Director of Planning and
Community Development on landscaping and buffering plans for new developments
and alterations to existing developments. The Commission shall promote city
canopy growth and maintenance within city limits.
   (D)   Commission volunteers will have residency in the corporate limits of
the city. Meeting schedules shall be posted in a public forum. The Secretary or
his or her designee will be responsible for keeping minutes. The Commission
will define a quorum as four members being present. Tree Commission members
will declare when they have a conflict of interest and shall not vote on
matters of conflict if excused by a majority of the Commission members.
   (E)   (1)   The Commission will also have the power to accept funds granted
to the Commission from government, private or non-profit organizations. The
city shall act as a fiscal agent for the Commission and must approve all
expenditures.
      (2)   The Commission shall promote planting and replacement of trees in
the city.
      (3)   The Commission shall also submit a budget for the Arbor Day and
training/representative activities.
      (4)   The Commission shall start education activities to inform residents
on matters concerning trees and shrubbery.
      (5)   The Commission shall formulate and adopt rules of procedure under
which it will operate.
      (6)   The Commission may also assist the Planning or Public Works
Departments and/or the City Manager in any tree related issues.
   (F)   The Commission’s duties and responsibilities will include, but not be
limited to, the following:
      (1)   Help develop and maintain the city urban forestry management plan
for the inventory, development, conservation and care of the urban forest
resources of the city;
      (2)   Coordinate or conduct special projects for the betterment of the
urban forest;
      (3)   In cooperation with the Canopy Manager, develop and keep current
detailed standards and specifications for Urban Forestry management based on
the most up-to-date research by North Carolina State University and the
International Society of Arboriculture;
      (4)   Request information on trees located on city property and receives
in a timely fashion, reports from the Directors of Public Utilities, Parks and
Recreation;
      (5)   Receive regular reports from the Director of Planning and Community
Development on landscaping and buffering plans for new developments and
alterations to existing developments;
      (6)   Encourage and promote canopy growth and maintenance within the
city;
      (7)   Organize and manage the city’s Arbor Day celebration and provide
representation at urban forestry related events. In addition, submit a proposed
budget to City Council by March 1, for the Arbor Day activities;
      (8)   Initiate educational activities to inform residents on matters
concerning the Urban Forest; and
      (9)   Report to the City Council by March 31 on the state of the urban
forest.
(Ord. 08116, passed 11-24-2008)
§ 157.04  TRIMMING, PRUNING, PLANTING AND REMOVAL OF TREES AND SHRUBBERY.
   (A)   No person shall remove, destroy, cut, prune or otherwise treat any
tree or shrubbery having its trunk or a portion thereof upon any city property
or right-of-way or contract with another person to perform such acts without
first obtaining a written permit from the Director of Parks and Recreation,
except as herein set forth.
   (B)   No person shall plant or contract with another to plant any tree or
shrubbery on any city property, except as herein noted, as stated in §
152.09 of this code of ordinances. Plantings under utility lines as stated in
the Unified Development Ordinance (UDO) are not allowed.
   (C)   Public and private utilities shall submit written specifications for
pruning, trenching or grading around trees and shrubbery on city property to
the Public Utilities Director for approval. A utility company shall not be
required to obtain a permit for routine maintenance operations affecting trees
and shrubbery having their trunks upon city property so long as such work is
done in strict accordance with the specifications as approved by the Public
Utilities Director or City Manager designee. A utility company is required to
obtain a permit to remove any tree or shrubbery on city property. Approved
written specifications shall be valid for two years, after which new
specifications or a request for an additional two-year extension of the
previously approved specifications must be made by the utility company.
   (D)   City properties shall not be clear-cut during the conduct of urban
forestry activities. To maintain the visual character of the site from
adjoining properties and right-of-way, a vegetated perimeter buffer shall be
maintained while site development or redevelopment occurs. A 32-foot wide
buffer of naturally existing vegetation shall be maintained along all
boundaries of the property being forested that adjoin other properties. Along
public rights-of-way, a 50-foot buffer of existing vegetation shall be
maintained, exclusive of areas required for access to the site.
   (E)   Under no circumstances will tree topping be allowed.
   (F)   Guidelines for planting, pruning, protection and removal for trees and
shrubbery are available in the Elizabeth City Urban Forest Standards and
Specifications established and keep current by the city’s Urban Forest
Commission.
(Ord. 08116, passed 11-24-2008)  Penalty, see §
157.99
§ 157.05  TREES AND SHRUBBERY ABUTTING CITY PROPERTY TO BE KEPT TRIMMED;
RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Trees, shrubbery, flowers, bushes or vines standing in or upon any lot
or land abutting city property and having branches, limbs, trunks or other
parts projecting onto city property shall be maintained by the owner of the
property on which such trees, shrubbery, flowers, bushes or vines are growing
so as not to interfere with the free and safe passage along the city right-of-
way by pedestrians and vehicular traffic.
   (B)   If the owner of such property does not keep this growth from
projecting onto city property, the Public Utilities Director may order its
removal from city property. The order shall be in writing to the owner and
shall be acted upon within 30 days from the time of the receipt of the order.
If, after 30 days, the owner has not responded or acted to remove the
projecting growth from such trees or plants, then the Public Utilities Director
may enter upon the private property to perform the work necessary to correct
the condition and bill the owner for the actual costs incurred as stated in §§
95.60 and
95.61 of this code of ordinances. In situations deemed by the Public Utilities
Director to constitute an imminent threat to the public health, safety or
welfare, the Public Utilities Director may act without prior notification to
the property owner.
(Ord. 08116, passed 11-24-2008)  Penalty, see §
157.99
§ 157.06  INSPECTION OF SITES.
   (A)   In accordance with §
95.57(C) of this chapter, the Public Utilities Director or his or her designees
may periodically inspect areas subject to the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Public Utilities Director or his or her designees may conduct such
investigations as deemed reasonably necessary to carry out the duties as
prescribed in this chapter and may enter at reasonable times upon private
property, as defined herein, for the purpose of inspecting trees and shrubbery
subject to the provisions of this chapter. No person shall refuse entry or
access to any authorized representative or agent of the city who requests entry
for the purposes of inspection and who presents appropriate credentials, nor
shall any person obstruct, hamper or interfere with such representative while
in the process of carrying out official duties.
   (C)   If, through inspection, it is determined that a person has failed to
comply or is no longer in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, a
notice to comply shall be served upon that person by registered mail, returned
receipt requested or by hand delivery from the Public Works Director. The
notice shall state the violation and describe that action which will be
necessary to comply with this chapter.
(Ord. 08116, passed 11-24-2008)  Penalty, see §
157.99
§ 157.07  NOTICE AND APPEAL.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be
notified by the City Manager or his or her designee of the specific violation
by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, or by hand delivery.
The notice shall set forth the nature of the violation, the measures required
to comply with this chapter, if compliance is at all practicable, and a
reasonable time period within which compliance must be made.
   (B)   If any aggrieved person disagrees with a decision of the Public Works
Director, such person may request a hearing within ten working days of receipt
of the notice of violation. The request must be in writing and directed to the
Tree Commission’s Secretary. The Tree Commission’s Secretary shall then forward
the request to the Board of Adjustment, hereinafter “Appeals Board”. In
considering whether to consider a complaint, the Board of Adjustment shall
proceed in the same manner as the City Council when considering conditional use
permit applications.
   (C)   The Board of Adjustment may modify amend or revise the decision being
appealed. The decision of the Appeals Board shall be served upon the appealing
party by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, or by hand
delivery.
   (D)   If any aggrieved party is dissatisfied with the decision of the
Appeals Board, an appeal may be taken to the county’s Superior Court. Notice of
the appeal must be filed within 30 working days of receipt of the Appeals
Board’s decision. The parties may stipulate that the appeal to the county’s
Superior Court shall be a review of the record only, as in the nature of a writ
of certiorari.
   (E)   Any aggrieved party may request an injunction to preserve the status
quo during the pendency of any appeal in accordance with applicable state law.
(Ord. 08116, passed 11-24-2008)
§ 157.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Civil penalty. Any person who violates any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be subject to a civil penalty. The amount of the civil penalty
shall be no more than $500. Each day of a continuing violation shall constitute
a separate violation.
      (1)   The Appeals Board shall determine and assess the civil penalty, if
any, at the time of the appeals hearing, if one is requested. In the absence of
an appeal, the Public Utilities Director shall submit a request to the
Chairperson of the Appeals Board who shall assemble the Appeals Board and
assess the civil penalty with supporting documentation upon prior notice to the
violating party of the date and time of the Appeals Board hearing. At least ten
days’ notice shall be given to the violating party of the date, time and
location whereby the Appeals Board will consider the request to assess a civil
penalty.
      (2)   In assessing the civil penalty, the Appeals Board shall take into
consideration the amount of money that the violator would be required to spend
in order to be in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, the amount of
money saved by the violator in violating the chapter, the cost of replacement
of any removed tree, shrubbery or regulated tree and other factors that it may
deem relevant.
      (3)   To determine the specific amount of the civil penalty for damage or
destruction to regulated trees, the shall use the standard tree evaluation
formula provided by the International Society of Arboriculture, as it may be
amended from time to time. The standard tree evaluation formula is made a part
of this chapter and adopted herein by reference. The Appeals Board shall have
no discretion to vary the cost figures set forth in the formula.
   (B)   Criminal penalty. A violation of this chapter subjects the offender to
a civil penalty, pursuant to the authority granted by G.S. § 160A-175, and does
not subject the offender to the criminal penalty provisions of G.S. § 14-4.
   (C)   Injunctive relief. Whenever there exists reasonable cause to believe
that any person is violating this chapter or any standards adopted pursuant to
this chapter or any term, condition or provision of an approved permit, the
city may, either before or after the institution of any other action or
proceeding authorized by this chapter, institute a civil action in the name of
the city for a mandatory or prohibitory injunction and an order of abatement
demanding the violator to correct the unlawful condition upon or cease the
unlawful use of the property.
(Ord. 08116, passed 11-24-2008)
CHAPTER 158:  AIRPORT ZONING
Section
United States Coast Guard Air Base
   
158.01   Short title
   
158.02   Definitions
   
158.03   Zones
   
158.04   Height limitations
   
158.05   Use restrictions
   
158.06   Non-conforming uses
   
158.07   Permits
   
158.08   Enforcement
   
158.09   Board of adjustment
   
158.10   Appeals
   
158.11   Judicial review
   
158.12   Effective date
Elizabeth City-Pasquotank
County Regional Airport
   
158.25   Short title
   
158.26   Definitions
   
158.27   Airport zones
   
158.28   Airport zone height limitations
   
158.29   Use restrictions
   
158.30   Non-conforming uses
   
158.31   Permits
   
158.32   Administration and enforcement
   
158.33   Board of adjustment
   
158.34   Appeals
   
158.35   Judicial review
   
158.36   Effective date
 
   
158.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Unified Development, see
Ch. 159
UNITED STATES COST GUARD AIR BASE
§ 158.01  SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as “The Elizabeth City Joint
Use Military/Civil Airport Zoning Ordinance”.
(2005 Code, App. A, Art. I, § I)  (Ord. passed 9-8-1970)
§ 158.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIRPORT. The U.S. Coast Guard Air Base, Elizabeth City, North Carolina.
   AIRPORT ELEVATION. The established elevation of the highest point on the
usable landing area.
   AIRPORT HAZARD. Any structure, tree or use of land which obstructs the
airspace required for, or is otherwise hazardous to, the flight of aircraft in
landing or taking off at the airport.
   AIRPORT REFERENCE POINT. The point established as the approximate geographic
center of the airport landing area and so designated.
   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT. A board consisting of ten members: five members
appointed by the Board of Commissioners of the county and five members
appointed by the City Council, as provided in the zoning ordinance of the city.
   HEIGHT. For the purpose of determining the height limits in all zones set
forth in this subchapter and shown on the zoning map, the datum shall be mean
sea level elevation unless otherwise specified.
   INSTRUMENT RUNWAY. A runway equipped or to be equipped with a precision
electronic navigation aid or landing aid or other air navigation facilities
suitable to permit the landing of aircraft by an instrument approach under
restricted visibility conditions.
   LANDING AREA. The area of the airport used for the landing, taking off or
taxiing of aircraft.
   NON-CONFORMING USE. Any preexisting structure, tree, natural growth or use
of land which is inconsistent with the provisions of this subchapter or an
amendment thereto.
   NON-INSTRUMENT RUNWAY. A runway other than an instrument runway.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, association,
joint stock association or body politic, and includes a trustee, receiver,
assignee, administrator, executor, guardian or other representative.
   RUNWAY. The paved surface of an airport landing strip.
   STRUCTURE. An object constructed or installed by humans, including, but
without limitation, buildings, towers, smokestacks and overhead transmission
lines.
   TREE. Any object of natural growth.
(2005 Code, App. A, Art. I, § II)  (Ord. passed 9-8-1970)
§ 158.03  ZONES.
   (A)   In order to carry out the provisions of this subchapter, there are
hereby created and established certain zones which include all of the land
lying within the instrument approach zones, non-instrument approach zones,
transition zones, horizontal zone and conical zone. Such areas and zones are
shown on the current maps and plans maintained by the Airport Manager at the
Elizabeth City-Pasquotank County Airport, and such documents are incorporated
herein by reference.
   (B)   The various zones are hereby established and defined as follows.
      (1)   Instrument approach zone. An instrument approach zone is
established at each end of the east-west runway for instrument landings and
takeoffs. The instrument approach zones shall have a width of 1,000 feet at a
distance of 200 feet beyond the ends of the runway, widening thereafter
uniformly to a width of 16,000 feet at a distance of 50,200 feet beyond each
end of the runway, its centerline being the continuation of the centerline of
the runway.
      (2)   Non-instrument approach zone. A non-instrument approach zone is
established at each end of all non-instrument runways for non-instrument
landings and takeoffs. The non-instrument approach zone for the north-south
runway shall have a width of 500 feet at a distance of 200 feet beyond each end
of the runway, widening thereafter uniformly to a width of 12,500 feet at a
distance of 10,200 feet beyond each end of the runway, its centerline being the
continuation of the centerline of the runway.
      (3)   Transition zones. Transition zones are hereby established adjacent
to each instrument and non-instrument runway and approach zone as indicated on
the zoning map. Transition zones symmetrically located on either side of
runways have variable widths as shown on the zoning map. Transition zones
extend outward from a line 250 feet on either side of the centerline of the
non-instrument runway, for the length of such runway plus 200 feet on each end;
and 500 feet on either side of the centerline of the instrument runway, for the
length of such runway plus 200 feet on each end, and are parallel and level
with such runway centerlines. The transition zones along such runways slope
upward and outward one foot vertically for each seven feet horizontally to the
point where they intersect the surface of the horizontal zone. Further,
transition zones are established adjacent to both instrument and non-instrument
approach zones for the entire length of the approach zones. These transition
zones have variable widths, as shown on the zoning map. Such transition zones
flare symmetrically with either side of the runway approach zones from the base
of such zones and slope upward and outward at the rate of one foot vertically
for each seven feet horizontally to the points where they intersect the
surfaces of the horizontal and conical zones.
      (4)   Horizontal zone. A horizontal zone is hereby established as the
area within a circle with its center at the airport reference point and having
a radius of 11,500 feet. The horizontal zone does not include the non-
instrument and instrument approach zones and the transition zones.
      (5)   Conical zone. A conical zone is hereby established as the area that
commences at the periphery of the horizontal zone and extends outward therefrom
a distance of 7,000 feet.
(2005 Code, App. A, Art. I, § III)  (Ord. passed 9-8-1970)
§ 158.04  HEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, no structure or tree
shall be erected, altered, allowed to grow or maintained in any zone created by
this subchapter to a height in excess of the height limit established for such
zone.
   (B)   Such height limitations are hereby established for each of the zones
in question as follows.
      (1)   Instrument approach zones. One foot in height for each 50 feet in
horizontal distance beginning at a point 200 feet from and at the centerline
elevation of the end of the instrument runway and extending to a point 10,200
feet from the end of the runway, thence one foot in height for each 40 feet in
horizontal distance to a point 50,200 feet from the end of the runway.
      (2)   Non-instrument approach zones. One foot in height for each 40 feet
in horizontal distance beginning at a point 200 feet from and at the centerline
elevation of the end of the non-instrument runway and extending to a point
10,200 feet from the end of the runway.
      (3)   Transition zones. One foot in height for each seven feet in
horizontal distance beginning at any point 500 feet normal to and at the
elevation of the centerline of the east-west runway, and 250 feet normal to and
at the elevation of the centerline of the north-south runway, extending 200
feet beyond each end thereof, extending to a height of 150 feet above the
airport elevation, which is 11.65 feet above mean sea level. In addition to the
foregoing, there are established height limits of one foot vertical height for
each seven feet horizontal distance, measured from the edges of all approach
zones for the entire length of the approach zones and extending upward and
outward to the points where they intersect the horizontal or conical surfaces.
      (4)   Horizontal zone. One hundred fifty feet above the airport elevation
or a height of 161.65 feet above mean sea level.
      (5)   Conical zone. One foot in height for each 20 feet of horizontal
distance beginning at the periphery of the horizontal zone, extending to a
height of 511 and 511.65 feet above the mean sea level.
      (6)   Excepted height limitations. Nothing in this subchapter shall be
construed as prohibiting the growth, construction or maintenance of any tree or
structure to a height up to 50 feet above the surface of the land.
   (C)   Where an area is covered by more than one height limitation, the more
restrictive limitations shall prevail.
(2005 Code, App. A, Art. I, § IV)  (Ord. passed 9-8-1970)
§ 158.05  USE RESTRICTIONS.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this subchapter, no use may be made
of land within any zone established by this subchapter in such a manner as to
create electrical interference with radio communication between the airport and
aircraft, make it difficult for flyers to distinguish between airport lights
and others, result in glare in the eyes of flyers using the airport, impair
visibility in the vicinity of the airport or otherwise endanger the landing,
taking off or maneuvering of aircraft.
(2005 Code, App. A, Art. I, § V)  (Ord. passed 9-8-1970)
§ 158.06  NON-CONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Regulations not retroactive. The regulations prescribed by this
subchapter shall not be construed to require the removal, lowering or other
changes or alteration of any structure or tree not conforming to the
regulations as of the effective date of this subchapter, or otherwise interfere
with the continuance of any non-conforming use. Nothing herein contained shall
require any change in the construction, alteration or intended use of any
structure the construction or alteration of which was begun prior to the
effective date of this subchapter, and is diligently prosecuted.
   (B)   Marking and lighting. Notwithstanding division (A) above, the owner of
any non-conforming structure or tree is hereby required to permit the
installation, operation and maintenance thereon of such markers and lights as
shall be deemed necessary by the U.S. Coast Guard to indicate to the operators
of aircraft in the vicinity of the airport, the presence of such airport
hazards. Such markers and lights shall be installed, operated and maintained at
the expense of the U.S. Coast Guard.
(2005 Code, App. A, Art. I, § VI)  (Ord. passed 9-8-1970)
§ 158.07  PERMITS.
   (A)   Future uses.
      (1)   Except as specifically provided in divisions (A)(1)(a), (A)(1)(b)
and (A)(1)(c) below, no material change shall be made in the use of land and no
structure or tree shall be erected, altered, planted or otherwise established
in any zone hereby created unless a permit therefor shall have been applied for
and granted. Each application for a permit shall indicate the purpose for which
the permit is desired, with sufficient particularity to permit it to be
determined whether the resulting use, structure or tree would conform to the
regulations herein prescribed. If such determination is in the affirmative, the
permit shall be granted.
         (a)   In the area lying within the limits of the horizontal zone and
conical zone, no permit shall be required for any tree or structure less than
75 feet of vertical height above the ground, except when because of terrain,
land contour or topographic features such tree or structure would extend above
the height limits prescribed for such zone.
         (b)   In the areas lying within the limits of the instrument and non-
instrument approach zones but at a horizontal distance of not less than 4,200
feet from each end of the runways, no permit shall be required for any tree or
structure less than 75 feet of vertical height above the ground, except when
such tree or structure would extend above the height limit prescribed for such
instrument or non-instrument approach zone.
         (c)   In the areas lying within the limits of the transition zones
beyond the perimeter of the horizontal zone, no permit shall be required for
any tree or structure less than 75 feet of vertical height above the ground,
except when such tree or structure, because of terrain, land contour or
topographic features, would extend above the height limit prescribed for such
transition zones.
      (2)   Nothing contained in any of the foregoing exceptions shall be
construed as permitting or intending to permit any construction, alteration or
growth of any structure or tree in excess of any of the height limits
established by this subchapter except as set forth in §
158.04 of this chapter.
   (B)   Existing uses. No permit shall be granted that would allow the
establishment or creation of an airport hazard or permit a non-conforming use,
structure or tree to be made or become higher, or become a greater hazard to
air navigation, than it was on the effective date of this subchapter or any
amendments thereto or than it is when the application for a permit is made.
Except as indicated, all applications for such a permit shall be granted.
   (C)   Non-conforming uses abandoned or destroyed. Whenever the City Manager
determines that a non-conforming structure or tree has been abandoned or more
than 80% torn down, physically deteriorated or decayed, no permit shall be
granted that would allow such structure or tree to exceed the applicable height
limit or otherwise deviate from the zoning regulations.
   (D)   Variances. Any person desiring to erect or increase the height of any
structure, or permit the growth of any tree, or use his or her property, not in
accordance with the regulations prescribed in this subchapter, may apply to the
Board of Adjustment for a variance from such regulations. Such variances shall
be allowed where it is duly found that a literal application or enforcement of
the regulations would result in practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship
and the relief granted would not be contrary to the public interest, but will
do substantial justice and be in accordance with the spirit of this subchapter.
   (E)   Hazard marking and lighting. Any permit or variance granted may, if
such action is deemed advisable to effectuate the purpose of this subchapter
and be reasonable in the circumstances, be so conditioned as to require the
owner of the structure or tree in question to permit the U.S. Coast Guard or
the city, at its own expense, to install, operate and maintain thereon such
markers and lights as may be necessary to indicate to flyers the presence of an
airport hazard.
(2005 Code, App. A, Art. I, § VII)  (Ord. passed 9-8-1970)
§ 158.08  ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Zoning Administrator to administer and enforce
the regulations prescribed herein. Applications for permits and variances shall
be made to the Zoning Administrator upon a form furnished by him or her.
Applications required by this subchapter to be submitted to the Zoning
Administrator shall be promptly considered and granted or denied by him or her.
Applications for action by the Board of Adjustment shall be forthwith
transmitted by the Zoning Administrator.
(2005 Code, App. A, Art. I, § VIII)  (Ord. passed 9-8-1970)
§ 158.09  BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment will exercise the following powers:
      (1)   To hear and decide appeals from any order, requirement, decision or
determination made by the Zoning Administrator in the enforcement of this
subchapter (or of any ordinance adopted pursuant hereto);
      (2)   To hear and decide special exceptions to the terms of this
subchapter upon which such Board of Adjustment under such regulations may be
required to pass; and
      (3)   To hear and decide specific variances.
   (B)   The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules for its governance and
procedure in harmony with the provisions of this subchapter. Meetings of the
Board of Adjustment shall be held at the call of the chairman and at such other
times as the Board of Adjustment may determine. The Chairperson or, in his or
her absence, the acting Chairperson may administer oaths and compel the
attendance of witnesses. All hearings of the Board of Adjustment shall be
public. The Board of Adjustment shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing
the vote of each member upon each question or, if absent or failing to vote,
indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other
official actions, all of which shall immediately be filed in the office of the
Zoning Administrator and shall be public record.
   (C)   The Board of Adjustment shall make written findings of fact and
conclusions of law giving the facts upon which it acted and its legal
conclusions from such facts in reversing, affirming or modifying any order,
requirement, decision or determination which comes before it under the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (D)   The concurring vote of a majority of the members of the Board of
Adjustment shall be sufficient to reverse any order, requirement, decision or
determination of the Building Inspector or to decide in favor of the applicant
on any matter upon which it is required to pass under this subchapter, or to
effect any variation in this subchapter.
(2005 Code, App. A, Art. I, § IX)  (Ord. passed 9-8-1970)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. §§ 63-32(b), 63-33
§ 158.10  APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected, by any decision of the
Zoning Administrator made in his or her administration of this subchapter may
appeal to the Board of Adjustment.
   (B)   All appeals hereunder must be taken within a reasonable time as
provided by the rules of the Board of Adjustment, by filing with the Zoning
Administrator a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The Building
Inspector shall forthwith transmit to the Board of Adjustment all the papers
constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken.
   (C)   (1)   An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the
action appealed from, unless the Zoning Administrator certifies to the Board of
Adjustment, after the notice of appeal has been filed with it, that, by reason
of the facts stated in the certificate, a stay would, in his or her opinion,
cause imminent peril to life or property.
      (2)   In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed, except by order of
the Board of Adjustment on notice to the Zoning Administrator and on due cause
shown.
   (D)   (1)   The Board of Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for hearing
appeals, give public notice and due notice to the parties in interest and
decide the same within a reasonable time.
      (2)   Upon the hearing any party may appear in person or by agent or by
attorney.
   (E)   The Board of Adjustment may, in conformity with the provisions of this
subchapter, reverse or affirm, in whole or in part, or modify the order,
requirement, decision or determination appealed from and may make such order,
requirement, decision or determination as may be appropriate under the
circumstances.
(2005 Code, App. A, Art. I, § X)  (Ord. passed 9-8-1970)
§ 158.11  JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected, by any decision of the Board
of Adjustment may appeal to the Superior Court of the county as provided in §
34 of Ch. 63 of the Public Laws of the state.
(2005 Code, App. A, Art. I, § XI)  (Ord. passed 9-8-1970)
§ 158.12  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   Whereas, the immediate operation of the provisions of this subchapter is
necessary for the preservation of the public health, public safety and general
welfare, an emergency is hereby declared to exist, and this subchapter shall be
in full force and effect from and after its passage by the City Council and
publication and posting as required by law.
(2005 Code, App. A, Art. I, § XV)  (Ord. passed 9-8-1970)
ELIZABETH CITY-PASQUOTANK COUNTY REGIONAL AIRPORT
§ 158.25  SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Elizabeth City
Height Restriction Ordinance”.
(2005 Code, App. A, Art. II, § I)  (Ord. passed 1-4-1999)
§ 158.26  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIRPORT. The Elizabeth City-Pasquotank County Regional Airport.
   AIRPORT ELEVATION. Twelve feet above mean sea level.
   APPROACH SURFACE. A surface longitudinally centered on the extended runway
centerline, extending outward and upward from the end of the primary surface
and at the same slope as the approach zone height limitation slope set forth in
§
158.28 of this chapter. In plan, the perimeter of the approach surface
coincides with the perimeter of the approach zone.
   APPROACH, TRANSITIONAL, HORIZONTAL AND CONICAL ZONES. These zones are set
forth in §
158.27 of this chapter.
   CONICAL SURFACE. A surface extending outward and upward from the periphery
of the horizontal surface at a slope of 20 to 1 for a horizontal distance of
4,000 feet.
   HAZARD TO AIR NAVIGATION. An obstruction determined to have a substantial
adverse effect on the safe and efficient utilization of the navigable airspace.
   HEIGHT. For the purpose of determining the height limits in all zones set
forth in this subchapter and shown on the city’s height restriction zoning map,
the datum shall be mean sea level elevation unless otherwise specified.
   HORIZONTAL SURFACE. A horizontal plane 150 feet above the established
airport elevation, the perimeter of which in plan coincides with the perimeter
of the horizontal zone.
   NON-CONFORMING USE. Any pre-existing structure, object of natural growth or
use of land which is inconsistent with the provisions of this subchapter or any
amendment thereto.
   OBSTRUCTION. Any structure, growth or other object, including a mobile
object, which exceeds a limiting height set forth in §
158.28 of this chapter.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, association,
joint stock association or governmental entity; includes a trustee, a receiver,
an assignee or a similar representative of any of the aforesaid.
   PRECISION INSTRUMENT RUNWAY. A runway having an existing instrument approach
procedure utilizing an Instrument Landing System (ILS) or Precision Approach
Radar (PAR). It also means a runway for which a precision approach system is
planned and is so indicated on an approved airport layout plan or any other
planning document.
   PRIMARY SURFACE. A surface longitudinally centered on a runway. When the
runway has a specially prepared hard surface, the PRIMARY SURFACE extends 200
feet beyond each end of that runway; for military runways or when the runway
has no specially prepared hard surface, or planned hard surface, the primary
surface ends at each end of that runway. The width of the PRIMARY SURFACE is
set forth in §
158.27 of this chapter. The elevation of any point on the primary surface is
the same as the elevation of the nearest point on the runway centerline.
   RUNWAY. A defined area of an airport prepared for landing and takeoff of
aircraft along its length.
   STRUCTURE. An object, including a mobile object, constructed or installed by
humans, including by without limitation, buildings, towers, cranes,
smokestacks, earth formation and overhead transmission lines.
   TRANSITIONAL SURFACES. These surfaces extend outward at ninety-degree angles
to the runway centerline and the runway centerline extended at a slope of seven
feet horizontally for each foot vertically from the sides of the primary and
approach surfaces to where they intersect the horizontal and conical surfaces.
TRANSITIONAL SURFACES for those portions of the precision approach surfaces,
which project through and beyond the limits of the conical surface, extend a
distance of 5,000 feet measured horizontally from the edge of the approach
surface and at 90-degree angles to the extended runway centerline.
   TREE. Any object of natural growth.
(2005 Code, App. A, Art. II, § II)  (Ord. passed 1-4-1999)
§ 158.27  AIRPORT ZONES.
   (A)   In order to carry out the provisions of this subchapter, there are
hereby created and established certain zones which include all of the land
lying beneath the approach surfaces, transitional surfaces, horizontal
surfaces, and conical surfaces as they apply to Elizabeth City-Pasquotank
County Regional Airport. Such zones are shown on the city’s height restriction
zoning map dated May 1998, which is attached to the ordinance codified herein
and made a part here by reference. An area located in more than one of the
following zones is considered to be only in the zone with the more restrictive
height limitation.
   (B)   The various zones are hereby established and defined as follows.
      (1)   Precision instrument runway approach zone. The inner edge of this
approach zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and is 1,000 feet
wide. The approach zone expands outward uniformly to a width of 16,000 feet to
a horizontal distance of 50,000 feet from the primary surface. Its centerline
is the continuation of the centerline of the runway.
      (2)   Conical zone. The conical zone is established as the area that
commences at the periphery of the horizontal zone and extends outward therefrom
a horizontal distance of 4,000 feet.
      (3)   Horizontal zone. The horizontal zone is established by swinging
arcs of 10,000 feet radii from the center of each end of the primary surface of
each runway and connecting the adjacent arcs by drawing line’s tangent to those
arcs. The horizontal zone does not include the approach and transition zones.
(2005 Code, App. A, Art. II, § III)  (Ord. passed 1-4-1999)
§ 158.28  AIRPORT ZONE HEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, no structure shall be
erected, altered or maintained, and no tree shall be allowed to grow in any
zone created by this subchapter to a height in excess of the applicable height
limit herein established for such zone.
   (B)   Such applicable height limitations are hereby established for each of
the zones in question as follows.
      (1)   Precision instrument runway approach zone. Slopes 50 feet outward
for each foot upward beginning at the end of and at the same elevation as the
primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of 10,000 feet along the
extended runway centerline; thence, slopes upward 40 feet horizontally for each
foot vertically to an additional horizontal distance of 40,000 feet along the
extended runway centerline.
      (2)   Transitional zones. Slope seven feet outward for each foot upward
beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as the primary surface and
the approach surface, and extending to a height of 150 feet above the airport
elevation, which is feet above mean sea level. In addition to the foregoing,
there are established height limits sloping seven feet outward for each foot
upward beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as the approach
surface and extending to where they intersect the conical surface. Where the
precision instrument runway approach zone projects beyond the conical zone,
there are established height limits sloping seven feet outward for each foot
upward beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as the approach
surface and extending a horizontal distance of 5,000 feet measured at 90-degree
angles to the extended runway centerline.
      (3)   Horizontal zone. One hundred fifty feet above the established
airport elevation.
      (4)   Conical zone. Slopes 20 feet outward for each foot upward beginning
at the periphery of the horizontal zone and at 150 feet above the airport
elevation and extending to a height of 350 feet above the airport elevation.
      (5)   Excepted height limitation. Nothing in this subchapter shall be
construed as prohibiting the construction or maintenance of any structure, or
growth of any tree to a height up to 20 feet above the surface of the land.
(2005 Code, App. A, Art. II, § IV)  (Ord. passed 1-4-1999)
§ 158.29  USE RESTRICTIONS.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this subchapter, no use may be made
of land or water within any zone established by this subchapter in such a
manner as to create electrical interference with navigational signals or radio
communication between the airport and aircraft, make it difficult for pilots to
distinguish between airport lights and others, result in glare in the eyes of
pilots using the airport, impair visibility in the vicinity of the airport,
create bird strike hazards or otherwise in any way endanger of interfere with
the landing, takeoff or maneuvering of aircraft intending to use the airport.
(2005 Code, App. A, Art. II, § V)  (Ord. passed 1-4-1999)
§ 158.30  NON-CONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Regulations not retroactive.
      (1)   The regulations prescribed by this subchapter shall not be
construed to require the removal, lowering or other change or alteration of any
structure or tree not conforming to the regulations as of the effective date of
this subchapter, or otherwise interfere with the continuance of non-conforming
use.
      (2)   Nothing contained herein shall require any change in the
construction, alteration or intended use of any structure, the construction or
alteration of which has begun prior to the effective date of this subchapter,
and is diligently prosecuted.
   (B)   Marking and lighting. Notwithstanding the preceding provision of this
section, the owner of any existing non-conforming structure or tree is hereby
required to install, operate and maintain thereon such markers and lights as
shall be deemed necessary by the Elizabeth City-Pasquotank County Airport
Authority to indicate to the operators of aircraft in the vicinity of the
airport the presence of such airport obstruction. Such markers and lights shall
be installed, operated and maintained at the expense of the owner.
(2005 Code, App. A, Art. II, § VI)  (Ord. passed 1-4-1999)
§ 158.31  PERMITS.
   (A)   Except as specifically provided in divisions (A)(1) through (A)(3)
below, no material change shall be made in the use of land, no structure shall
be erected or otherwise established and no tree shall be planted in any zone
hereby created unless a permit shall have been applied for and granted. Each
application for a permit shall indicate the purpose for which the permit is
desired, with sufficient particularity to permit it to be determined whether
the resulting use, structure or tree would conform to the regulations herein
prescribed. All permit applications for obstructions in either the conical or
horizontal surface related to the Elizabeth City-Pasquotank County Airport
Authority shall be reviewed and evaluated by the Federal Aviation
Administration (FAA) using FAA Form 7460 (Notice of Construction). The FAA
report shall be a part of the application submitted to the Elizabeth City-
Pasquotank County Airport Authority for consideration for approval. If such
determination by the authority is in the affirmative, the permit shall be
granted. No permit for a use inconsistent with the provisions of this
subchapter shall be granted unless a variance has been approved in accordance
with division (A)(3) below.
      (1)   In the area lying within the limits of the horizontal zone and
conical zone covered by this subchapter, no permit shall be required for any
tree or structure less than 75 feet of vertical height above the ground, except
when, because of terrain, land contour, or topographic features, such trees or
structure would extend above the height limits prescribed for such zones.
      (2)   In areas lying within the limits of the approach zones, but at a
horizontal distance of not less than 4,200 feet from each end of the runway, no
permit shall be required for any tree or structure less than 75 feet of
vertical height above the ground, except when such tree or structure would
extend above the height limit prescribed for such approach zones.
      (3)   In the areas lying within the limits of the transition zones beyond
the perimeter of the horizontal zone, no permit shall be required for any tree
or structure less than 75 feet of vertical height above the ground, except when
such tree or structure, because of terrain, land contour or topographic
features, would extend above the height limit prescribed for such transition
zones.
   (B)   Nothing contained in any of the foregoing exceptions shall be
construed as permitting or intending to permit any construction, or alteration
of any structure, or growth of any tree in excess of any of the height limits
established by this subchapter, except as set forth in §
158.28(B)(5) of this chapter.
      (1)   Existing uses. No permit shall be granted that would allow the
establishment or creation of an obstruction or permit a non-conforming use,
structure or tree to become a greater hazard to air navigation that it was on
the effective date of this subchapter or any amendments thereto or than it is
when the application for a permit is made. Except as indicated, all
applications for such permit shall be granted.
      (2)   Non-conforming uses abandoned or destroyed. Whenever the or his or
her designee determines that a non-conforming tree or structure has been
abandoned or more than 80% torn down, physically deteriorated or decayed, no
permit shall be granted that would allow such structure or tree to exceed the
applicable height limit or otherwise deviate from the height restriction zoning
regulations.
      (3)   Variances. Any person desiring to erect or increase the height of
any structure, or permit the growth of any tree, or use property, not in
accordance with the regulations prescribed in this subchapter, may apply to the
Board of Adjustment for a variance from such regulations. The application for a
variance shall be accompanied by a determination from the Federal Aviation
Administration (FAA) as to the effect of the proposal on the operation of air
navigation facilities and the safe, efficient use of navigable airspace. Such
variances shall be allowed where it is duly found that a literal application or
enforcement of the regulations will result in unnecessary hardship and relief
granted, will not be contrary to the public interest, will not create a hazard
to air navigation, will do substantial justice, and will be in accordance with
the spirit of this subchapter. Additionally, no application for variance to the
requirements of this subchapter may be considered by the Board of Adjustments
unless a copy of the application has been furnished to the Elizabeth City-
Pasquotank County Airport Authority for advice as to the aeronautical effect of
the variance. If the Elizabeth City-Pasquotank County Airport Authority does
not respond to the application within 45 days after receipt, the Board of
Adjustments may act on its own to grant or deny said application.
      (4)   Obstruction marking and lighting. Any permit or variance granted
may, if such action is deemed advisable to effectuate the purpose of this
subchapter and be reasonable in the circumstances, be so continued as to
require the owner of the structure or tree in question to install, operate and
maintain, at the owner’s expense, such markings and lights as may be necessary.
(2005 Code, App. A, Art. II, § VII)  (Ord. passed 1-4-1999)
§ 158.32  ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator shall administer and enforce this subchapter.
He or she may be provided with assistance of such other persons as the City
Manager may direct.
   (B)   Applications for permits and variances required by this subchapter may
be obtained in the Planning and Community Development Department. Applications
are to be submitted to the Director of Planning and Community Development or
his or her designee. All completed applications shall be promptly considered
and either granted or denied. Applications for action by the Board of
Adjustments shall be forthwith transmitted by the Director of Planning and
Community Development or his or her designee.
(2005 Code, App. A, Art. II, § VIII)  (Ord. passed 1-4-1999)
§ 158.33  BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment shall have and exercise the following powers:
      (1)   To hear and decide appeals from any order, requirement, decision or
determination made by the Zoning Administrator or his or her designee, in the
enforcement of this subchapter;
      (2)   To hear and decide special exceptions to the terms of this
subchapter upon which such Board of Adjustment under such regulations may be
required to pass; and
      (3)   To hear and decide specific variances.
   (B)   The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules for its governance and in
harmony with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   The Board of Adjustment shall make written findings of facts and
conclusions of law giving the facts upon which it acted and its legal
conclusions from such facts in reversing, affirming or modifying any order,
requirement, decision or determination which comes before it under the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (D)   The concurring vote of a majority of the members of the Board of
Adjustment shall be sufficient to reverse any order, requirement, decision or
determination of the Zoning Administrator or his or her designee or decide in
favor of the applicant on any matter upon which it is required to pass under
this subchapter, or to affect variation to this subchapter.
(2005 Code, App. A, Art. II, § IX)  (Ord. passed 1-4-1999)
§ 158.34  APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected, by any decision of the
Zoning Administrator made in the administration and enforcement of the
ordinance, may appeal to the Board of Adjustment.
   (B)   All appeals hereunder must be taken within a reasonable time as
provided by the rules of the Board of Adjustment by filing with the Zoning
Administrator a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The Zoning
Administrator shall forthwith transmit to the Board of Adjustment all the
papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken.
   (C)   An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from unless the Zoning Administrator certifies to the Board of
Adjustment, after the notice of appeal has been filed with it, that by reason
of the facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in the opinion of the
Zoning Administrator, cause imminent peril to life or property. In such case,
proceedings shall not be stayed, except by the order of the Board of Adjustment
on notice to the Zoning Administrator and on due cause shown.
   (D)   The Board of Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for hearing
appeals, give public notice and due notice to the parties in interest and
decide the same within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing, any party may
appear in person or by agent or by attorney.
   (E)   The Board of Adjustment may, in conformity with the provisions of this
subchapter, reverse or affirm, in whole or in part, or modify the order,
requirement, decision or determination appealed from and may make such order,
requirement, decision or determination as may be appropriate under the
circumstances.
(2005 Code, App. A, Art. II, § X)  (Ord. passed 1-4-1999)
§ 158.35  JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected, by any decision, of the
Board of Adjustment, may appeal to the Superior Court of Pasquotank County
provided in § 34 of Ch. 63 of the public laws of the state.
(2005 Code, App. A, Art. II, § XI)  (Ord. passed 1-4-1999)
§ 158.36  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   Whereas, the immediate operation of the provisions of this subchapter is
necessary for the preservation of the public health, public safety and general
welfare, an emergency is hereby declared to exist, and this subchapter shall be
in full force and effect from and after its passage by the City Council and
publication and posting as required by law.
(2005 Code, App. A, Art. II, § XV)  (Ord. passed 1-4-1999)
§ 158.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Each violation of §§
158.01 through
158.12 of this chapter or of any regulation, order or ruling promulgated
hereunder shall constitute a misdemeanor and be punishable by a fine of not
more than $50 or imprisonment for not more than 30 days or both such fine and
imprisonment; and, each day a violation continues to exist shall constitute a
separate offense.
(2005 Code, App. A, Art. I, § XII)
   (B)   Each violation of §§
158.25 through
158.36 of this chapter or of any regulation, order or ruling promulgated
hereunder shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by a fine of
not more than $50 or imprisonment for not more than 30 days or both; and, each
day a violation continues to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
(2005 Code, App. A, Art. II, § XII)
(Ord. passed 9-8-1970; Ord. passed 1-4-1999)
Editor’s note:
   The original ordinance for §§
158.01 through
158.12 did not contain a specific fine or length of imprisonment; however, in
agreement with the city, the penalty provisions of the code,which specifies
fine and penalty for any offense declared a misdemeanor, have been included
CHAPTER 159:  UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
Section
   
159.01   Regulations adopted by reference
§ 159.01  REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The unified development ordinance of the city is hereby adopted by reference
and saved from repeal. Copies of such ordinance are on file in the office of
the City Clerk.
(2005 Code, § 82-1)  (Ord. passed 9-13-1999)
Editor’s note:
   The unified development ordinance contains provisions concerning subdivision
regulations, zoning, development standards, storm water management and
environmental and special purpose regulations. The ordinance is available for
review at city hall and on the city government website
Federal law reference:
   Limited federal preemption of state and local zoning laws affecting amateur
radio facilities, see Memorandum Opinion and Order, PRB-1, 101 FCC 2d 952
(1985) and 47 C.F.R. § 97.15(b)
   Preservation of local zoning authority concerning wireless
telecommunications facilities, see 47 U.S.C. § 322(c)(7)
   Religious Land Use and Institutionalized Persons Act, see 42 U.S.C. §§
2000cc et seq.
Statutory reference:
   Municipal zoning power, see G.S. §§ 160A-381 et seq.
   Planning agency, see G.S. § 160A-361
   Planning agency and zoning plan, city may regulate subdivision of land, see
G.S. § 160A-371
   Supplemental powers, see G.S. § 160A-363
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to 2005 Code
References to Motions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
G.S. Cites Code Section
G.S. Cites            Code Section
1-593                 10.05
7A                    154.29
7A-148                71.09
11-11                 30.09
                      10.99,
                      33.99,
                      90.99,
                      91.99,
                      110.99,
14-4                  114.999,
                      130.99,
                      131.99,
                      132.99,
                      151.99,
                      157.99
14-12.4 et seq.       Ch. 33,
                      Ch. 94
14-56                 Ch. 74
14-88                 Ch. 74
14-127                92.03,
                      Ch. 93
14-128                92.03,
                      Ch. 93
14-130                130.12
14-130 et seq.        130.05
14-132                130.03
14-135                130.12
14-144                130.02
14-146                130.05
14-147                130.05
14-148                93.45,
                      130.05
14-148 et seq.        Ch. 93
14-149                130.05
14-151 et seq.        130.05
14-151.1              130.06
14-157                130.12
14-159.6 et seq.      130.05
14-160                Ch. 92
14-161                Ch. 74
14-162                Ch. 92
14-163.1              130.05
14-190.1 et seq.      130.01,
                      130.04
14-190.9              130.01
14-203 et seq.        130.13
14-204.1              130.13
14-225                Ch. 94,
                      130.03
                      Ch. 33,
14-225.1              Ch. 94,
                      130.07
14-228.12             Ch. 33
14-238.5              130.07
14-269.3              130.03
14-275.1              Ch. 74
14-277.2              Ch. 33,
                      Ch. 94
14-278 et seq.        Ch. 74
14-280                Ch. 74
14-288.1              130.03
14-288.1 et seq.      Ch. 94
14-288.1—14.288.20  Ch. 33
14-288.1(10)          33.01
14-288.4              Ch. 93
14-288.8              33.08
14-288.8(c)(1—4)    33.08
14-310 et seq.        Ch. 94
14-360 et seq.        90.12
14-383                130.12
14-386                Ch. 74
14-401.3              Ch. 93
14-413                131.07
14-444                130.03
14, Art. 54           131.07
15-27.2               90.53,
                      151.11
16A-198               Ch. 132
18B                   114.023
18B-110               33.07
18B-1002(a)(5)        130.02
19                    130.04
19A-20 et seq.        90.12
19A-46                90.31
19A-47                90.31
20-1                  Ch. 70
20-37                 Ch. 114
20-37.6               72.99
20-38                 70.01
20-87                 Ch. 114,
                      114.062
20-87.1-b             114.001
20-114.1              70.02
20-137.6 et seq.      Ch. 70
20-138 et seq.        Ch. 71
20-141                71.01
20-142 et seq.        Ch. 74
20-157.1              71.08
20-158                Ch. 70,
                      70.38
20-160                70.40,
                      71.11
20-162                Ch. 72
20-165.1              71.06
20-168                70.03
20-169                Ch. 94
20-171                73.02,
                      Ch. 94
20-171.9              73.02
20-175                Ch. 113
20-183.3              114.062
20-219                Ch. 70
20-219.11             95.34
20-280(b)             114.023
44A, Art. 1           95.36
45                    110.37
47-30                 155.015
62-220 et seq.        Ch. 74
63-32(b)              158.09
63-33                 158.09
65-37                 Ch. 93
67                    Ch. 90
67-2                  90.26
67-4.1(c)             90.99
67-12                 90.26
67, Art. 1A           90.99
68-17 et seq.         90.10
69                    Ch. 33
75A-13.3              92.06
90                    114.023,
                      130.09
90, Art. 5            130.09
93B                   110.07
99E-21                91.45
99E-22                91.45
99E-23                91.45
99E-24                91.45
99E-254               91.45
105-80                110.37
105-164.3(7a)         70.20
105-164.3(22)         71.12
105-187.1(a)(3)       70.20
105-187.1(a)(7)       70.20
105-302               131.01
105-349               Charter § 4.5,
                      70.20
105-350               Charter § 4.5
105, Art. 5, Subch. 1 70.21
106-541 et seq.       90.04
106-635(15)           90.01
121-5                 110.17
130A-19               Ch. 95
130A-20               Ch. 95
130A-184 et seq.      Ch. 90
130A-251 et seq.      Ch. 33,
                      Ch. 94
130A-290(a)(6)        154.04
130A-290(a)(35)       154.04
130A-290(a)(36)       154.04
130A, Art. 9          154.04,
                      155.001
131C                  Ch. 113
132                   114.028
136-31                Ch. 152
136-33                Ch. 152
136-41.1 et seq.      Ch. 152
136-66.2 et seq.      Ch. 152
136-91                95.04,
                      95.08
136-93                130.12
136-102.6             Ch. 152
136-141 et seq.       95.39
136-143               95.39
143, Art. 9 or 9C     150.35
143, Art. 21, part 6  154.01
143, Art. 33C         90.48,
                      156.24
143-138               Ch. 150,
                      150.15
143-138(e)            Ch. 150
143-143.2             Ch. 150
143-143.15            154.41
143-214.5(d)          Ch. 155
143-215 et seq.       96.17
143-215.58            154.99
143-318.7             Ch. 93
143-318.17            Ch. 94,
                      130.03
144(b)                Ch. 72
153A                  90.99
153A-155              Ch. 34
153A-344.1            155.001
153A-364              96.01
160A                  52.05,
                      90.99
160A-1                Charter § 1.2
160A-59               31.04
160A-61               30.09
160A-63               Charter § 2.8
160A-74               Charter § 2.6
160A-75               Charter § 2.6,
                      32.04
160A-76(b)            96.01,
                      Ch. 150
160A-77               Ch. 152
160A-149(b)           150.53
160A-171              30.03
160A, Art. 8          154.01
                      92.03,
160A-174              Ch. 93,
                      130.05
160A-174 et seq.      10.99
                      10.99,
160A-175              131.99,
                      157.99
160A-175(d)           110.99
160A-178              Ch. 113,
                      113.20
160A-179              Ch. 113
160A-181              110.35
160A-182              90.12
160A-183              Ch. 33,
                      Ch. 96
160A-184              111.02
160A-185              Ch. 50
160A-186              Ch. 90
160A-187              Ch. 90
160A-189              Ch. 33,
                      110.37
                      90.25,
                      92.05,
160A-193              Ch. 95,
                      95.60,
                      150.56
160A-200.1            95.62
160A-206              Ch. 34
160A-207              Ch. 34
160A-208.1            70.21
160A-209              Ch. 34
160A-212              Ch. 90
160A-215              34.01
160A-215.1            70.21
160A-215.1(b)         70.21
160A-215.1(d)         70.21
160A-215.1(e)(1)      70.20
160A-215.1(f)         70.21
160A, Art. 10      150.56
160A-216 et seq.      Ch. 152
160A-258              Ch. 33
160A-291              Ch. 96
160A-292              Ch. 96
160A-293              Ch. 33,
                      Ch. 96
160A-295              Ch. 74
                      Ch. 33,
160A-296              Ch. 94,
                      130.07,
                      Ch. 152
160A-299              Ch. 152
160A-300              Ch. 94
160A-303              Ch. 95,
                      95.26
                      Ch. 50,
160A-303.1            95.04,
                      95.08
160A-303.2            95.26,
                      95.57
160A-304              Ch. 114,
                      114.028
160A-306              Ch. 152
160A-307              Ch. 152
160A, Art. 16         156.01
160A-314              51.02
160A-317              Ch. 51
160A-317(b)           Ch. 50
160A-341              Ch. 93
160A-348              Ch. 93
160A, Art. 19         Charter § 9.1
160A-361              159.01
160A-363              159.01
160A-371              159.01
160A, Art. 19, part 3 154.01
160A-381 et seq.      159.01
160A-385.1            155.001
160A-388              150.57
160A, Art. 19, part 5 154.01
160A-421              150.16
160A-422              150.16
160A-423              150.16
160A-424              96.01
160A-435              96.15
160A-439(c)           150.53
160A-439(e)           150.54
160A-441 et seq.      150.19
160A-445              151.13
160A, Art. 19, part 8 154.01
160A-493              Ch. 90
160A, Art. 22         31.01,
                      31.04
160A-500 et seq.      Ch. 31
160A-505.1            31.05
160A-507.1            31.01
160A-512              31.04
160A-514              31.04,
                      31.06
160A-514(b)           31.04
162A, Art. 7, part 2  Charter § 4.1
163-293               Charter § 3.1
163-293(a)(1)         Charter § 2.8
163-293(b)(1)         Charter § 2.8
163-294.2             Charter § 2.8
164-7                 10.14
166A-7                Ch. 33
166A-19.31            33.02
                      
 
REFERENCES TO 2005 CODE
2005 Code 2016 Code
2005 Code               2016 Code
1-7                     10.19
1-9                     10.20
2-20                    30.01
2-21                    30.02
2-22                    30.03
2-23                    30.04
2-24                    30.05
2-25                    30.06
2-26                    30.07
2-27                    30.08
2-77                    31.01
2-78                    31.02
2-79                    31.03
2-80                    31.04
2-81                    31.05
2-82                    31.06
2-83                    31.07
2-110                   32.01
2-111                   32.02
2-112                   32.03
2-113                   32.04
2-114                   32.05
2-115                   32.06
2-116                   32.07
2-117                   32.08
6-1                     90.01,
                        90.99
6-2                     90.02
6-3                     90.03
6-4                     90.04
6-5                     90.05
6-6                     90.06
6-7                     90.07
6-8                     90.08
6-9                     90.09
6-10                    90.10
6-11                    90.11
6-12                    90.12
6-13                    90.13
                        90.25,
6-45                    90.26,
                        90.99
6-47                    90.27
6-48                    90.28
6-49                    90.29
6-50                    90.30
10-1                    150.01
10-2                    150.02
10-25                   150.15
10-26                   150.16
10-27                   150.17
10-28                   150.18
10-29                   150.19
10-30                   150.20
10-31                   150.21
10-32                   150.22
10-53                   150.35,
                        150.99
10-54                   150.36
10-55                   150.37
10-56                   150.38
10-86                   150.50
10-87                   150.52
10-118                  151.01
10-119                  151.02
10-120                  151.03
10-121                  151.99
10-122                  151.04
10-123                  151.05
10-124                  151.06
10-125                  151.07
10-126                  151.08,
                        151.99
10-127                  151.09
10-128                  151.10
10-129                  151.11
10-130                  151.12
10-131                  151.13
10-132                  151.14
10-133                  151.15
14-1                    110.35
14-3                    110.37
14-4                    110.37
14-5                    110.37
14-29                   111.01
14-30                   111.02
14-31                   111.03
14-32                   111.04
14-33                   111.05
14-34                   111.06
14-126                  113.01
14-127                  113.02
14-128                  113.03
14-129                  113.04
14-159                  113.20
14-160                  113.21
14-161                  113.22
14-162                  113.23
14-163                  113.24
14-164                  113.25
14-165                  113.26
14-166                  113.27
14-167                  113.28
14-168                  113.99
14-169                  113.05
14-192                  110.38
14-193                  110.38
14-194                  110.38
14-195                  110.38
14-196                  110.38
18-1                    93.01
18-2                    93.02
18-3                    93.03
18-4                    93.04
18-5                    93.05
18-29                   93.20
18-30                   93.21
18-31                   93.22
18-32                   93.23
18-33                   93.24
18-34                   93.25
18-57                   93.40
18-58                   93.41
18-59                   93.42
18-60                   93.43
18-61                   93.44
18-62                   93.45
18-63                   93.46
22-1                    33.01
22-2                    33.02
22-3                    33.03
22-4                    33.04
22-5                    33.05
22-6                    33.06
22-7                    33.07
22-8                    33.08
22-9                    33.09
22-10                   33.10
22-11                   33.11
22-12                   33.99
22-14                   33.12
26-1                    92.01
26-2                    92.02
26-3                    92.03
26-4                    92.04
26-5                    92.05
26-6                    92.06
26-7                    92.07
26-8                    92.08
30-1                    155.001
30-2                    155.002
30-7                    155.999
30-35                   155.003
30-36                   155.004
30-38                   155.999
30-56                   155.015
30-57                   155.016
30-58                   155.017
30-59                   155.018
30-60                   155.999
30-79                   155.030
30-80                   155.031
30-81                   155.032
30-82                   155.033
30-83                   155.034
30-84                   155.035
30-85                   155.036
30-86                   155.037
30-87                   155.038
30-88                   155.039
30-89                   155.040
30-107                  155.055
30-108                  155.056
30-130                  155.070
30-131                  155.071
30-132                  155.072
30-133                  155.073
30-134                  155.074
30-135                  155.075
30-136                  155.076
30-137                  155.076
30-138                  155.076
34-1                    96.01
34-21                   96.15
34-22                   96.16
34-23                   96.17
34-24                   96.18
34-25                   96.19
34-26                   96.20,
                        96.99
34-27                   96.21,
                        96.99
34-28                   96.22
34-29                   96.23
42-1                    95.01
42-2                    95.02
42-3                    95.03
42-4                    95.04
42-5                    95.05
42-6                    95.06
42-7                    95.07
42-8                    95.08
42-9                    95.09
42-10                   95.10
42-11                   95.11
42-12                   95.12
42-13                   95.13
42-45                   95.25
42-46                   95.26
42-47                   95.27
42-48                   95.28
42-49                   95.29
42-50                   95.30
42-51                   95.31
42-52                   95.32
42-53                   95.33
42-54                   95.34
42-55                   95.35
42-56                   95.36
42-57                   95.37
42-58                   95.38
42-59                   95.39
42-60                   95.40
42-61                   95.41
42-62                   95.42
42-83                   95.55
42-84                   95.56,
                        95.99
42-85                   95.57
42-86                   95.58
42-87                   95.59
42-88                   95.60
42-89                   95.61
46-1                    70.01
46-2                    70.02
46-3                    70.03
46-4                    70.04
46-5                    70.05
46-6                    70.06
46-7                    70.07
46-29                   70.20
46-30                   70.21
46-52                   71.01
46-53                   71.02
46-54                   71.03
46-55                   71.04
46-57                   71.05
46-58                   71.06
46-59                   71.07
46-60                   71.08
46-61                   71.09
46-62                   71.10
46-63                   71.11
46-64                   71.12
46-86                   70.35
46-87                   70.36
46-88                   70.37
46-89                   70.38
46-90                   70.39
46-91                   70.40
46-113                  72.99
46-114                  72.01
46-115                  72.02
46-116                  72.03
46-117                  72.04
46-118                  72.05
46-119                  72.06
46-120                  72.07
46-121                  72.08
46-122                  72.09
46-123                  72.10
46-124                  72.11
46-125                  72.12
46-126                  72.13
46-127                  72.14
46-128                  72.15,
                        72.99
46-129                  72.16
46-130                  72.17
46-131                  72.18
46-153                  73.01
46-154                  73.02
46-155                  73.03
46-156                  73.04
46-157                  73.05
46-158                  73.06
46-159                  73.07
46-181                  70.55
46-182                  70.56
46-183                  70.57
46-184                  70.58
46-185                  70.59
50-1                    130.01
50-2                    130.02
50-3                    130.03
50-4                    130.04
50-5                    130.05
50-6                    130.06
50-7                    130.07
50-8                    130.08
50-9                    130.09,
                        130.99
50-10                   130.10
50-11                   130.11
50-12                   130.12
50-13                   130.13,
                        130.99
50-35                   131.01
50-36                   131.99
50-37                   131.02
50-38                   131.03
50-39                   131.04
50-40                   131.05
50-41                   131.06
50-42                   131.99
50-43                   131.07
50-44                   131.08
50-45                   131.09
50-46                   131.09
50-47                   131.09
50-90                   132.01
50-91                   132.02
50-92                   132.99
50-93                   132.03
50-94                   132.04
50-95                   132.05
50-117                  132.20
50-118                  132.21
50-119                  132.99
50-120                  132.22
50-121                  132.23
50-122                  132.24
50-123                  132.25
54-1                    94.01
54-2                    94.02
54-3                    94.03
54-4                    94.04
54-5                    94.05
54-6                    94.06
54-31                   94.20
54-32                   94.21
54-33                   94.22
54-34                   94.23
54-35                   94.24
54-36                   94.25
54-37                   94.26
54-38                   94.27
54-39                   94.28
54-40                   94.29
54-69                   94.40
54-70                   94.41
54-71                   94.42
58-1                    91.01
58-2                    91.02
58-3                    91.03
58-4                    91.99
58-5                    91.04
58-6                    91.05,
                        91.99
58-59                   91.35
58-60                   91.36
58-61                   91.37
58-62                   91.38
58-63                   91.39
62-1                    74.01
62-2                    74.02
62-3                    74.03
62-4                    74.04
62-5                    74.04
62-6                    74.05
62-7                    74.06
62-8                    74.07
66-1                    153.01
66-2                    153.02
66-3                    153.03
66-4                    153.04
66-5                    153.05
66-6                    153.06
66-7                    153.07
66-8                    153.08
66-9                    153.09
66-10                   153.10
66-11                   153.11
66-12                   153.12
70-1                    50.01
70-2                    50.02
70-3                    50.03
70-5                    50.05
70-6                    50.06
70-7                    50.07
70-8                    50.08
70-9                    50.09
74-1                    152.01
74-2                    152.02
74-3                    152.03
74-4                    152.04
74-5                    152.05
74-6                    152.06
74-7                    152.07
74-8                    152.08
74-9                    152.09
74-10                   152.10
74-11                   152.11
74-12                   152.12
74-13                   152.13
74-14                   152.14
74-15                   152.15
74-16                   152.16
74-17                   152.17
74-18                   152.18
74-19                   152.19
74-20                   152.20
74-21                   152.21
78-19                   34.01
82-1                    159.01
86-19                   114.001
86-20                   114.002
86-21                   114.003
86-22                   114.015
86-23                   114.016
86-24                   114.017
86-25                   114.018
86-26                   114.019
86-27                   114.020
86-28                   114.021
86-29                   114.022
86-30                   114.023
86-31                   114.024
86-32                   114.025
86-33                   114.026
86-34                   114.027
86-35                   114.028
86-36                   114.029
86-37                   114.030
86-38                   114.031
86-39                   114.032
86-40                   114.033
86-41                   114.034
86-42                   114.050
86-43                   114.051
86-44                   114.052
86-45                   114.053
86-46                   114.054
86-47                   114.055
86-48                   114.056
86-49                   114.057
86-50                   114.058
86-51                   114.059
86-52                   114.060
86-53                   114.061
86-54                   114.062
86-55                   114.063
86-56                   114.064
86-57                   114.065
86-58                   114.066
86-59                   114.067
86-60                   114.035
86-61                   114.036
86-62                   114.037
86-85                   110.39
90-1                    51.01
90-2                    51.02
90-3                    51.03
90-4                    51.04
90-5                    51.05
90-6                    51.06
90-7                    51.07
90-8                    51.08
90-9                    51.09
90-10                   51.10
90-11                   51.99
90-12                   51.11
90-13                   51.12
90-14                   51.13
90-15                   51.14
90-36                   51.25
90-37                   51.26
90-38                   51.27
90-39                   51.28
90-40                   51.29
90-41                   51.30
90-42                   51.31
90-43                   51.32
90-44                   51.33
90-45                   51.34
90-46                   51.35
90-47                   51.36
90-48                   51.37
90-70                   51.50
90-71                   51.51
90-72                   51.52
90-73                   51.53
90-74                   51.54
90-75                   51.55
90-76                   51.56
90-77                   51.57
90-78                   51.58
90-79                   51.59
90-80                   51.60
90-104                  52.01
90-105                  52.02
90-106                  52.03
90-107                  52.99
90-108                  52.04
90-109                  52.05
90-131                  52.20
90-132                  52.21
90-133                  52.22
90-134                  52.23
90-135                  52.24
90-136                  52.25
90-137                  52.26
90-138                  52.27
90-139                  52.28
90-140                  52.29
90-141                  52.30
90-171                  52.45
90-172                  52.46
90-173                  52.47
90-174                  52.48
90-175                  52.49
90-176                  52.50
90-177                  52.51
90-178                  52.52
90-200                  52.65
90-201                  52.66
90-202                  52.67
90-203                  52.68
App. A, Art. I, § I    158.01
App. A, Art. I, § II   158.02
App. A, Art. I, § III  158.03
App. A, Art. I, § IV   158.04
App. A, Art. I, § V    158.05
App. A, Art. I, § VI   158.06
App. A, Art. I, § VII  158.07
App. A, Art. I, § VIII 158.08
App. A, Art. I, § IX   158.09
App. A, Art. I, § X    158.10
App. A, Art. I, § XI   158.11
App. A, Art. I, § XII  158.99
App. A, Art. I, § XV   158.12
App. A, Art. II, § I   158.25
App. A, Art. II, § II  158.26
App. A, Art. II, § III 158.27
App. A, Art. II, § IV  158.28
App. A, Art. II, § V   158.29
App. A, Art. II, § VI  158.30
App. A, Art. II, § VII 158.31
App. A, Art. II, § VIII158.32
App. A, Art. II, § IX  158.33
App. A, Art. II, § X   158.34
App. A, Art. II, § XI  158.35
App. A, Art. II, § XII 158.99
App. A, Art. II, § XV  158.36
                        
 
REFERENCES TO MOTIONS
 
Motions Date Passed Code Section
                    30.01,
                    30.02,
                    51.07,
                    51.10,
                    51.11,
                    51.30,
                    51.31,
                    51.59,
                    52.01—
                    52.05,
                    52.20—
                    52.30,
                    52.45—
                    52.52,
                    52.65—
                    52.68,
-       2-1-1993    52.99,
                    70.55—
                    70.58,
                    72.02,
                    91.01,
                    96.01,
                    96.15—
                    96.22,
                    96.99,
                    114.002,
                    114.003,
                    114.015—
                    114.027,
                    114.029,
                    114.032—
                    114.036,
                    114.060,
                    114.067
                   
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.   Date Passed Code Section
-          - -         52.22
                       51.01—
                       51.08,
                       51.10—
                       51.13,
-          11-6-1967   51.25—
                       51.37,
                       51.50—
                       51.60,
                       51.99
                       158.01—
-          9-8-1970    158.12,
                       158.99
-          3-5-1973    90.05
                       51.07,
-          1-5-1976    51.10,
                       51.28,
                       51.60
-          4-15-1976   91.01
                       96.01,
-          3-5-1979    96.18,
                       96.19
-          8-6-1979    130.02
-          12-3-1979   90.25,
                       152.20
-          1-7-1980    95.01
-          4-15-1980   90.05
                       50.02,
-          5-5-1980    50.08,
                       130.12
-          6-2-1980    111.01—
                       111.06
-          7-7-1980    95.57
-          3-1-1982    93.05
-          7-11-1983   91.02,
                       91.03
-          9-12-1983   91.01
                       52.01—
                       52.05,
                       52.20—
                       52.30,
-          9-10-1984   52.45—
                       52.52,
                       52.65—
                       52.67,
                       52.99
-          3-4-1985    90.01,
                       90.99
-          5-6-1985    95.57—
                       95.61
-          8-5-1985    50.09
-          12-5-1985   96.21,
                       96.99
                       150.15—
                       150.17,
-          3-3-1986(2) 150.35—
                       150.38,
                       150.99
-          4-6-1987    95.59,
                       95.60
-          5-4-1987    91.99
                       33.01—
-          6-6-1988    33.12,
                       33.99
-          9-6-1988    91.01
-          4-3-1989    70.05
                       91.01,
-          9-5-1989    130.09,
                       130.99
-          5-6-1991    72.15,
                       72.99
-          9-3-1991    91.35—
                       91.39
-          10-21-1991  32.01—
                       32.08
-          1-6-1992    32.01—
                       32.08
-          8-3-1992    71.01
-          10-5-1992   50.09
-          2-1-1993    71.01
-          5-3-1993    72.99
-          11-1-1993   51.05
-          1-23-1994   31.01—
                       31.07
-          3-7-1994    50.05
-          7-11-1994   72.04
                       155.001—
                       155.004,
                       155.015—
                       155.018,
                       155.030—
-          12-5-1994   155.040,
                       155.055,
                       155.056,
                       155.070—
                       155.076,
                       155.999
                       72.18,
-          3-6-1995    91.04, 91.21,
                       110.38
-          9-11-1995   72.04
-          12-28-1995  153.12
                       131.01—
-          1-8-1996    131.09,
                       131.99
-          6-3-1996    91.05,
                       91.99
-          9-9-1996    152.05,
                       152.06
-          10-7-1996   113.20
                       131.01—
                       131.09,
-          6-2-1997    131.99,
                       132.01—
                       132.05,
                       132.99
                       70.04,
-          9-8-1997    72.16,
                       72.17
                       132.20—
-          9-15-1997   132.25,
                       132.99
-          1-5-1998    72.99
-          3-2-1998    72.14
-          4-6-1998    150.50,
                       150.52
-          5-4-1998    93.03
-          7-27-1998   95.57
-          8-17-1998   32.02,
                       92.06
-          9-21-1998   32.05
-          11-9-1998   92.07,
                       92.08
                       158.25—
-          1-4-1999    158.36,
                       158.99
                       95.25—
                       95.42,
-          5-3-1999    95.55—
                       95.61,
                       95.99
-          9-13-1999   159.01
-          10-4-1999   51.59
-          5-1-2000    96.23
-          6-27-2000   70.21
-          4-2-2001    130.10
-          6-4-2001    130.02
                       90.26,
-          11-5-2001   90.29,
                       90.99
-          11-19-2001  150.19
02054      5-6-2002    51.09
02071      7-15-2002   95.30
02094      9-9-2002    110.38
02095      9-9-2002    52.22
021103     11-4-2002   114.028
03041      4-7-2003    113.20
03061      6-2-2003    152.21
03081      8-4-2003    130.13,
                       130.99
03082      8-13-2003   113.05
03083      8-18-2003   110.39
04071      7-12-2004   90.30
                       154.01—
                       154.14,
                       154.25—
04097      9-28-2004   154.29,
                       154.40—
                       154.46,
                       154.99
05013      1-24-2005   150.22
05071      7-11-2005   34.01
                       114.001—
                       114.003,
05085      8-8-2005    114.015—
                       114.036,
                       114.055—
                       114.067
                       151.01—
-          9-12-2005   151.15,
                       151.99
05101      10-10-2005  130.02
06611      6-26-2006   156.01—
                       156.09
07-01-01   1-8-2007    95.14
08-01-01   1-14-2008   114.023
08-03-11   3-24-2008   90.10
08-08-01   8-11-2008   150.19
08-08-7    8-25-2008   93.02
08101      10-6-2008   91.03
08108      10-27-2008  132.02
                       157.01—
08116      11-24-2008  157.07,
                       157.99
                       131.01—
0931       3-9-2009    131.04,
                       131.99
                       114.001—
                       114.003,
                       114.015,
                       114.017—
                       114.020,
                       114.022—
                       114.024,
                       114.026—
1011       1-25-2010   114.033,
                       114.035,
                       114.037,
                       114.050—
                       114.055—
                       114.067,
                       114.069—
                       114.074,
                       114.999
1091       9-13-2010   51.14
10121      12-13-2010  32.20—
                       32.28
2011-12    11-28-2011  71.01
2012-15    7-23-2012   95.57
2012-16    7-23-2012   95.55
2012-17    7-23-2012   95.62
2012-18    7-23-2012   95.57
                       90.45—
2013-24    9-15-2013   90.53,
                       90.99
2014-03-2  3-10-2014   71.01
2014-04-01 4-28-2014   32.01—
                       32.08
2015-08-04 8-24-2014   110.99
2014-08-1  8-25-2014   156.20—
                       156.24
2014-08-2  8-25-2014   110.35
2015-01-01 1-26-2015   30.10
2015-08-04 8-24-2015   110.37
                       113.01—
                       113.05,
2015-08-05 8-24-2015   113.20—
                       113.28,
                       113.99
2015-08-06 8-24-2015   90.14,
                       90.99
                       110.01—
2015-08-07 8-24-2015   110.23,
                       110.99
                       95.25,
                       95.26,
2015-11-01 11-9-2015   95.30,
                       95.39,
                       95.43
2016-03-02 3-28-2016   150.51—
                       150.56
2016-04-02 4-25-2016   71.09
2016-05-01 5-23-2016   71.01
2016-08-02 8-22-2016   35.01
2016-08-03 8-22-2016   71.01
2016-09-02 9-12-2016   150.22
                       90.06,
                       90.07,
                       90.10,
2016-09-12 9-26-2016   90.12,
                       90.25,
                       90.29,
                       90.31
2016-09-13 9-26-2016   30.01
2017-01-02 1-9-2017    72.04
                       150.50—
2017-02-02 2-13-2017   150.57,
                       150.99
2017-03-01 3-27-2017   90.01
                       91.45 -
2018-03-04 3-26-2018   91.50,
                       91.99
2018-6-02  6-11-2018   51.15
                       154.01—
                       154.14,
                       154.25—29,
2018-10-03 10-22-2018  154.40,
                       154.41,
                       154.43—
                       154.45,
                       154.99
2018-11-02 11-26-2018  95.59
2019-02-01 2-11-2019   114.022,
                       114.031
2019-02-02 2-25-2019   90.32,
                       130.10
2019-09-01 9-9-2019    30.10
                      
 
