TOWN OF ELKIN, NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2022 S-6 Supplement contains:
Local legislation adopted and/or effective through 8-9-2021; and
State legislation current through North Carolina Legislative Service,
2021 Regular Session, Pamphlet #5
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE TOWN OF ELKIN, NORTH
CAROLINA, REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN
EXISTING GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE TOWN OF ELKIN DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED
IN SUCH CODE OF ORDINANCES
WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the Town of Elkin are
currently not arranged and classified in an easily accessed format; and
WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of North Carolina empower and
authorize the Town of Elkin to revise, amend, restate, codify and compile any
existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted or published
and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book form; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Town of Elkin has authorized a
general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the Town of
Elkin of a general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinance in
book form; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary that this ordinance take effect at an early date.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE TOWN OF
ELKIN OF NORTH CAROLINA:
Section 1. The general ordinances of the Town of Elkin as revised, amended,
restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as and shall
constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the Town of Elkin, North Carolina."
Section 2. Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of the
following Titles:
   CHARTER
Chapter
   TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
10.   Rules of Construction; General Penalty
   TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
30.   Board of Commissioners
31.   Town Officials
32.   Town Organizations and Departments
33.   Emergency Management
34.   Purchasing
35.   Finances and Taxation
   TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
50.   General Regulations
51.   Garbage Collection
52.   Water Regulations
   TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
70.   General Traffic Regulations
71.   Operation of Vehicles
72.   Stopping, Standing and Parking
73.   Traffic Schedules
74.   Parking Schedules
   TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
90.   Recreation and Park Facilities
91.   Abandoned, Junked and Hazardous Motor Vehicles
92.   Airport Operations; Standards
93.   Fire Protection and Prevention
94.   Animals
95.   Nuisances, Sanitation and Environment
96.   Streets and Sidewalks
97.   Cemeteries
98.   Alarm Systems
99.   Public Library
   TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
110.   Business Licensing
111.   Begging, Soliciting and Transient Merchants
112.   Residential Sales
113.   Cable Television Services
   TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
130.   General Offenses
   TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
150.   Building Codes
151.   Flood Damage Protection
152.   Subdivisions
153.   Zoning
   TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   (Reserved)
   PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to 1940 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
INDEX
Section 3. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such Code
of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of
this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in part
in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed or
penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of this
ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances levying
taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory, establishing
franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons, authorizing public
improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing of money,
authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property, granting or
accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use, vacating or
setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall such repeal
affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or pertaining to
subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
Section 4. Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Board of Commissioners, and the Clerk of the Town of Elkin
is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of Ordinances in
the Office of the Clerk.
Section 5. Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section
6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
Section 6. This ordinance will aid in the preservation of the peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the people of the Town of Elkin, and shall take
effect at the earliest date provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Board of Commissioners of the Town of Elkin on this
fifth day of August, 2013.
Lestine H. Hutchens /s/
Lestine H. Hutchens, Mayor
ATTEST:
Catherine C. Tilley /s/
Catherine C. Tilley, Town Clerk
CHARTER
Section
   
Sec. 1.   [Revision and consolidation of Charter]
Article I. Incorporation, Corporate Powers and Boundaries
      
1.1   Incorporation
      
1.2   Powers
      
1.3   Corporate limits
Article II. Governing Body
      
2.1   Mayor and Board of Commissioners
      
2.2   Board; composition; terms of office
      
2.3   Mayor; term of office; duties
      
2.4   Mayor pro tempore
      
2.5   Meetings
      
2.6   Voting requirements; quorum
      
2.7   Compensation; qualifications for office; vacancies
Article III. Elections
      
3.1   Regular municipal elections
      
3.2   Election of Commissioners
      
3.3   Election of the Mayor
      
3.4   Special elections and referendums
Article IV. Organization and Administration
      
4.1   Form of government
      
4.2   Town Manager
      
4.3   Town Clerk
      
4.4   Tax Collector
      
4.5   Town Attorney
      
4.6   Other administrative officers and employees
Article V. Special Provisions
      
5.1   Acceptance of conveyance of real property for liens
      
5.2   Elkin employees’ retirement
      
5.3   Elkin Firemen’s Supplemental Retirement Fund
      
5.4   Alcoholic Beverage Control stores
   
Sec. 2.   [Purpose]
   
Sec. 3.   [Acts not repealed or affected]
   
Sec. 3.1.   [Section 3 of Chapter 730, Session Laws of 1987 not repealed]
   
Sec. 4.   [Acts expressly repealed]
   
Sec. 5.   [Chapter 691, Session Laws of 1971, amended]
   
Sec. 6   [Chapter 806, Session Laws of 1965, amended]
   
Sec. 7.   [Mayor and Commissioners to serve remainder of terms]
   
Sec. 8.   [Repealed provisions not affected]
   
Sec. 9.   [Other provisions to continue]
   
Sec. 10.   [Actions or proceedings not affected]
   
Sec. 11.   [Severability]
   
Sec. 12.   [Amendments of General Statutes]
   
Sec. 13.   [Effective]
   GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF NORTH CAROLINA
   1987 SESSION
   CHAPTER 740
   SENATE BILL 423
   AN ACT TO REVISE AND CONSOLIDATE THE CHARTER OF THE TOWN OF ELKIN.
The General Assembly of North Carolina enacts:
   Section 1. [Revision and consolidation of Charter]. The Charter of the Town
of Elkin is hereby revised and consolidated to read as follows:
   “THE CHARTER OF THE TOWN OF ELKIN
“ARTICLE I. INCORPORATION, CORPORATE POWERS AND BOUNDARIES
   “Section 1.1. Incorporation. The Town of Elkin, North Carolina, and the
inhabitants thereof, is a municipal body politic and corporate, under the name
of the ‘Town of Elkin,’ hereinafter at times referred to as the ‘Town.’
   “Section 1.2. Powers. The Town has and may excercise all of the powers,
duties, rights, privileges and immunities conferred upon the Town of Elkin
specifically by this Charter or upon municipal corporations by general law. The
term ‘general law’ is employed herein as defined in G.S. 160A-1.
   “Section 1.3. Corporate Limits. The corporate limits are those existing at
the time of ratification of this Charter, as set forth on the official map of
the Town, and as they may be altered from time to time in accordance with law.
An official map of the Town, showing the current boundaries, shall be
maintained permanently in the office of the Town Clerk and shall be available
for public inspection. Immediately upon alteration of the corporate limits made
pursuant to law, the appropriate changes to the official map shall be made, and
copies shall be filed in the office of the Secretary of State, either the Surry
or Wilkes County Register of Deeds, and the appropriate boards of elections.
Editor’s note:
   Chapter 525 of the Session Laws of 1989, S.B. 480, “An Act to Annex Certain
Described Territory to the Town of Elkin,” ratified and effective June 30,
1989, amends these limits and is hereby adopted by reference as if set out in
full herein.
“ARTICLE II. GOVERNING BODY
   “Section 2.1. Mayor and Board of Commissioners. The Mayor and Board of
Commissioners, hereinafter referred to as the ‘Board,’ shall be the governing
body of the Town.
   “Section 2.2. Board; Composition; Terms of Office. The Board is composed of
five Commissioners elected by all the qualified voters of the Town for
staggered terms of four years.
   “Section 2.3. Mayor; Term of Office; Duties. The Mayor is elected by all the
qualified voters of the Town for a term of four years; is the official head of
the Town government and presides at meetings of the Board; has the right to
vote only when there is an equal division on any question or matter before the
Board; and exercises the powers and duties conferred by law or as directed by
the Board.
   “Section 2.4. Mayor Pro Tempore. The Board elects one of its members as
Mayor Pro Tempore to perform the duties of the Mayor during his or her absence
or disability, in accordance with general law. The Mayor Pro Tempore serves in
such capacity until the organizational meeting following the next regular
municipal election, despite the contrary provisions of G.S. 160A-70.
   “Section 2.5. Meetings. The Board sets a suitable time and place for its
regular meetings. Special and emergency meetings may be held as provided by
general law.
   “Section 2.6. Voting Requirements; Quorum. Official actions of the Board and
all votes are taken in accordance with applicable provisions of general law,
particularly G.S. 160A-75. The quorum provisions of G.S. 160A-74 apply.
   “Section 2.7. Compensation; Qualifications for Office; Vacancies. The
compensation and qualifications of the Mayor and Commissioners are in
accordance with general law. Vacancies that occur in any elective office of the
Town are filled by appointment of the Board as provided in G.S. 160A-63.
“ARTICLE III. ELECTIONS
   “Section 3.1. Regular Municipal Elections. Regular municipal elections shall
be held in each even-numbered year in accordance with the uniform municipal
elections laws of North Carolina. Elections are conducted on a nonpartisan
basis and the results determined using the plurality method as provided in G.S.
163-292.
   “Section 3.2. Election of Commissioners. Two or three Commissioners are
elected in each regular municipal election, as the respective terms expire.
   “Section 3.3. Election of the Mayor. A Mayor is elected in the regular
municipal election each four years.
   “Section 3.4. Special Elections and Referendums. Special elections and
referendums may be held only as provided by general law or applicable local
acts of the General Assembly.
Editor’s note:
   Section 3.1, Regular Municipal Elections, was amended by House Bill 1045,
ratified 6-26-2014 and effective 1-1-2015.
“ARTICLE IV. ORGANIZATION AND ADMINISTRATION
   “Section 4.1. Form of Government. The Town operates under the council-
manager form of government, in accordance with G.S. Chapter 160A, Article 7,
Part 2.
   “Section 4.2. Town Manager. The Board appoints a Town Manager who is
responsible for the administration of all departments of the Town government.
The Town Manager has all the powers and duties conferred by general law, except
as expressly limited by the provisions of this Charter.
   “Section 4.3. Town Clerk. The Board appoints a Town Clerk to keep a journal
of the proceedings of the Board; to maintain official records and documents; to
give notice of meetings; and to perform such other duties required by law or as
the Board may direct.
   “Section 4.4. Tax Collector. The Board appoints a Tax Collector to collect
all taxes owed to the Town, subject to general law, this Charter and Town
ordinances.
   “Section 4.5. Town Attorney. The Board appoints a Town Attorney licensed to
practice law in North Carolina. The Town Attorney represents the Town, advises
Town officials and performs other duties required by law or as the Board may
direct.
   “Section 4.6. Other Administrative Officers and Employees. The Board may
provide for appointment of other officers and employees by the Town Manager,
and may organize the Town government as deemed appropriate, including combining
any of the offices provided for in this Article, subject to the requirements of
general law.
“ARTICLE V. SPECIAL PROVISIONS
   “Section 5.1. Acceptance of Conveyance of Real Property for Liens. Despite
G.S. 105-357(a) and other provisions of law, the Board, by resolution, may
accept conveyance of real property on which the Town has a lien, in full or
partial satisfaction of the tax, special assessment, or other charge or
liability underlying the lien, including the expense of transferring title to
the Town. The resolution shall order the lien cancelled of record, or reduced
to the extent the liability underlying the lien is satisfied. Acceptance of
conveyance by the Town does not affect a lien on the property held by a person
or entity other than the Town. Property conveyed to the Town under this section
may be disposed of subsequently by the Town under any of the methods provided
in Article 12 of G.S. Chapter 160A, including private sale under G.S. 160A-267.
   “Section 5.2. Elkin Employees’ Retirement. The Town of Elkin participates in
the N.C. Local Governmental Employees’ Retirement System, as provided in
Article 3 of G.S. Chapter 128, and under the rules and regulations of the
Retirement Systems Division of the Office of State Treasurer. Any member
employed by the Town may purchase additional creditable service in the System
for employment with the Town before establishment of the Town’s previous
private retirement plan. Such additional creditable service may be purchased as
if the provisions of G.S. 135-4(t) were applicable, but without the necessity
of completing 10 years of membership service. The purchase must be made within
one year after the member first becomes eligible to make such purchase.
   “Section 5.3. Elkin Firemen’s Supplemental Retirement Fund. The Elkin
Firemen’s Supplemental Retirement Fund shall continue as authorized by Chapter
391, Session Laws of 1971, as amended.
   “Section 5.4. Alcoholic Beverage Control Stores. Alcoholic beverage control
stores shall operate in the Town of Elkin as provided in Chapter 806, Session
Laws of 1965, as amended.”
   Sec. 2. [Purpose.] The purpose of this act is to revise the Charter of the
Town of Elkin and to consolidate certain acts concerning the property, affairs
and government of the Town. It is intended to continue without interruption
those provisions of prior acts which are expressly consolidated into this act,
so that all rights and liabilities which have accrued are preserved and may be
enforced.
   Sec. 3. [Acts not repealed or affected.] This act does not repeal or affect
any acts concerning the property, affairs of government of public schools, or
acts validating official actions, proceeds, contracts or obligations of any
kind.
   Sec. 3.1. [Section 3 of Chapter 730, Session Laws of 1987 not repealed.]
This act does not repeal Section 3 of Chapter 730, Session Laws of 1987.
   Sec. 4. [Acts expressly repealed.] All acts in conflict with this act are
repealed. The following acts, having served the purposes for which they were
enacted or having been consolidated into this act, are expressly repealed:
   Chapter 86, Private Laws of 1889
   Chapter 368, Private Laws of 1893
   Chapter 88, Private Laws of 1901
   Chapter 119, Private Laws of 1903
   Chapter 5, Private Laws of 1911
   Chapter 44, Private Laws of 1911
   Chapter 25, Private Laws of 1913
   Chapter 282, Private Laws of 1913
   Chapter 186, Private Laws of 1929
   Chapter 348, Public-Local Laws of 1931, except for Section 6
   Chapter 138, Private Laws of 1931
   Chapter 520, Public-Local Laws of 1933
   Chapter 71, Public-Local Laws of 1933
   Chapter 30, Private Laws of 1933
   Chapter 82, Private Laws of 1933, except for Section 1
   Chapter 142, Private Laws of 1933
   Chapter 258, Private Laws of 1935
   Chapter 190, Private Laws of 1935
   Chapter 150, Public-Local Laws of 1937, as to Elkin
   Chapter 77, Public-Local Laws of 1937
   Chapter 178, Public-Local Laws of 1937
   Chapter 297, Public Laws of 1939
   Chapter 436, Public-Local Laws of 1941
   Chapter 710, Session Laws of 1943, as to Elkin
   Chapter 865, Session Laws of 1951
   Chapter 832, Session Laws of 1951
   Chapter 128, Session Laws of 1957
   Chapter 127, Session Laws of 1957
   Chapter 822, Session Laws of 1963
   Chapter 96, Session Laws of 1967
   Chapter 712, Session Laws of 1969
   Chapter 254, Session Laws of 1973
   Chapter 175, Session Laws of 1981
   Chapter 742, Session Laws of 1985
   Chapter 992, Session Laws of 1985 (Regular Session 1986)
   Sec. 5. [Chapter 691, Session Laws of 1971, amended.] Chapter 391, Session
Laws of 1971, is amended in the third line of Section 4 by deleting “G.S. 159-
28.1” and substituting “G.S. 159-30”.
   Sec. 6. [Chapter 806, Session Laws of 1965, amended.] Chapter 806, Session
Laws of 1965, as amended, is deemed amended further to change each reference to
Chapter 18 of the General Statutes or to particular sections or Articles of the
former Chapter 18 of the General Statutes to refer to the provisions of the
current Chapter 18B of the General Statutes which most closely correspond.
   Sec. 7. [Mayor and Commissioners to serve remainder of terms.] The Mayor and
Commissioners serving on the date of ratification of this act shall serve for
the remainder of their terms. Thereafter, those offices shall be filled by
election as provided in Articles II and III of the Charter.
   Sec. 8. [Repealed provisions not affected.] This act does not affect any
rights or interests which arose under any provisions repealed by this act.
   Sec. 9. [Other provisions to continue.] All existing ordinances, resolutions
and other provisions of the Town of Elkin not inconsistent with the provisions
of this act shall continue in effect until repealed or amended.
   Sec. 10. [Actions or proceedings not affected.] No action or proceeding
pending on the effective date of this act by or against the Town or any of its
departments or agencies shall be abated or otherwise affected by this act.
   Sec. 11. [Severability.] If any provision or application of this act is held
invalid, such invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of
this act which can be given effect without the invalid provisions or
application, and to this end the provisions of this act are declared to be
severable.
   Sec. 12. [Amendments of General Statutes.] Whenever a reference is made in
this act to a particular provision of the General Statutes, and such provision
is later amended, superseded or recodified, the reference shall be deemed
amended to refer to the amended section of the General Statutes, or to the
General Statute section which most clearly corresponds to the statutory
provision which is superseded or recodified.
   Sec. 13. [Effective.] This act is effective upon ratification.
   In the General Assembly read three times and ratified this the 7th day of
August, 1987.
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time; computing time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinances
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend code; effect of new ordinances
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the Town of Elkin shall be
designated as the “Code of Elkin, North Carolina” and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CHARTER. The Charter of the Town of Elkin, North Carolina.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time within which an act is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and the last day; and if the last day is
Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday, that day shall be excluded.
      COUNCIL. The Mayor and Council, or governing body, of the Town of Elkin,
North Carolina.
      COUNTY. The Counties of Surry and Wilkes, North Carolina.
      GENDER. Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine
and neuter.
      GOVERNOR. The Governor of North Carolina.
      G.S. or GENERAL STATUTES. The latest edition of the GENERAL STATUTES of
North Carolina, as amended.
      JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving a joint authority to three or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of
persons or officers.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      NUMBER. Words used in the singular include the plural, and the plural
includes the singular number.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this municipality unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
      OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Whenever certain hours are named in this code,
they shall mean standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use
in this town.
      OWNER. Applied to any property, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole
or a part of the property.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Every species of property except real property.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property.
      REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of North Carolina.
      STREET. Any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard,
parkway, dedicated alley, lane, viaduct, bridge and the approaches thereto
within the town and shall mean the entire width of the right-of-way between
abutting property lines.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT. When applied to a building or land, shall include any
person who occupies the whole or a part of the building or land, whether alone
or with others.
      TENSE. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well
as the past and present.
      TOWN. The Town of Elkin, in the Counties of Surry and Wilkes, North
Carolina.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
      ZONING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. One designated by the Council.
Statutory reference:
   Computation of time, see G.S. § 1-593
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this town shall be by the following
rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of an act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this town exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, that spelling shall be corrected and the word
or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this town for the transaction of all
municipal business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME; COMPUTING TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   (A)   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other
ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in
full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary
implication.
   (B)   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall be
construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
      (1)   Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture
incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective
date of this code;
      (2)   Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment
of money for the town or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the town or
any evidence of the town’s indebtedness;
      (3)   Any contract or obligation assumed by the town;
      (4)   Any ordinance fixing the salary of any town officer or employee;
      (5)   Any right or franchise granted by the town;
      (6)   Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating,
relocating, opening, widening, paving and the like, any street or public way in
the town;
      (7)   Any appropriation ordinance;
      (8)   Any ordinance which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or
limited term;
      (9)   Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes
therefor;
      (10)   Any zoning ordinance or zoning map amendment;
      (11)   Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat;
      (12)   Any ordinance describing or altering the boundaries of the town;
      (13)   The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the town not in
conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this code;
      (14)   Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included herein;
      (15)   Any ordinance establishing or prescribing street grades in the
town; and/or
      (16)   Any personnel ordinance.
   (C)   Nor shall any ordinance be construed to revive any ordinance or part
thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance which is repealed by
this chapter; and all ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full
force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length herein.
Statutory reference:
   Statutes not repealed by General Statutes, see G.S. § 164-7
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND CODE; EFFECT OF NEW ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal or
in any way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering
system hereof and printed for inclusion herein. When subsequent ordinances
repeal any chapter, section or subsection, or any portion thereof, the repealed
portions may be excluded from this code by omission from reprinted pages. The
subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of
repeal, shall be prima facie evidence that the subsequent ordinances numbered
or omitted are readopted as a new code by the town.
   (B)   Amendments to any of the provisions of the code shall be made by
amending provisions by specific reference to the section number of this code in
language substantially similar to the following: “Section                of the
Code of Ordinances, Town of Elkin, North Carolina, is hereby amended as
follows: [. . .] .” The new provisions shall then be set out in full as
desired.
   (C)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be added,
language substantially similar to the following shall be used: “The Code of
Ordinances, Town of Elkin, North Carolina, is hereby amended by adding a
section, to be numbered               , which section shall read as follows: [.
. .] .” The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (D)   All sections, articles, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed
must be specifically repealed by section, article or chapter number, as the
case may be.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example:
(G.S. § 160A-11)
      (2)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see G.S. §§ 132-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the prior code of ordinances
of the town, the prior code section number shall be indicated in the history by
“(1940 Code, §       ).” The history notes following sections and the
references scattered throughout the code are not part of the code, but are
merely for the benefit for the user of the code.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of any
section or division of this code of ordinances for which no other penalty is
provided, or failing or neglecting or refusing to comply with same, shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor and subject to a fine not to
exceed $50 or imprisonment not to exceed 30 days, and each day that any of the
provisions of this code of ordinances are violated shall constitute a separate
offense.
(G.S. § 14-4(a))
Statutory reference:
   Provisions concerning enforcement of ordinances, see G.S. § 160A-175
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
      
31.   TOWN OFFICIALS
      
32.   TOWN ORGANIZATIONS AND DEPARTMENTS
      
33.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
34.   PURCHASING
      
35.   FINANCES AND TAXATION
      
36.   DONATION AND SPONSORSHIP
CHAPTER 30: BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
Section
Governing Body
   
30.01   Governing body
   
30.02   Compensation; bond; oaths
Meetings
   
30.15   Regular meetings
   
30.16   Special meetings
   
30.17   Business of special meeting
   
30.18   Adjourned meetings
   
30.19   No quorum; Mayor may summon absentees
   
30.20   Quorum
   
30.21   The Mayor shall preside
   
30.22   Mayor pro tem
   
30.23   Mayor may vote, when
Board Business
   
30.35   Order of business
   
30.36   Robert’s Rules of Order
   
30.37   Motions having precedence
   
30.38   Election by ballot
   
30.39   Vacancies
Ordinances
   
30.55   Ordinances in writing
   
30.56   Ordinances to be confined to one subject
   
30.57   How adopted
   
30.58   When effective
   
30.59   Official copy
GOVERNING BODY
§ 30.01 GOVERNING BODY.
   The governing body of the Town of Elkin shall consist of a Mayor and five
Commissioners.
(1940 Code, Ch. B, Art. I, § 1)
§ 30.02 COMPENSATION; BOND; OATHS.
   The Board of Commissioners shall have power to fix compensation and bonds
for all officers and employees as it may deem necessary and in conformity with
the statutes. The Board shall also assume responsibility for the administration
of all oaths where required by statutes, and where an oath may be advisable.
(1940 Code, Ch. B, Art. I, § 2)
MEETINGS
§ 30.15 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   The Board of Commissioners shall hold a regular meeting on the second Monday
in each month.
(Res. eff. 5-4-1998)
§ 30.16 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   The Mayor, or a majority of the Board, may call special meetings, by first
giving written notice thereof to every member of the Board, setting forth the
time and date of meeting and specifying what matters will be considered.
(1940 Code, Ch. A, § 2)
§ 30.17 BUSINESS OF SPECIAL MEETING.
   At any special meeting, the Board shall consider or act only on those
subjects that were mentioned in the notice of the special meeting.
(1940 Code, Ch. A, § 3)
§ 30.18 ADJOURNED MEETINGS.
   Any regular or special meeting of the Board of Commissioners, and any
adjourned meeting thereof, may adjourn to any time prior to the next regular
meeting date as may be fixed by the Board of Commissioners.
(1940 Code, Ch. A, § 4)
§ 30.19 NO QUORUM; MAYOR MAY SUMMON ABSENTEES.
   If a quorum of the Board of Commissioners be not present, the Mayor may
summon absentees, and if a quorum fails to attend, the meeting shall stand
adjourned to a time as may be agreed upon by a majority of the members present.
The Mayor shall have authority to require attendance of members.
(1940 Code, Ch. A, § 5)
§ 30.20 QUORUM.
   A majority of the Board of Commissioners shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business.
(1940 Code, Ch. A, § 6)
§ 30.21 THE MAYOR SHALL PRESIDE.
   The Mayor or, in his or her absence, the Mayor pro tem shall preside at all
meetings of the Board.
(1940 Code, Ch. A, § 7)
§ 30.22 MAYOR PRO TEM.
   In the absence of the Mayor, the Board of Commissioners shall appoint one of
its members to act as Mayor pro tem. He or she shall have all the authority and
power conferred upon the Mayor.
(1940 Code, Ch. A, § 8)
§ 30.23 MAYOR MAY VOTE, WHEN.
   When there is an equal division upon any question, the Mayor shall determine
the matter by his or her vote. He or she shall vote in no other case.
(1940 Code, Ch. A, § 9)
BOARD BUSINESS
§ 30.35 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   The order of business at all regular meetings of the Board of Commissioners
shall be stated in the Town of Elkin Board of Commissioners Rules of Procure.
(Ord. adopted 4-14-2008)
§ 30.36 ROBERT’S RULES OF ORDER.
   Except where otherwise provided by law or ordinance, the procedure of
business of the Board of Commissioners shall be governed by Robert’s Rules of
Order.
(1940 Code, Ch. A, § 11)
§ 30.37 MOTIONS HAVING PRECEDENCE.
   If the Board direct any matter to be the special business of a future
meeting, the same shall have precedence over all other business at the meeting.
(1940 Code, Ch. A, § 12)
§ 30.38 ELECTION BY BALLOT.
   All elections by the Board of Commissioners shall be by ballot, and a
majority of the votes of all members present shall be necessary for an
election; provided, that this requirement of voting by ballot may be suspended
by a majority vote of the Commissioners.
(1940 Code, Ch. A, § 14)
§ 30.39 VACANCIES.
   If a vacancy due to death, disability or resignation shall occur on the
Board, a successor shall be elected by a majority vote of the Board to fill the
unexpired term.
(1940 Code, Ch. A, § 20)
ORDINANCES
§ 30.55 ORDINANCES IN WRITING.
   All ordinances shall be submitted in writing and signed by the Commissioner
introducing same.
(1940 Code, Ch. A, § 16)
§ 30.56 ORDINANCES TO BE CONFINED TO ONE SUBJECT.
   All ordinances shall be confined to one subject, excepting ordinances for
appropriations.
(1940 Code, Ch. A, § 17)
§ 30.57 HOW ADOPTED.
   No ordinance shall be passed finally on the date on which it is introduced,
unless by two-thirds vote of those present. No ordinance making a grant,
renewal or extension, whatever its kind or nature, of any franchise or special
privilege shall be passed until voted on at two regular meetings, and no grant,
renewal or extension shall be made otherwise than by ordinance.
(1940 Code, Ch. A, § 18)
§ 30.58 WHEN EFFECTIVE.
   All ordinances passed by the Board of Commissioners shall be in force and
effect on the day of their passage unless otherwise provided.
(1940 Code, Ch. A, § 21)
§ 30.59 OFFICIAL COPY.
   A true copy of any ordinance or resolution, which has been duly enacted by
the Board of Commissioners, and has been signed by the Town Clerk, and the
official seal of the town has been attached thereto, shall be known and
recognized as the official copy.
(1940 Code, Ch. A, § 23)
CHAPTER 31: TOWN OFFICIALS
Section
Board of Commissioners
   
31.01   Election
   
31.02   Claims against the town
   
31.03   Officers not pecuniarily interested in contracts
Mayor
   
31.20   Election
   
31.21   Powers
   
31.22   Presiding Officer
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
§ 31.01 ELECTION.
   A Board of Commissioners composed of five members shall be elected to hold
office for staggered terms of four years.
(1940 Code, Ch. B, Art. II, § 1)
§ 31.02 CLAIMS AGAINST THE TOWN.
   All claims against the town shall be presented and allowed in the name of
the party with whom the Board or its authorized agent has contracted, and no
person shall do or perform a service, or contract a debt against the town,
without first being so authorized by the Board or the Mayor.
(1940 Code, Ch. B, Art. III, § 4)
§ 31.03 OFFICE NOT PECUNIARILY INTERESTED IN CONTRACTS.
   No Commissioner or other officer of the town shall be directly or indirectly
interested in the contracts for work to be done for the town or be pecuniarily
interested in any contract with the town.
(1940 Code, Ch. B, Art. III, § 5)
MAYOR
§ 31.20 ELECTION.
   The Mayor shall be elected in accordance with provisions made and provided
for by statute and Town of Elkin Board of Commissioners Rules of Procedure,
which election is to be held every four years.
(1940 Code, Ch. B, Art. II, § 1) (Ord. eff. 4-14-2008)
§ 31.21 POWERS.
   The Mayor shall have and exercise all powers of a member of the Board of
Commissioners except the right to vote, which right is permissible only in case
of a tie.
(1940 Code, Ch. B, Art. II, § 2)
§ 31.22 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   The Mayor shall preside over the meetings of the Board of Commissioners.
(1940 Code, Ch. B, Art. II, § 3)
CHAPTER 32: TOWN ORGANIZATIONS AND DEPARTMENTS
Section
General Rules of Procedure for Town Advisory Boards
   
32.01   Purpose; adoption date
   
32.02   Name of organization
   
32.03   Purpose and duties
   
32.04   Membership
   
32.05   Officers and duties
   
32.06   Meetings
   
32.07   Subcommittees
   
32.08   Compensation
   
32.09   Other provisions
   
32.10   Amendments
   
32.11   Signatures
   
32.12   Complaints against advisory board members
GENERAL RULES OF PROCEDURE FOR TOWN ADVISORY BOARDS
§ 32.01 PURPOSE; ADOPTION DATE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide the standard operating
procedures to be used by the Town Board for the acceptance of names, selection
and appointment of citizens interested in serving on advisory boards. This
subchapter will serve as a guideline to the Town Board and the information
contained herein will be utilized by all advisory boards in the creations and/
or revisions of their bylaws. Advisory boards created by the Town Board may
include language or procedures in addition to the standards established herein,
as long as the language or procedure does not violate any state or federal law
or conflict with the guidelines herein established.
   (B)   This subchapter was adopted on September 13, 2010.
(Ord. eff. 9-13-2010)
§ 32.02 NAME OF ORGANIZATION.
    Each advisory board will state the official name of the organization in the
bylaws. In addition, the Town Hall will be listed as the principal office of
the advisory board with all postal mail being sent to the attention of the town
staff liaison. All records to include minutes of meetings will be kept in the
Town Hall.
(Ord. eff. 9-13-2010)
§ 32.03 PURPOSE AND DUTIES.
    Each advisory board will establish its purpose and duties to be performed
as a board, to include any statutory requirements set forth by state and/or
federal law. At no time will any advisory board have administrative or
operational duties or responsibilities (i.e., supervision of employees).
(Ord. eff. 9-13-2010)
§ 32.04 MEMBERSHIP.
    Each advisory board will state the number of members it has along with any
extraterritorial jurisdiction members and/or alternate members.
   (A)   Appointment. All applicants desiring an initial appointment to an
advisory board must fill out an application which is available at Town Hall, on
the town’s website, or by contacting the staff liaison for that advisory board.
The application will be turned in to the staff liaison for the advisory board
and will in turn be presented at the next scheduled advisory board meeting in
which a vacancy exists. If more applications are presented than existing
vacancies, the advisory board will conduct an open vote. The applicant(s)
receiving the highest number of votes will be forwarded to the Town Board for
final approval. No applicant applying for a vacancy on an advisory board will
serve in an official capacity until his or her approval has been finalized by
the Town Board.
   (B)   Reappointment. Members may succeed themselves with no limit on the
number of terms one may serve on the advisory board. Stronger consideration
will be granted to those applicants seeking reappointment to the advisory
board, provided their past performance is satisfactory as defined by the Town
Board. Recommendation for reappointment will be forwarded to the Town Board by
the advisory board.
   (C)   Terms of office. Unless otherwise provided in the bylaws, advisory
board members will serve three-year staggered terms. Members will continue to
serve until their successors have been appointed by the Town Board. All
advisory board members serve at the pleasure of the Town Board and can be
removed at any time with a majority vote by the Town Board.
   (D)   Qualifications for membership. Unless otherwise noted on the summary
sheet, all applicants must reside in the corporate limits of the town. Extra-
territorial jurisdiction (ETJ) members (Planning Board/Board of Adjustment)
must reside in the ETJ of the town. Some advisory boards may have a specialized
purpose which makes it somewhat difficult to fill all seats of the board. In
these situations, the Town Board may allow appointments for persons having a
sincere interest in the purpose of the advisory board or possessing special
skills which uniquely qualify him or her for appointment to that advisory
board. In addition, citizens are limited to serving on no more than two
advisory boards concurrently.
   (E)   Vacancies. If a vacancy occurs prior to the end of a full term, the
Town Board will fill the vacancy, with the recommendation of the advisory
board, for the remainder of the term. If a vacancy occurs due to a member not
seeking reappointment, the advisory board will consider application(s) for the
vacancy and forward its recommendation for appointment to the Town Board, who
will make the final approval. In the case of ETJ appointments, the appointment
process will have an additional step in which the Town Board’s recommendation
for appointment will go to the Surry County Board of Commissioners for final
approval. Vacancies will be posted on the town website and staff will work with
the local media to announce vacancies, as well. The Town Manager will update
the contact list for advisory boards each month showing current or upcoming
vacancies and include this report on the agenda for the regular scheduled
monthly Town Board meeting.
(Ord. eff. 9-13-2010)
§ 32.05 OFFICERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Each advisory board will elect its own officers from among its
membership. No Town Board approval is needed for this action. The election of
officers will occur at the first official meeting after July 1 of each year.
The term of office will be for one year, and all officers may succeed
themselves.
   (B)   (1)   Chair. A chair will be elected from the membership. The role of
the chair includes but is not limited to the following: calling and presiding
over all meetings, developing the agenda with the staff liaison, signing all
minutes, appoint any subcommittees, call special/emergency meetings, shall
decide on all points of order and procedure, and shall vote on all matters
brought before the advisory board.
      (2)   Vice chair. A vice chair will be elected from the membership. The
role of the vice chair will be to fulfill all of the duties of the chair in his
or her absence.
      (3)   Secretary. A secretary will be appointed by the chair. The role of
the secretary includes but is not limited to the following: recording minutes
for all meetings of the advisory board, preparing minutes for the agenda
packet, getting chair’s signature on all approved minutes, coordinating with
the staff liaison for the safe-keeping of all minutes and other documents of
the advisory board, coordinate with the staff liaison on all communication for
the advisory board, and perform any other secretarial duties as needed.
      (4)   Staff liaison. A town staff member will serve as the staff liaison
to all advisory boards in an ex officio, non-voting role. The role of the staff
liaison includes but is not limited to the following: advise the chair and
advisory board on matters pertinent to the discussions of the advisory board,
ensure the approved minutes are sent to the Town Manager for dissemination to
the Town Board each month, may serve as the secretary for the advisory board
upon concurrence with the Town Manager, work with the chair on agenda
preparation, and perform other duties as needed for the advisory board.
(Ord. eff. 9-13-2010)
§ 32.06 MEETINGS.
    Each advisory board will develop clear and concise language on how their
meetings are to be conducted.
   (A)   Regular meetings. All advisory boards will meet at least quarterly.
The specific date, time and location of its regularly scheduled meeting will be
prescribed in the advisory board’s bylaws.
   (B)   Special meetings. All special and/or emergency meetings conducted by
the advisory board will be called in accordance with G.S. Chapter 143, Article
33C. Proper notice will be given for the meetings and in addition, notice will
be provided to and published in Town Hall by way of the advisory board’s staff
liaison. The chair, vice chair or two or more members of the advisory board may
call for a special or emergency meeting.
   (C)   Open meetings. All regular, special, emergency and recessed meetings
are open to the public in accordance with G.S. Chapter 143, Article 33C. Closed
session meetings may be called in accordance with G.S. § 143-318.11 and only
for the listed reason(s) contained therein. Public input is encouraged at all
official meetings of the advisory board.
   (D)   Quorum. A quorum shall be defined as a majority of the membership of
the advisory board minus vacancies. A quorum is necessary for an official
meeting to be held as defined by G.S. § 143-318.10(d).
   (E)   Minutes. All advisory boards will take minutes as defined by G.S. §
143-318.10(e). Minutes will be adopted by the advisory board and will be signed
by the chair upon adoption. Official (signed) minutes will be housed and
maintained at the Town Hall by the advisory board’s staff liaison. All official
(signed) minutes will be available for inspection by the public. In addition,
the advisory board’s staff liaison will provide a copy of the official (signed)
minutes to the Town Manager who will provide the minutes to the Town Board on a
monthly basis. This will serve the purpose of ensuring the Town Board is well
informed on the discussions and activities of its advisory boards.
   (F)   Voting and conflict of interest. All advisory board members will vote
on every item which has been brought to a vote unless they have been excused
from voting due to a direct personal or financial interest. If a member feels
he or she has a conflict of interest on a matter, the advisory board by a
majority vote may excuse the member from voting and having any discussion on
that issue. The minutes will reflect the member was excused by the advisory
board. If a member is absent from the meeting, he or she must be officially
excused by the advisory board. Otherwise, the absent member’s vote will be
recorded as an affirmative vote for whatever motions are made during the
meeting.
   (G)   Attendance. Advisory board members, albeit volunteers, must
demonstrate a commitment to the advisory board on which they serve. Members who
miss three consecutive meetings or 50% or more of all official meetings within
a 12-month period conducted by the advisory board will be subject to removal
from the advisory board by the Town Board. The recommendation for removal for
the member may come from the advisory board to the Town Board, or the Town
Board may take action to remove the member without the recommendation of the
advisory board.
   (H)   Cancellation. Whenever there is no business for the advisory board to
consider, the chair may cancel the regularly scheduled meeting after all
members have been notified along with the local media. Notice will be posted on
the door of the meeting place to inform the public of the meeting cancellation.
(Ord. eff. 9-13-2010)
§ 32.07 SUBCOMMITTEES.
   The chair of the advisory board shall have the right to establish
subcommittees, as needed, to further the work and goals of that advisory board.
Subcommittees will follow the provisions set forth in G.S. Chapter 143, Article
33C.
(Ord. eff. 9-13-2010)
§ 32.08 COMPENSATION.
    Advisory board members will not be compensated for their time while serving
on the committee unless otherwise provided in the advisory board’s bylaws.
Reimbursement for expenses directly attributed to activities of the committee,
such as travel, attendance at out-of-town meetings and reimbursements for
purchases made as part of an ongoing project or event are allowed, following
the established reimbursement procedures for the town. Expenses must have prior
approval by the advisory board’s staff liaison or Town Manager.
(Ord. eff. 9-13-2010)
§ 32.09 OTHER PROVISIONS.
    The advisory board may include additional internal rules, policies or other
guidelines to its bylaws which are not inconsistent with this established
regulation. For example, the Board of Adjustment has a quasi-judicial function
which could be described. Also, the ABC Board has statutory requirements/
restrictions which could be placed here to distinguish itself from other
advisory boards. Likewise, if an advisory board has a financial or fiduciary
responsibility, the responsibilities of that advisory board will be detailed in
this section.
(Ord. eff. 9-13-2010)
§ 32.10 AMENDMENTS.
   No amendments to an advisory board’s bylaws will be official unless approved
by the Town Board. Amendments can be recommended by the advisory board to the
Town Board for approval or can be dictated by the Town Board, as needed.
(Ord. eff. 9-13-2010)
§ 32.11 SIGNATURES.
   Bylaws will contain the signature and date of the advisory board chair along
with the signature and date of the Town Mayor. Bylaws not containing both
signatures and dates will not be official.
(Ord. eff. 9-13-2010)
§ 32.12 COMPLAINTS AGAINST ADVISORY BOARD MEMBERS.
   Advisory board members hold a position of trust and responsibility within
the community. Complaints made regarding the actions or behavior of an advisory
board member must be made in writing with as much detail as possible regarding
the circumstances of the complaint. Complaints will be reviewed by the Town
Manager and reported to the Town Board for further review and action, as
needed.
(Ord. eff. 9-13-2010)
CHAPTER 33: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
33.01   State of emergency; deemed to exist
   
33.02   Proclamation by Mayor
   
33.03   Powers of Mayor
   
33.04   End of emergency
   
33.05   Restrictions
   
33.06   Extension, modification or repeal of state of emergency
   
33.07   Violations
   
33.08   Activities of people during emergency
 
   
33.99   Penalty
§ 33.01 STATE OF EMERGENCY; DEEMED TO EXIST.
   A state of emergency shall be deemed to exist whenever, during times of
great public crisis, disaster, rioting, catastrophe or similar public
emergency, for any reason, municipal public safety authorities are unable to
maintain public order or afford adequate protection for lives or property.
(Ord. eff. 7-15-1970)
§ 33.02 PROCLAMATION BY MAYOR.
   In the event of an existing or threatened state of emergency endangering the
lives, safety, health and welfare of the people within the town, or threatening
damage to or destruction of property, the Mayor of the town is hereby
authorized and empowered to issue a public proclamation declaring to all
persons the existence of the state of emergency, and, in order to more
effectively protect the lives and property of people within the town, to place
in effect any or all of the restrictions hereinafter authorized.
(Ord. eff. 7-15-1970)
§ 33.03 POWERS OF MAYOR.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized and empowered to limit by the proclamation
the application of all or any part of the restrictions to any area specifically
designated or described within the corporate limits of the town and to specific
hours of the day or night; and to exempt from all or any part of the
restriction law enforcement officers, firefighters and other public employees,
doctors, nurses, employees of hospitals and other medical facilities; on-duty
military personnel, whether state or federal; on-duty employees of public
broadcasting, and television broadcasting corporations operated for profit; and
any other classes of persons as may be essential to the preservation of public
order and immediately necessary to serve the safety, health and welfare needs
of the people within the town.
(Ord. eff. 7-15-1970)
§ 33.04 END OF EMERGENCY.
   The Mayor shall proclaim the end of the state of emergency or all or any
part of the restrictions imposed as soon as circumstances warrant, or when
directed to do so by the governing body.
(Ord. eff. 7-15-1970)
§ 33.05 RESTRICTIONS.
   During the existence of a proclaimed state of emergency, the Mayor may
impose by proclamation any or all of the following restrictions:
   (A)   Prohibit or regulate the possession off one’s own premises of
explosives, firearms, ammunition or dangerous weapons of any kind, and prohibit
the purchase, sale, transfer or other disposition thereof;
   (B)   Prohibit or regulate the buying or selling of beer, wine or
intoxicating beverages of any kind, and their possession or consumption off
one’s own premises;
   (C)   Prohibit or regulate any demonstration, parade, march, vigil or
participation therein from taking place on any of the public ways or upon any
public property;
   (D)   Prohibit or regulate the sale of gasoline, kerosene, naptha or any
other explosive or inflammable fluids or substances;
   (E)   Prohibit or regulate travel upon any public street, alley or roadway
or upon any other public property, except by those in search of medical
assistance, food or other commodity or service necessary to sustain the well-
being of themselves or their families or some member thereof; or
   (F)   Prohibit or regulate the participation in or carrying-on of any
business activity, and prohibit or regulate the keeping open of places of
business, places of entertainment and any other places of public assembly.
(Ord. eff. 7-15-1970)
§ 33.06 EXTENSION, MODIFICATION OR REPEAL OF STATE OF EMERGENCY.
   Any proclamation may be extended, altered or repealed in any particular
during the continued or threatened existence of a state of emergency by the
issuance of a subsequent proclamation.
(Ord. eff. 7-15-1970)
§ 33.07 VIOLATIONS.
   During the existence of a proclaimed state of emergency, it shall be
unlawful for any person to violate any provision of any restriction imposed by
any proclamation authorized by this chapter.
(Ord. eff. 7-15-1970) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.08 ACTIVITIES OF PEOPLE DURING EMERGENCY.
   (A)   The Chief of Police or other police officer in charge at the scene of
a parade, fire, accident, disturbance, crime scene, natural or artificial
disaster or emergency, or any large gathering of people, shall have the
authority to provide barricades, ropes, signs or other means of restraint.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person other than a law enforcement
officer, firefighter or other person having official business at the scene, to
cross a duly established police emergency line without express permission of a
police officer at the scene, or to remain within the area bounded by the police
emergency line after being ordered by a police officer to leave.
(Ord. eff. 11-13-1970) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The violation of any provision of §§
33.01 through
33.07, or any provision of any restriction imposed by any proclamation
authorized by those sections, shall constitute a misdemeanor, punishable upon
conviction by a fine not exceeding $50 or imprisonment not exceeding 30 days,
as provided by G.S. § 14-4.
   (B)    Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of §
33.08 shall upon conviction be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished in
accordance with the provisions of G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. eff. 7-15-1970; Ord. eff. 11-13-1970)
CHAPTER 34: PURCHASING
Section
Delegating Authority to Purchase Apparatus, Supplies, Materials or Equipment
   
34.01   Grant of authority
   
34.02   Report
   
34.03   Extent of authority
   
34.04   No limitation of other authority
   
34.05   Appropriation required
   
34.06   Application of state law
   
34.07   Authority; adoption
Procedures for Disposing of Personal Property Valued at Less Than $30,000
   
34.20   Authorization of disposal of property
   
34.21   Means of disposal
   
34.22   Sold to whom
   
34.23   Records
   
34.24   Authority; adoption
DELEGATING AUTHORITY TO PURCHASE APPARATUS, SUPPLIES, MATERIALS OR EQUIPMENT
§ 34.01 GRANT OF AUTHORITY.
   Subject to the restrictions and conditions hereinafter provided, when
purchasing apparatus, supplies, materials or equipment for use by the town, in
addition to such authority as may be provided by law and/or otherwise delegated
by the Board of Commissioners, the Town Manager shall have the authority to:
   (A)   Prepare, or cause to be prepared, plans and/or specifications setting
forth a complete description of the item(s) to be purchased and the
characteristics, features and/or requirements therefor;
   (B)   Include, where appropriate, in specifications for the item(s) to be
purchased an opportunity for bidders to purchase as trade-in specified personal
property owned by the town;
   (C)   Advertise, or otherwise secure bids, for those item(s), if required
under applicable law;
   (D)   Award contracts for the purchase of the item(s) and, where applicable,
award contracts for the purchase of the item(s) and the sale of trade-in
property;
   (E)   Reject bids;
   (F)   Re-advertise to receive bids;
   (G)   Waive bid bond or deposit requirements;
   (H)   Waive performance and payment bond requirements; and
   (I)   Execute and deliver the purchase contract(s).
(Ord. eff. 9-8-2008)
§ 34.02 REPORT.
   At the first meeting of the Board of Commissioners following the award of
any contract(s) pursuant to this subchapter, the Town Manager shall submit a
report to the Board of Commissioners summarizing the bids received and the
contract(s) awarded. The report shall be included in the minutes of the meeting
at which it is received.
(Ord. eff. 9-8-2008)
§ 34.03 EXTENT OF AUTHORITY.
   Except in cases of sole source purchases pursuant to G.S. § 143-129(e) and
cases of purchases from established contracts pursuant to G.S. § 143-129(g),
unless otherwise provided by law, the provisions of this subchapter shall apply
to the purchase of apparatus, supplies, materials or equipment requiring the
estimated expenditure of municipal funds in an amount not to exceed $90,000 for
any one item or group of similar items.
(Ord. eff. 9-8-2008)
§ 34.04 NO LIMITATION OF OTHER AUTHORITY.
   The provisions of this subchapter are not intended to limit, restrict or
revoke, in any manner, authority otherwise granted and/or delegated to the Town
Manager by statute, law or action of the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. eff. 9-8-2008)
§ 34.05 APPROPRIATION REQUIRED.
   No purchase shall be made by the Town Manager under authority of this
subchapter unless an appropriation for that purpose has been authorized in the
annual budget, or by supplemental appropriation or budget appropriation
amendment duly adopted by the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. eff. 9-8-2008)
§ 34.06 APPLICATION OF STATE LAW.
   In acting pursuant to the authority delegated by this subchapter, the Town
Manager shall comply with the requirements of G.S. Chapter 143, Article 8, as
from time to time amended, modified, supplemented, revised or superseded, to
the same extent as would have otherwise applied to the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. eff. 9-8-2008)
§ 34.07 AUTHORITY; ADOPTION.
   (A)   This subchapter is enacted pursuant to the provisions of G.S. § 143-
129.
   (B)   This subchapter was adopted on September 8, 2008.
(Ord. eff. 9-8-2008)
PROCEDURES FOR DISPOSING OF PERSONAL PROPERTY VALUED AT LESS THAN $30,000
§ 34.20 AUTHORIZATION OF DISPOSAL OF PROPERTY.
   The Town Manager is hereby authorized to dispose of any surplus personal
property owned by the town, whenever he or she determines, in his or her
discretion, that:
   (A)   The item or group of items has a fair market value of less than
$30,000;
   (B)   The property is no longer necessary for the conduct of public
business; and
   (C)   Sound property management principles and financial considerations
indicate that the interests of the town would best be served by disposing of
the property.
(Ord. eff. 9-8-2008)
§ 34.21 MEANS OF DISPOSAL.
   The Board of Commissioners may dispose of any surplus personal property by
any means which he or she judges reasonably calculated to yield the highest
attainable sale price in money or other consideration, including but not
limited to the methods of sale provided in G.S. Chapter 160A, Article 12. The
sale may be public or private, and with or without notice and minimum waiting
period.
(Ord. eff. 9-8-2008)
§ 34.22 SOLD TO WHOM.
   The surplus property shall be sold to the party who tenders the highest
offer, or exchanged for any property or services useful to the town if greater
value may be obtained in that matter, and the Town Manager is hereby authorized
to execute and deliver any applicable title documents. If no offers are
received within a reasonable time, the Town Manager may retain the property,
obtain any reasonable available salvage value, or cause it to be disposed of as
waste material. No surplus property may be donated to any individual or
organization except by resolution of the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. eff. 9-8-2008)
§ 34.23 RECORDS.
   The Town Manager shall keep a record of all property sold under authority of
this subchapter and that record shall generally describe the property sold or
exchanged, to whom it was sold, or with whom exchanged, and the amount of money
or other consideration received for each sale or exchange.
(Ord. eff. 9-8-2008)
§ 34.24 AUTHORITY; ADOPTION.
   (A)   This subchapter is enacted pursuant to the provisions of G.S. § 160A-
266(c).
   (B)   This subchapter was adopted on September 8, 2008.
(Ord. eff. 9-8-2008)
CHAPTER 35: FINANCES AND TAXATION
Section
Taxation
   
35.01   Authority to levy taxes
   
35.02   Exclusive of bond taxes
Franchise Tax on Electric Power Companies
   
35.15   Title
   
35.16   Definitions
   
35.17   Ratification of existing permits
   
35.18   Levy of tax
   
35.19   Period for which tax due
   
35.20   Report and payment of tax
   
35.21   Refunds
   
35.22   Administration
   
35.23   Confidentiality of records
   
35.24   Provisions cumulative
   
35.25   Service upon electric power companies
   
35.26   Adoption date
 
   
35.99   Penalty
TAXATION
§ 35.01 AUTHORITY TO LEVY TAXES.
   In order to raise sufficient funds to pay the current expenses of the town,
the Board of Commissioners may each year levy and collect upon all the real and
personal property within the town an annual ad valorem tax not in excess of
$1.50 on each $100 in valuation of that property.
(1940 Code, Ch. D, Art. I, § 1)
§ 35.02 EXCLUSIVE OF BOND TAXES.
   The rate fixed for taxation in §
35.01 shall be exclusive of all rates levied for the payment of principal and
interest upon bonds or notes of the town heretofore or hereafter issued, as to
which taxes, bonds and notes there shall be no limit as to rate and for the
payment of which the Board of Commissioners shall have authority to levy and
collect upon all of the real and personal property within the town an unlimited
tax.
(1940 Code, Ch. D, Art. I, § 2)
FRANCHISE TAX ON ELECTRIC POWER COMPANIES
§ 35.15 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Town of Elkin of
North Carolina’s Franchise Tax on Electric Power Ordinance,” and shall be
codified as this subchapter.
(Ord. eff. 6-10-2002)
§ 35.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Except as
otherwise provided in this subchapter, the definitions of words, terms and
phrases as set forth and/or applied in G.S. Chapter 105, Article 3 are hereby
adopted by reference and made a part hereof. Reference to any provision or
provisions in the General Statutes shall include the same as may be from time
to time amended, modified, supplemented, revised or superseded.
   CITY/TOWN/VILLAGE.  The Town of Elkin.
   REVENUE ACT. G.S. Chapter 105, Subchapter I.
   SECRETARY OF REVENUE. The Secretary of Revenue of this state.
   STATE FRANCHISE TAX. G.S. Chapter 105, Article 3.
   STATE FRANCHISE TAX ACT. The franchise or privilege tax imposed on an
electric power company engaged in the business of furnishing electricity,
electric lights, current or power, as provided in G.S. Chapter 105, Article 3,
entitled “Franchise Tax.”
   TAYPAYER(S). Any electric power company liable for the taxes imposed by this
subchapter.
   TAX COLLECTOR. The department of the town government or the official agency
of the state designated by law and authorized by law to administer the
collection of the tax herein levied.
   TOWN FRANCHISE TAX. The franchise enacted by this subchapter.
(Ord. eff. 6-10-2002)
§ 35.17 RATIFICATION OF EXISTING PERMITS.
   All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the Secretary of
Revenue pursuant to the Revenue Act are for the purposes of this subchapter
hereby ratified, confirmed and adopted in lieu of any requirement for an
additional town permit for the same purpose.
(Ord. eff. 6-10-2002)
§ 35.18 LEVY OF TAX.
   A franchise tax is hereby levied and imposed for the period(s) designated in
§
35.19 upon the electric power companies engaged in the business of furnishing
electricity, electric lights, current or power within the corporate limits of
the town. The tax shall be 3.09% of the companies’ taxable gross receipts from
the business of furnishing electricity, electric lights, current or power. It
is intended that taxable gross receipts hereunder shall be the same as those
taxable under the State Franchise Tax Act.
(Ord. eff. 6-10-2002)
§ 35.19 PERIOD FOR WHICH TAX DUE.
   When a distribution to the town as required under the State Franchise Tax
Act shall not be made, the town franchise tax shall be levied for the periods
herein described. A period for which the tax shall be due shall begin on the
first day of the first calendar month following the month during which a
distribution under the State Franchise Tax Act was due, but not made, to the
town and shall continue from month to month until such time as a distribution
as required under the State Franchise Tax Act shall be made. The town shall
notify taxpayers within a reasonable time after a required distribution is or
is not made by the Secretary of Revenue.
(Ord. eff. 6-10-2002)
§ 35.20 REPORT AND PAYMENT OF TAX.
   The tax shall be paid to the Tax Collector at the time and in the form and
manner provided for the payment of sales and use taxes pursuant to and in
accordance with G.S. § 105-164.16 as the same applies to a taxpayer who is
consistently liable for more than $100 but less than $10,000 a month. As
applicable to sales and use taxes, the taxpayer must file a return and pay the
taxes due on a monthly basis. The tax shall be due and payable when a return is
required to be filed.
(Ord. eff. 6-10-2002)
§ 35.21 REFUNDS.
   Upon the resumption of distributions by the Secretary of Revenue as required
under the State Franchise Tax Act, a refund may be due to a taxpayer as
specified in this section. A refund in the amount indicated herein below shall
be due to a taxpayer within 30 days after presentation to the town by the
taxpayer of a written certification made by the Secretary of Revenue stating
that portion of the town’s percentage distribution amount of the state
franchise tax that was paid by the taxpayer and allocable to the calendar
quarter for which the most recent distribution was made. The amount of a refund
shall equal the portion of the percentage distribution amount designated by the
Secretary of Revenue.
(Ord. eff. 6-10-2002)
§ 35.22 ADMINISTRATION.
   In addition to the provisions herein and to the extent that the same are not
inconsistent with the provisions of this subchapter, the levy and collection of
taxes herein imposed shall be otherwise administered in the same manner as the
State Franchise Tax Act as contained in G.S. Chapter 105, Subchapter 1, Article
9.
(Ord. eff. 6-10-2002)
§ 35.23 CONFIDENTIALITY OF RECORDS.
   The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning
the administration of the town franchise tax is legislatively recognized and
declared, and to protect the same provision of G.S. Chapter 105 is adopted by
reference and made fully effective and applicable to administration of the tax
levied herein as if set forth in full.
(Ord. eff. 6-10-2002)
§ 35.24 PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE.
   The provisions hereof shall be cumulative, and in addition to any and all
other taxing provisions of the town ordinances.
(Ord. eff. 6-10-2002)
§ 35.25 SERVICE UPON ELECTRIC POWER COMPANIES.
   The town shall serve a copy of this subchapter upon the registered agent for
any electric power companies affected hereby.
(Ord. eff. 6-10-2002)
§ 35.26 ADOPTION DATE.
   This subchapter was adopted on June 10, 2002.
(Ord. eff. 6-10-2002)
§ 35.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   The provisions with respect to remedies and penalties applicable to
the State Franchise Tax Act as contained in G.S. Chapter 105, Subchapter 1,
Article 9, shall be applicable in like manner to the tax authorized to be
levied and collected under §§
35.15 through
35.24, to the extent that the same are not inconsistent with the provisions
hereof. The governing body of the town may exercise any power the Secretary of
Revenue may exercise in collecting the State Franchise Tax.
(Ord. eff. 6-10-2002)
CHAPTER 36: DONATION AND SPONSORSHIP
Section
   
36.01   Purpose
   
36.02   Objectives
   
36.03   General policies
   
36.04   Criteria
   
36.05   Procedures
§ 36.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   This donation and sponsorship chapter provides those in the community
with various philanthropic interests the opportunity to give through memorials,
gifts and donations. It is not intended to compete with other non-profits or
friend groups with which the town works; but, rather, to provide those that
specifically are interested in town projects the opportunity to give. All
donations are dependent on the specific needs of the town.
   (B)   This chapter shall cover all donations and gifts to the town and any
of its departments. The town retains sole discretion to determine whether to
accept or decline any proposed gift or donation. This chapter shall not be
construed to create any right for any individual or organization to make any
improvement or place any items on any public property within the town
regardless of whether the proposal meets any or all of the criteria laid out
herein.
   (C)   It shall ultimately be the responsibility of the Board of
Commissioners to approve the donation and naming of any public facility, or
portion thereof, owned by the town.
(Ord. eff. 4-11-2016)
§ 36.02 OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   Encourage the donation of facilities, cash, services and/or equipment
to the town by establishing clear guidelines for giving.
   (B)   Ensure that donations fulfill a specific need as identified by the
town and is consistent with the aesthetic and functional integrity of the
town’s existing and proposed facilities and goals.
   (C)   Ensure that donations do not cause unbudgeted expenditures or
significant ongoing maintenance responsibility for the town.
   (D)   Ensure that donations do not create liability for the town with regard
to the health and safety of facility users.
   (E)   Encourage gifts made in memory of or in recognition of a person.
(Ord. eff. 4-11-2016)
§ 36.03 GENERAL POLICIES.
   (A)   The town shall encourage donations. Donations for town facilities and
equipment, memorials or other items must be made in cash. The town will
purchase and install the item using town resources on town property.
   (B)   The town shall encourage "in-kind" donations for volunteer services by
community groups and individuals for the purpose of making beautification or
other facility improvements as well as for recreation and athletic programs.
   (C)   Those wishing to donate must complete a formal application provided by
the town. Applications shall be reviewed by town staff and approved by the Town
Manager (or his/her designee) or the Board of Commissioners. Depending on the
date of application, approval and installation may take up to 90 days. A
donation application may be obtained at the Elkin Recreation Center, the town
website or the Elkin Recreation and Parks website.
   (D)   (1)   Any donors that wish to recognize or memorialize their donation
may do so by placing a plaque on the item. The plaque shall be of like make,
color, length and width as well as placed in similar locations of other like
donated amenities. The town shall approve all text for donation plaques and the
town will purchase from a town approved vendor to ensure the highest quality,
life and durability. Donors may choose from the following acknowledgment/
memorial recognition for individuals or businesses in good community standing.
         Donated by: Name       In Memory of: Name
         In Honor of: Name       Dedicated to: Name
      (2)   The plaque will be a bronze three inches by eight inches in
dimension. All other text on any plaque shall be approved by the Elkin Town
Board of Commissioners.
   (E)   Any donor who is interested in providing financial support of athletic
programs and facilities may do so through athletic sponsorships and athletic
facility signage. This signage and sponsorships will be represented at
children/youth games at town-owned facilities and shall meet the following
criteria:
      (1)   Represent a focal business of good community standing;
      (2)   Represent a local professional/social organization of good
community standing (i.e. Jaycees, Rotary, Lions Club, etc.).
      (3)   The sign or sponsorship logo/design shall not represent alcohol,
tobacco, illegal drug use, and must be appropriate for youth, children and a
family environment.
   (F)   Donations must comply with an adopted plan or standard, or be similar
and compatible with existing amenities and must be identified as a need to
fulfill a portion of said adopted plan or standard. The donation may not
interfere with the intended current or future use of the facility, and the
donation may not require the relocation of other equipment or infrastructure.
   (G)   Donations to town programs must be consistent with established goals
and objectives for the individual program, and/or the town as a whole.
   (H)   In cases where the donation is not consistent with the towns adopted
policies, staff will attempt to identify alternatives for the donor’s
consideration and approval.
   (I)   All donations, other than cash, shall be considered “gifts for public
improvements” to the town for the enjoyment of the town’s citizens. They will
not be considered private or proprietary assets. Receipt of gifts or donations
are not automatically guarantee placement or recognition of the donation, gift
or other to be placed on town property.
   (J)   If the proposed gift/donation is a work of art, the following criteria
shall be considered as well as any other criteria which may be relevant on a
case by case basis.
      (1)   Quality of the work based upon a professional assessment of the
work, detailed written proposal, drawing or photographs, and a portfolio review
of relevant work;
      (2)   Suitability of the subject-matter/theme of artwork to a public
venue;
      (3)   Appropriateness of the artwork to the site, in the case where a
particular site has been requested or identified;
      (4)   Appropriateness of the process for selecting the artist or artwork;
      (5)   Qualifications of the artist based on documentation of past work
and the artist’s professional qualifications;
      (6)   Proposed medium and physical substance of the art work must be able
to withstand outdoor elements, be vandal resistant and not cause undue
liability due to form or access to public safety.
   (K)   All items purchased or accepted by donation will receive standard
levels of maintenance during their normal life expectancy.
   (L)   Items that are vandalized will be repaired or replaced as feasible,
but the town does not guarantee replacement of any items damaged beyond repair
or where the cost to do so is not considered cost effective.
   (M)   Any current equipment/amenities placed on town property that have been
approved by the Town of Elkin Board of Commissioners will not require any
adjustment to conform to these standards unless it be sub-standard due to age,
disrepair, vandalism or other.
   (N)   The town reserves the right to deny any donation or to remove any
donated item due to expiration of normal life expectancy, liability, safety,
construction, aesthetic or other.
   (O)   If construction of a public improvement project is coordinated or
contracted for by the donor, the donor will be responsible for complying with
all Federal, state and local laws which may include competitive bidding and
state wage rate laws. The donor will also bear the cost of all necessary
permits, approvals, project management, design, installation, and manufacture
of the gift/donation unless these costs are specifically accepted or waived by
the town.
      (1)   Proof of compliance with the town’s insurance requirements for
contractors will be required before work may commence on any public improvement
project.
      (2)   Improvements made in a public place become the property of the town
and are subject to the laws, policies, and procedures of the town.
   (P)   In and of themselves, contributions of land or money for public
facilities shall not be considered sufficient justification for naming or
renaming facilities after individuals, in tribute or memoriam.
   (Q)   If the donor’s proposal is not acceptable, the donor has the right
after the review process is complete to appeal to the Board of Commissioners
for reconsideration of their proposal.
   (R)   Conversely, if a donation is approved and a citizen opposes the
project, that citizen also has the right to appeal to the Board of
Commissioners for reconsideration of the proposal.
   (S)   The Board of Commissioners shall revise this chapter as necessary.
   (T)   The decision of the Board of Commissioners shall be final and binding.
(Ord. eff. 4-11-2016)
§ 36.04 CRITERIA.
   The following criteria will apply to all individuals, groups, or
organizations wishing to make a donation to the town:
   (A)   Cash donations.
      (1)   All cash donations shall be directed to the town.
      (2)   The town for the purpose of enhancing programs, educational
opportunities or improving facilities will accept cash donations. The donor has
two options:
         (a)   Allow the town to specify best use of the funds; or
         (b)   Specify the use of funds with approval from the town, consistent
with the conditions of this chapter.
      (3)   Items typically purchased by means of cash donations include basic
amenities such as park amenities and equipment, landscaped areas, recreation
facilities, team athletic sponsorships, baseball field signage etc. Donors are
by no means limited to these items, as any improvements or items that are
consistent with amenity standards and aesthetics will be considered.
      (4)   Cash donations may be made for any expense associated with the
establishment, maintenance, or operation of a town facility.
   (B)   Materials and equipment donations. The town may accept materials or
equipment donations under the following conditions:
      (1)   Donations of materials and equipment must be consistent with
adopted standards and specifications or policies, ordinances and plans.
      (2)   Criteria for approval of materials and equipment not contained in
adopted standards and specifications or policies and plans shall include:
         (a)   Be identified as a need by the town;
         (b)   Consistency/likeness with adopted design, character, and use at
proposed location;
         (c)   Consistency with national and local health and safety standards
and regulations such as ASTM standards for product performance, the Americans
with Disabilities Act, local building codes, etc;
         (d)   Compatibility with current town maintenance practices;
         (e)   Does not cause unbudgeted expenditure or significant ongoing
maintenance responsibility for the town; and
         (f)   Must be consistent with adopted long-range goals for specified
facilities or programs as contained in existing, comprehensive town plans,
master plans or land use plans.
(Ord. eff. 4-11-2016)
§ 36.05 PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Solicitation of gifts.
      (1)   When a staff member recognizes a need to solicit a donation for
goods or services, approval must be obtained from their immediate supervisor
and the staff member must contact the respective Department prior to the
solicitation if the amount is in excess of $5,000. The Department Head and
staff member will review and discuss the solicitation request to avoid multiple
requests of the same donor and provide ideas regarding other possible
strategies and suggestions on asking for donations which best meet the needs of
the town and donor.
      (2)   Donations should be solicited from businesses located within the
town prior to contacting those outside the area.
   (B)   Donation procedures.
      (1)   Donors will be provided with a donor application and town’s
donation and sponsorship ordinance.
      (2)   Cash donations cannot be accepted above the amount of $5,000
without prior approval of the Town Manager and/or the Town Board of
Commissioners. Cash donation must be received before the purchase or program
expenditure is made. However, when advance payment is not possible, the donor
may make special arrangements to reimburse the town for a specific item already
purchased.
      (3)   Cash donations will be deposited to the town and distributed to
specified Departments. The Director of Finance will ensure such funds are
expended as the donor designated and approved.
   (C)   Receipt of donations.
      (1)   The town is able to accept donations of land, materials, in-kind
services and cash. Donations of land require Board approval and shall be
consistent with other town policies. All donors of land, materials and cash
shall be issued a receipt incorporating specific information. All in-kind
donations (services) shall be acknowledged upon request, unless requested
otherwise by the donor.
      (2)   Town employees accepting donations shall issue receipts via that
Department. The receipt shall include information regarding the donation to
include cash amount and memo description of purpose.
   (D)   Receipt guidelines.
      (1)   All receipts must include:
         (a)   Verification that no goods or services were provided in
exchange, in whole or in part, for the donation.
         (b)   The cash receipt should reflect the amount of the cash donation.
         (c)   The land, material and services receipt shall include a clear
description of the land, goods or services donated. Do NOT affix a value to the
land, materials or services donated. It is incumbent upon the donor to provide
the proper justification and fair market value of the donation. The IRS has
regulations that determine the value for donated items; i.e., the donor might
need to provide an appraisal to the IRS to declare full deduction. In cases of
land donations, the Finance Director or designee shall sign the donor’s IRS
Form 8283 (Non-cash Charitable Contribution).
         (d)   Statement indicating donation is tax deductible to the extent
allowed by law and it is the responsibility of the donor to determine the fair
market value of the contribution.
         (e)   If donated for a specific purpose, donor should include a
statement that the donation will be used for a specific project located on memo
section of check. Town staff shall note specific donation on receipt memo line.
      (2)   The town will retain a copy of all donation receipts. The town will
make receipts and other required information available in the event of an IRS
audit of a donor’s return.
      (3)   In cases where a property is jointly owned by the town and other
entities, all parties will negotiate and sign a written agreement indicating
ownership of the donated asset.
   (E)   Failure to comply with application and approval process. The town
reserves the absolute right to remove, confiscate, and destroy any item placed
on public grounds by any individual or group that has not been through the
proper application and approval process for donations, sponsorship or
memorials.
(Ord. eff. 4-11-2016)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL REGULATIONS
      
51.   GARBAGE COLLECTION
      
52.   WATER REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Section
   
50.01   Partial payment of utility bills; order of allocation
§ 50.01 PARTIAL PAYMENT OF UTILITY BILLS; ORDER OF ALLOCATION.
   (A)   The order in which partial payments to town are to be applied among
the below listed enterprise services, which are covered by a single bill for
the services from the town, is as follows:
      (1)   First. Any penalty for late payment or failure of payment for the
fees charged for any services previously billed which are now in existence
under town policy, or any future changes for late payment which may be
established by the Board of Commissioners at a future time;
      (2)   Second. Payment for fees charged for sewer availability charges as
outlined in “An Ordinance Relating to Sewer Connection and Charges, and to the
Use of Said Septic Tanks” which was passed on November 7, 1984 or any changes
of those fees that may be passed by the Board of Commissioners in the future;
      (3)   Third. Payment for fees charged for collection of recycling
materials under the town’s recycling program as set out in the ordinance
entitled “Ordinance Setting Fees for Payment of Collection of Recycling
Materials” as passed on April 3, 1995 and any changes of those fees passed by
the Board of Commissioners in the future;
      (4)   Fourth. Payment for charges for collection of garbage as set out in
the ordinance entitled “Ordinance Setting Fees for Garbage Collection” as
passed on April 3, 1995 or any changes in those fees passed by the Board of
Commissioners in the future;
      (5)   Fifth. Payment for charges for sewer services to the owners or
occupant of buildings whose sewer systems are connected to the town’s sewer
facilities as set out in the ordinance entitled “Ordinance Setting Fees for
Sewer Services” as passed on April 3, 1995 or any changes made in those fees by
the Board of Commissioners in the future; and
      (6)   Sixth. Payment for charges for furnishing water services as set out
in the ordinance entitled “Ordinance Setting Fees for Water Services” as passed
on April 3, 1995 or any changes made in those fees by the Board of
Commissioners at any time in the future.
   (B)   This section shall not have the effect of changing any schedule of
fees or policies previously set for the amount of fees or collection methods or
penalties for late payment covering the period of time up to the effective date
of the passage of this section.
   (C)   This section shall be in full force and effect, notwithstanding any
statement of the payment check, any letter setting out that the money paid is
for one specific service or any other statement that the payment is for any
specific charge or charges.
(Ord. eff. 4-4-1995)
CHAPTER 51: GARBAGE COLLECTION
Section
General Regulations
   
51.01   Purpose
   
51.02   Definitions
   
51.03   Supervision of collection; rules and regulations
   
51.04   Collection routes, schedules and placement of containers
   
51.05   Container, storage and collection practices
   
51.06   Charges and fees
   
51.07   Additional rollout container request
   
51.08   Physically disabled service
   
51.09   Control of solid waste
   
51.10   Town-served nonresidential units
   
51.11   Bulk containers
   
51.12   Recyclables
   
51.13   Ownership of materials
Dumping; Unauthorized Collections
   
51.30   Scavenging, private collection
   
51.31   Improper preparation
   
51.32   Unauthorized collection prohibited
   
51.33   Removal from unimproved premises
   
51.34   Illegal dumping
   
51.35   Burning garbage and yard waste
   
51.36   Dumping by nonresidents
   
51.37   Dumping of building and demolition materials
   
51.38   Transportation of loose materials and wastes
Special Collections
   
51.50   Special collections – yard waste
   
51.51   Special collections – bulk item pick up week, residential bulk item
truck rental
Prohibited Accumulations
   
51.65   Solid waste the town will not collect
   
51.66   Accumulation of solid wastes prohibited
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 51.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The town provides its comprehensive solid waste management program,
including weekly curbside garbage collection, weekly yard waste collection,
annual bulk item pickup and biweekly recycling service.
   (B)   Citizen cooperation and preparation in these services help the town
provide solid waste management in the most environmentally sensitive and
efficient manner possible. With the citizens and the town working together, the
town can protect the environment while controlling costs for waste management.
   (C)   This chapter is determined and declared to be a health, sanitary and
safety measure necessary for the promotion, protection and preservation of the
general welfare of the people in the town. Whenever this chapter conflicts with
any other portion of the town code, this chapter shall prevail with respect to
any matters relating to solid waste services.
(Ord. eff. 12-10-2001; Ord. eff. 11-10-2014)
§ 51.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASHES. Residue resulting from the burning of wood, coal or other combustible
material.
   BUILDING MATERIAL. Lumber, brick, stone, carpet, plumbing materials,
plaster, concrete, floor coverings, roofing material, gutters or other
materials or substances accumulated as a result of construction, repairs or
additions to existing structures or accessory structures or demolition of them.
   BULK CONTAINER.  A metal container of a minimum size of two cubic yards and
a maximum of eight cubic yards, made of watertight construction with doors
opening on two sides and top, constructed so that it can be emptied
mechanically by specially equipped trucks.
   BULKY ITEMS.  Items such as household furnishings, household appliances,
mattresses, box springs, lawn equipment (i.e., mowers, wheelbarrows) and
similar household items. No large white goods, such as refrigerators, washers,
dryers or dishwashers, will be accepted.
   BUSINESS BUILDING. Any structure, whether public or private, that is adapted
for the transaction of business, for rendering of professional services, for
amusement, for the display or sale or storage of goods, wares, merchandise,
articles or equipment, including hotels, apartment houses, rooming houses,
office buildings, public buildings, stores, theaters, markets, restaurants,
abattoirs (slaughterhouses), warehouses, sheds, barns and other structures on
premises used for or adapted to business purposes.
   BUSINESS TRASH. Any waste accumulation of paper, cardboard, packaging
materials, rags or accumulations of incidental garbage other than household
trash, which is associated with the operation of stores, offices and
nonresidential units.
   COLLECTION. The act of removing solid waste from a point of generation to an
approved disposal site. COLLECTION shall be at the curb for rollout (or
backyard in special circumstances), yard waste and recyclable collection.
   DESIGNATED COLLECTION AREA(S). The geographic location to which the town is
responsible for providing solid waste collection services. Collection points
shall be at the curb for rollout, yard waste and recyclables collection.
   ESTABLISHMENTS. Single-family units, special residential units, multi-family
units, nonresidential units and town-owned nonresidential units.
   FOUL ODOR. Offensive odors emanating from but not limited to garbage.
   GARBAGE. The byproduct of animal or vegetable foodstuffs resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food or other matter subject
to decomposition, decay, putrefaction and/or the generation of noxious or
offensive gases or odors, or which during and/or after decay may serve as
breeding or feeding material for flies, insects and/or animals. All refuse
resulting from the use and maintenance of property, regardless of the nature of
the activity thereon, except GARBAGE. (Sometimes referred to as TRASH.)
   HAZARDOUS WASTES. The following is an explanation of hazardous waste as
published in the State Hazardous Waste Law adopted for the Federal Environment
Protection Agency (EPA). For the purposes of this chapter, the definition
HAZARDOUS WASTE has been condensed. The items defined are not inclusive of all
items specified by the EPA regulations. HAZARDOUS WASTE is defined as
potentially dangerous byproducts of our highly industrialized society that
cannot be handled, treated or disposed of without special precautions. It
includes ignitable, corrosive, reactive and toxic wastes such as acetone,
gasoline and industrial alcohol, alkaline cleaners, acids, cyanide and
chlorine, arsenic, pesticide wastes, drugs, paint, caustics, infected material,
offal, fecal matter (human and animal), explosives and any other material of
similar nature.
   HOUSEHOLD TRASH. Any waste accumulation of paper, sweepings, rags, bottles,
cans or other matter of any kind, which is usually attendant to housekeeping,
excluding recyclables and garbage.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. All waste, including solids, semisolids, sludges and
liquids created by factories, processing plants or other manufacturing
enterprises.
   INSPECTOR. The person or persons designated by the Town Manager to perform
the duties and responsibilities assigned by this chapter to the Inspector.
   LITTER. Any discarded humanmade materials, including but not limited to
solid waste materials, industrial materials, household trash, business trash,
building materials, scrap materials and hazardous waste as those terms are
defined in this chapter.
   MULTI-FAMILY UNIT. Any apartment, group of apartments or condominiums used
for dwelling places of three or more families.
   NONRESIDENTIAL UNIT. Any retail, manufacturing, wholesale, institutional,
religious, nonprofit organization, governmental or other unit not primarily
used for residential purposes.
   PERSON. Any person, owner, agent, corporation, partnership, association,
firm, receiver, guardian, trustee, executor, administrator, fiduciary,
occupant, lessee, tenant or representative or group of individuals or entities
of any kind.
   PHYSICAL DISABILITY. A medical condition, verified by a registered
physician, that makes an individual either physically unable to bring a rollout
container to the curbside for collection, and/or that makes undertaking such an
act clearly and seriously threatening to that person’s health.
   PORTABLE PACKING UNIT. A metal container, not exceeding 4,500 pounds gross
weight, with a four- to eight-cubic-yard capacity, that contains a packing
mechanism and an internal or external power unit.
   PREMISES. Lots, sidewalks, right-of-way, grass strips or curbs up to the
edge of the pavement of any public street.
   RECYCLABLE. Material designated as capable of being sorted, processed,
transported and sold to markets for the remanufacture of like or different
products. Items include newspapers and accompanying inserts, glass food and
beverage containers, plastic soft drink and liquor bottles, aluminum cans, bi-
metal cans, steel or tin cans, yard waste and other items determined to be
recyclable by the Solid Waste Department.
   RECYCLABLES CART. A plastic cart furnished by the town or town-designated
private collector, and distributed for use in the residential recyclables
collection program.
   REFUSE. Solid waste accumulations consisting of garbage, household trash,
yard waste and business trash as herein defined.
   REFUSE CONTAINER. A metal or plastic container resistant to rust, corrosion
or rapid deterioration.
   REGULAR COLLECTION. All collection services offered recurrently, at least
once per week, which include the collection of vegetable and food wastes in a
manner safe to public health.
   RESIDENTIAL SOLID WASTE. Garbage and trash, which may include glass jars,
bottles, steel cans, plastic soda and liquor bottles, newspaper and inserts,
plastic milk and water jugs, and other solid waste including yard waste.
RESIDENTIAL SOLID WASTE shall not include discarded building materials, trees,
brush and other material resulting from the activities of building contractors
or lawn services, larger quantities of sod, dirt and trash from land clearing
or other material requiring special handling.
   ROLLOUT CART. A container, having wheels and a hinged lid, issued by the
town or by a firm under contract with the town, for the disposal of refuse as
defined and prepared in accordance with this subchapter.
   SCRAP METAL. Any item creating a littered condition, including but not
limited to dilapidated furniture, appliances, machinery, equipment, building
material, automotive parts, tires or other similar items that are either in a
wholly or partially rusted, wrecked, junked, dismantled or in inoperative
condition.
   SEPARATE COLLECTION. All collection of specifically defined materials not
associated with regular collection practices.
   SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL UNIT. Any dwelling occupied by one family.
   SOLID WASTE. Accumulations consisting of any combination of business trash,
garbage, household trash, bulky items, yard waste, recyclables and scrap
materials, and shall be collected through curbside trash, rollout, recyclables,
yard waste, bulky items or business trash collection activities.
   SPECIAL RESIDENTIAL UNIT. Any duplex, triplex or quadruplex.
   TRASH. The byproduct of animal or vegetable foodstuffs resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food or other matter subject
to decomposition, decay, putrefaction and/or the generation of noxious or
offensive gases or odors, or which, during and/or after decay, may serve as
breeding or feeding material for flies, insects and/or animals. All refuse
resulting from the use and maintenance of property, regardless of the nature of
the activity thereon, except garbage. (Sometimes referred to as GARBAGE).
   WASTE. All useless, unwanted or discarded materials resulting from
industrial, commercial, agricultural and residential activities (excluding
sewage).
   YARD WASTE. Grass, weeds, leaves, tree trimmings, plants, shrubbery prunings
and other similar materials generated in the maintenance of yards and gardens,
and which are separated from other solid waste materials and placed in a
designated recycling collection area. YARD WASTE shall not include trees, tree
limbs, brush and other material resulting from commercial tree trimmers and/or
commercial lawn care services.
(Ord. eff. 12-10-2001; Ord. eff. 11-10-2014)
§ 51.03 SUPERVISION OF COLLECTION; RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Public Works Director shall supervise the collection, removal,
disposition, processing and sale of all refuse, bulky items, yard waste and
recyclables.
   (B)   The Public Works Director, with the approval of the Town Manager, may
prepare and publish rules for the effective administration and enforcement of
the provisions of this chapter. It shall be unlawful for any person to fail,
neglect or refuse to comply with these rules and regulations.
   (C)   The Town Manager and Public Works Director shall have all authority to
vary the level of refuse collection service for experimental purposes and on a
temporary basis at the direction of the Board of Commissioners. Service
elements that may be altered include but are not limited to frequency of
collection, container type and allowable volume per customer per pickup.
   (D)   No owner or occupant of a residential premises shall prohibit or
prevent weekly solid waste collection services, including recyclables
collection, at the premises.
(Ord. eff. 12-10-2001; Ord. eff. 11-10-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.04 COLLECTION ROUTES, SCHEDULES AND PLACEMENT OF CONTAINERS.
   (A)   The Public Works Director shall establish collection routes and
schedules, and may alter these routes and schedules from time to time. A copy
of the current routes and schedules shall be kept on file in Town Hall and in
the office of the Public Works Director, as well as on the town website.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners may establish and revise from time to time
a policy relating to the number of times per week the town will collect solid
wastes from various classifications of premises, and the maximum number of
solid waste receptacles that the town will service on any one premises.
   (C)   Normal refuse collection service will consist of at least one
collection per week of refuse, prepared in accordance with this subchapter and
placed in one or more rollout carts or other approved containers.
   (D)   Rollout carts shall be set out for collection only upon those days
designated for the premises involved in the schedule provided for in this
chapter.
   (E)   Where curbside collection is available, carts shall be out no longer
than a 24-hour period, 7:00 p.m. the night prior to collection and removed by
7:00 p.m. the day of collection. Containers shall be placed at the street
within three feet of the curb line, or where the rollout is delivered,
whichever is closest to the street.
(Ord. eff. 12-10-2001; Ord. eff. 11-10-2014)
§ 51.05 CONTAINER, STORAGE AND COLLECTION PRACTICES.
   (A)   Each customer will be provided a rollout cart by either the town or
the town’s contractor. A yearly schedule with collection dates will be provided
to the customer, and will be available on the town website.
   (B)   In addition, the Public Works Director may exempt customers from using
curbside service if requiring its use causes a hardship related to a
topographic site restriction or other similar type of hardship.
   (C)   Rollout carts used in the garbage collection program are property of
the town. The town provides general maintenance for them at no cost. A
replacement fee will be charged for rollout carts that are damaged, defaced or
removed from the premises.
   (D)   Rollout carts shall be used for the disposal of residential and
approved commercial garbage only.
   (E)   Spilled materials or overflow caused by the property owner or occupant
shall be cleaned up by the owner or occupant immediately after the spillage or
overflow occurs.
   (F)   Spilled solid waste materials caused by the town collection crew of
the town’s authorized collection agent shall be cleaned up by the crew
immediately after the spillage occurs.
   (G)   Rollout carts will be collected from the curbside, provided they are
easily accessible to collection personnel, without having to unlock or open a
door, unlock a gate or similar obstacle, or encounter a vicious animal. Town
collection personnel shall not provide service if required to ascend or descend
multiple steps to obtain access to rollout containers, or if denied reasonable
access by parked vehicles, equipment or other objects.
   (H)   Garbage placed in rollout carts shall be wrapped, bagged or enclosed
in paper or plastic material. Any liquid waste, such as grease, shall be sealed
in its own separate container before being placed in the rollout container.
   (I)   All potentially dangerous trash items and all waste material of a
hazardous nature, such as broken glass, light bulbs, sharp pieces of metal,
fluorescent tubes and television tubes, shall be securely wrapped to prevent
injury to the collection crews.
   (J)   Trash of a hollow or bulky nature shall be flattened out or broken up
prior to depositing it in authorized containers.
   (K)   Containers other than those described in this section will be treated
as refuse and may be collected by the town.
   (L)   For those residents exempt from curbside service, no refuse
receptacles will be picked up from enclosed areas used to store anything
besides refuse, or from locations or storage areas that create an unreasonable
risk of injury to personnel. When personnel must pass through gates or other
barriers to pick up refuse, the town will not be responsible for damage caused
to the barrier or by leaving it open.
(Ord. eff. 12-10-2001; Ord. eff. 11-10-2014)
§ 51.06 CHARGES AND FEES.
   (A)   For the service of collecting and disposing of refuse, the owner or
occupant of all premises from which refuse is collected by the town or the
town’s contractor shall be charged rates as may be established, from time to
time, by the Board of Commissioners on recommendation of the Town Manager. The
charges shall be considered a debt owing to the town from the owner or occupant
of the premises and other persons using the disposal area. No owner or
occupants of premises within the town limits receiving water, sewer or both
services shall be exempt from the collection and disposal service provided by
the town or by individual collectors and licensees. Fees for the collection and
disposal of refuse by the town shall be charged to the owner or occupant of all
premises, in the amount specified in the fee schedule.
   (B)   The collection fee will be billed in the same manner as water and
wastewater services. Per G.S. 160A-314(b), payment made to this cumulative
water, wastewater and solid waste bill will first be applied to outstanding
solid waste collection fees. Payment will be applied to water and wastewater
charges only after the collection fee is paid in total.
(Ord. eff. 12-10-2001; Ord. eff. 11-10-2014)
Cross-reference:
   Order of allocation of partial payments, see §
50.01
§ 51.07 ADDITIONAL ROLLOUT CONTAINER REQUEST.
   Request for additional rollout containers at the same property address shall
be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. Approval of additional container(s) shall
be contingent upon an investigation by the town to determine whether an actual
need exists. The owner or occupant will be billed for the rollout container,
based on the schedule of fees.
(Ord. eff. 12-10-2001; Ord. eff. 11-10-2014)
§ 51.08 PHYSICALLY DISABLED SERVICE.
   (A)   The Public Works Director may exempt customers from using the rollout
cart(s) if requiring that use causes a hardship related to the customer’s age,
an infirmity, or a topographic site restriction or other similar type of
hardship. These exemptions will be recorded in writing and kept in the office
of the Public Works Director. All exempt customers must comply with the
requirements of §
51.05.
   (B)   Every member of the household shall be physically disabled as verified
by a physician. Based on a physician’s note, the Solid Waste Division will
grant physically disabled status.
   (C)   For physically disabled persons, rollout containers will be collected
from a location mutually agreed upon by the Public Works Director and resident.
The Public Works Director shall have final authority to determine the most
advantageous and safe location during disputed situations.
   (D)   The town reserves the right to request a disabled household to use a
smaller 65-gallon rollout cart before completely eliminating curbside service.
   (E)   The town reserves the right to verify the need to continue physically
disabled services to residents that have been approved to receive the services.
The town shall also reserve the right to continue or discontinue service.
(Ord. eff. 12-10-2001; Ord. eff. 11-10-2014)
§ 51.09 CONTROL OF SOLID WASTE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or occupying property to
cause or allow solid waste to be placed, deposited or to accumulate on his or
her property, except in proper solid waste receptacles authorized by this
chapter. All solid waste stored shall be stored so as to eliminate wind-driven
debris and unsightly litter on the property. Any spillage or overflow shall be
cleaned up and containerized immediately. Once properly stored, all solid waste
that the town will collect shall be immediately placed in an appropriate
location for removal by the town. All other waste not subject to town
collection shall be immediately removed from the property. Any unauthorized
accumulation of litter is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and is
prohibited.
   (B)   The person in possession of property shall maintain the property,
including sidewalks, grass strips, one-half of alleys, curbs or rights-of-way
up to the edge of the pavement of any public street in a clean and litter-free
manner.
   (C)   All commercial establishments shall, particularly with respect to
their loading and unloading areas, store their refuse in containers so as to
eliminate wind-driven debris and litter in and about the establishments.
Approved methods of containerization include refuse receptacles and bulk
containers. The establishment shall immediately clean up spillage and overflow
when and as it occurs.
   (D)   Parking lots shall be maintained by the person in possession in a
clean, litter-free manner, with all trash generated therein containerized and
prevented from spreading to adjoining property. It shall be the responsibility
of the person in possession of the parking lot to collect the refuse and trash
deposited on the lot, and to place this material in containers serviced by the
town or a private contractor.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person undertaking any construction,
renovation or demolition activities to fail to provide on-site receptacles for
containerizing all debris and waste material produced by those working on site,
which is capable of being windblown or scattered from the site. Examples of
appropriate receptacles shall include but not be limited to dump trucks,
trailers, bulk containers and containers made of fencing material. All waste
shall be containerized and secured so as to prevent it from being windblown by
the end of each day, and the site shall be kept in a reasonably clean
condition. Dirt, mud, construction materials or other debris deposited upon any
public or private property as a result of the construction or demolition shall
be immediately removed by the contractor. Construction sites shall be kept
clean and orderly at all times.
   (F)   Every owner and every occupant of any premises shall maintain that
area of the street right-of-way, between the edge of the traveled road curbline
and the adjacent property line, in a reasonably safe condition, and shall
remove dangerous plantings, shrubbery, limbs, tall grass and weeds and other
noxious growth from that area of the street right-of-way.
(Ord. eff. 12-10-2001; Ord. eff. 11-10-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.10 TOWN-SERVED NONRESIDENTIAL UNITS.
   (A)   (1)   Generally. Service to town-served nonresidential units shall be
once a week, and limited to two 96-gallon carts. Any commercial customers
requiring more capacity would have to contract with a private company or as
described in §
51.03.
      (2)   With the exception of downtown merchants. Downtown merchants shall
be allowed three roll out carts and provided a once a week collection.
   (B)   Until the time that collection practices are amended by the Board of
Commissioners, when refuse accumulates at stores, hotels, apartments, duplexes,
triplexes, quadraplexes, condominiums, theaters, office buildings, schools,
clubs, commercial establishments, industrial establishments or at any other
place in two 96-gallon carts, the same will be collected by the Public Works
Department if the refuse is placed either in one or more 96-gallon rollout
carts, and meets the standards set forth in other sections of this chapter.
   (C)   If the refuse at any of the indicated establishments exceeds two 96-
gallon carts, exclusive of special collections, the owner shall be required to
contract with a private company providing bulk container refuse service. The
Public Works Director or designee will determine the type of service to be
provided. Unless refuse is placed in the appropriate container as outlined in
this chapter, the town will not collect it.
   (D)   Service to town-served nonresidential units shall comply with §
51.05.
   (E)   The Public Works Direct or designee shall have the authority to
determine whether a unit is generating more than the maximum capacity per
collection and, if so, the units shall be required to convert from rollout
service to bulk container service with a private contractor.
   (F)   Nonresidential units will be charged a monthly collection and disposal
fee as established by the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. eff. 12-10-2001; Ord. eff. 11-10-2014)
§ 51.11 BULK CONTAINERS.
   All premises served by bulk containers shall be subject to the following
requirements.
   (A)   Any apartment, group of apartments, condominium, mobile home park or
any structure containing 12 or more dwelling units shall provide one or more
bulk containers for refuse collection. The town will not provide rollout
curbside service to these units.
   (B)   The Public Works Director or designee shall have the authority to
assist in determining the quantity, size and location of bulk containers, and
to determine whether the containers are serviceable. In making this
determination, the Public Works Director shall consider the needs of the
occupants of the premises, the welfare of the occupants and neighbors, and the
town’s need to facilitate collection and minimize the cost of service.
   (C)   The owner of the premises shall provide one or more bulk containers so
that the following criteria relating to capacity are satisfied:
      (1)   Approximately one-half cubic yard of storage capacity shall be
provided for each dwelling unit or fraction thereof; and
      (2)   The owner shall provide the smallest number of bulk containers
capable of satisfying the requirements stated in division (C)(1) of this
section.
   (D)   The containers shall at all times be kept clean, neat, painted, in a
good state of repair, and easily accessible to collection personnel. No bulk
containers shall be placed in front of a residence, in front of the building
setback line closest to the street, or in a public right-of-way. Container lids
shall be kept closed at all times. All doors and lid springs will be in working
condition. Businesses leasing these containers shall be responsible for
notifying their service contractor of any damaged conditions. Cleaning up
spilled materials shall be the responsibility of the property owner or occupant
and shall occur immediately after any spillage or overflow occurs.
   (E)   All containers that can be viewed from West Main Street, Market Street
and Bridge Street must be screened from view.
(Ord. eff. 12-10-2001; Ord. eff. 11-10-2014)
§ 51.12 RECYCLABLES.
   The following regulations shall govern those persons in town-served
residential units required to participate in the town’s recyclables collection
program.
   (A)   Recycling bins are to be used for recyclable items only.
   (B)   All recyclables, except yard waste, shall be placed in a town-
authorized recyclables bin, with the overflow being permitted in a brown paper
bag or clear plastic bag placed on top of or beside the recyclable container.
   (C)   Recyclables collection service will be provided biweekly on a day
designated by the Public Works Director or designee for curbside collection
service. The recyclable roll cart shall be placed at curbside.
   (D)   Recycle roll carts shall be out no longer than a 24-hour period, 7:00
p.m. the night prior to collection and removed by 7:00 p.m. the day of
collection. Containers shall be placed at the street within three feet of the
curb line or where the roll cart is delivered, whichever is closest to the
street.
(Ord. eff. 12-10-2001; Ord. eff. 11-10-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.13 OWNERSHIP OF MATERIALS.
   Recyclable materials and yard waste, which are properly placed by an owner
or occupant of a property at curbside for collection, are deemed to be
abandoned by the person(s) and become property of the town or its authorized
agent.
(Ord. eff. 12-10-2001; Ord. eff. 11-10-2014)
DUMPING; UNAUTHORIZED COLLECTIONS
§ 51.30 SCAVENGING, PRIVATE COLLECTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to scavenge, sort, pick
through or remove refuse, trash, yard wastes or recyclables stored or set out
for collection, or for any person other than the town or its contractors to
collect recyclables in the town, where those materials have been prepared and
set out for collection by the town in accordance with this chapter.
(Ord. eff. 12-10-2001; Ord. eff. 11-10-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.31 IMPROPER PREPARATION.
   All refuse not prepared in accordance with the provisions of this chapter,
which is located within the public right-of-way, causing a potential public
health or public safety hazard, will be subject to the town’s nuisance
ordinance.
(Ord. eff. 12-10-2001; Ord. eff. 11-10-2014)
§ 51.32 UNAUTHORIZED COLLECTION PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by the town to collect,
pick up or cause to be collected or picked up any solid waste, including
recyclables and yard waste.
(Ord. eff. 12-10-2001; Ord. eff. 11-10-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.33 REMOVAL FROM UNIMPROVED PREMISES.
   Refuse shall not be removed from unimproved property, except when the refuse
meets the conditions set forth in this chapter, such as creating a health and
safety hazard, and then not in excess quantities and only when the property
owner can be identified. All applicable fees apply in accordance with this
chapter.
(Ord. eff. 12-10-2001; Ord. eff. 11-10-2014)
§ 51.34 ILLEGAL DUMPING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, discard, throw, drop or
deposit, or cause to be placed, discarded, thrown, dropped or deposited any
solid waste on:
      (1)   Any public street, sidewalk or alley within the town or on any
property owned or operated by the town or any other public property, except in
properly designated receptacles;
      (2)   Any property not owned by a person without the written consent of
the owner, occupant or lessee thereof; or
      (3)   In any stream or body of water.
   (B)   This section shall not prohibit the dumping or placing of fill on
private or public property with the owner’s permission of clean sand, dirt,
broken brick, blocks, concrete, broken pavement and natural land debris,
uncontaminated by other materials, or other material deemed suitable by the
Public Works Director that would not create a nuisance or health hazard. The
town shall deem the consent of the Town Manager permission for its own
property.
(Ord. eff. 12-10-2001; Ord. eff. 11-10-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.35 BURNING GARBAGE AND YARD WASTE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn or set fire to garbage for the
purpose of disposal, and garbage shall be disposed of only as authorized by
this chapter.
(Ord. eff. 12-10-2001; Ord. eff. 11-10-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.36 DUMPING BY NONRESIDENTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to bring construction debris,
business trash, garbage, household refuse, household trash, industrial waste,
litter, refuse, solid waste, yard waste or any other kind of trash or rubbish
into the town from a point outside the town, for the purpose of the materials
becoming subject to pickup by the town or its designee.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly permit the use of his
or her receptacles, or any other portion of his or her property, by any other
person for the disposal of any construction debris, business trash, garbage,
hazardous refuse, household trash, industrial waste, litter, refuse, solid
waste, yard waste or any other kind of trash or rubbish brought into the town
from a point outside the city, for the purpose of disposing of the materials to
become subject to pickup by the city.
(Ord. eff. 12-10-2001; Ord. eff. 11-10-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.37 DUMPING OF BUILDING AND DEMOLITION MATERIALS.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or operate a disposal site for the burial
of material resulting from building, construction, renovation or demolition;
provided, however, this section shall not prohibit dumping or depositing clean
fill material as set forth in § 51.34.
(Ord. eff. 12-10-2001; Ord. eff. 11-10-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.38 TRANSPORTATION OF LOOSE MATERIALS AND WASTES.
   (A)   No person may transport or cause to be transported any solid waste on
the public streets of the town unless the solid wastes are secured so as not to
escape from the transporting vehicle. In addition, any garbage so transported
shall be carried in closed containers that prevent the escape of noxious odors
or liquids.
   (B)   No person may transport or cause to be transported on the public
streets of the town any loose, solid or liquid materials capable of being
easily blown, dropped, scattered or otherwise deposited on the streets or
adjacent areas, unless the materials are properly covered, secured and
contained to prevent escape from the transporting vehicle. This division shall
not apply to the transportation of poultry, livestock, silage or other grain
used in the feeding of poultry or livestock.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any refuse collector to haul refuse over the
streets of the town, unless he or she uses a watertight vehicle provided with a
tight cover, and so operates it as to prevent offensive odors escaping
therefrom and refuse from being dropped, blown or spilled.
(Ord. eff. 12-10-2001; Ord. eff. 11-10-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
SPECIAL COLLECTIONS
§ 51.50 SPECIAL COLLECTIONS – YARD WASTE.
   (A)   Yard waste collection shall be provided only to single-family and
special residential units served by the town. Yard waste collection shall be
limited to one-half truckload per resident per week.
   (B)   Residents must call Public Works Department to schedule a yard waste
pick up. The town will make every effort to pick up the yard waste within 72
hours of notification from resident.
   (C)   If yard waste exceeds one-half truckload (more than four cubic yards),
a notice will be given, either personally to the occupant or by placing a
written notice on the door of the residence, informing the resident that it is
an oversized load and must be disposed of by the resident. The resident may
contact the Public Works Department to request the delivery of a truck to be
loaded by the resident. A fee for truck delivery and collection will be
assessed, based on the schedule of fees. The resident may dispose of an
oversized load of yard waste themselves. Additional service may be approved by
the Public Works Director for an additional fee as set by the Board of
Commissioners. Residents must complete and sign a town truck policy statement.
   (D)   Yard waste shall be separated from curbside trash and shall be placed
together to constitute a single, separate collection in order for the town to
carry out its other collection program. Collection forces shall collect an
amount of yard waste that is customarily and reasonably associated with the
residential unit(s) served, so long as it is properly prepared or containerized
and in compliance with these regulations.
   (E)   Yard waste, such as grass trimmings, twigs, hedge trimmings, plant
trimmings, hay, straw, pine straw and pine cones, shall be collected at
curbside, provided that it is placed in plastic bags for collection. Bags shall
be in good condition and of a size and weight that, when full, do not weigh
more than 50 pounds each, and are such that one individual can easily pick up
each bag, one at a time, for disposal. Plastic bags shall not be secured at the
top when placed at curbside for collection.
   (F)   Containers used for yard waste shall have all lids removed and shall
not exceed 32 gallons in size. Each container shall be equipped with handles.
The town-provided rollout cart or wheelbarrows should not be used.
   (G)   Limbs collected by collection forces shall be no larger than three
inches in diameter and no longer than four feet in length. Tree shrubbery and
limbs shall have all protruding branches trimmed. Limbs must be stacked in
small, neat piles such that a reasonable person would expect one individual to
easily pick up each pile, one at a time, for disposal. Each pile shall weigh no
more than 50 pounds, and shall not exceed four feet in height nor four feet in
length.
      (1)   Town collection forces or its authorized agent will not collect
tree stumps or trunks.
      (2)   Loose leaves shall be bundled, packaged or boxed into one-person
loads, and may be placed, pending collection by the town, at the front of the
premises in the grass strip between the street and the sidewalk where those
strips are available; otherwise, they may be placed just off that portion of
the street right-of-way normally used by vehicles or pedestrians or used for
surface drainage purposes. During the portion of the year when special leaf
collection equipment is used, which shall be from November through December,
leaves may be piled loosely adjacent to and behind the curb or in front of
ditch (not in street, gutter or roadside ditch) for collection by special
equipment. Loose piles of leaves will not be collected unless they are free of
trash such as broken glass, rocks, twigs, cans or other debris that might
damage collection equipment.
      (3)   The Public Works Department may decline to collect any yard waste
that is not prepared or placed for collection in accordance with these
regulations or that exceeds the maximum amount.
      (4)   The Public Works Department shall not collect any tree or tree
limbs from unimproved property, or when the service has been performed for a
fee or results from land clearing work by a commercial yard service.
(Ord. eff. 12-10-2001; Ord. eff. 11-10-2014)
§ 51.51 SPECIAL COLLECTIONS – BULK ITEM PICK UP WEEK, RESIDENTIAL BULK ITEM
TRUCK RENTAL.
   (A)   Bulk item pickup is for residential use only. The town will pick up
bulk items curbside at residences for one week during the month of April, as
noted on Public Works yearly calendar and listed on the town website, except as
authorized on a case-by-case basis as per the Board of Commissioners.
      (1)   During bulk item pick up week, the town will collect normal
household items, including sofas, chairs, beds, carpets, box springs and other
discarded household items.
         (a)   Large furniture items shall be dismantled prior to collection
such that a reasonable person can expect two individuals to easily load them
onto or off of the special collection vehicle. The only exception to this
policy is for pianos, which do not have to be dismantled for collection;
         (b)   Gasoline must be removed from all lawn mowers prior to
collection;
         (c)   Tires must be removed from all bicycles prior to collection;
         (d)   All glass in windows, doors, mirrors and other items with large
expanses of glass must have the glass taped with an “X” mark so that it will
not shatter in the collection process; and
         (e)   Any bulky item or scrap material collected shall be of a weight
or size that a person would reasonably expect two individuals to easily pick
each item up for disposal.
      (2)   Items not collected by the town include but are not limited to:
         (a)   Furnaces, central air conditioning units, roofing materials,
tires, hazardous materials, batteries, washers, dryers, hot water heaters,
white goods or similar items;
         (b)   Any items from businesses operated from a residential unit;
         (c)   Items that are the consequence of a fire at a business or
residential structure;
         (d)   Any tanks, including: oxygen tanks and other medical equipment;
propane tanks; large oil tanks used for household purposes;
         (e)   Any parts of campers, boats, camper shells, trailers; automotive
parts, including but not limited to motors, doors, tires, fenders, car seats or
batteries from a residentially used premises and the like.
      (3)   The Public Works Director shall have the authority to require items
to be prepared for ease of collection, and to ensure the safety of the
employees performing the collection task. An item not prepared properly may be
refused for collection at the Director’s discretion.
      (4)    It shall be unlawful to place junk appliances at curbside for
collection. It shall be unlawful for any person to leave outside any building,
in a place accessible to children, any appliance, refrigerator or container
without its being strapped or locked so that it is impossible for a child to
obtain access to it.
   (B)   Residential truck rental for removal of household bulk items is
available from the town throughout the year. Residents may request an overnight
rental for a town truck per notification. A truck will be delivered and loaded
by the resident. A service fee will be assessed, based on the schedule of fees.
Each resident must complete and sign a town truck policy statement. Charges
will be applied to the monthly water bill for collection.
(Ord. eff. 12-10-2001; Ord. eff. 11-10-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
PROHIBITED ACCUMULATIONS
§ 51.65 SOLID WASTE THE TOWN WILL NOT COLLECT.
   The town will not collect the following types of solid wastes, and no person
may place any of the following in any container or receptacle intended for
collection by the town.
   (A)   Hazardous refuse and industrial use. All hazardous refuse and
industrial waste shall be stored in suitable leakproof containers sufficient to
ensure that no refuse or waste leaks or spills onto any public or private
property. It shall be the responsibility of the person in possession on the
premises where hazardous refuse or industrial waste is generated to see that it
is disposed of properly.
   (B)   Contagious diseases refuse. The removal of clothing, bedding or other
refuse from homes or other places where highly infectious diseases have
occurred shall be performed under the supervision and direction of the County
Health Department.
   (C)   Building materials. The materials shall be removed by the owner of the
property or by the contractor. No new certificate of compliance or occupancy
shall be issued until the owner or contractor has removed the material.
   (D)   Human and animal tissues. Human and animal tissues or waste from an
operation, autopsy or obstetrical procedure, or any other material of a similar
nature.
   (E)   Fire or live coals. Material of any kind or nature, including ashes,
that contains any hot or live coals or fire.
   (F)   Hypodermic instruments. No person may dispose of or discard any
hypodermic syringe, needle or any instrument or device for making hypodermic
injections in the waste stream of the town. Medical or other biohazard
materials shall be removed and disposed of under the supervision and direction
of the County Health Department.
(Ord. eff. 12-10-2001; Ord. eff. 11-10-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.66 ACCUMULATION OF SOLID WASTES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person may cause, suffer or permit refuse to accumulate or remain
on premises under their control except in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter. The remaining divisions of this section are not intended to limit
the generality of the foregoing.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of the general contractor to see that
all construction and demolition contractors keep the site in a reasonable clean
and litter-free condition as possible for a construction or demolition site.
All loose debris, paper, building material waste, scrap building materials and
other trash produced by those working on the site shall be containerized or
disposed of in any other reasonable manner by the contractor. Construction
materials or other debris deposited upon any public or private property as a
result of construction or demolition shall be immediately removed by the
contractor.
(Ord. eff. 12-10-2001; Ord. eff. 11-10-2014)
CHAPTER 52: WATER REGULATIONS
Section
Use of Water from Town Water System
   
52.01   Control and supervision
   
52.02   Connection to water required
   
52.03   Permit for connection required
   
52.04   Work on connections
   
52.05   Maintenance and repair of connections
   
52.06   Damaging or obstructing system
   
52.07   Water service charges
   
52.08   Water from fire hydrants; unauthorized and unlawful uses
USE OF WATER FROM TOWN WATER SYSTEM
§ 52.01 CONTROL AND SUPERVISION.
   The water system of the town shall be under the general control and
supervision of the Town Manager and the system shall be regulated and operated
as the Town Manager shall from time to time ordain and direct. The Town Manager
shall appoint a qualified person to supervise the operation and regulation of
the system, under the direction of the Town Manager, and the person appointed
shall be known as the Public Works Director; or the Town Manager may assign the
duties of supervising the water system to an employee of the town in addition
to his or her other duties.
(Ord. eff. 6-6-1977)
§ 52.02 CONNECTION TO WATER REQUIRED.
   Every person, group of persons, firm or corporation owning a dwelling,
building or other structure which is used for human habitation or occupancy
within the town, situated on a lot or parcel of land which abuts or adjoins a
street or other public way along which is located a water main, shall connect
the buildings, dwelling or structure to the water system of the town; provided,
however, a connection shall not be required to the system unless the lot or
parcel of land on which the dwelling, building or structure is situated is
accessible within 200 feet of the water system; provided, further, that no
person shall be required to cross the private property of any other person to
make the connection.
(Ord. eff. 6-6-1977)
§ 52.03 PERMIT FOR CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   No person, firm or corporation shall make any connection to the water system
unless and until a permit therefor has been issued by the town. Permits shall
be issued for connections only after the Public Works Director or designee has
determined the type of connection required.
(Ord. eff. 6-6-1977) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.04 WORK ON CONNECTIONS.
   All connections to the water system shall be made by authorized employees of
the town in accordance with specification for those connections that may be
adopted by the town from time to time. If authorized by the Board of
Commissioners, connections may be made by plumbers licensed to perform plumbing
work in this state, and if required by the town, licensed to perform plumbing
work by the town. Any water connections made by an authorized, licensed plumber
shall be inspected by the Superintendent of Public Works after the work has
been completed and prior to the time the connection is covered.
(Ord. eff. 6-6-1977)
§ 52.05 MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR OF CONNECTIONS.
   Whenever any service to any building or premises becomes clogged, broken,
out of order or in any condition detrimental to the use of the water service,
the owner, agent or occupant having charge of the building or premises shall be
held responsible for the immediate renewal or repair of the water service
necessary to maintain an uninterrupted water system. Renewal or repair of water
services from the building to the water meter shall be made at the expense of
the property owner, agent or occupant. Whenever any repair work is performed as
required by this section, the work shall be performed only by a licensed
plumber authorized to perform the work by the town.
(Ord. eff. 6-6-1977)
§ 52.06 DAMAGING OR OBSTRUCTING SYSTEM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to damage, tamper with or otherwise do
harm to the mains, pipes, apparatus or other part of the water sewer system.
(Ord. eff. 6-6-1977) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.07 WATER SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   A charge for the use of the water system and the water flowing into
the pipes of the property owner shall be those rates in existence at this time
and as hereafter changed by regulation or ordinance of the town. Copies are
available through town offices.
      (2)   The water service charge and charge for the water shall be billed
to each customer according to the present system employed by the town and as
hereafter changed by regulation or ordinance of the town and if the water bills
and sewer service charges are not paid within 60 days of issuance of the bill,
then the water service and water to the building shall be cut off, and further
water or water services shall not be supplied to the property until the time
that all delinquent water bills and sewer charges have been paid in full and an
additional payment based on the schedule of fees is made for the cutting on of
the water to the town.
   (B)   Fees for water services. See the town’s schedule of fees.
(Ord. eff. 6-6-1977; Ord. eff. 6-30-1995)
§ 52.08 WATER FROM FIRE HYDRANTS; UNAUTHORIZED AND UNLAWFUL USES.
   (A)   Unauthorized use prohibiting. It shall be unlawful for any person
except a town officer or employee while performing his or her official duties
to touch, tamper with or in any manner manipulate or turn the cutoffs on any
water main forming a part of the town water system or to touch, tamper with or
turn on the valve of any fire hydrant.
   (B)   Unlawful use of water. It shall be unlawful for any person except an
officer or employee of the town while performing his or her official duties to
release any water from or to take or carry any water from any fire hydrant.
   (C)   Adoption date. This section was adopted on December 5, 1966.
(Ord. eff. 12-5-1966) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   OPERATION OF VEHICLES
      
72.   STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
      
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
Required Obedience to Traffic Regulations and Police Officers
   
70.30   Required obedience to traffic ordinance
   
70.31   Obedience to police
   
70.32   Authority of police in special cases
   
70.33   Public employees to obey traffic regulations
   
70.34   Exemptions to authorized emergency vehicles
   
70.35   Persons propelling push carts, or riding bicycles or animals, to obey
traffic regulations
Obedience to Official Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.50   Obedience to official traffic-control devices
   
70.51   Obedience to no-turn signs and turning markers
   
70.52   Obedience to no-parking zone and safety zone markers
   
70.53   School zones
   
70.54   Traffic-control signal legend
   
70.55   Flashing signals
Truck Routes
   
70.70   Trucks required to follow routes; marking of routes
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
(1940 Code, Ch. G, Art. I, § 1)
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES. Vehicles of the Fire Department, police
vehicles and those ambulances designated or authorized by the Chief of Police.
   BLOCK.  A portion of any street located between two intersections next
adjacent to each other.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT.  The territory contiguous to a highway when 50% or more
of frontage thereon for a distance of 300 feet or more is occupied by buildings
in use for business.
   CROSSWALK.
      (1)   The portion of a roadway ordinarily included within the
prolongation or connection of the lateral lines of sidewalks at intersections.
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway distinctly indicated for pedestrian
crossing by lines or other markings on the surface.
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   INTERSECTION. The area embraced within the prolongation of the lateral curb
lines or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of two or more highways
which join one another at an angle, whether or not one highway crosses the
other.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled, and every vehicle
which is propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires, but
not operated upon rails.
   OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Whenever certain hours are named herein, they shall
mean standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use in this
town.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.  All signs, signals, markings and devices
not inconsistent with this chapter placed or erected by authority of the
governing body or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating,
warning or guiding traffic.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC SIGNALS. Any device, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and to
proceed.
   PARK. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, otherwise than
temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or
unloading.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, copartnership, association or
corporation.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer of the Municipal Police Department or any
officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to make arrests for
violations of traffic regulations.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. Every road or driveway not open to the use of the
public for purposes of vehicular travel.
   PUBLIC CONVEYANCE. Any vehicle other than a taxicab or railroad train for
transporting for fare.
   RAILROAD. A carrier of persons or property upon cars, other than street
cars, operated upon stationary rails.
   RAILROAD TRAIN. A steam engine, electric or other motor, with or without
cars coupled thereto, operated upon rails, except street cars.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT.  The territory contiguous to a highway not comprising a
business district when the frontage on the highway for a distance of 300 feet
or more is mainly occupied by dwellings or by dwellings and buildings in use
for business.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel.
   SAFETY ZONE. The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set
apart as a safety zone.
   SIDEWALK.  The portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   STANDING.  Any stopping of a vehicle, whether occupied or not.
   STOP. When required, means complete cessation of movement.
   STOP or STOPPING. When prohibited, means any STOPPING of a vehicle except
when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the
direction of a police officer or traffic-control sign or signal.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between property lines of every way or
place of whatever nature, when any part thereof is open to the use of the
public, as a matter of right, for purpose of vehicular traffic.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, street cars and
other conveyances either singly or together while using any street for purposes
of travel.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved by human power or
used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks; provided, that for the
purpose of this title, a bicycle or a ridden animal shall be deemed a VEHICLE.
(1940 Code, Ch. G, Art. I, §§ 2, 3, 4)
REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC REGULATIONS AND POLICE OFFICERS
§ 70.30 REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC ORDINANCE.
   It is a misdemeanor for any person to do any act forbidden by or fail to
perform any act required in this chapter.
(1940 Code, Ch. G, Art. III, § 1) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.31 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE.
   No person shall wilfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order, or
direction, by a police officer.
(1940 Code, Ch. G, Art. III, § 2) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.32 AUTHORITY OF POLICE IN SPECIAL CASES.
   In the event of a fire or other emergency, or when necessary to expedite
traffic or safeguard pedestrians, police officers may direct traffic as
conditions may require, notwithstanding the provisions of this chapter.
(1940 Code, Ch. G, Art. III, § 3)
§ 70.33 PUBLIC EMPLOYEES TO OBEY TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the driver of any vehicle
owned by, or used in the service of the United States Government, this state,
county or town and it shall be unlawful for any driver to violate any of the
provisions of this chapter, except as otherwise permitted in this chapter, or
by state statute.
(1940 Code, Ch. G, Art. III, § 4)
§ 70.34 EXCEPTIONS TO AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter regulating the operation, parking and
standing of vehicles shall apply to authorized emergency vehicles, as defined
in this chapter, except as follows. A driver, when operating such a vehicle in
any emergency, except when otherwise directed by a police officer, may:
      (1)   Park or stand, notwithstanding the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal, or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Exceed the prima facie speed limits so long as he or she does not
endanger life or property; or
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement, or turning
in specified directions so long as he or she does not endanger life or
property.
   (B)   The foregoing exemptions shall not, however, protect the driver of the
vehicle from the consequences of his or her reckless disregard of the safety of
others.
(1940 Code, Ch. G, Art. III, § 5)
§ 70.35 PERSONS PROPELLING PUSH CARTS, OR RIDING BICYCLES OR ANIMALS, TO OBEY
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   Every person propelling any push cart, or riding a bicycle or an animal upon
a roadway, and every person driving any animal-drawn vehicle, shall be subject
to the provisions of this chapter applicable to the driver of any vehicle,
except those provisions of this chapter which, by their very nature, can have
no application.
(1940 Code, Ch. G, Art. III, § 6)
OBEDIENCE TO OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.50 OBEDIENCE TO OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle, street car and/or trackless trolley shall
obey the directions of any official traffic-control device applicable thereto
and placed in accordance with the traffic ordinances of this town, unless
otherwise directed by a police officer, subject to the exceptions granted the
driver of an authorized emergency vehicle in §
70.34.
   (B)   No provision of this chapter for which signs are required shall be
enforced against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the alleged
violation, an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently legible
to an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular section does not state
that signs are required, that section shall be effective without signs being
placed to give notice thereof.
(1940 Code, Ch. G, Art. IV, § 1)
§ 70.51 OBEDIENCE TO NO-TURN SIGNS AND TURNING MARKERS.
   Whenever authorized signs are placed, erected or installed indicating that
no right or left or U-turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey
the directions of any sign, and when authorized markers, buttons or other
indications are placed within an intersection indicating the course to be
traveled by vehicles traversing, or turning therein, no driver of a vehicle
shall disobey the directions of the indications.
(1940 Code, Ch. G, Art. IV, § 2) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.52 OBEDIENCE TO NO-PARKING ZONE AND SAFETY ZONE MARKERS.
   Whenever authorized signs or markings are placed, erected or installed
indicating no-parking zones or safety zones, no driver of a vehicle shall
disobey the regulations in connection therewith.
(1940 Code, Ch. G, Art. IV, § 3) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.53 SCHOOL ZONES.
   Whenever authorized signs are placed, erected or installed indicating any
street, or parts thereof, as school zones, all drivers of motor vehicles and
operators of street cars using the streets, or parts thereof, shall exercise
the greatest care in driving upon the streets, or parts thereof, for the
protection of children.
(1940 Code, Ch. G, Art. IV, § 6)
§ 70.54 TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND.
   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals exhibiting the
words “Go,” “Caution” or “Stop” or exhibiting differently colored lights
successively, one at a time, the following colors only shall be used, and the
terms and lights shall indicate as follows:
   (A)   Green alone, or “Go.”
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed straight through,
or turn right or left unless a sign at that place prohibits either turn. But
vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles and to
pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at the time the signal is
exhibited.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway within
any marked or unmarked crosswalk.
   (B)   Yellow alone or “Caution,” when shown following the green or “Go”
signal.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at the intersection, but if the stop cannot be made in
safety, a vehicle may be driven cautiously through the intersection.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing this signal are hereby advised that there is
insufficient time to cross a roadway, and any pedestrian then starting to cross
shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles.
   (C)   Red alone, or “Stop.”
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection, or at any other point as may be indicated
by a clearly visible line, and shall remain standing until green or “Go” is
shown alone.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing such a signal shall enter the roadway unless
he or she can do so safely and without interfering with any vehicular traffic.
   (D)   Red with green arrow.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing this signal may cautiously enter the
intersection, only to continue the movement in the direction indicated by the
arrow, but shall not interfere with other traffic.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing this signal shall enter the roadway unless he
or she can do so safely and without interfering with any vehicular traffic.
(1940 Code, Ch. G, Art. IV, § 7) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.55 FLASHING SIGNALS.
   Whenever flashing red or yellow signals are used, they shall require
obedience by vehicular traffic as follows:
   (A)   Flashing red (stop signal). When a red lens is illuminated by rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection, or at a limit line when marked, and the
right to proceed shall be subject to the rules applicable after making a stop
at a stop sign.
   (B)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past the signal only with caution.
(1940 Code, Ch. G, Art. IV, § 8)
TRUCK ROUTES
§ 70.70 TRUCKS REQUIRED TO FOLLOW ROUTES; MARKING OF ROUTES.
   (A)   All trucks and trailers entering the town destined to a point outside
of the town and not taking on or discharging any goods, wares or merchandise
within the town limits shall travel exclusively on the truck routes established
in Chapter 73, Schedule VIII, and all that part of the truck routes shall
constitute the shortest and most direct routes from the point of entrance into
the town and departure from the town.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall cause to be erected and maintained at points
where through truck routes enter the town and at all junction points and turns
where necessary, and at all approaches to the parts of streets on which trucks
are prohibited, signs of dimensions and at locations as shall be seen and read
without difficulty, and at locations as to reasonably notify the public.
(Ord. eff. 1-1-1962) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless otherwise specified, if any person shall violate an ordinance
regulating the operation or parking of vehicles, he or she shall be responsible
for an infraction and shall be required to pay a penalty of not more than $50.
(G.S. § 14-4(b))
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of §
70.70 and Chapter 73, Schedule VIII, division (A) shall, upon conviction, be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished in accordance with the provisions
of G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. eff. 1-1-1962)
CHAPTER 71: OPERATION OF VEHICLES
Section
Operation of Vehicles
   
71.01   Stop before entering a through street
   
71.02   Stop before entering certain street intersections
   
71.03   Stop when traffic obstructed
   
71.04   One-way streets
   
71.05   Left turns at certain intersections as indicated
   
71.06   No right or left turns to be made
   
71.07   Limitations on turning around
   
71.08   Limitations on backing
   
71.09   Emerging from alley or private driveway
   
71.10   Clinging to moving vehicles
   
71.11   Riding on handlebars prohibited
   
71.12   Riding on sidewalks, or without hands on handlebars, prohibited
   
71.13   Use of coasters, roller-skates and similar devices restricted
   
71.14   Lights on parked vehicles
   
71.15   Speed limit on through highways
   
71.16   Driving on roadways laned for traffic
   
71.17   Driving over fire hose
   
71.18   Heavy equipment; tires and the like causing damage to streets
   
71.19   Prohibiting the unlawful use of engine and compression brakes
Miscellaneous Regulations
   
71.35   Boarding or alighting from public conveyances or other vehicles
   
71.36   Unlawful riding
   
71.37   Entering, jumping on or riding vehicles without permission
   
71.38   Persons riding must stay inside
   
71.39   Not more than three persons permitted in front seat
   
71.40   Prohibiting stopping vehicles on main traveled portions of streets
Cruising Prohibited
   
71.55   Definitions
   
71.56   Signs posted
   
71.57   No cruising area
   
71.58   Cruising prohibited
   
71.59   Exceptions
   
71.60   Enforcement
 
   
71.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Driving on sidewalks, see §
72.16
OPERATION OF VEHICLES
§ 71.01 STOP BEFORE ENTERING A THROUGH STREET.
   (A)   Those streets and parts of streets, as may be described in a future
traffic schedule, are hereby declared to be “through streets” for the purpose
of this section.
   (B)   When stop signs are placed, erected or installed upon highways
intersecting a through street at the entrance thereto, or at the entrance to
any intersection, every driver of a vehicle or street car, shall stop in
obedience to the signs before entering the intersection and shall not proceed
into or across the through street until he or she has first determined that no
conflict with traffic will be involved.
(1940 Code, Ch. G, Art. VI, § 1)
§ 71.02 STOP BEFORE ENTERING CERTAIN STREET INTERSECTIONS.
   Those intersections described in
Chapter 73, Schedule II are hereby declared to be stop intersections when
entered from the streets first named, and when stop signs are placed, erected
or installed at the intersections, every driver of a vehicle or street car
shall stop in obedience to the signs before entering the intersection, and
shall not proceed into or across the through street until he or she has first
determined that no conflict with traffic will be involved.
(1940 Code, Ch. G, Art. VI, § 2) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 STOP WHEN TRAFFIC OBSTRUCTED.
   No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk, unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle he or she is operating without obstructing the passage
of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic-control signal
indication to proceed.
(1940 Code, Ch. G, Art. VI, § 3) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 ONE-WAY STREETS.
   Upon those streets, and parts of streets, described in
Chapter 73, Schedule VII, vehicular traffic shall move only in the indicated
direction, when signs indicating the direction of traffic are erected and
maintained at every intersection where movement in the opposite direction is
prohibited.
(1940 Code, Ch. G, Art. VI, § 4)
§ 71.05 LEFT TURNS AT CERTAIN INTERSECTIONS AS INDICATED.
   In making left turns at street intersections described in
Chapter 73, Schedule III, all traffic, when approaching an intersection, shall
keep close to the centerline of the street and the left turn shall then be made
beyond the center of the intersection as may or may not be indicated by
buttons, markers or other directing signs, and shall proceed in the new
direction along the right-hand lane.
(1940 Code, Ch. G, Art. VI, § 6)
§ 71.06 NO RIGHT OR LEFT TURNS TO BE MADE.
   (A)   No vehicle shall make a left turn at any street intersection as may be
described in a future traffic schedule.
   (B)   No vehicle shall make a right turn at any intersection as may be
described in a future traffic schedule.
(1940 Code, Ch. G, Art. VI, § 7) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.07 LIMITATIONS ON TURNING ABOUND.
   No driver shall turn any vehicle so as to proceed in the opposite direction
in the business district, except at street intersections; and no vehicles shall
make such a turn, even at street intersections, in the streets, or portions of
streets, described in
Chapter 73, Schedule IV.
(1940 Code, Ch. G, Art. VI, § 8) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.08 LIMITATIONS ON BACKING.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same into any intersection or
over a crosswalk, and shall not in any event, or at any place, back a vehicle
unless the movement can be made in safety, and he or she shall have given ample
warning to those who may be behind by hand and horn or other signal.
(1940 Code, Ch. G, Art. VI, § 9) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.09 EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR PRIVATE DRIVEWAY.
   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall
stop the vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk, or into the
sidewalk areas extending across any alleyway, and upon entering the roadway he
or she shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway.
(1940 Code, Ch. G, Art. VI, § 10) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.10 CLINGING TO MOVING VEHICLES.
   Any person riding upon any bicycle, motorcycle, coaster, sled, rollerskates
or any toy vehicle shall not attach the same or himself or herself to any
public conveyance or moving vehicle upon any roadway.
(1940 Code, Ch. G, Art. VI, § 12) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.11 RIDING ON HANDLEBARS PROHIBITED.
   The operator of a motorcycle or bicycle, when upon a street, shall not carry
any person upon the handlebar, frame or tank of the vehicle, nor shall any
person so ride upon any such vehicle.
(1940 Code, Ch. G, Art. VI, § 13) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.12 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS, OR WITHOUT HANDS ON HANDLEBARS; PROHIBITED.
   No person shall ride a bicycle or motorcycle on any street without having
his or her hands upon the handlebars, nor shall any person ride a bicycle upon
any sidewalk or walkway within the town.
(1940 Code, Ch. G, Art. VI, § 14) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.13 USE OF COASTERS, ROLLER-SKATES AND SIMILAR DEVICES RESTRICTED.
   No person upon roller-skates, or riding in or by means of any coaster, toy
vehicle or similar device, shall go upon any roadway, unless it be while
crossing a street at a crosswalk or intersection, except upon streets set aside
as play streets.
(1940 Code, Ch. G, Art. VI, § 15) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.14 LIGHTS ON PARKED VEHICLES.
   The displaying of lights upon a vehicle, when lawfully parked at night upon
a street of the town in accordance with this chapter, shall not be required
when there is sufficient light to reveal any person within a distance of 200
feet upon the street.
(1940 Code, Ch. G, Art. VI, § 16)
§ 71.15 SPEED LIMIT ON THROUGH HIGHWAYS.
   A vehicle may be operated on any street of the town, unless otherwise
posted, at a rate of speed not exceeding 35 mph.
(1940 Code, Ch. G, Art. VI, § 18)
§ 71.16 DRIVING ON ROADWAYS LANED FOR TRAFFIC.
   All vehicles operated on any roadway which has been clearly marked with
lanes for traffic shall be driven as nearly as practical entirely within a
single lane and shall not be moved from the lane until the driver has first
ascertained that the movement can be made with safety.
(1940 Code, Ch. G, Art. VI, § 19)
§ 71.17 DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   No vehicle shall be driven over any hose of the Fire Department when laid
down on any street or driveway, to be used at any fire, without the consent of
the Fire Department Official in command.
(1940 Code, Ch. G, Art. VI, § 20) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.18 HEAVY EQUIPMENT; TIRES AND THE LIKE CAUSING DAMAGE TO STREETS.
   Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-296, it shall be unlawful for tractors, motor
graders, vehicles or heavy equipment of any kind which have metal tracks, metal
lugs, metal cleats or metal tires to be operated on paved streets or paved
municipally operated parking lots in the town.
(Ord. eff. 6-23-1971) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.19 PROHIBITING THE UNLAWFUL USE OF ENGINE AND COMPRESSION BRAKES.
   The purpose of this section is to prohibit the excessive, loud, unusual or
explosive use of engine and compressed air-braking devices within the town
limits.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   ENGINE RETARDING BRAKE. Any engine retarding brake system, transmission
brake, or any other retarding brake system that alters normal compression,
including but not limited to DYNAMIC BRAKE, JAKE BRAKE, JACOBS BRAKE, C-BRAKE,
PACCAR BRAKE, or any other make or model of engine braking system, or other
braking system that alters the normal compression of the engine and
subsequently releases that compression.
   (B)   Prohibitions. It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to
use or operate or cause to be used or operated within the town, any engine
brake, compression brake or mechanical exhaust device designed to aid in the
braking or deceleration of any vehicle unless such use is necessary to avoid
imminent danger.
   (C)   Areas of prohibition. The prohibition set forth herein shall apply to
all public streets and highways in the town.
   (D)   Signage. Signs stating "ENGINE RETARDING BRAKE ORDINANCE ENFORCED" may
be installed at locations deemed appropriate by the Board of Commissioners to
advise motorists of the prohibitions contained in this section. Except that, no
sign stating "ENGINE RETARDING BRAKE ORDINANCE ENFORCED" shall be installed on
a state highway without the approval from the North Carolina Department of
Transportation. The provisions of this section shall be in full force and
effect upon passage by the Town Board.
   (E)   Penalties. Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of
this section, shall upon G.S. § 14-4. A violation of this section is a Class 3
misdemeanor and shall be punishable by a $50 fine.
   (F)   Exceptions. Emergency vehicles shall be exempt from the application of
this section.
(Ord. 2016-11-0453, passed 11-14-2016; Ord. 2017-02-0456, passed 2-13-2017)
MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS
§ 71.35 BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM PUBLIC CONVEYANCES OR OTHER VEHICLES.
   No person shall board or alight from any public conveyance or other vehicle
while the conveyance or vehicle is in motion.
(1940 Code, Ch. G, Art. VII, § 1) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.36 UNLAWFUL RIDING.
   No person shall ride on any public conveyance, or vehicle, or any portion
thereof, not designed or intended for the use of passengers. This provision
shall not apply to an employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty, or
to persons riding within truck bodies in spaces intended for merchandise.
(1940 Code, Ch. G, Art. VII, § 2) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.37 ENTERING, JUMPING ON OR RIDING VEHICLES WITHOUT PERMISSION.
   No person shall enter, jump on or ride any automobile, or other vehicle,
without the consent of the owner or driver.
(1940 Code, Ch. G, Art. VII, § 3) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.38 PERSONS RIDING MUST STAY INSIDE.
   No person when riding shall allow any part of his or her body to protrude
beyond the limits of the vehicle in which he or she is riding, except to give
any signals as are by law required, and no person shall hang on to any vehicle
whatsoever.
(1940 Code, Ch. G, Art. VII, § 4) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.39 NOT MORE THAN THREE PERSONS PERMITTED IN FRONT SEAT.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver, or the person in charge, of any motor
vehicle to permit more than three persons (including driver) to ride in the
front, or driver’s seat of motor vehicle.
(1940 Code, Ch. G, Art. VII, § 5) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.40 PROHIBITING STOPPING VEHICLES ON MAIN TRAVELED PORTIONS OF STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any vehicle to stop on main traveled portion of any
street within the town limits for the purpose of an occupant or operator of the
vehicle speaking to or entering into conversation with the driver or occupant
of any other vehicle.
(Ord. eff. 6-10-1985) Penalty, see §
71.99
CRUISING PROHIBITED
§ 71.55 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CRUISING. The unnecessary, repetitive driving of a motor vehicle in a
continuous or circular pattern on the public streets or alleys in a manner so
as to impede the normal flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic; the driving of
any motor vehicle past a traffic-control point three or more times within a
two-hour period within any street or alley designated below as a “No Cruising”
area; driving aimlessly through private parking lots within the town where the
owner has posted a sign prohibiting that activity; or driving aimlessly in and
out of the premises of a drive-in establishment without apparent intent of
patronizing the establishment.
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL POINT.  Any point or points within a “No Cruising” area
established by the acting police officer(s) on duty in the area.
(Ord. eff. 3-12-1999)
§ 71.56 SIGNS POSTED.
   The Police Chief or his or her designee is authorized and directed to cause
signs to be posted at appropriate points within the “No Cruising” areas, which
signs to designate the area as a “No Cruising” area and to provide the time
period during which this chapter shall be enforced.
(Ord. eff. 3-12-1999)
§ 71.57 NO CRUISING AREA.
   The streets or parts of streets set forth in
Chapter 73, Schedule VI, are designated as “No Cruising Areas” within the town
at any time between 6:00 p.m. on Fridays and 3:00 a.m. on Saturdays, between 6:
00 p.m. on Saturdays and 3:00 a.m. on Sundays and between 6:00 p.m. on Sundays
and 3:00 a.m. on Mondays; it being determined that cruising on the streets or
parts of streets set out in
Chapter 73, Schedule VI during the times herein prohibited results in traffic
congestion, obstruction of public streets, limited access to shops, store,
office and other public building activities; presents imminent danger to the
public safety and welfare; and limits or impairs the ability of the Police
Department, Fire Department and other emergency vehicles responding to
emergency situations to reach the area in which an emergency exists.
(Ord. eff. 3-12-1999)
§ 71.58 CRUISING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to drive a motor
vehicle in such manner as to constitute cruising on the streets or alleys
listed in
Chapter 73, Schedule VI during the time listed in §
71.57.
(Ord. eff. 3-12-1999) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.59 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Any vehicle licensed for public transportation; and
   (B)   Any publicly owned vehicle of any town, city, county, municipality,
metropolitan government, public district, state or federal agency.
(Ord. eff. 3-12-1999)
§ 71.60 ENFORCEMENT.
   This chapter will be in full force and effect and enforced only at any time
between 6:00 p.m. on Friday and 3:00 a.m. on Saturday, between 6:00 p.m. on
Saturday and 3:00 a.m. on Sunday and between 6:00 p.m. on Sunday and 3:00 a.m.
on Monday.
(Ord. eff. 3-12-1999)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of §
71.18 shall upon conviction be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished in
accordance with the provisions of G.S. § 14-4.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of §§
71.55 through
71.60 shall upon conviction be responsible for an infraction and shall be
punished in accordance with the provisions of G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. eff. 6-23-1971; Ord. eff. 3-12-1999)
CHAPTER 72: STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
Section
Along or Near Streets
   
72.01   Stopping, standing or parking prohibited
   
72.02   Parking parallel to curb
   
72.03   Parking in alleys
   
72.04   Parking signs required
   
72.05   Notice of illegal parking; duty of police
   
72.06   Operator to comply with regulations; effect of proof of ownership
   
72.07   Impoundment
   
72.08   Parking prohibited at all times in designated places
   
72.09   Parking or stopping of vehicles to the left side to curb; not permitted
in business district
   
72.10   Parking within lines where provided
   
72.11   Double diagonal parking
   
72.12   Parking at 45-degree angle
   
72.13   Unlawful parking
   
72.14   Standing or parking vehicles for primary purpose of advertising
prohibited
   
72.15   Moving vehicles of other operators into restricted areas prohibited
   
72.16   Parking on or driving on or over sidewalks
   
72.17   Trailer and recreational vehicle parking on streets
   
72.18   Blocking of an entrance to public street from private property
Restricted Parking
   
72.20   Authority; adoption date
   
72.21   Applicability
   
72.22   More restrictive provisions
   
72.23   Person in control; proof of ownership
   
72.24   Definitions
   
72.25   Time limited parking by erecting signs; violations
   
72.26   Civil penalties for violations
   
72.27   Contesting a parking violation under this subchapter
   
72.28   Civil remedy
In Public Parking Lots
   
72.40   Authority; adoption date
   
72.41   Applicability
   
72.42   More restrictive provisions
   
72.43   Person in control; proof of ownership
   
72.44   Enforcement
Disabled Parking
   
72.70   Disabled parking; properly marked vehicle; parking without charge
 
   
72.99   Penalty
ALONG OR NEAR STREETS
§ 72.01 STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to stop,
stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other
traffic or in compliance with the law or the directions of a police officer or
traffic-control device, in any of the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
      (5)   On a crosswalk;
      (6)   Within 12 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection, unless signs or
markings indicate a lesser distance;
      (7)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign
or traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      (8)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb, or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless signs
or markings indicate a different length;
      (9)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing. However,
where permanent structures are located closer than 50 feet, parking is
permitted in front of the structures unless otherwise prohibited and if the
parked vehicle will not block the view in either direction of a locomotive or
train;
      (10)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station, and
on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75
feet of the entrance;
      (11)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (12)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
      (13)   On any bridge or other elevated structure on a highway or within a
highway tunnel;
      (14)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping or parking; or
      (15)   On any part of the paved portion of any street, the width of the
paved portion of which is 12 feet or less.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any prohibited area or away from a curb the distance as is unlawful.
(Ord. eff. 7-15-1982)
§ 72.02 PARKING PARALLEL TO CURB.
   In residential areas and other areas where parking spaces are not marked on
the pavement and not designated as no parking zones, all vehicles shall be
parked parallel to the curb or the edge of the pavement and as far to the right
of the centerline as possible, leaving at least 12 feet of clear unobstructed
roadway for the safe passage of other vehicles. At no time may a vehicle be
parked directly across the street from another vehicle unless there will be 12
feet of roadway open between the two vehicles.
(Ord. eff. 7-15-1982) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 PARKING IN ALLEYS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to park a vehicle
within an alley in such a manner or under conditions as to leave available less
than ten feet of the width of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular
traffic. No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle within an alley in a
position as to block the driveway entrance to any abutting property.
(Ord. eff. 7-15-1982) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 PARKING SIGNS REQUIRED.
   Whenever by this or any other chapter any parking time limit is imposed or
parking is prohibited in designated streets, there shall be appropriate signs
giving notice thereof. No parking regulations shall be effective unless the
signs are erected and in place at the time of any alleged offense.
(Ord. eff. 7-15-1982)
§ 72.05 NOTICE OF ILLEGAL PARKING; DUTY OF POLICE.
   If any vehicle shall be found parked in violation of any of the provisions
of this chapter, it shall be the duty of the Chief of Police or other police
officers of the town to attach to the vehicle a notice to the owner or operator
thereof, if the owner or operator is absent, or to deliver to the owner or
operator, if he or she is present, a notice to the effect that the vehicle has
been parked in violation of a provision of this chapter.
(Ord. eff. 7-15-1982)
§ 72.06 OPERATOR TO COMPLY WITH REGULATIONS; EFFECT OF PROOF OF OWNERSHIP.
   The person actually operating or in control of the operation of the vehicle
at the time that the vehicle is parked shall be charged with the duty of
complying with the provisions of this chapter; provided, that proof of
ownership of any vehicle found parked in violation of this chapter shall be
prima facie evidence that the owner parked the vehicle.
(Ord. eff. 7-15-1982)
§ 72.07 IMPOUNDMENT.
   Police officers are hereby authorized to remove a vehicle from a street or
highway to a garage designated by the Police Department under the circumstances
enumerated below:
   (A)   When any vehicle is left unattended on any bridge, viaduct or
causeway, or in any other place where the vehicle constitutes an obstruction to
traffic;
   (B)   When a vehicle on a highway is so disabled as to constitute an
obstruction to traffic and the person or persons in charge of the vehicle are
by reason of physical injury incapacitated to such an extent as to be unable to
provide for its custody or removal; and
   (C)   When any parked vehicle is left unattended on a street and is parked
illegally so as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the normal
movement of traffic.
   (D)   Sections
72.01 through
72.08 were adopted on July 12, 1982.
(Ord. eff. 7-15-1982)
§ 72.08 PARKING PROHIBITED AT ALL TIMES IN DESIGNATED PLACES.
   When signs are placed, erected or installed giving notice thereof, or the
curbing has been painted yellow in lieu of the signs, no person shall park a
vehicle at any time upon any of the streets described in
Chapter 74, Schedule I.
(1940 Code, Ch. G, Art. V, § 3) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.09 PARKING OR STOPPING OF VEHICLES TO THE LEFT SIDE TO CURB; NOT PERMITTED
IN BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   Under and by virtue of the authority granted in the General Statutes of this
state granting municipalities the power to regulate vehicular traffic upon
public streets within the corporate limits, it shall be unlawful for any
vehicle to park or stop, either attended or unattended, with the left side
(driver’s side) of the vehicle to the curb on any street in the downtown
business district of the town.
(1940 Code, Ch. G, Art. V, § 12) (Ord. eff. 8-8-2011) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.10 PARKING WITHIN LINES WHERE PROVIDED.
   On any street which is marked off with lines indicating the parking spaces
for cars, the same shall be parked between the lines.
(1940 Code, Ch. G, Art. V, § 13)
§ 72.11 DOUBLE DIAGONAL PARKING.
   Double diagonal parking shall not be allowed on any street.
(1940 Code, Ch. G, Art. V, § 14) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.12 PARKING AT 45-DEGREE ANGLE.
   Automobiles and other vehicles shall be parked at an angle of approximately
45 degrees with the curb on those streets, or parts of streets, as may be
described in a future parking schedule.
(1940 Code, Ch. G, Art. V, § 15)
§ 72.13 UNLAWFUL PARKING.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle upon any street for the principal
purposes of:
   (A)   Displaying it for sale;
   (B)   Washing, greasing or repairing the vehicle, except repairs
necessitated by an emergency;
   (C)   Storage thereof by garages, dealers or other persons when the storage
is not incident to the bona fide use and operation of the automobile or other
vehicles; or
   (D)   Storage of any detached trailer or van, when the towing unit has been
disconnected, or for the purpose of transferring merchandise or freight, from
one vehicle to another.
(1940 Code, Ch. G, Art. V, § 16) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.14 STANDING OR PARKING VEHICLES FOR PRIMARY PURPOSE OF ADVERTISING
PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park on any street any vehicle for the primary purpose of
advertising.
(1940 Code, Ch. G, Art. V, § 17) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.15 MOVING OF VEHICLES OR OTHER OPERATORS IN RESTRICTED AREAS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall move a vehicle not owned by that person into any prohibited
area, or sufficiently away from curb to make the distance unlawful.
(1940 Code, Ch. G, Art. V, § 19) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.16 PARKING ON OR DRIVING ON OR OVER SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any vehicle to park on or drive on or over
any sidewalk within the corporate limits of the town.
   (B)   This section shall repeal any single ordinance previously passed by
the Board of Commissioners which prohibits parking on sidewalks within the
corporate limits of the town.
(Ord. eff. 6-13-2011) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.17 TRAILER AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKING ON STREETS.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose and intent of this section to prevent the
impediment of all traffic, especially emergency response vehicles, i.e., fire,
police, EMS and rescue squad vehicles, by certain parked motor vehicles and all
towed vehicles, and or trailers of any kind, on any street or street right-of-
way which is maintained by the town.
   (B)   Authority. Under and by virtue of the authority granted in the General
Statutes of this state granting municipalities the power to regulate vehicle
traffic upon public streets within the corporate limits.
   (C)   Restrictions. Except in parking spaces designated by the town either
with signs or on street markings allowing parking, it shall be unlawful for any
person, firm or corporation to park or allow to be parked any boat and trailer,
camper, recreational vehicle motorized or non-motorized, and any towed vehicle
or trailer, whether commercial or private and the like, on any portion of any
street or street right-of-way which is maintained by the town.
   (D)   Exemptions. However, any vehicle or trailer which the use of is
necessary for the purpose of business or residential construction or
remodeling, loading or unloading, i.e., moving vans, delivery trucks and the
like, may be temporarily parked on town-maintained streets for no longer than
three hours within a 24-hour period, provided the parking of the vehicle does
not impede the flow of traffic in both directions simultaneously.
   (E)   Presumption. Parked vehicles or trailers as described in this section
found to be in violation of this section shall raise a rebuttable presumption
that the owner of the vehicle was the person who parked the vehicle in
violation of this section.
(Ord. eff. 10-6-2003) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.18 BLOCKING OF AN ENTRANCE TO PUBLIC STREET FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for two or more persons to congregate, assemble, gather
or park their vehicles on privately owned property of any business
establishment so as to block or partially block entrance to a public street
from any part of the property, without the consent of the owner, lessor or
other persons having right to possession of the private property.
(Ord. eff. 11-27-1974) Penalty, see §
72.99
RESTRICTED PARKING
§ 72.20 AUTHORITY; ADOPTION DATE.
   Under and by virtue of the authority granted in G.S. § 160A-301 and other
state law granting municipalities the power to regulate parking within the
corporate limits, the herein codified ordinance is hereby passed on February 8,
2016 and is in full force and effect as hereinafter set out.
(Ord. eff. 11-9-2015; Ord. eff. 2-8-2016)
§ 72.21 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this subchapter restricting the parking of a vehicle in
the downtown business district shall apply at those times and days specified on
official signs erected by the town on certain blocks in the downtown business
district.
(Ord. eff. 11-9-2015; Ord. eff. 2-8-2016)
§ 72.22 MORE RESTRICTIVE PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter imposing a time limit on parking shall not
relieve any person from the duty to observe other and more restrictive
provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping, standing or parking of
vehicles in specified places or at specified times.
(Ord. eff. 11-9-2015; Ord. eff. 2-8-2016)
§ 72.23 PERSON IN CONTROL; PROOF OF OWNERSHIP.
   The person actually operating or in control of the operation of the vehicle
at the time that the vehicle is parked shall be charged with the duty of
complying with the provisions of this subchapter; provided that proof of
ownership of any vehicle found parked in violation of this subchapter shall be
prima facie evidence that the owner parked the vehicle.
(Ord. eff. 11-9-2015; Ord. eff. 2-8-2016)
§ 72.24 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall apply to this subchapter unless context
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BLOCK. A portion of a street that is not intersected by another street or
alley.
   DOWNTOWN BUSINESS DISTRICT. The entire B-l business district as designated
on the zoning map of the town and shall include all streets within this
district.
   PARK. Includes the act of parking a vehicle and allowing the vehicle to
remain parked, and the act of failing to move such vehicle at the request of a
police official.
   RESTRICTED PARKING AREA. The blocks which are designated by signs where
parking times are limited.
   VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle as defined by the State of North Carolina
including but not limited to cars, trucks, vans, buses, limousines,
motorcycles, scooters, mopeds and other transportation devices.
(Ord. eff. 11-9-2015; Ord. eff. 2-8-2016)
§ 72.25 TIME LIMITED PARKING BY ERECTING SIGNS; VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   When signs are erected on selected street blocks in the downtown
business district giving notice of a time limit for parking on specified days
during specified hours, it shall be a violation of this subchapter for a person
to park a vehicle on the specified days, and during the specified hours, for
longer than the time limit set forth on the signs which are erected designating
a restricted parking area.
   (B)   The intent of this subchapter is to limit the parking of a vehicle in
the entire restricted parking area for the designated time period. For example,
an owner or operator of a motor vehicle cannot extend the total designated time
limit by moving the vehicle from one parking space to another parking space in
the restricted parking area. Nor can they move to a different block within the
restricted area to reset the clock. Time notated for parking violations, is
cumulative throughout the day in all areas where limited parking is specified.
   (C)   Downtown visitors may park during normal business hours in public
parking lots, without time limits, during the day.
(Ord. eff. 11-9-2015; Ord. eff. 2-8-2016)
§ 72.26 CIVIL PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Civil penalty. Upon receiving a written citation of a violation of §
72.25 above, the owner or operator of the vehicle shall pay a civil penalty in
the amount of $5. The civil penalty shall be paid at the town hall within ten
calendar days from the date of the citation. If the citation is not paid within
the ten calendar days, the civil penalty shall increase to $10. If the citation
is not paid within 30 days of the date of the citation, the amount of the
penalty shall increase to $20.
   (B)   Immobilization and/or Impoundment of vehicles having unpaid parking
tickets.
      (1)   The Chief of Police or his designee may immobilize, by use of wheel
locks, or tow or impound any vehicle which is illegally parked and for which
there have been two or more previous parking citations issued within the past
30 days. When a wheel lock is attached to a vehicle, a notice shall be affixed
to the windshield or other part of the vehicle so as to be readily noticed. The
notice shall warn the operator that any attempt to move the vehicle may result
in damage to the vehicle. The town shall not be responsible for damage due to
someone trying to move an immobilized vehicle. All civil penalties for parking
citations, plus a $50 fee for removing the wheel lock shall be paid at the Town
Hall within 24 hours of the immobilization or the vehicle is subject to being
towed and impounded by the town police.
      (2)   Once a vehicle has been towed and impounded, the investigating
officer shall mail or cause to be mailed to the registered owner a “notice of
impoundment” which shall include the civil penalties due plus the cost of
removing the wheel lock and the towing and impoundment fees.
      (3)   Upon payment of all civil penalties, wheel lock removal and the
cost of towing and impoundment at the Town Hall, the vehicle shall be released
to the registered owner or to any other person or entity entitled to the
possession of the vehicle.
(Ord. eff. 11-9-2015; Ord. eff. 2-8-2016)
§ 72.27 CONTESTING A PARKING VIOLATION UNDER THIS SUBCHAPTER.
   Any parking violation under this subchapter that is contested will be
brought before the Chief of Police to determine if there is cause for the
parking violation to be voided.
(Ord. eff. 11-9-2015; Ord. eff. 2-8-2016)
§ 72.28 CIVIL REMEDY.
   Upon failure of the owner or operator of the vehicle to appear and pay the
civil penalty within the prescribed period, the town shall have the rights and
remedies for enforcement of a civil claim or equitable remedy provided in G.S.
§ 160A-175(c), (d) and (e). It is specifically provided that violations of this
downtown business district parking ordinance are not subject to the penal laws
of the state and, therefore, not subject to the penalty provisions of G.S. §
14-4.
(Ord. eff. 11-9-2015; Ord. eff. 2-8-2016)
IN PUBLIC PARKING LOTS
§ 72.40 AUTHORITY; ADOPTION DATE.
   Under and by virtue of the authority granted in G.S. § 160A-301(b) and other
state law granting municipalities the power to regulate parking within the
corporate limits, the herein codified ordinance is hereby passed on February 6,
1989 and is in full force and effect as hereinafter set out.
(Ord. eff. 4-1-1989)
§ 72.41 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this subchapter prohibiting the standing or parking of a
vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as
indicated on official signs, except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or official traffic-control device.
(Ord. eff. 4-1-1989)
§ 72.42 MORE RESTRICTIVE PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter imposing a time limit on parking shall not
relieve any person from the duty to observe other and more restrictive
provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping, standing or parking of
vehicles in specified places or at specified times.
(Ord. eff. 4-1-1989)
§ 72.43 PERSON IN CONTROL; PROOF OF OWNERSHIP.
   The person actually operating or in control of the operation of the vehicle
at the time that the vehicle is parked shall be charged with the duty of
complying with the provisions of this subchapter; provided that proof of
ownership of any vehicle found parked in violation of this subchapter shall be
prima facie evidence that the owner parked the vehicle.
(Ord. eff. 4-1-1989)
§ 72.44 ENFORCEMENT.
   The administration of civil sanctions of this subchapter shall be under the
direction of the Town Manager. He or she may assign one or more employees of
the town to assist him or her in the administration and enforcement.
(Ord. eff. 4-1-1989)
DISABLED PARKING
§ 72.70 DISABLED PARKING; PROPERLY MARKED VEHICLE; PARKING WITHOUT CHARGE.
   (A)   Any other person, firm or corporation parking in spaces properly
marked for disabled parking, unless the person, firm or corporation is legally
parked in the parking space for loading or unloading as permitted in loading
and unloading zones, shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and
shall be punished in accordance with the provisions of G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. eff. 1-5-1982) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   If any person(s) shall violate §
72.09, he or she shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor,
and shall be fined in an amount not to exceed $50 or imprisoned not exceeding
30 days as provided by G.S. § 14-4(a).
(1940 Code, Ch. G, Art. V, § 12)
   (C)   If any person(s) shall violate the provisions of §
72.16, he or she shall upon conviction be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor and
shall be fined in an amount not to exceed $50 or imprisoned not to exceed 30
days as provided by G.S. § 14-1(a).
   (D)   A violation of §
72.17 shall constitute a general misdemeanor punishable by the payment of a
fine not exceeding $50 or imprisonment not exceeding 30 days pursuant to G.S. §
14-4.
   (E)   Any person violating the provisions of §
72.18 shall upon conviction be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished in
accordance with the provisions of G.S. § 14-4.
   (F)   Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of §§
72.40 through
72.44 shall upon conviction be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished in
accordance with the provision of G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. eff. 7-15-1982; Ord. eff. 4-1-1989; Ord. eff. - -; Ord. eff. 10-6-2003;
Ord. eff. 8-8-2011)
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I   Traffic-control signal lights
   
II   Stop intersections
   
III   Left turns made right of center
   
IV   Turning restrictions
   
V   No cruising areas
   
VI   Truck routes
   
VII   Speed limits
SCHEDULE I. TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL LIGHTS.
   (A)   All traffic-control signal lights of any kind or description
heretofore installed and erected prior to the effective date of the ordinance
codified herein are hereby confirmed and authorized to be installed and to
continue in operation at the following intersections:
Street Intersection of Street Ord. No. Date Passed Date Effective
Street          Intersection of Street Ord. No. Date Passed Date Effective
Church Street   North Bridge Street    –      - -         7-16-1956
Church Street   Spring Street          –      - -         7-16-1956
Hawthorne Road  North Bridge Street    –      - -         7-16-1956
Main Street     Bridge Street          –      - -         7-16-1956
Market Street   Bridge Street          –      - -         7-16-1956
Spring Street   North Bridge Street    –      - -         7-16-1956
Standard Street South Bridge Street    –      - -         7-16-1956
Standard Street West Main Street       –      - -         7-16-1956
 
   (B)   All persons and drivers of motor vehicles shall obey the directions of
any traffic-control signal light in accordance with state law or municipal
ordinances applicable thereto.
(Ord. eff. 7-16-1956) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
Street Intersection of Street Ord. No. Date Passed Date Effective
Street           Intersection of Street Ord. No. Date Passed Date Effective
Church Street    Bridge Street          –      - -         - -
Elk Spur Street  West Main Street       –      - -         - -
Gwyn Avenue      Bridge Street          –      - -         - -
Gwyn Avenue      Spring Street          –      11-6-1989   1-1-1990
Spring Street    Bridge Street          –      - -         - -
Spring Street    Gwyn Avenue            –      - -         - -
West Main Street Elk Spur Street        –      - -         - -
 
(1940 Code, Ch. G, Schedule X) Penalty, see §
71.99
SCHEDULE III. LEFT TURNS MADE RIGHT OF CENTER.
 
Intersection of Streets       Ord. No. Date Passed Date Effective
Bridge and Church Streets     –      - -         - -
Gwyn Avenue and Bridge Street –      - -         - -
 
(1940 Code, Ch. G, Schedule XI) Penalty, see §
71.99
SCHEDULE IV. TURNING RESTRICTIONS.
 
Street       Restriction                                                                  Ord. Date   Date
Intersection                                                                              No.  Passed Effective
Bridge
Street and   No left turn                                                                 –  - -    7-4-1968
Main Street
             Right turn onto Bridge Street permitted when:
             approaching from East or West Main Street, faced by a green light and after
             yielding ROW to pedestrians lawfully crossing, and after determining that
Main Street  the turn can be made safely
and Bridge   Right turn onto Main Street permitted when:                                     - -    6-23-1971
Street       approaching from the operator’s right-hand lane of Bridge Street, faced by a
             green light and after yielding ROW to pedestrians lawfully crossing, and
             after determining that the turn can be made safely
             All other right-hand turns are misdemeanors subject to G.S. § 14-4
Main Street
and Bridge
Street when  No right turn on red signal                                                  –  - -    6-30-1974
traveling in
any of four
directions
West Main
Street and
Front Street
when         No right turn on red signal                                                  –  - -    6-30-1974
traveling
west on West
Main Street
 
Penalty, see §
71.99
SCHEDULE V. NO CRUISING AREAS.
   Pursuant to the provisions of §
71.57, the following are designated as “No Cruising” streets during the times
specified there:
No Cruising Areas Ord. No. Date Passed Date Effective
No Cruising Areas                           Ord. No. Date Passed Date Effective
All alleys located within the following
boundaries:
Market Street on the north, the western     –      - -         3-12-1999
boundary of CMI property on the east, the
Yadkin river on the south and Big Elkin
Creek on the west
Commerce Street (all)                       –      - -         3-12-1999
East Main Street from intersection of East
Main Street and Standard Street to west     –      - -         3-12-1999
side of Bridge Street
Front Street from Standard Street to Market –      - -         3-12-1999
Street
Market Street from Big Elkin Creek to East  –      - -         3-12-1999
Main Street
North Bridge Street from Market Street to   –      - -         3-12-1999
Main Street
South Bridge Street from Standard Street to –      - -         3-12-1999
Main Street
Standard Street (all)                       –      - -         3-12-1999
West Main Street from Big Elkin Creek       –      - -         3-12-1999
Bridge to Bridge Street
 
Penalty, see §
71.99
SCHEDULE VI. TRUCK ROUTES.
   (A)   Traffic concerns. All trucks and trailers are prohibited from
traveling upon the following streets:
 
Street                                      Ord. No. Date Passed Date Effective
Church Street extending from Market Street
to Spring Street, between 8:00 a.m. and 4:
00 p.m. on all days in which school is in
session at the grammar school; except that  –      - -         10-6-1955
trucks and trailers may travel on the part
of the street to reach or return from a
destination on that part of the street
Front Street, from NC 268 to Market Street,
unless the truck has a business stop on
this part of Front Street or one of the     –      - -         8-1-1974
streets that intersect Front Street between
NC 268 and Market Street
Gwyn Avenue in its entirety, except that
trucks and trailers may travel on these     –      - -         1-1-1962
parts of streets to reach or return from a
destination upon the streets
Spring Street, from Gwyn Avenue to North
Bridge Street, except that trucks and
trailers may travel on these parts of       –      - -         1-1-1962
streets to reach or return from a
destination upon the streets
 
   (B)   Weight limits. Vehicles having a gross weight plus load in excess of
the following limits are prohibited from traveling on the following streets:
 
Street        Maximum Weight Ord. No. Date Passed Date Effective
Oakland Drive 8 tons         –      - -         8-4-1959
Oakland Drive 13,000 pounds  –      - -         5-1-1973
 
Penalty, see §
71.99
SCHEDULE VII. SPEED LIMITS.
Street Max. Speed (mph) Ord. No. Date Passed Date Effective
                                                    Max.  Ord.  Date   Date
Street                                              Speed No.   Passed Effective
                                                    (mph)
Aaron Road, from Johnson Ridge to dead end          25    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
                                                                1986
Argonne Road                                        25    –   - -    8-22-1974
Arnold Drive, from North Bridge Street to Brenhaven 25    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
                                                                1986
Auburn Street                                       25    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
                                                                1986
Austin - Benham Road                                35    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
                                                                1986
Bon Air Road, from Brookwood Drive                  25    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
                                                                1986
Brenhaven Drive, from North Bridge Street to dead   25    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
end                                                             1986
Bridge Street (US 21 Business and NC 268), from
Market Street (NC 268) to a point 0.10 mile north   20    8     - -    - -
of Market Street
Bridge Street (US 21 Business), from the southern
corporate limit at the Yadkin County Line, to       20    9     - -    - -
Market Street (NC 268)
Bridge Street (US 21 and NC 268), from a point 0.1
mile north of Market Street (US 21 and NC 268) to   35    –   - -    10-9-1964
Spring Street (NC 268)
Brookwood Drive, from NC 268 East to Dutchman Creek 35    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
                                                                1986
Catawba Road, from Brookwood Drive to dead end      25    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
                                                                1986
Cedar Street, from Surry Avenue to West Main Street 25    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
                                                                1986
Chatham Drive, from North Bridge Street to dead end 25    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
                                                                1986
Church Street, any part                             25    –   - -    7-1-1991
Claremont Drive (SR 1195), from US 21 Business      35    –   - -    10-4-1993
eastward to a point 350 feet east of US 21 Business
Claremont Drive (SR 1195), from a point 350 feet
east of US 21 Business eastward to Johnson Ridge    45    –   - -    10-4-1993
Road (SR 1144)
Claremont Drive, from North Bridge Street to        45    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
Johnson Ridge Road                                              1986
                                                          2017- 8-14-
Collins Road                                        25    08-   2017   8-14-2017
                                                          0484
Colony Lane, from Johnson Ridge to dead end         25    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
                                                                1986
Commerce Street, from Monroe Street to Front Street 20    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
                                                                1986
Cox Avenue, from North Bridge Street to East Robin  25    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
Road                                                            1986
Day Street, between Pegram Street and Veneer Street 25    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
                                                                1986
Dogwood Lane, to Wisconsin Avenue                   25    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
                                                                1986
Dutchman Creek, from Hawthorne Road to Brookwood    35    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
                                                                1986
Dutchman Creek                                      25    –   - -    4-3-1984
East Highland Avenue, from North Bridge Street to   25    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
Maple Street                                                    1986
East Main Street (NC 268), from Market Street to a  20    –   - -    1-30-1969
point 0.15 mile east of Market Street
East Main Street (NC 268), from a point 0.15 mile
east of Market Street to the eastern corporate      35    –   - -    1-30-1969
limits, approx. 0.65 mile east of Market Street
East Main Street, from Market Street along NC 268
in an eastward direction to Elkin Furniture Company 25    –   - -    10-9-1964
Main Plant at a point where the eastern town limits
existed on NC 268 as of January 1, 1964
East Robin Road, from North Bridge Street to Cox    25    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
Avenue                                                          1986
East Spring Street, between North Bridge and dead   25    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
end                                                             1986
Edgedale Drive to Hillcrest Drive                   25    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
                                                                1986
Edgewood Drive to West Main Street                  25    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
                                                                1986
Elk Spur Street (SR 1149) between North Front             2021- 8-9-
Street and Wilkes County Line                       25    08-   2021   8-9-2021
                                                          0084
Elk Spur Street (SR 1149), from a point 0.40 mile
west of Memorial Park Drive eastward for 0.33 mile, 20    –   - -    8-2-1994
from 7:30 a.m. to 8:30 and from 2:30 p.m. to 3:30
p.m. on school days only (high school speed zone)
Elk Spur Street (SR 1149) between 0.4 mile west of
US 21 Business and 0.73 west of US 21 Business            2021- 8-9-
(Elkin High School and Elking Middle School in      20    08-   2021   8-9-2021
effect from 30 minutes before to 30 minutes after         0083
school begins and ends on school days only)
Elk Spur Street (SR 1149), from West Main Street
(SR 1149) at Masonic Drive to the western corporate 35    –   - -    10-9-1964
limit
Elk Spur Street, from Memorial Park Drive to West   35    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
End NC 268 West                                                 1986
Eller Street, from North Bridge Street to Hill      25    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
Street                                                          1986
Forest Hill Drive, from North Bridge Street to dead 25    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
end                                                             1986
Foxhall Drive, from Johnson Ridge to dead end       25    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
                                                                1986
Franklin Street, from Surry Avenue to West Main     25    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
Street                                                          1986
Front Street, between West Market and Commerce      20    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
Street                                                          1986
Graham Street to West Main Street                   25    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
                                                                1986
Greenwood Street to Elk Spur Street                 25    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
                                                                1986
Grove Avenue from Eller Street                      25    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
                                                                1986
Gwyn Avenue, any part                               25    –   - -    9-1-1961
Gwyn Avenue, between East Market and North Bridge   25    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
Street                                                          1986
Harris Avenue                                       25    –   - -    4-3-1984
Harris Avenue                                       25    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
                                                                1986
Hawthorne Drive, from North Bridge Street to dead   25    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
end                                                             1986
Hawthorne Road                                      25    –   - -    8-22-1974
Hendrix Street                                      25    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
                                                                1986
NC 268 West, from Church Street to intersection at  35    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
West End                                                        1986
Hill Street, from Eller Street to Claremont Drive   25    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
                                                                1986
Hillcrest Drive, between NC 268 East and dead end   25    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
                                                                1986
Hollyhill Road to Meadowbrook                       25    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
                                                                1986
Ivy Circle                                          25    –   - -    4-3-1984
Ivy Circle, from Dutchman Creek Road                25    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
                                                                1986
James Street                                        25    –   - -    4-3-1984
James Street, between Masonic Drive and Memorial    25    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
Park Drive                                                      1986
Johnson Street, between Pegram Street and Veneer    25    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
Street                                                          1986
Knollwood Drive, from Brookwood Drive               25    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
                                                                1986
Lauren Drive                                        25    –   - -    4-3-1984
Lauren Drive, from South Street to dead end         25    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
                                                                1986
Lyles Street to Woodland Drive                      35    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
                                                                1986
Main Street                                         20    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
                                                                1986
Manor Ridge Road, from Brookwood Drive              25    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
                                                                1986
Maple Street, from Woodruff Street to Highland      25    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
Avenue                                                          1986
Marion Road, from Johnson Ridge to dead end         25    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
                                                                1986
Market Street (NC 268), from Bridge Street (US 21   20    7     - -    - -
Business and NC 268) to East Main Street
Market Street, from Church Street east to Chatham   20    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
Main Gate                                                       1986
Masonic Drive, between Elk Spur and James Street    25    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
                                                                1986
Memorial Park Drive, from Elk Spur Street to NC 268 35    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
West                                                            1986
Millview Drive, between NC 268 and dead end         25    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
                                                                1986
Mountain View Road, from the intersection of
Mountain View Road and Oak Grove Road north to the  25    –   6-10-
intersection of Mountain View Road and Old Quarry               2013
Road
NC 268 Business, from 0.78 mile east of SR 1190 to  45    4-213 11-21- - -[2011]
0.21 mile east of SR 1144                                       2011
NC 268 East, from the intersection of Brookwood     35    –   - -    12-6-1993
Drive and NC 268 eastward to I-77
Newman Road                                         25    –   - -    4-3-1984
Newman Road, from Reeves Lane to dead end           25    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
                                                                1986
North Bridge Street (US 21 Business), from a point              6-3-
0.1 miles north of C C Camp Road (SR 1138)          45    –   1996   - -[1996]
northward to Brookfall Dairy Road (SR 1157)
North Bridge Street, from Centel Office to          35    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
McDonald’s                                                    1986
North Bridge Street, from McDonald’s to corporate 45    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
limits                                                          1986
North Front Street, between West Market Street and  15    –   - -    12-13-
West Main Street                                                       2010
North Front Street, between West Main Street and    20    –   - -    10-3-1994
Market Street
North Street                                        25    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
                                                                1986
Northwood Drive                                     25    –   - -    4-3-1984
Northwood Drive to Oakland Drive                    25    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
                                                                1986
Oakland Drive, from NC 268 West to North Bridge     35    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
Street                                                          1986
Oakwood Drive to Hillcrest Drive                    25    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
                                                                1986
Old Virginia Road, beginning at a point near the
Big Elkin Creek Bridge on West Main Street and
north by the playground and east by the water works 15    –   - -    7-19-1954
and continues east by the elementary school
property
Old Virginia Road, between Front Street and Church  25    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
Street                                                          1986
Park Street                                         25    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
                                                                1986
Parkwood Drive, from north entrance on Johnson      35    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
Ridge Road to south entrance of Johnson Ridge Road              1986
Partridge Lane to Oakland Drive                     25    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
                                                                1986
Pegram Street, between NC 268 East and loop         25    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
                                                                1986
Pinewood Drive, from dead end to Hawthorne Road     25    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
                                                                1986
Pinewood Road                                       25    –   - -    8-22-1974
Pleasant Hill Drive, from NC 268 West to town       35    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
limits                                                          1986
Pleasant Hill Road (SR 1150), from Spring Street    35    –   - -    10-9-1964
(NC 268) to the northwestern corporate limit
Powers Lane, between Elk Spur Street and NC 268     25    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
West                                                            1986
Reeves Lane                                         25    –   - -    4-3-1984
Reeves Lane to dead end                             25    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
                                                                1986
Ridge Street, from North Bridge Street to East      25    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
Spring Street                                                   1986
Salmon Street, from North Bridge to dead end        25    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
                                                                1986
South Street                                        25    –   - -    4-3-1984
South Street, from Reeves Lane to dead end          25    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
                                                                1986
Spring Street (NC 268), from Bridge Street (US 21   35    –   - -    10-9-1964
and NC 268) to North Front Street
Spring Street (NC 268), from the western corporate              3-4-
limit, at the Wilkes County Line, to North Bridge   35    –   1985   - -[1985]
Street
Spruce Street, from North Bridge Street             25    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
                                                                1986
SR 1001, from 0.50 mile northeast of US 21 to US 21 45    4-214 11-21- - -[2011]
                                                                2011
Standard Street, from NC 268 East to Front Street   20    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
                                                                1986
Surry Avenue, between Veneer Street and Cedar       25    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
Street                                                          1986
Texas Street to West Main Street                    25    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
                                                                1986
Turner Street, from Sloop Street to West Robin Road 25    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
                                                                1986
Valleybrook, from Brookwood Drive to Meadowbrook    25    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
Road                                                            1986
Victoria Street to Elk Spur Street                  25    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
                                                                1986
Vine Street, from Surry Avenue to West Main Street  25    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
                                                                1986
West Highland Avenue, from North Bridge Street then 25    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
changes to Sloop Street at same speed                           1986
West Main Street, between the Big Elkin Creek                   6-4-
Bridge on West Main Street and the intersection of  25    –   1990   6-4-1990
West Main Street and Elk Spur Street
West Main Street, from Elk Spur Street to Front     35    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
Street                                                          1986
West Robin Road, from North Bridge Street to Turner 25    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
Street                                                          1986
Westover Drive to Hillcrest Drive                   25    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
                                                                1986
Westwood Lane to Oakland Drive                      25    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
                                                                1986
Wilkes Street, portion located within the town      25    –   11-6-  11-6-1989
                                                                1989
Wisconsin Avenue to Elk Spur Street                 25    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
                                                                1986
Woodland Drive, from Claremont to Lyles Street      35    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
                                                                1986
Woodland Drive to Lyles Street                      35    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
                                                                1986
Woodruff Street, from North Bridge Street to North  25    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
Street                                                          1986
Young Street to Elk Spur Street                     25    –   10-6-  10-6-1986
                                                                1986
 
Penalty, see §
71.99
CHAPTER 74: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I   Parking prohibited
SCHEDULE I. PARKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Streets. Parking is prohibited at all times on the following streets:
Street/Location Ord. No. Date Passed Date Effective
Street/Location                             Ord. No. Date Passed Date Effective
Bridge Street                               –      - -         5-19-1971
Church Street, east side, between Market    –      - -         10-7-1957
Street and Spring Street
Church Street, east side, between Market    –      - -         10-2-1978
Street and Spring Street
Church Street, east side, between Spring
Street and a point 100 feet north of the    –      - -         4-7-1966
intersection of Hendrix Street and Spring
Street
Church Street, west side, between the
intersection of Church Street and Old
Virginia Road and the intersection of       –      - -         1-4-1971
Church Street and the paved drive that
leads west from Church Street to the
lunchroom at the elementary school
Court Street, one side only                 –      - -         - -
Elk Spur Street                             –      - -         11-1-1967
Front Street, east side, between Old        –      - -         8-21-1970
Virginia Road and the municipal library
Fuller Street, south side                   –      - -         5-26-1975
Gwyn Avenue, west side, from Market Street  –      - -         3-1-1971
northward to North Bridge Street
Harris Avenue, east side, between Sunset
Avenue and the southernmost end of Harris   –      - -         3-2-1981
Avenue Extension or the dead end of the
Harris Avenue Extension at Maple Street
Harris Avenue, east side, between the north
boundary of the property designated as
House No. 219 (now Earl Mastin property)    –      - -         10-2-1978
and the north boundary of the property
designated as House No. 255 (now Leon Reece
property)
Harris Avenue, west side, between the south
side of William H. Harris property at 208
Harris Avenue and the southern boundary of  –      - -         5-7-1979
the property now owned by Frank Barnes at
228 Harris Avenue
 
Street/Location Ord. No. Date Passed Date Effective
Street/Location                             Ord. No. Date Passed Date Effective
NC 268, either side, between Front Street   –      - -         7-7-1980
and Oakland Drive
Johnson Street, either side, from Pegram    –      - -         10-11-1999
Street to Veneer Street
Main Street, intersection with Market       –      - -         - -
Street on the west side of Church Street
Masonic Drive, west side, between Elk Spur  –      - -         12-9-1965
Street and James Street
North Bridge Street, any part, from the
intersection of North Bridge Street and     –      - -         9-1-1967
Church Street northward to the north
corporate limits line
Pegram Street, either side, from Johnson
Street to the northern end of the pavement  –      - -         5-7-1979
on Pegram Street
Ridge Street, north side, from North Bridge
Street to a point 250 feet east of North    –      - -         1-6-1966
Bridge Street
South Street, west side, from House No. 122 –      - -         5-3-1972
to House No. 140
South Street, west side, between the
property of House No. 118 and the property  –      - -         3-5-1973
of House No. 140
Spring Street, south side, from Gwyn Avenue –      - -         12-15-1971
to Church Street
Standard Street, east side, between
Southern Railway Tracks and East Main       –      - -         11-20-1958
Street
Veneer Street, east side, in the area from  –      5-6-1996    5-7-1996
NC 268, north to Day Street
Wilkes Street, either side, beginning at
the crest of the hill which is located
approximately 600 feet west of Elk Spur
Street and extending in a westward          –      - -         12-5-1983
direction 150 feet from the crest of the
hill and extending 150 feet east of the
crest
Yadkin Street                               –      - -         10-14-1974
 
(1940 Code, Ch. G, Schedule I)
   (B)   Parking on privately owned business property. It shall be unlawful for
anyone to park any vehicle or allow any vehicle to remain parked at any time on
any part of the below described property except while the person so parking any
vehicle or allowing the vehicle to remain parked on the property is using the
wash bays while actively washing the vehicles and except while parking near the
outside vacuum while actively vacuuming the vehicles.
 
Property                                    Ord. No. Date Passed Date Effective
Elkin Laundrette, bounded on the west by
the Ride With Pride Car Wash, on the north  –      - -         11-17-1984
by Standard Street, on the east by Elk
Street, and on the south by Commerce Street
Ride With Pride Car Wash, bounded on the
north by Standard Street, on the south and  –      - -         11-17-1984
west by Commerce Street, and on the east by
the Elkin Laundrette
 
Penalty, see §
72.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   RECREATION AND PARK FACILITIES
      
91.   ABANDONED, JUNKED AND HAZARDOUS MOTOR VEHICLES
      
92.   AIRPORT OPERATIONS; STANDARDS
      
93.   FIRE PROTECTION AND PREVENTION
      
94.   ANIMALS
      
95.   NUISANCES, SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT
      
96.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
97.   CEMETERIES
      
98.   ALARM SYSTEMS
      
99.   PUBLIC LIBRARY
CHAPTER 90: RECREATION AND PARK FACILITIES
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Purpose and findings
   
90.02   Recreation and Parks Department; authority
   
90.03   Recreation and Parks Director
Recreation Facility Rules
   
90.15   Definitions
   
90.16   Trespass
   
90.17   Vehicles in parks
   
90.18   Advertising
   
90.19   Firearms, air rifles, toy arms, concealed handgun permit and other
hazardous activities
   
90.20   Climbing on buildings and structures
   
90.21   Animals running at large; horseback riding
   
90.22   Mistreatment of animals
   
90.23   Throwing rocks, bottles, dirt
   
90.24   Alcoholic beverages, controlled substances
   
90.25   Littering
   
90.26   Fires
   
90.27   Excavations
   
90.28   Digging up, cutting, injuring plants
   
90.29   Water use other than drinking
   
90.30   Camping in designated areas
   
90.31   Park closing times
   
90.32   Prohibition of convicted sex offenders in public parks
   
90.33   Volunteers and volunteer coaching
   
90.34   Swimming, jumping, diving and fishing
Municipal Park
   
90.45   Peddling, selling or begging without written authorization
   
90.46   Dogs prohibited without leash
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 PURPOSE AND FINDINGS; ADOPTION DATE.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners of the town is enacting this chapter to
establish reasonable regulations for use of town recreation and parks
facilities.
   (B)   The Board finds that recreation and parks facilities are provided for
the general benefit of the citizens of the town and surrounding area and that
the recreation facilities are created and maintained for public use under G.S.
Ch. 160A, Article 18. However, when there are no regulations to govern the use
of recreation and parks facilities, activities can occur which threaten the
safe use of the facilities by the public, may pose traffic hazards, and may
have a negative impact on the aesthetic value of the recreation facility.
   (C)   By enacting this chapter, the Board intends to:
      (1)   Balance the rights of individuals to utilize recreation facilities
in a constructive active or passive manner which does not infringe on the
rights of others to do the same;
      (2)   Protect the public health, safety, and welfare;
      (3)   Reduce traffic and pedestrian hazards; and
      (4)   Ensure fair and consistent enforcement of the regulations specified
below.
(Ord. eff. 12-12-2011; Ord. eff. 8-11-2014; Ord. 2015-09-0416, passed 9-14-
2015)
§ 90.02 RECREATION AND PARKS DEPARTMENT; AUTHORITY.
   (A)   In accordance with the provisions of G.S. Ch. l60A, Art. 18, there is
created a recreation Department within the town.
   (B)   In addition to any other powers the town may possess, the town shall
have the right to exercise all authority granted to it under G.S. § 160A-353.
(Ord. eff. 12-12-2011; Ord. eff. 8-11-2014; Ord. 2015-09-0416, passed 9-14-
2015)
§ 90.03 RECREATION AND PARKS DIRECTOR.
   The Recreation and Parks Director shall be appointed by and responsible to
the Town Manager for the administration of the Recreation and Parks Department.
(Ord. eff. 12-12-2011; Ord. eff. 8-11-2014; Ord. 2015-09-0416, passed 9-14-
2015)
RECREATION FACILITY RULES
§ 90.15 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this subchapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   DIRECTOR. Director of the Recreation and Parks Department or authorized
agents.
   TOWN RECREATION FACILITY. A park, playground, athletic facility or any
recreational area of any type whatsoever, including, but not limited to
walking/hiking trails, paths and greenways, which are owned, leased or
otherwise in the possession of the town.
(Ord. eff. 12-12-2011; Ord. eff. 8-11-2014; Ord. 2015-09-0416, passed 9-14-
2015)
Statutory reference:
   General authority relative to recreation and parks, see G.S. §§ 160A-350 et
seq.
§ 90.16 TRESPASS.
   (A)   All employees of the Recreation and Parks Department of the town shall
enforce the rules and regulations of the Department that define those
activities within or upon a town recreation facility that are prohibited or
mandated.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to leave a town recreation
facility after having been asked to leave by an employee on or authorized agent
on account of a violation of the rules and regulations.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful, during the hours that the town recreation
facilities are closed to the public, for any person to trespass thereon.
(Ord. eff. 12-12-2011; Ord. eff. 8-11-2014; Ord. 2015-09-0416, passed 9-14-
2015) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.17 VEHICLES IN PARKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive, propel or otherwise
operate or use any motor vehicle, bicycle, minibike, motorcycle or other
transportation device, whether motor powered, self-propelled or animal-drawn,
in, over or through any town recreation facility, except along and upon
roadways or pathways, so designated, in or on town recreation facilities.
Roller skates, roller blades, and skateboards shall be permitted in designated
areas only and shall not be used upon tennis courts, shuffleboard courts and
shelter areas, or elsewhere where their operation is a hazard to life or
property.
   (B)   Use of bicycles, roller skates, roller blades and skateboards shall be
subject to safety regulations of G.S. § 20-171.6 regarding mandatory helmet
laws for operators.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or cause to be parked any
transportation device upon any town recreation facility except upon parking
areas designated by the Director. If shall further be unlawful for any person
to park on any roadway or in any designated space of a town recreation facility
except for the purpose of using the park, its facilities and programs. Parking
shall be for recreation facility patrons only.
   (D) It shall be unlawful for any person to leave a vehicle parked and
unattended upon the grounds of any town recreation facility for longer than 12
hours or overnight without a permit. Any vehicle so parked unattended on the
grounds of a recreation facility will be subject to be towed away at the
owner’s expense. Any such vehicle towed may be reclaimed by its owner upon
payment of towing fees.
   (E) Only pedestrian and bicycle traffic are allowed on trails, paths and
greenways operated and maintained as a town recreation facility. This section
shall not apply to emergency vehicles, or vehicles in the service of the town.
(Ord. eff. 12-12-2011; Ord. eff. 8-11-2014; Ord. 2015-09-0416, passed 9-14-
2015) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.18 ADVERTISING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or erect any structure, sign,
bulletin board, posthole, or advertising device of any kind whatsoever in any
town recreation facility, or to attach any notice, bill, poster, sign, wire,
rod or cord to any tree, shrub, fence, railing, post or structure within any
town recreation facility. This section and its prohibition shall not apply to
any signs lawfully erected in specified areas at polling places the day of the
election and removed at the close of polling on Election Day.
(Ord. eff. 12-12-2011; Ord. eff. 8-11-2014; Ord. 2015-09-0416, passed 9-14-
2015)
§ 90.19 FIREARMS, AIR RIFLES, TOY ARMS, CONCEALED HANDGUN PERMIT AND OTHER
HAZARDOUS ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, except law enforcement officers
and members of the armed services when acting in the discharge of their
official duties, to discharge, shoot, fire or explode or cause to be
discharged, shot, fired or exploded any deadly weapon, air rifle or toy pistol,
toy rifle or other toy arms so designed and capable of forcibly hurling a
projectile or missile within any town recreation facility.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess any firearm where there
is posted a prohibition sign, including a handgun carried under the authority
of a lawful concealed handgun permit, at the following recreation and park
facilities (i.e. athletic facilities, athletic fields and playground) in
accordance with G.S. § 14-415.23:
      (1)   Elkin Recreation Center;
      (2)   Baseball, softball, soccer and multi-use athletic fields located
within Elkin Municipal Park, Crater Park and Chatham Park during a scheduled,
organized athletic event;
      (3)   Elkin Municipal Pool;
      (4)   Any playground within Elkin Municipal Park, Crater Park and Chatham
Park; and
      (5)   Tennis courts located within Elkin Municipal Park;
      (6)   It shall be unlawful to participate in any activity considered by
the Recreation and Parks Department to be hazardous to persons within any town
recreation facility, including but not limited to:
         (a)   Hitting of golf balls;
         (b)   Hitting of baseballs or softballs other than within designated
“ball fields;”
         (c)   Throwing or propelling javelins, arrows, spears or other
projectiles, including the use of bows and crossbows; and
         (d)   The use of “fireworks” or other incendiary devices within any
town recreation facility without a permit issued by the Director.
(Ord. eff. 12-12-2011; Ord. eff. 8-11-2014; Ord. 2015-09-0416, passed 9-14-
2015) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.20 CLIMBING ON BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except a person authorized by the
Director, to climb upon any recreational building, bridge, rail, dam, cliff,
boulder or tree; or, attach to any structure, tree or other natural object any
rope, cable, chain or vine for the purpose of a swing.
(Ord. eff. 12-12-2011; Ord. eff. 8-11-2014; Ord. 2015-09-0416, passed 9-14-
2015) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.21 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE; HORSEBACK RIDING.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or the person in possession to permit any
horses, dogs, cats or other animals to run at large within any town recreation
facility or to ride horses within the same. Owners of dogs and cats must comply
fully with the requirements of the town’s “Leash Law” (§
94.03).
(Ord. eff. 12-12-2011; Ord. eff. 8-11-2014; Ord. 2015-09-0416, passed 9-14-
2015) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.22 MISTREATMENT OF ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to trap, catch, injure, tease, kill or
treat cruelly any bird or animal, or cause the same to occur, or molest or rob
any nest of any bird, or any lair, den, burrow or similar structure of any
animal within any town recreation facility. Fishing is allowed only per North
Carolina wildlife regulations.
(Ord. eff. 12-12-2011; Ord. eff. 8-11-2014; Ord. 2015-09-0416, passed 9-14-
2015) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.23 THROWING ROCKS, BOTTLES, DIRT.
   It shall be unlawful to throw rocks, bottles, dirt, mud or any similar
materials within any town recreational facility or on any trail or greenway,
including the throwing of any of such materials into any water course, pond, or
reservoir.
(Ord. eff. 12-12-2011; Ord. eff. 8-11-2014; Ord. 2015-09-0416, passed 9-14-
2015) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.24 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES, CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess, consume or display any
alcoholic beverages or any substance included within the schedules of the North
Carolina Controlled Substances Act without a proper prescription in the name of
the possessor, within any town recreation facility, unless authorized by the
Town of Elkin Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. eff. 12-12-2011; Ord. eff. 8-11-2014; Ord. 2015-09-0416, passed 9-14-
2015) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 113-35(a)
§ 90.25 LITTERING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or cause to be placed any
trash, ashes, soil, paper or leaves and other plant debris in or upon any town
recreation facility except in containers provided for this purpose. Further, it
shall be unlawful for any individual to dispose of household or business
garbage in recreation facility garbage containers.
(Ord. eff. 12-12-2011; Ord. eff. 8-11-2014; Ord. 2015-09-0416, passed 9-14-
2015) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 113-35(a); G.S. § 14-399
§ 90.26 FIRES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make or kindle a fire in or upon any
town recreation facility except within a fireplace or grill provided for this
purpose or to leave an authorized fire unattended by a competent person without
having completely extinguished the same and the embers thereof.
(Ord. eff. 12-12-2011; Ord. eff. 8-11-2014; Ord. 2015-09-0416, passed 9-14-
2015) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.27 EXCAVATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make an excavation in any town
recreation facility for any purpose without written permission from the
Director.
(Ord. eff. 12-12-2011; Ord. eff. 8-11-2014; Ord. 2015-09-0416, passed 9-14-
2015) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.28 DIGGING UP, CUTTING, INJURING PLANTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to dig up, cut, bruise, debark, mutilate
or otherwise injure any plant of any type whatsoever within any town recreation
facility without written permission from the Director. This section shall not
apply to a person walking normally on grass or other similar plants or if an
injury to a plant was incidental to an authorized recreational activity.
(Ord. eff. 12-12-2011; Ord. eff. 8-11-2014; Ord. 2015-09-0416, passed 9-14-
2015) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.29 WATER USE OTHER THAN DRINKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in or on any town recreation facility to
use water belonging to the town for any purpose other than drinking unless such
person is authorized by the Director to use town water for an otherwise
impermissible purpose.
(Ord. eff. 12-12-2011; Ord. eff. 8-11-2014; Ord. 2015-09-0416, passed 9-14-
2015) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.30 CAMPING IN DESIGNATED AREAS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in or on any town recreation facility to
camp/lodge outside of a designated camping area. Camping is restricted to
primitive camping (tent camping only) and limited to a single consecutive 24-
hour period. Campers will be required to place any refuse in appropriate
containers and adhere to all other park rules and regulations. Campers will be
allowed to stay within a designated area between the times of 1:00 a.m. and 5:
00 a.m. Sunday through Saturday.
(Ord. eff. 12-12-2011; Ord. eff. 8-11-2014; Ord. 2015-09-0416, passed 9-14-
2015) Penalty, see §
90.99
Cross-reference:
   Similar provisions, see Recreation Facility Rules § 2-37
§ 90.31 PARK CLOSING TIMES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle within Elkin
Municipal Park during the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. Sunday through
Saturday. The town shall have the authority to initiate closing times at other
facilities, from time to time, upon notification to the public by posting
closing times one week prior to the effective date. All trails and greenways
shall operate sun-up to sun-down, unless lighting is provided (Elkin Municipal
Park Walking Track). The provisions of this section do not abridge, limit, or
affect the rights of members of the public entitled to use recreation
facilities of the town as participants, spectators, or otherwise, when they are
not violating this section or state laws.
(Ord. eff. 12-12-2011; Ord. eff. 8-11-2014; Ord. 2015-09-0416, passed 9-14-
2015) Penalty, see §
90.99
Cross-reference:
   Similar provisions, see Recreation Facility Rules Section 2-23(c)-(d)
§ 90.32 PROHIBITION OF CONVICTED SEX OFFENDERS IN PUBLIC PARKS.
   (A)   For purposes of this section the following definitions shall apply:
      PUBLIC PARK. Any publicly owned, leased, operated or maintained land or
buildings which are designated by the town as a recreational or park facility.
      REGISTERED SEX OFFENDER. An individual who is registered by any state or
Federal agency as a sex offender and whose name is published on any state or
Federal registered sex offender listing, including but not limited to the sex
offender registry established in G.S. Chapter 14, Article 27A.
   (B)   No registered sex offender shall enter into or upon any public park
operated by the town. Each entry into a public park, regardless of the time
period between such entries, shall constitute a separate offense under this
section.
(Ord. eff. 12-12-2011; Ord. eff. 8-11-2014; Ord. 2015-09-0416, passed 9-14-
2015) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.33 VOLUNTEERS AND VOLUNTEER COACHING.
   (A)   To be considered, all volunteers must complete a volunteer
application. Individuals who seek to volunteer as a youth coach or who
volunteer for any recreation program involving children under the age of 18
must provide the following information to the Recreation and Parks Director or
his/her designee:
      (1)   A valid North Carolina driver’s license number and his/her social
security number. He/she must submit to a nationwide background check by a third
party contractor and a fingerprint may be required.
      (2)   Fingerprints will be collected at the Elkin Police Department, and
will be processed by the State of North Carolina (State Bureau of
Investigation).
      (3)   Prior to denial or termination of volunteering/employment based on
CHRI received from the criminal justice agency, the non-criminal entity shall
verify the existence of a record by either obtaining a certified public record
or by submitting a fingerprint card of the individual to the SBI for
verification that the CHRI record belongs to the individual.
      (4)   The Town Recreation and Parks Department will be responsible for
determining volunteer eligibility based on the results of the nationwide
background check and/or fingerprinting results. Criteria for which a person
would be denied to volunteer are any convictions of any felonies, misdemeanors
involving drugs, fraud, violence or child abuse, etc.
   (B)   It is at the discretion of the Recreation and Parks Director or his/
her designee to utilize a volunteer depending on need, the applicant’s previous
experience and/or information revealed through personal interview or background
check information.
(Ord. eff. 8-11-2014; Ord. 2015-09-0416, passed 9-14-2015)
§ 90.34 SWIMMING, JUMPING, DIVING AND FISHING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to swim within 200 feet of any structure on any
water course running through or adjacent to any Town Recreation Facility unless
otherwise posted.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to jump, dive, or fish off any bridges or
structures into any water course running through or adjacent to any Town
Recreation Facility.
(Ord. eff. 8-11-2014; Ord. 2015-09-0416, passed 9-14-2015)
MUNICIPAL PARK
§ 90.45 PEDDLING, SELLING OR BEGGING WITHOUT WRITTEN AUTHORIZATION.
   (A)   The ELKIN MUNICIPAL PARK PROPERTY is defined as the recreation area
located south of Highway 268, north and east of Big Elkin Creek and west of
Standard Street and part of Duke Power Company property, identified as
recreational facilities such as trails, greenways and parks.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in soliciting, peddling,
begging or selling, or ply the vocation of a solicitor, agent, peddler, beggar
or salesperson of any description on or in any recreation area or facility
located on the property described in division (A) above, and it shall be
unlawful for any person to sell, hawk or vend any type of food or beverage or
any type of merchandise within any recreation areas or facilities located on
the property described in division (A) above unless written authority be given
by the Recreation and Parks Director.
(Ord. eff. 5-3-1982; Ord. 2015-09-0416, passed 9-14-2015) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.46 DOGS PROHIBITED WITHOUT LEASH.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any dog not controlled by leash to be on the
Municipal Park at any time.
   (B)   Any owner of a dog shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and punished as
hereinafter set out if the owner’s dog is on any part of the Municipal Park
when the dog is not controlled by a leash.
(Ord. eff. 3-15-1982; Ord. 2015-09-0416, passed 9-14-2015) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   Violations of the provisions of this chapter shall be a Class 3 misdemeanor
under the authority of the G.S. § 14-4, which provides for a fine of $50.
Unless otherwise stated by a specific General Statute. Each violation of this
section shall be treated as a separate offense.
(Ord. eff. 3-15-1982; Ord. eff. 5-3-1982; Ord. eff. 12-12-2011; Ord. eff. 8-11-
2014; Ord. 2015-09-0416, passed 9-14-2015)
CHAPTER 91: ABANDONED, JUNKED AND HAZARDOUS MOTOR VEHICLES
Section
   
91.01   Administration
   
91.02   Definitions
   
91.03   Abandoned vehicle unlawful; removal authorized
   
91.04   Hazardous vehicle unlawful; removal authorized
   
91.05   Junked motor vehicle unlawful; removal authorized
   
91.06   Permitted concealment or enclosure
   
91.07   Pre-towing notice required
   
91.08   Removal of vehicles; post-towing notice
   
91.09   Probable cause hearing prior to disposition
   
91.10   Conditions on removal of vehicles from private property
   
91.11   Immunity from criminal and civil action
   
91.12   Exceptions
   
91.13   Adoption date
§ 91.01 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The town police and Code Enforcement Division shall be responsible for
the administration and enforcement of this chapter. The Police Department shall
be responsible for administering the removal of vehicles determined to be
abandoned on public property, including streets and parking lots within the
town limits. The Code Enforcement Division shall be responsible for
administering the removal of abandoned, junked and hazardous vehicles located
on private property within the town.
   (B)   The town may contract with private towing operators to remove, store
and dispose of abandoned, junked and hazardous vehicles in compliance with all
state and local laws. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to limit the
legal authority and powers of the town police and Fire Department officer in
enforcing other laws or in otherwise carrying out their duties.
(Ord. eff. 6-13-2005)
§ 91.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE. As authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-303, one
that:
      (1)   Is left upon a street or highway in violation of a law or ordinance
prohibiting parking;
      (2)   Is left on property owned or operated by the town for longer than
24 hours;
      (3)   Is left on private property for longer than two hours without the
written consent of the owner, occupant or lessee of the property; or
      (4)   Is left for longer than seven days on a public street or highway.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The person or persons designated by the Manager to perform
the duties and responsibilities assigned by this chapter.
   HAZARDOUS MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle on public or private property that is
determined and declared to be a health or safety hazard, a public nuisance and
unlawful, including a vehicle found to be:
      (1)   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes, other insects, snakes,
rats or other pests;
      (2)   A point of heavy growth of weeds or other noxious vegetation over
18 inches in height;
      (3)   A point of collection of pools or ponds of water;
      (4)   A point of concentration of quantities of gasoline, oil or other
flammable or explosive materials;
      (5)   One which has areas of confinement which cannot be opened from the
inside, such as trunks, hoods and the like;
      (6)   So situated or located that there is a danger of it falling or
turning over;
      (7)   A point of collection of garbage, food waste, animal waste or any
other rotten or putrescible matter of any kind;
      (8)   One which has sharp parts which are jagged or contain sharp edges
of metal, glass or other rigid materials; or
      (9)   One which creates any circumstances which expose the general public
to a safety or health hazard.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE. As authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-303.2, one
that does not display a current license plate lawfully and that:
      (1)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked;
      (2)   Cannot be self-propelled or moved in the manner in which it
originally was intended to move; or
      (3)   Is more than five years old and appears to be worth less than $100.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any machine designed or intended to travel over land or water
by self-propulsion or while attached to a self-propelled vehicle.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. All of that property as described and set out in an
owner’s deed, including but not limited to yards, grounds, driveways, entrances
or passageways, parking areas, storage areas, vacant land, bodies of water and
including sidewalks, grass strips, curbs or rights-of-way up to the edge of the
pavement of any public street.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. All that property except private property as herein
defined, including but not limited to highways, streets, alleys, parks,
recreation areas, sidewalks, grass strips, medians, curbs or rights-of-way up
to the edge of the pavement of any public street or body of water.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.  Land that is dedicated or otherwise legally
established for public use.
(Ord. eff. 6-13-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Abatement of public health nuisances, see G.S. § 160A-193
§ 91.03 ABANDONED VEHICLE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a vehicle to cause or allow the vehicle to be abandoned as the
term is defined herein.
   (B)   Upon investigation, the Administrator may determine that a vehicle is
an abandoned vehicle and order the vehicle removed.
(Ord. eff. 6-13-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.04 HAZARDOUS VEHICLE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee or occupant of the real
property upon which the vehicle is located, to leave or allow the vehicle to
remain on the property after it has been declared a hazardous vehicle.
   (B)   Upon investigation, the Administrator may determine and declare that a
vehicle is a hazardous vehicle and order the vehicle removed.
(Ord. eff. 6-13-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.05 JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
the possession of a junked motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee or occupant
of the real property upon which a junked motor vehicle is located, to leave or
allow the vehicle to remain on the property after the vehicle has been ordered
removed.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, person entitled to the possession
of a junked motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee or occupant of the real
property upon which a junked motor vehicle is located, to fail to comply with
the locational requirements or the concealment requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Subject to the provisions of division (D) below, upon investigation,
the Administrator may order the removal of a junked motor vehicle as defined in
this chapter after finding in writing that the aesthetic benefits of removing
the vehicle outweigh the burdens imposed on the private property owner. The
finding shall be based on a balancing of the monetary loss of the apparent
owner against the corresponding gain to the public by promoting or enhancing
community, neighborhood or area appearance. The following among other relevant
factors may be considered:
      (1)   Protection of property values;
      (2)   Promotion of tourism and other economic development opportunities;
      (3)   Indirect protection of public health and safety;
      (4)   Preservation of the character and integrity of the community; and
      (5)   Promotion of the comfort, happiness and emotional stability of area
residents.
   (D)   In determining whether a vehicle constitutes a junked motor vehicle
the Administrator, in applying the specific criteria in the definition of a
junked motor vehicle, shall take into consideration but not be limited to
whether the vehicle has a valid inspection decal as evidence of the stationary
character of the vehicle; whether the vehicle displays a current state license
plate as evidence of being maintained; whether the tires, wheels and other
essential parts of the vehicle are present for the operation of the vehicle;
flat tires; removed parts, the condition of the exterior or any other specific
evidence that would support a finding that the vehicle violates this section.
If such a determination is made, the Administrator shall state that basis in
writing.
   (E)   The town may require any person requesting removal of a junked motor
vehicle from private property to indemnify and hold harmless the town against
any loss, expenses or liability incurred because of the removal, storage or
sale thereof.
(Ord. eff. 6-13-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.06 PERMITTED CONCEALMENT OR ENCLOSURE.
   (A)   One junked motor vehicle, in its entirety, can be located in the rear
yard (as defined by the town’s zoning ordinance) of any property being lawfully
used for one- or two-family residential purposes, if the vehicle is entirely
concealed from public view from a public street and from abutting premises by
an acceptable covering. The covering shall be kept in good repair and shall not
be allowed to deteriorate. The Administrator is authorized to determine whether
any junked motor vehicle is adequately concealed by an acceptable covering as
required by this provision.
   (B)   Any other junked motor vehicle(s) must be kept in a garage or building
structure that provides a complete enclosure so that the junked motor vehicles
(s) cannot be seen from a public street or abutting property. A GARAGE OR
BUILDING STRUCTURE means either a lawful, nonconforming use or garage or
building structure erected pursuant to the lawful issuance of a building permit
and which has been constructed in accordance with all zoning and building code
regulations.
(Ord. eff. 6-13-2005)
§ 91.07 PRE-TOWING NOTICE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Except as set forth in division (C) below, a junked, abandoned or
hazardous vehicle which is to be removed shall be towed only after notice has
been given to the registered owner or to the person entitled to possession of
the vehicle. In the case of a junked or hazardous vehicle, if the names and
mailing addresses of the registered owner or person entitled to possession of
the vehicle, or the owner, lessee or occupant of the real property upon which
the vehicle is located, can be ascertained in the exercise of reasonable
diligence, the notice shall be sent by first class mail. If the information
cannot be so ascertained, or if the vehicle to be removed is abandoned, notice
shall be affixed to the vehicle in a conspicuous place.
   (B)   The notice required by division (A) above shall state why the vehicle
is subject to removal and that the vehicle will be removed within seven days
after the postmarked date or date of affixation of the notice unless removed
prior to that time. Except in those instances where pre-towing notice is not
required to be given, if the owner or person entitled to possession does not
remove the vehicle but wished to appeal the Administrator’s determination that
the vehicle is abandoned, is a safety or health hazard or, in the case of a
junked vehicle, that the aesthetic benefits of removing the vehicle outweigh
the burdens, he or she may submit a written request to do so to the
Administrator before the seven-day period has expired. The appeal shall be
heard by the Town Manager within 30 days of the appeal and further proceedings
to remove the vehicle shall be stayed until the appeal is heard and decided.
   (C)   The requirement that notice be given prior to the removal of an
abandoned, junked or hazardous vehicle may, as determined by the Administrator,
be omitted in those circumstances where there is a special need for a prompt
action to eliminate traffic obstruction or to otherwise maintain and protect
the public safety and welfare. By way of illustration and not of limitation,
these circumstances include vehicles blocking or obstructing ingress or egress
to business and residences, vehicles parked in a location or manner as to pose
a traffic hazard, and vehicles causing damage to public or private property.
The findings shall, in all cases, be entered by the Administrator in the
appropriate daily records.
(Ord. eff. 6-13-2005)
§ 91.08 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES; POST-TOWING NOTICE.
   (A)   The town may have vehicles removed under this chapter by private
towing operators. Any abandoned, junked or hazardous vehicle which has been
ordered removed may be removed to a storage area by the tow truck operator or
towing business contracting to perform those services for the town.
   (B)   Whenever a vehicle with a valid registration plate or registration is
removed, the Administrator shall immediately notify the last known registered
owner of the vehicle, and the notice shall include the following:
      (1)   The description of the removed vehicle;
      (2)   The location where the vehicle is stored;
      (3)   The violation with which the owner is charged, if any;
      (4)   The procedure which the owner must follow to redeem the vehicle;
and
      (5)   The procedure to be followed to request a probable cause hearing.
   (C)   If the vehicle is registered in this state, notice shall be given
within 24 hours from removal of the vehicle. Otherwise, notice shall be given
to the registered owner within 72 hours from removal of the vehicle. This
notice shall, if feasible, be given by telephone. Regardless of whether the
owner is reached by phone, notice shall be sent to the owner at his or her last
known address unless he or she, or his or her agent, waives this notice in
writing.
   (D)   Whenever an abandoned, junked or hazardous vehicle is removed and the
vehicle has no valid registration or registration plate, the Administrator
shall make reasonable efforts, including checking the vehicle identification
number, to determine the last known registered owner and to notify the owner of
the information listed in division (B) above.
(Ord. eff. 6-13-2005)
§ 91.09 PROBABLE CAUSE HEARING PRIOR TO DISPOSITION.
   Any abandoned, junked or hazardous motor vehicle which is not claimed by the
owner or other party entitled to possession may be disposed of by the tow truck
operator or towing business having custody of the vehicle. Disposition of the
vehicle shall be earned out in accordance with G.S. Chapter 44A.
(Ord. eff. 6-13-2005)
§ 91.10 CONDITIONS ON REMOVAL OF VEHICLES FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   The town will not remove a vehicle from private property if the owner,
occupant or lessee could have the vehicle removed under applicable state law
procedures.
   (B)   Unless determined to be hazardous or junked motor vehicle by the
Administrator, no vehicle shall be ordered removed by the town without prior
written request from the owner, occupant or lessee.
   (C)   The town may require any person requesting the removal of a junked,
abandoned or hazardous vehicle from private property to indemnify the town
against any loss, expense or liability incurred because of the removal, storage
or sale of the vehicle.
(Ord. eff. 6-13-2005)
§ 91.11 IMMUNITY FROM CRIMINAL AND CIVIL ACTION.
   No person shall be held to answer in any criminal or civil action to any
owner or other person legally entitled to possession of any junked, abandoned
or hazardous motor vehicle for disposing of the vehicle as provided in this
chapter.
(Ord. eff. 6-13-2005)
§ 91.12 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter shall apply to any vehicle:
      (1)   Which is located in a bona fide “automobile graveyard” or
“junkyard” as defined in G.S. § 136-143, in accordance with the Junkyard
Control Act, G.S. § 136-141;
      (2)   Which is in an enclosed building;
      (3)   Which is on the premises of a business enterprise being operated in
a lawful place and manner if the vehicle is necessary to the operation of the
enterprise;
      (4)   Which is used regularly for personal use; or
      (5)   Which is in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained
in a lawful place and manner by the town or private towing operator contracting
with the town for removal of vehicles.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      A VEHICLE IS NECESSARY TO THE OPERATION OF THE ENTERPRISE. Shall mean,
but not be limited to the clear, active use or involvement of the vehicle in
the operation of the business enterprise. Mere storage or idle standing of a
vehicle does not constitute A VEHICLE NECESSARY TO THE OPERATION OF THE
BUSINESS.
      LAWFUL PLACE AND MANNER. Includes but is not limited to strict compliance
with the town’s zoning ordinance.
(Ord. eff. 6-13-2005)
§ 91.13 ADOPTION DATE.
   This chapter was adopted June 13, 2005.
(Ord. eff. 6-13-2005)
CHAPTER 92: AIRPORT OPERATIONS; STANDARDS
Section
Rules and Regulations
   
92.01   Rules adopted; date
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   Enforcement by Airport Manager
   
92.04   Authority to regulate
   
92.05   Motor vehicle regulations
   
92.06   Aircraft operation regulations
   
92.07   Rules for aircraft fueling operations
   
92.08   Fire regulations
   
92.09   Special airport uses
Minimum Standards for Commercial Operations, Fixed Base Operators or Limited
Fixed Base Operators
   
92.20   Definitions
   
92.21   Minimum standards, generally
   
92.22   Fuel and oil
   
92.23   Aircraft maintenance and repair
   
92.24   Flight training
   
92.25   Charter service
   
92.26   Aircraft rental and sales
   
92.27   Miscellaneous operations
   
92.28   Hangar space
   
92.29   Minimum standards for hangars and buildings
   
92.30   Equality of services
   
92.31   Civil rights requirements
   
92.32   Adoption date
Limitations on Height of Objects Around Airport
   
92.45   Short title
   
92.46   Definitions
   
92.47   Airport zones
   
92.48   Airport zone height limitations
   
92.49   Use restriction
   
92.50   Nonconforming uses
   
92.51   Permits
   
92.52   Enforcement
   
92.53   Board of Adjustment
   
92.54   Appeals
   
92.55   Judicial review
   
92.56   Conflicting regulations
 
   
92.99   Penalty
RULES AND REGULATIONS
§ 92.01 RULES ADOPTED; DATE.
   The town hereby adopts the following rules and regulations for the operation
and use of the Municipal Airport located at 1598 C.C. Camp Road, Elkin, N.C.
This subchapter was adopted on June 9, 2003.
(Ord. eff. 6-9-2003)
§ 92.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIRPORT. The Municipal Airport.
   AIRPORT MANAGER. The officer or representative of the town having immediate
charge of the airport.
   FAA. The Federal Aviation Administration.
   NTSB. The National Transportation Safety Board.
   OWNER. The Town of Elkin.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, firm, association or corporation.
(Ord. eff. 6-9-2003)
§ 92.03 ENFORCEMENT BY AIRPORT MANAGER.
   The Airport Manager shall, at all times, have authority to take any
reasonable action as may be necessary to enforce these regulations and to
efficiently manage the airport and its operations. In any contingencies not
specifically covered by these rules and regulations, the Airport Manager shall
be authorized to make any reasonable rules and decisions as may be necessary
and proper to ensure continued normal operation of the airport.
(Ord. eff. 6-9-2003)
§ 92.04 AUTHORITY TO REGULATE.
   (A)   The owner has the right to and does hereby regulate all commercial
enterprises using the airport as a base of operation, whether the operation is
aeronautical or otherwise. No commercial operation of any kind shall be
conducted on the airport unless specifically authorized by the owner.
   (B)   A flying club is recognized as a plan for the joint ownership of
aircraft and the fair distribution of the cost of maintaining and operating the
aircraft. This operation is not considered to be commercial in nature so long
as there is no profit or for-hire motive involved in the operation. In all
cases, the owner will determine if the operation of a flying club is
commercial. If determined to be commercial, the club shall conform to the
commercial operation standards enforced by the town.
   (C)   The use of the airport or any of its facilities shall create an
obligation on the part of the user thereof to obey all of the regulations
herein provided and adopted by the owner.
      (1)   The privilege of using the airport and its facilities shall be
conditioned on the assumption of full responsibility and risk by the user
thereof, and the user shall release and hold harmless the owner, its officers
and employees from any liability or loss resulting from use of the airport or
facilities by the user.
      (2)   The privilege of using the airport or facilities thereof shall be
upon the further condition that any person, corporation or any others desiring
to use the airport or facilities shall furnish, upon request, a policy of
indemnity against personal injury and/or property damage incurred by the user.
   (D)   Any person violating any of the airport rules and regulations may be
punished as provided by law or ordinance or, at the discretion of the owner,
may be deprived of the use of the airport facilities for a period of time as
deemed necessary to be effective.
   (E)   No person shall solicit funds for any purpose, and no signs or
advertisements shall be posted on airport property without the written
permission of the owner.
   (F)   Garbage, refuse and other waste material shall be placed in
receptacles provided for that purpose, and no person shall destroy, remove or
disturb in any way buildings, signs, equipment, markers or any other property
on the airport.
   (G)   No person shall store, keep, use dispense or transport at, in or upon
the airport any Class A or Class B explosives (as defined in the Interstate
Commerce Regulations for transportation of explosives and other dangerous
articles), dynamite, nitroglycerine, black powder, fireworks, firearms and
ammunition, blasting caps or other explosives, gasoline, alcohol, ether, liquid
shellac, kerosene, turpentine, formaldehyde or other flammable or combustible
liquids, ammonium nitrate, sodium chlorate, wet hemp, powdered metallic
magnesium, nitrocellulose film, peroxides or other easily inflammable solids or
other corrosive liquids, prussic acid, phosgene, arsenic, carbonic acid,
potassium cyanide, tear gas, lewisite, anthrax, ricin, botulins or any Class A
poison (as defined in the Interstate Commerce Regulations for transportation of
explosives and other dangerous articles), or any other poisonous substances,
liquids or gases, or any compressed gas, or any radioactive article, substance
or material, at a time or place or in a manner or condition as to endanger
unreasonably persons or property, and which has not been approved by the town
or its designated representative.
   (H)   These regulations are not intended to amend, modify or supersede any
provision of federal, state or local law, or any specific contractual agreement
of the town with which they may conflict; provided, however, that these
regulations shall, insofar as possible, be interpreted so that no such conflict
shall exist.
   (I)   If any portion of these regulations shall be invalid or unenforceable,
all other portions shall remain in effect and be construed to achieve the
purposes hereof.
(Ord. eff. 6-9-2003)
§ 92.05 MOTOR VEHICLE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Unless authorized by the Airport Manager, no highway or automotive
vehicles shall be operated on the airport except on roadways, parking areas and
the like, that are specifically designed for those vehicles. The vehicles shall
not be parked on ramp or apron areas or in any area where it would be possible
to interfere with the ground movements of aircraft except for the very
temporary parking to facilitate loading or unloading of aircraft baggage. No
other parking of vehicles on apron or ramp areas will be permitted except by
express permission of the Airport Manager to accomplish a necessary airport
purpose, service or inspection.
   (B)   No person shall operate any vehicle in a careless or negligent manner
or in disregard for the safety of others, or in excess of posted speed limits.
Aircraft shall have the right-of-way over ground vehicles at all times.
   (C)   Any accident or incident involving injury or property damage shall be
reported to the Airport Manager.
   (D)   No person shall clean or make any repairs to motor vehicles anywhere
on the airport other than in designated shop areas, or as approved by the town,
except those minor repairs necessary to remove the motor vehicles from the
airport; nor shall any person move, interfere or tamper with any motor vehicle
or put into motion the engine, or take or use any motor vehicle part,
instrument or tool thereof, without the written permission of the town, or
satisfactory evidence of right to do so duly presented to the town or its
designated representative.
   (E)   The town or its designated representative shall have the authority to
tow or otherwise move motor vehicles which are parked by their owners or
operators on the airport in violation of these regulations, at the owner’s
expense and without liability for damage which may result in the course of
towing or moving.
   (F)   Lessees and passengers may park their vehicles in their respective
hangars while the aircraft is in use. No vehicle may be left in hangars for a
period in excess of 24 hours unless the aircraft is in use.
(Ord. eff. 6-9-2003)
§ 92.06 AIRCRAFT OPERATION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   FAA air traffic rules and regulations governing the operation of
aircraft in effect as of this date, including additions, are made a part of
these airport rules and regulations as fully as if set forth herein.
   (B)   Aircraft engines shall be started and run up only in places designated
for that purpose. At no time shall engines be run up in such a manner as to
allow the prop or jet blast to significantly impact persons, other aircraft,
vehicles or any building or attachments thereof. At no time shall aircraft
engines be run up inside hangars or any other building on airport property and
at no time shall prop or jet blast be directed toward a building or any
occupied open area.
   (C)   No aircraft shall be parked or stored at the airport except in the
areas designated for that use.
   (D)   At the direction of the Airport Manager, the owner, pilot or operator
of any illegally parked aircraft on the airport shall move the aircraft to a
legally designated parking area on the airport. If the operator refuses to
comply with the directions, the Airport Manager or other airport personnel may
tow the aircraft to that place, at the aircraft owner or operator’s expense and
without liability for damage which may result from the moving.
   (E)   In the event of an accident involving an aircraft, the airport owner
may, in compliance with FAA and/or other governmental regulations, move damaged
aircraft from the landing areas, ramps, aprons or other areas at the expense of
the aircraft owner and without liability to the airport for any damage
resulting from moving the aircraft.
   (F)   The pilot of an aircraft which is involved in an accident or incident
on airport property which causes personal injury or damage to property, shall
report the accident or incident to the Airport Manager or airport personnel. In
the event that the pilot is unable to make the report, the owner or his or her
designated agent shall make the report. This report in no way relieves the
pilot from making a full report to the FAA and/or NTSB.
   (G)   Any airport property damaged or destroyed by an accident or otherwise
shall be replaced or repaired by parties responsible at the discretion of the
town. In any case, the town shall be compensated in full for the damaged
airport property by the party or parties responsible for the damage or
destruction.
   (H)   The airport owner shall have the authority to detain any aircraft for
nonpayment of any charges due.
   (I)   All takeoffs and landings shall be confined to the runways, and all
movements of aircraft shall be confined to the hard surfaced areas.
   (J)   No person or persons, except airmen, duly authorized personnel,
passengers going to or from aircraft or persons being personally escorted by
airport attendants shall be permitted to enter the landing area proper,
taxiways or apron areas. However, this does not give any person or persons so
excepted the privilege of unrestricted use of the airport. These privileges are
confined to the necessary use of these spaces in connection with flights,
inspections and routine duties.
   (K)   The following shall apply to landing or taxiing aircraft carrying or
suspected of carrying explosives:
      (1)   Persons having knowledge of an aircraft carrying or suspected of
carrying explosive materials will so advise the town or its designated
representative; and
      (2)   Aircraft having passengers aboard will unload passengers on the
outer extremities of the airport terminal ramp and then immediately be moved to
the taxiway hold line adjacent to the runway. (Only engines affecting unloading
of passengers should be shut off to enable subsequent moving of aircraft with a
minimum of delay.)
   (L)   Any aircraft carrying or suspected of carrying explosives shall be
inspected and shall have a subsequent declaration of safety or contamination
conducted by the owner of the aircraft or his or her authorized agent, and
shall be accomplished immediately after parking and evacuation.
   (M)   No person shall enter the terminal building of the airport with a dog
or animal (without the express permission of the town or its designated
representative) except seeing-eye dogs, or dogs or other animals which are to
be transported by air and are properly restrained by leash or properly
confined.
(Ord. eff. 6-9-2003)
§ 92.07 RULES FOR AIRCRAFT FUELING OPERATIONS.
   (A)   No aircraft shall be fueled or drained while the aircraft engine is
running or while the aircraft is in a hangar or enclosed area.
   (B)   During all fueling operations, the aircraft shall be grounded by an
approved method.
   (C)   Smoking or lighting an open flame within 50 feet of any fueling
operation is prohibited.
   (D)   Fuel trucks shall be parked at least 50 feet from buildings.
   (E)   No fuel storage and/or dispensing equipment shall be installed or used
at the airport without prior written approval of the town.
(Ord. eff. 6-9-2003) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.08 FIRE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall start an open fire on airport property without written
permission of the Airport Manager.
   (B)   No person shall store flammable material or equipment, use flammable
liquids or gases or allow his or her premises to become in such a condition as
to violate in any manner the Fire Code in force at the Municipal Airport.
   (C)   Tenants of hangars and rented or leased buildings shall provide
suitable fire extinguishers and equipment, and the extinguishers or fire
equipment shall be kept in good working condition as recommended by the Fire
Marshal and have a current required inspection date.
   (D)   Tenants and persons renting or leasing buildings or other airport
property are required to keep the premises clean and clear of all rubbish,
junk, debris, old aircraft and vehicles or any other unsightly objects. If,
after warning by the Airport Manager, the area is not cleaned, cleaning will be
done by airport personnel, and the cost of the cleaning will be billed to the
tenant or person.
(Ord. eff. 6-9-2003) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.09 SPECIAL AIRPORT USES.
   (A)   The Airport Manager reserves the right to prohibit or limit any given
type, kind or class of aeronautical use of the airport if the action is
necessary for the safe operation of the airport or necessary to serve the civil
needs of the public. Operations involving unusual powered and non-powered
aircraft, including gliders, balloons, parachuting and other unusual or special
classes of aeronautical vehicles are specifically prohibited without prior
written approval of the Airport Manager. An UNUSUAL OPERATION is defined as an
operation which interferes with normal takeoff, landing, approach and
maneuvering of other aircraft or any operation which creates a safety hazard to
the normal operations of aircraft arriving or departing from the airport.
   (B)   Operations on the airport’s paved surfaces are limited to powered
aircraft whose weights are not in excess of the published strengths of the
paved surfaces concerned. Any operations by aircraft which exceed the published
weight limits must first obtain the written permission of the airport owner
before conducting operations on any of the airport’s paved surfaces.
   (C)   Considering the owner’s obligation to keep the airport open to the
public for aeronautical purposes, the airport facilities will not be used for
non-aviation events which would conflict with the airport’s aeronautical use.
Other uses of airport property or facilities will be considered on a per-case
basis. Use of airport property for meetings, seminars, parties, public
gatherings, product demonstrations or any other unusual or non-aeronautical use
must be approved in writing by the airport owner or the Airport Manager.
(Ord. eff. 6-9-2003)
MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR COMMERCIAL OPERATIONS, FIXED BASE OPERATORS OR LIMITED
FIXED BASE OPERATORS
§ 92.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. These
definitions shall not supersede any definitions contained in contractual
agreements with the town.
   AERONAUTICAL ACTIVITY.  Any activity that involves, makes possible or is
required for the operation of aircraft or that contributes to or is required
for the safety of those operations.
   AIR OPERATIONS AREA (AOA). An area used or intended to be used for landing,
takeoff or surface maneuvering of aircraft.
   AIR TAXI (COMMUTER). Aircraft operated by the holder of an air taxi (or
commuter) operating certificate which authorizes the carriage of passengers,
mail or cargo for revenue in accordance with FAR Parts 135 and/or 121, on
either a scheduled or unscheduled basis.
   AIRCRAFT.  Any contrivance now known or hereafter invented, used or designed
for navigation of or flight in air.
   AIRPORT.  The Municipal AIRPORT and includes all property and improvements
within the boundary lines of any AIRPORT operated or controlled by the town,
except when otherwise specifically noted.
   AIRPORT DISTRICT OFFICE (ADO). The AIRPORT DISTRICT OFFICE of the Federal
Aviation Administration located in Atlanta, Georgia, telephone 404-305-7150.
   AIRPORT EMPLOYEES. Bona fide employees of the town and their officers,
members and employees and any fixed base operator and their employees.
   AIRPORT MANAGER.  The officer or representative designated by the town to
have immediate charge of the airport and that representative’s assistant
managers.
   APRON. A defined area, on a land airport, intended to accommodate aircraft
for purposes of loading or unloading passengers or cargo, refueling, parking or
maintenance.
   CARGO (AIR). Any property carried on an aircraft other than mail, stores and
baggage.
   COMMERCIAL OPERATOR. An individual or firm operating at the airport and
providing aviation services such as maintenance, storage, ground and flight
instruction, rentals or sales, or a person who, for compensation or hire,
engages in the carriage by aircraft in air commerce of persons or property.
Where it is doubtful that an operation is for compensation or hire, the test
applied is whether the carriage by air is merely incidental to the person’s
other business or is, in itself, an enterprise for profit.
   FAA. The Federal Aviation Administration.
   FIXED BASE OPERATOR. Any person who shall have entered into a written lease
or agreement with the town for the use of any building, shop or hangar, or for
the site upon which such a building might be erected and who, by further
agreement, guarantees to provide on the airport and serve the public with all
of the following minimum facilities:
      (1)   Aircraft storage;
      (2)   FAA approved domestic repair station;
      (3)   Student training;
      (4)   Demonstration and sale of aircraft;
      (5)   Aircraft rental; and
      (6)   Charter-air taxi.
   INSTRUCTOR. Any individual giving for compensation, or offering to give for
compensation, instruction in the operation, construction, repair or maintenance
of aircraft, aircraft power plants and accessories, including the repair,
packaging and maintenance of parachutes.
   LEASES.  Fixed base operator (FBO), limited fixed base operator (LFBO) or
commercial operator as defined hereinabove.
   LIMITED FIXED BASE OPERATOR.  Any person who shall have entered into a
written lease or agreement with the town to provide any one or more but not all
services of an aviation nature defined for fixed base operator. All activities
provided by a LIMITED FIXED BASE OPERATOR shall meet all established standards
for that activity or combination of activities.
   PATTERN. The configuration or form of a flight path flown by an aircraft, or
prescribed to be flown, as in making an approach to a landing. At the Municipal
Airport the current published patterns are:
 
Arrivals:   Runway - 7 Left Hand
            Runway - 25 Left Hand
Departures: Runway - 7 Left Hand
            Runway - 25 Left Hand
 
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, group, corporation or other entity
created or authorized by statutory authority or duly authorized representative
thereof.
   PUBLIC AIRPORT FACILITIES. The following facilities as they are from time to
time provided and made available by the town for public use by aircraft
operators:
      (1)   Public runways for the purpose of the landing and the taking-off of
aircraft;
      (2)   Public taxiways for the purpose of the ground movement of aircraft;
      (3)   Public aircraft parking space for the purpose of parking and
storing aircraft; for the purpose of loading and unloading passengers, baggage,
freight, mail and other cargo upon and from aircraft; for the purpose of
performing operations incidental to the immediate preparation of aircraft for
departure such as inspection, cleaning and fueling; for the purpose of making
minor and emergency repairs to aircraft; and for the purpose of parking mobile
equipment actively used in connection with the foregoing;
      (4)   Any other space, facilities or services provided by the town for
public use by aircraft operations at the airport; and
      (5)   Public access to the ramp for the primary purpose of loading and
unloading passengers and their baggage, and the loading and unloading of mail
and freight.
   RAMP. A defined area, on a land airport, intended to accommodate aircraft
for purposes of loading or unloading passengers or cargo, refueling, parking or
maintenance.
   REFUELING TRUCKS.  Any motor vehicle used for the transporting, handling or
dispensing of aviation fuel, oils and lubricants.
   SPECIALIZED AVIATION SERVICE OPERATION (SASO). An aeronautical business that
offers a single or limited service, including but not limited to aircraft
flying clubs, flight training, repair and maintenance of aircraft/airframe/
powerplant, aircraft charter, air taxi or air ambulance, aircraft sales,
aircraft rental, avionics, instrument or propeller services, or other
specialized commercial flight support business.
   TERMINAL AREA. The area used or intended to be used for such facilities as
terminal and cargo buildings, gates, hangars, shops, other service buildings,
automobile parking, airport motels, restaurants, garages and automobile
service; and an area provided for parking and positioning of aircraft in the
vicinity of the terminal building for loading and unloading.
   VEHICLE. Every device by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a roadway, including bicycles.
(Ord. eff. 6-9-2003)
§ 92.21 MINIMUM STANDARDS, GENERALLY.
   The following minimum standards shall apply to all operations. However, all
the activities listed may not be provided depending on the lease agreement
executed between the town and the operator, and those excluded activities
therefore will not apply.
   (A)   All operations at the airport shall be full-time, progressive business
enterprises, with a manned office facility at the airport during reasonable
business hours. No commercial operator shall be allowed to operate on the
airport without a fully executed lease agreement with the town. Any operation
defined under “commercial operator” in §
92.20, or any operator whose principal place of business is located other than
the Municipal Airport and who further has a valid contract with another airport
sponsor may not be required to maintain office facilities at the airport as
determined on a case-by-case basis by the town. For all operations deemed by
the town to be a “specialized aviation service operation,” the town reserves
the right to require adherence with any applicable portions of these minimum
standards, or other standards of business determined by the town to be
reasonable, that are commensurate with the type of operation proposed to be
undertaken. In any event, a specialized aviation service operation shall only
be allowed upon application to and approval of the town. Reasonable terms and
conditions for the privilege of engaging in these various services will be
established by the town commensurate with the nature and scope of the
activities involved.
   (B)   Operators extended the privilege of providing self-fueling services
shall also be required to meet the minimum standards listed in §
92.22 and all applicable requirements of other governmental agencies.
   (C)   No persons or fixed base operators other than the operators qualifying
under division (B) above will be permitted to dispense aviation petroleum
products. All other operators may engage in any other aeronautical services as
they may qualify themselves for in accordance with these regulations and their
respective lease agreements.
   (D)   The town shall determine substantial conformance to the standards for
all operators.
   (E)   All operators must show financial solvency and business ability to the
satisfaction of the town.
   (F)   The minimum liability insurance which a fixed base operator shall
carry including general liability, product liability and premises liability, as
appropriate, is $1,000,000. Hangar keeper’s insurance carried by the operator
will be decided on between the town and the operator, but in no case will be
less than $500,000. All policies required by virtue of this section will name
as co-insured the town, its officers, members, employees and contractors, and
will contain a provision which will require the insurance carrier to notify the
town in writing at least 30 days prior to any cancellation or major change in
coverage.
   (G)   All operators will be required to furnish the town a performance bond
commensurate with any construction required or proposed by the lessee under the
minimum standards of service to be performed.
   (H)   All construction required or authorized herein shall be in accordance
with design and construction standards and building codes and/or ordinances
established by this state, the State Division of Aviation, the Federal Aviation
Administration, the County of Surry and approved by the town.
   (I)   Land available for commercial type operations is a valuable and
limited commodity. It is the policy of the town that no land areas or building
space in excess of present and foreseeable requirements will be leased to any
operator. Additional areas will be made available to operators on the basis of
need and availability.
(Ord. eff. 6-9-2003)
§ 92.22 FUEL AND OIL.
   (A)   All aeronautical operators engaged in self-fueling of aircraft at the
airport shall be subject to a fuel flowage fee, which shall be established by
the town.
   (B)   Operators conducting those activities on the airport shall be required
to:
      (1)   Provide hard surface ramp space accessible by taxiway with electric
pumps and appropriate tank storage, or approved mobile fueler;
      (2)   For refueling operations, every operator shall install and use
adequate grounding/bonding facilities at all fueling locations to eliminate the
hazards of static electricity and shall provide approved types of fire
extinguishers or other equipment commensurate with the hazard involved in
refueling and servicing aircraft; and
      (3)   Meet all other requirements as set forth in the Municipal Airport
Rules and Regulations and applicable federal, state and local law or
regulation.
(Ord. eff. 6-9-2003)
§ 92.23 AIRCRAFT MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR.
   All operators conducting aircraft, engine and accessory maintenance
facilities shall provide:
   (A)   Sufficient hangar space to house any aircraft upon which the service
is being performed:
   (B)   Suitable storage space for aircraft awaiting maintenance or delivery
after repair and maintenance have been completed;
   (C)   Adequate shop space to house the equipment and adequate equipment and
machine tools, jacks, lifts and testing equipment to perform maintenance as
required for FAA certification and repair of parts not needing replacement on
single engine land and light multi-engine land general aviation aircraft;
   (D)   At least one FAA-certified air frame and powerplant mechanic available
during reasonable business hours;
   (E)   Facilities which are approved by DNR and EPA for washing and cleaning
aircraft, aircraft engines and parts without allowing discharge of harmful
chemicals into the environment;
   (F)   Screening from public view for all non-airworthy aircraft;
   (G)   Separately partitionable space with adequate exhaust fans and fire
protection for touch-up spray painting, meeting all local, state and federal
regulations, if this type work is performed. Repainting of entire aircraft
shall require compliance with standards in Section XX entitled AIRCRAFT
PAINTING;
   (H)   Appropriate plans, permits, insurance (as may be required by federal,
state and local laws) regarding the handling and removal of hazardous
materials;
   (I)   Appropriate insurance as outlined in §
92.21(F);
   (J)   Equipment to remove disabled aircraft from the runway; and
   (K)   Proper licensing and certification to complete annual inspections and
other required inspections of single and light twin-engine land aircraft.
(Ord. eff. 6-9-2003)
§ 92.24 FLIGHT TRAINING.
   All operators conducting flight training activities for compensation shall
provide:
   (A)   At least one readily available and properly certificated flight
instructor for single-engine land airplanes;
   (B)   At least one dual-equipped single-engine land aircraft properly
equipped and maintained for flight instruction and any additional types of
aircraft as may be required to give flight instruction of the kind advertised;
   (C)   Adequate classroom space with proper restroom and seating facilities.
A part of the required facilities, with the consent of the town, may be located
off airport property;
   (D)   Adequate training aids to provide proper ground school instruction
sufficient to enable students to pass FAA written examinations;
   (E)   Properly certificated instructor providing regularly scheduled ground
school instructions sufficient to enable students to pass the FAA written
examinations;
   (F)   Continuing ability to meet certification requirements of the FAA for
the flight training proposed;
   (G)   Permanently assigned tiedown or inside storage area for a minimum of
two aircraft;
   (H)   Suitable office space, personnel, telephone and other items necessary
for the scheduling of students and aircraft and the keeping of the proper
records in connection thereof; and
   (I)   Appropriate insurance as outlined in §
92.21(F).
(Ord. eff. 6-9-2003)
§ 92.25 CHARTER SERVICE.
   Persons operating charter service shall provide:
   (A)   Passenger lounge, restroom and telephone facilities as appropriate;
   (B)   Adequate table, desk or counter for checking in passengers, handling
ticketing or fare collection, performing necessary security checks of
passengers and passenger luggage, and handling of luggage;
   (C)   Properly certificated suitable aircraft with properly certificated and
qualified operating crew available for service when not otherwise engaged in
that service. The crew and aircraft shall be available upon call within
reasonable notice; and
   (D)   Appropriate insurance as outlined in §
92.21(F).
(Ord. eff. 6-9-2003)
§ 92.26 AIRCRAFT RENTAL AND SALES.
   Operators conducting full-time aircraft rental and/or sales activity at the
Municipal Airport shall provide:
   (A)   Suitable office space for consummating sales and/or rentals of
aircraft and the keeping of the proper records in connection therewith;
   (B)   Hangar or other storage space for at least one aircraft to be used for
sales or rental;
   (C)   For rental, at least one airworthy aircraft suitably maintained and
certificated;
   (D)   Adequate facilities for servicing and repairing the aircraft or
satisfactory arrangements with other operators for the service and repair;
   (E)   During reasonable business hours, a properly certificated pilot
capable of demonstrating aircraft for sale or for checking out rental aircraft;
   (F)   If new aircraft are sold, the minimum stock of readily expendable
spare parts, or adequate arrangements for securing spare parts required for the
type of aircraft and models sold;
   (G)   Current up-to-date specifications and price lists for types and models
of new aircraft sold;
   (H)   Proper checklists and operating manuals on all aircraft rented and
adequate parts catalogues and service manuals on new aircraft sold; and
   (I)   Appropriate insurance as outlined in §
92.21(F).
(Ord. eff. 6-9-2003)
§ 92.27 MISCELLANEOUS OPERATIONS.
   Miscellaneous operations, including non-aviation related activities not
hereinbefore provided for, may be conducted by any person, firm or corporation
that is duly licensed, equipped and certified by the appropriate agency, but
only upon application to and approval of the town. Reasonable terms and
conditions for the privilege of engaging in these various services will be
established by the Airport Authority commensurate with the nature and scope of
the activities involved.
(Ord. eff. 6-9-2003)
§ 92.28 HANGAR SPACE.
   Hangar space, office and lounge space, aircraft parking area and other
required facilities will be considered with the more restrictive requirements
where an operator offers multiple services, so that facility requirements will
be reasonable.
(Ord. eff. 6-9-2003)
§ 92.29 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR HANGARS AND BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Hangars.
      (1)   Storage hangars (“T” Type) – 4 units, a minimum of 1,100 square
feet each;
      (2)   Storage hangars (conventional) – minimum 2,400 square feet; and
      (3)   Maintenance hangars – minimum 2,400 square feet.
   (B)   Office space. Sufficient to meet all national, state and local
building codes for the numbers of persons using and occupying the structure.
   (C)   Floors. Concrete capable of supporting design load for largest
aircraft expected to use facility.
   (D)   Doors. Self-contained and in accordance with national, state and local
building codes.
   (E)   Plans. All construction plans must be approved by the town, Surry
County and the State Division of Aviation prior to construction.
   (F)   Buildings. All buildings will be of metal, brick or masonry
construction and fire-proofed in accordance with national, state and local
codes, and generally match the architectural specifications of the town, if
any. See the Elkin Municipal Airport Hangar Construction Standards, current
edition, for specific building and site requirements related to hangar
(conventional and T-hangar) construction.
(Ord. eff. 6-9-2003)
§ 92.30 EQUALITY OF SERVICES.
   All services shall be provided on a fair, equal and not unjustly
discriminatory basis to all users of the airport. The prices charged for each
unit of service shall be fair, reasonable and not unjustly discriminatory;
provided that the operator may be allowed to make reasonable and
nondiscriminatory discounts, rebates or other similar price reductions to
volume purchasers.
(Ord. eff. 6-9-2003)
§ 92.31 CIVIL RIGHTS REQUIREMENTS.
   All operators shall provide services and manage their operations in
accordance with the provisions of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964
(Pub. L. No. 88-352), as amended, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 2000d - 2000d-7.
Accordingly, no person shall be denied equal services on the grounds of race,
age, sex, color, national origin or ability.
(Ord. eff. 6-9-2003)
§ 92.32 ADOPTION DATE.
   This subchapter was adopted on June 9, 2003.
(Ord. eff. 6-9-2003)
LIMITATIONS ON HEIGHT OF OBJECTS AROUND AIRPORT
§ 92.45 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Municipal Airport
Zoning Ordinance.”
(Ord. eff. 6-9-2003)
§ 92.46 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIRPORT. The Municipal Airport.
   AIRPORT ELEVATION. The highest point of an airport’s usable landing area
measured in feet from sea level. The Municipal Airport is 1,068 feet above sea
level.
   APPROACH SURFACE.  A surface longitudinally centered on the extended runway
centerline, extending outward and upward from the end of the primary surface
and at the same slope as the approach zone height limitation slope set forth in
§
92.48. In plan the perimeter of the approach surface coincides with the
perimeter of the approach zone.
   APPROACH, TRANSITIONAL, HORIZONTAL AND CONICAL ZONES. These zones are set
forth in §
92.47.
   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT. A Board consisting of five members appointed by the
Surry County Board of Commissioners as provided in G.S. Chapter 63, Article 4.
   CONICAL SURFACE. A surface extending outward and upward from the periphery
of the horizontal surface at a slope of 20:1 for a horizontal distance of 4,000
feet.
   HAZARD TO AIR NAVIGATION. An obstruction determined to have a substantial
adverse effect on the safe and efficient utilization of the navigable airspace.
   HEIGHT. For the purpose of determining the height limits in all zones set
forth in this subchapter and shown on the zoning map, the datum shall be mean
sea level elevation unless otherwise specified.
   HORIZONTAL SURFACE. A horizontal plane 100 feet above the established
airport elevation, the perimeter of which in plan coincides with the perimeter
of the horizontal zone.
   LARGER THAN UTILITY RUNWAY. A runway that is constructed for and intended to
be used by propeller-driven aircraft of greater than 12,500 pounds maximum
gross weight and jet-powered aircraft.
   NONCONFORMING USE. Any pre-existing structure, object of natural growth or
use of land which is inconsistent with the provisions of this subchapter or any
amendment thereto.
   NONPRECISION INSTRUMENT RUNWAY.  A runway having an existing instrument
approach procedure utilizing air navigation facilities with only horizontal
guidance, or area type navigation equipment, for which a straight-in
nonprecision instrument approach procedure has been approved or planned.
   OBSTRUCTION. Any structure, growth or other object, including a mobile
object, which exceeds a limiting height set forth in §
92.48.
   PERSON.  An individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company,
association, joint stock association or governmental entity; includes a
trustee, a receiver, an assignee or a similar representative of any of them.
   PRECISION INSTRUMENT RUNWAY. A runway having an existing or planned
instrument approach procedure utilizing an instrument landing system (ILS) or a
precision approach radar (PAR). It also means a runway for which a precision
approach system is planned and is so indicated on an approved airport layout
plan or any other planning document.
   PRIMARY SURFACE. A surface longitudinally centered on a runway. When the
runway has a specially prepared hard surface, the primary surface extends 200
feet beyond each end of that runway; for military or planned hard surface, the
primary surface ends at each end of that runway. The width of the primary
surface is set forth in §
92.47. The elevation of any point on the primary surface is the same as the
elevation of the nearest point on the runway centerline.
   RUNWAY. A defined area on an airport prepared for landing and takeoff of
aircraft along its length.
   STRUCTURE. An object, including a mobile object, constructed or installed by
a person, including but without limitation buildings, towers, cranes,
smokestacks, earth formation and overhead transmission lines.
   TRANSITIONAL SURFACES. These surfaces extend outward at 90-degree angles to
the runway centerline and the runway centerline extended at a slope of seven
feet horizontally for each foot vertically from the sides of the primary and
approach surfaces to where they intersect the horizontal and conical surfaces.
TRANSITIONAL SURFACES for those portions of the precision approach surfaces,
which project through and beyond the limits of the conical surface, extend a
distance of 5,000 feet measured horizontally from the edge of the approach
surface and at 90 degree angles to the extended runway centerline.
   TREE.  Any object of natural growth.
   UTILITY RUNWAY.  A runway that is constructed for and intended to be used by
propeller aircraft of 12,500 pounds maximum gross weight and less.
(Ord. eff. 6-9-2003)
§ 92.47 AIRPORT ZONES.
   (A)   In order to carry out the provisions of this subchapter, there are
hereby created and established certain zones which include all of the land
lying beneath the approach surfaces, transitional surfaces, horizontal surfaces
and conical surfaces as they apply to the Municipal Airport. The zones are
shown on the Municipal Airport Zoning Map consisting of one sheet, representing
the current version on file in the Surry County Zoning Department, which are
attached to the ordinance comprising this subchapter and made a part hereof. An
area located in more than one of the following zones is considered to be only
in the zone with the more restrictive height limitation.
   (B)   The various zones are hereby established and defined as follows.
      (1)   Runway larger than utility with a visibility minimum greater than
three-fourths mile nonprecision instrument approach zone.  The inner edge of
this approach zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and is 500
feet wide. The approach zone expands outward uniformly to a width of 3,500 feet
at a horizontal distance of 10,000 feet from the primary surface. Its
centerline is the continuation of the centerline of the runway.
      (2)   Transitional zones. The transitional zones are the areas beneath
the transitional surfaces.
      (3)   Horizontal zone. The horizontal zone is established by swinging
arcs of 10,000 feet radii from the center of each end of the primary surface of
each runway and connecting the adjacent arcs by drawing lines tangent to those
arcs. The horizontal zone does not include the approach and transitional zones.
      (4)   Conical zone. The conical zone is established as the area that
commences at the periphery of the horizontal zone and extends outward therefrom
a horizontal distance of 4,000 feet. The conical zone does not include the
transitional zone.
(Ord. eff. 6-9-2003)
§ 92.48 AIRPORT ZONE HEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, no structure shall be
erected, altered or maintained, and no tree shall be allowed to grow in any
zone created by this subchapter to a height in excess of the applicable height
limit herein established for that zone.
   (B)   The applicable height limitations are hereby established for each of
the zones in question as follows:
      (1)   Runway larger than utility with a visibility minimum greater than
three-fourths mile nonprecision instrument approach zone. Slopes 34 feet
outward for each foot upward beginning at the end of and at the same elevation
as the primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of 10,000 feet
along the extended runway centerline;
      (2)   Transitional zones. Slope seven feet outward for each foot upward
beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as the primary surface and
the approach surface, and extending to a height of 100 feet above the airport
elevation, or at an elevation of 1,168 feet above mean sea level;
      (3)   Horizontal zone. Established at 100 feet above the airport
elevation, or at an elevation of 1,168 feet above mean sea level;
      (4)   Conical zone. Slopes 20 feet outward for each foot upward beginning
at the periphery of the horizontal zone and at 100 feet above the airport
elevation and extending to a height of 300 feet above the airport elevation;
and
      (5)   Excepted height limitations. Nothing in this subchapter shall be
construed as prohibiting the construction or maintenance of any structure, or
growth of any tree to a height up to 50 feet above the surface of the land.
Height shall be measured from the highest point on the ground along the
periphery of the structure or tree to the highest point on the structure or
tree.
(Ord. eff. 6-9-2003)
§ 92.49 USE RESTRICTION.
   No use may be made of land or water within any zone established by this
subchapter in such a manner as to create electrical interference with
navigational signals or radio communication between the airport and aircraft,
make it difficult for pilots to distinguish between airport lights and others,
result in glare in the eyes of pilots using the airport, impair visibility in
the vicinity of the airport, create bird strike hazards or otherwise in any way
endanger or interfere with the landing, takeoff or maneuvering of aircraft
intending to use the airport.
(Ord. eff. 6-9-2003) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.50 NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Regulations not retroactive. The regulations prescribed by this
subchapter shall not be construed to require the removal, lowering or other
change or alteration of any structure or tree not conforming to the regulations
as of the effective date of this subchapter or any amendment thereto, or
otherwise interfere with the continuance of a nonconforming use. Nothing
contained herein shall require any change in the construction, alteration or
intended use of any structure, the construction or alteration of which was
begun prior to the effective date of this subchapter, and is diligently
prosecuted.
   (B)   Marking and lighting. Notwithstanding the preceding provision
(division (A) of this section, the owner of any existing nonconforming
structure or tree is hereby required to permit the installation, operation and
maintenance thereon of markers and lights as shall be deemed necessary by the
town to indicate to the operators of aircraft in the vicinity of the airport
the presence of these airport obstructions. The markers and lights shall be
installed, operated and maintained at the expense of the town.
(Ord. eff. 6-9-2003)
§ 92.51 PERMITS.
   (A)   Future uses.  
      (1)   Except as specifically provided in divisions (A)(1)(a), (b) and (c)
hereunder, no material change shall be made in the use of land, and no
structure or tree shall be erected, altered, planted or otherwise established
in any zone hereby created unless a permit therefor shall have been applied for
and granted. Each application for a permit shall indicate the purpose for which
the permit is desired, with sufficient particularity to permit it to be
determined whether the resulting use, structure or tree would conform to the
regulations herein prescribed. If the determination is in the affirmative, the
permit shall be granted. No permit for a use inconsistent with the provisions
of this subchapter shall be granted unless a variance has been approved in
accordance with division (D) below.
         (a)   In the area lying within the limits of the horizontal zone and
conical zone, no permit shall be required for any tree or structure less than
70 feet of vertical height above the ground, except when, because of terrain,
land contour or topographic features, the tree or structure would extend above
the height limits prescribed for those zones.
         (b)   In areas lying within the limits of the approach zones, but at a
horizontal distance of not less than 4,200 feet from each end of the runway, no
permit shall be required for any tree or structure less than 70 feet of
vertical height above the ground, except when the tree or structure would
extend above the height limit prescribed for the approach zones.
         (c)   In the areas lying within the limits of the transition zones
beyond the perimeter of the horizontal zone, no permit shall be required for
any tree or structure less than 70 feet of vertical height above the ground,
except when the tree or structure, because of terrain, land contour or
topographic features, would extend above the height limit prescribed for the
transition zones.
      (2)   Nothing contained in any of the foregoing exceptions shall be
construed as permitting or intending to permit any construction or alteration
of any structure, or growth of any tree in excess of any of the height limits
established by this subchapter except as set forth in §
92.48(B)(5). In the event a tree is allowed to grow in excess of the height
limits established by this subchapter, except as set forth in §
92.48(B)(5), the tree shall be removed, topped, trimmed or otherwise modified
to bring into compliance with this subchapter. If the Mayor or his or her
designee determines that the tree adversely affects the safe use of the
airport, the town will pay for the direct cost to remove, top, trim or
otherwise modify the tree to bring into compliance with this subchapter.
   (B)   Existing uses. No permit shall be granted that would allow the
establishment or creation of an airport obstruction that is a hazard to air
navigation or permit a nonconforming use, structure or tree to become a greater
hazard to air navigation than it was on the effective date of this subchapter
or any amendments thereto or that it is when the application for a permit is
made. Except as indicated, all applications for the permit shall be granted.
   (C)   Nonconforming uses abandoned or destroyed. Whenever the Mayor
determines that a nonconforming tree or structure has been abandoned or more
than 80% torn down, physically deteriorated or decayed, no permit shall be
granted that would allow the structure or tree to exceed the applicable height
limit or otherwise deviate from the zoning regulations.
   (D)   Variances.  Any person desiring to erect or increase the height of any
structure, or permit the growth of any tree or use property not in accordance
with the regulations prescribed in this subchapter, may apply to the Board of
Adjustment for a variance from the regulations. The application for variance
shall be accompanied by a determination from the Federal Aviation
Administration as to the effect of the proposal on the operation of air
navigation facilities and the safe, efficient use of navigable airspace.
Variances shall be allowed where it is duly found that a literal application or
enforcement of the regulations will result in unnecessary hardship and relief
granted, will not be contrary to the public interest, will not create a hazard
to air navigation, will do substantial justice and will be in accordance with
the spirit of this subchapter. Additionally, no application for variance to the
requirements of this subchapter may be considered by the Board of Adjustment
unless a copy of the application has been furnished to the County Manager for
advice as to the aeronautical effects of the variance. If the County Manager
does not respond to the application within 15 days after receipt, the Board of
Adjustment may act on its own to deny the application.
   (E)   Obstruction marking and lighting.  Any permit or variance granted may,
if the action is deemed advisable to effectuate the purpose of this subchapter
and be reasonable in the circumstances, be so conditioned as to require the
owner of the structure or tree in question to permit the town at its own
expense to install, operate and maintain thereon any marking and lights as may
be necessary.
   (F)   Permits. The Administrator shall review all applications for
development to ensure compliance with all regulations of this subchapter. All
applications shall be complete prior to review by the Administrator. The
Administrator in his or her discretion may request that additional information
be submitted as necessary to ensure a thorough and complete review of the
application. All applications shall be submitted with a nonrefundable fee in
accordance with a fee schedule adopted by the Surry County Board of
Commissioners.
(Ord. eff. 6-9-2003)
§ 92.52 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the County Manager to administer and enforce the
regulations prescribed herein. Applications for permits and variances shall be
made to the Building Inspector upon a form published for that purpose.
Applications required by this subchapter to be submitted to the County Manager
shall be promptly considered and granted or denied. Application for action by
the Board of Adjustment shall be forthwith transmitted by the County Manager.
(Ord. eff. 6-9-2003)
§ 92.53 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Board of Adjustment to have and exercise the
following powers:
      (1)   To hear and decide appeals from any order, requirement, decision or
determination made by the County Manager in the enforcement of this subchapter;
      (2)   To hear and decide special exceptions to the terms of this
subchapter upon which the Board of Adjustment under these regulations may be
required to pass; and
      (3)   To hear and decide specific variances.
   (B)   The Board of Adjustment shall consist of five members appointed by the
Board of Commissioners and each shall serve for a term of three years and until
a successor is duly appointed and qualified.
   (C)   The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules for its governance and in
harmony with the provisions of this subchapter. Meetings of the Board of
Adjustment shall be held at the call of the Chairperson and at other times as
the Board of the Adjustment may determine. The Chairperson or, in the absence
of the Chairperson, the Acting Chairperson may administer oaths and compel the
attendance of witnesses. All hearings of the Board of Appeals shall be public.
The Board of Adjustment shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing the vote
of each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating
that fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other official
actions, all of which shall immediately be filed in the office of the County
Clerk and on due cause shown.
   (D)   The Board of Adjustment shall make written findings of facts and
conclusions of law giving the facts upon which it acted and its legal
conclusions from the facts in reversing, affirming or modifying any order,
requirement, decision or determination which comes before it under the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (E)   The concurring vote of a majority of the members of the Board of
Adjustment shall be sufficient to reverse any order, requirement, decision or
determination of the County Manager or decide in favor of the applicant on any
matter upon which it is required to pass under this subchapter, or to effect
variation to this subchapter.
(Ord. eff. 6-9-2003)
§ 92.54 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved or any taxpayer affected by any decision of the
County Manager, made in the administration of this chapter, may appeal to the
Board of Adjustment.
   (B)   All appeals hereunder must be taken within a reasonable time as
provided by the rules of the Board of Adjustment, by filing with the County
Manager a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The County Manager
shall forthwith transmit to the Board of Adjustment all the papers constituting
the record upon which the action appealed was taken.
   (C)   An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from unless the County Manager certifies to the Board of Adjustment,
after the notice of appeal has been filed with it, that by reason of the facts
stated in the certificate a stay would in the opinion of the County Manager
cause imminent peril to life or property. In that case, proceedings shall not
be stayed except by the order of the Board of Adjustment or notice to the
County Manager and on due cause shown.
   (D)   The Board of Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for hearing
appeals, give public notice and due notice to the parties in interest and
decide the same within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing, any party may
appear in person or by agent or by attorney.
   (E)   The Board of Adjustment may, in conformity with the provisions of this
subchapter, reverse or affirm, in whole or in part, or modify the order,
requirement, decision or determination appealed from and may make any order,
requirement, decision or determination as may be appropriate under the
circumstances.
(Ord. eff. 6-9-2003)
§ 92.55 JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected, by any decision of the Board
of Adjustment, may appeal to the Superior Court as provided in § 34 of Chapter
63 of the Public Laws of this state.
(Ord. eff. 6-9-2003)
§ 92.56 CONFLICTING REGULATIONS.
   Where there exists a conflict between any of the regulations or limitations
prescribed in this subchapter and any other regulations applicable to the same
area, whether the conflict be with respect to the height of structures or trees
and the use of land, or any other matter, the more stringent limitation or
requirement shall govern and prevail.
(Ord. eff. 6-9-2003)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Each violation of §§
92.45 through
92.56 or of any regulation, order or ruling promulgated hereunder shall
constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $50
or imprisonment for not more than 30 days or both; and each day a violation
continues to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. eff. 6-9-2003)
CHAPTER 93: FIRE PROTECTION AND PREVENTION
Section
General Regulations
   
93.001   Title
Fire Code Enforcement
   
93.020   Jurisdiction
   
93.021   Purpose
   
93.022   Relationship to other laws and standards
   
93.023   Application
   
93.024   Duties of Fire Chief
   
93.025   Authority to enter premises
   
93.026   Inspection of buildings and premises
   
93.027   Permits
   
93.028   Site plan approval
   
93.029   Construction approval
   
93.030   Notice of violation; order to correct
   
93.031   Enforcement
   
93.032   Appeals
Open Burning
   
93.060   Jurisdiction
   
93.061   Purpose
   
93.062   Scope
   
93.063   Burning prohibited
   
93.064   Permissible open burning with permit
   
93.065   Conditions of burning permit
   
93.066   Liability for extinguishment
 
   
93.999   Penalty
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 93.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Fire Protection and Prevention
Ordinance” of the town and may be cited as such and referred to herein as the
“Fire Chapter.”
(Ord. 2015-12-0426, passed 12-14-2015)
FIRE CODE ENFORCEMENT
§ 93.020 JURISDICTION.
   This subchapter is effective in all areas of the municipality.
(Ord. 2015-12-0426, passed 12-14-2015)
§ 93.021 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to prescribe regulations consistent with
the most current edition of the State Building Code, Fire Prevention (also
known as the North Carolina Fire Prevention Code) and the Appendices (A)
through (H) of the North Carolina Fire Prevention Code and nationally
recognized good practices for the safeguarding of life and property from
hazards of fire and explosions arising from the storage, handling, and use of
flammable, combustible, and hazardous substances, materials, and devices, and
from conditions hazards to life and property in the use or occupancy of
buildings or premises.
(Ord. 2015-12-0426, passed 12-14-2015)
§ 93.022 RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER LAWS AND STANDARDS.
   The provisions of the North Carolina Fire Prevention Code, as amended
periodically, are incorporated by reference in this chapter. If any provision
of this chapter is in material conflict with a provision of the North Carolina
Fire Prevention Code, then the state code provision shall take precedence over
the conflicting provision of this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-12-0426, passed 12-14-2015)
§ 93.023 APPLICATION.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to new and existing
conditions, and to the repair, use, occupancy, and maintenance of existing
buildings or structures specified in the North Carolina Fire Prevention Code,
and to other conditions hazardous to life or property in the opinion of the
Fire Chief or their designee.
   (B)   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as applying to
the transportation of any substance shipped in compliance with regulations
prescribed by state and Federal law nor as applying to the military forces of
the United States.
   (C)   If any portion of this chapter shall be determined to be invalid,
unconstitutional, or so otherwise ineffective, the ruling shall not affect the
remainder and other parts and clauses of this chapter, and the same shall
remain in full force and effect.
(Ord. 2015-12-0426, passed 12-14-2015)
§ 93.024 DUTIES OF FIRE CHIEF.
   The duties of the Fire Chief shall include but are not limited to:
   (A)   Keeping the Town Manager and governing body informed of the progress
and development of the Fire Department.
   (B)   Keeping the Town Manager and governing body informed of any matters
pertaining to the present condition and future expansion of the Fire
Department.
   (C)   Serving as the Town Manager’s and governing body’s advisor concerning
requirements of the state fire insurance rating program.
   (D)   Conducting fire prevention inspections of public schools required by
G.S. §§ 115C-1 et seq., and fire prevention inspections of licensed day care
facilities, licensed foster care homes, and licensed rest home facilities as
required by state law.
   (E)   Conducting periodic fire inspections of buildings, structures, and
premises within the town's corporate limits as set forth in §
93.026.
   (F)   Conducting investigations, often with the cooperation of other fire
and law enforcement officials, of fires of a suspicious nature so as to
determine their point of origin and cause.
   (G)   Maintaining an adequate staff of fire inspectors certified by the
North Carolina Code Officials Qualification Board to properly execute all
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-12-0426, passed 12-14-2015)
§ 93.025 AUTHORITY TO ENTER PREMISES.
   (A)   The Fire Chief or their designee may, at all reasonable hours, enter
any building or premises for the purpose of conducting any inspection or
investigation which, under provisions of this chapter, they deem necessary to
be made.
   (B)   The Fire Chief or their designee shall be permitted by the owner,
lessee, manager, or operator or any building or premises to enter and inspect
the building or premises at the time and for the purpose stated in this
section.
(Ord. 2015-12-0426, passed 12-14-2015)
§ 93.026 INSPECTION OF BUILDINGS AND PREMISES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief to inspect, or cause to be
inspected, according to the schedule provided in the North Carolina Fire
Prevention Code, all buildings and premises except the interiors of one- and
two-family dwellings, for the purpose of ascertaining and causing to be
corrected any conditions liable to cause fire or to endanger life from fire,
and enforcing the North Carolina Fire Prevention Code, or any violations of the
provisions or intent of this chapter creating a hazard. The Fire Chief or their
designee shall charge inspection fees for inspections of buildings and premises
according to the fee schedule adopted by the town, except when those premises
are occupied or owned by state or local government.
   (B)   Installation or modification of building systems without required plan
review and approval by the fire chief or their designee shall result in a
violation fine as outlined by the fee schedule adopted by the town. Required
inspections for the building systems will not be conducted until the fee is
paid.
(Ord. 2015-12-0426, passed 12-14-2015)
§ 93.027 PERMITS.
   (A)   Every business or user of a building or structure required to obtain a
mandatory permit under the North Carolina Fire Prevention Code must obtain such
permit no later than 30 days after notification by the Fire Chief or their
designee. The Fire Chief or their designee shall issue all applicable permits
to business which require such permits under the North Carolina Fire Prevention
Code upon determining the permit application meets applicable requirements of
the North Carolina Fire Prevention Code.
   (B)   Construction permits will be valid for no more than six months after
issuance. No work authorized by an expired permit may be performed until a new
permit has been issued.
   (C)   Permit fees will be charged to the applicant in accordance with the
fee schedule adopted by the town.
(Ord. 2015-12-0426, passed 12-14-2015)
§ 93.028 SITE PLAN APPROVAL.
   The Fire Chief or their designee shall review construction or development
site plans to ensure compliance with the North Carolina Fire Prevention Code
before final site approval is granted. Plan review fees will be charged to the
responsible party in accordance with the fee schedule adopted by the town.
(Ord. 2015-12-0426, passed 12-14-2015)
§ 93.029 CONSTRUCTION APPROVAL.
   (A)   The Fire Chief or their designee shall review and approve all
commercial and multifamily residential building plans to ensure compliance with
the North Carolina Fire Prevention Code before final approval is granted. Plan
review fees will be charged to the responsible party in accordance with the fee
schedule adopted by the town.
   (B)   The Fire Chief or their designee shall conduct inspections of
buildings under construction to ensure compliance with the provisions of the
North Carolina Fire Prevention Code before the building inspection issues a
certificate of occupancy for the building.
(Ord. 2015-12-0426, passed 12-14-2015)
§ 93.030 NOTICE OF VIOLATION; ORDER TO CORRECT.
   When the Fire Chief or their designee determines that a violation of this
chapter exists or that a building or premises is in violation of the North
Carolina Fire Prevention Code, they shall issue a notice of violation and order
to correct the violation. Such notice and order shall:
   (A)   State the nature of the violation.
   (B)   Direct the responsible party to pay applicable fees and/or civil
penalties to the town.
   (C)   Direct the responsible parry to comply with applicable requirements.
   (D)   Specify a date after which re-inspection will occur, if immediate
compliance is not possible.
(Ord. 2015-12-0426, passed 12-14-2015)
§ 93.031 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter shall constitute
a misdemeanor under G.S. § 160A-I75 and G.S. § 14-4. Additionally, or in the
alternative, the Fire Chief or their designee may enforce the provision of this
chapter in civil court and seek any and all appropriate remedies authorized by
G.S. § 160A-175, subject to the restrictions of this section. Each day’s
continuing violation shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
   (B)   Compliance with the Fire Chief’s notice of violation and order to
correct.
      (1)   Immediate action orders. The Fire Chief or their designee may issue
immediate correction orders for violations of the North Carolina Fire
Prevention Code that constitute an imminent hazard to life and property.
Failure to correct such violation within 72 hours shall result in imposition of
a civil penalty in the amount specified by the fee schedule approved by the
town, per day, per violation, until the violation has been completely
corrected. Should the violation go uncorrected after 72 hours, a civil
complaint for collection of unpaid fees and penalties owed under this chapter
may be initiated and other legal proceedings including criminal prosecution may
be initiated. Repeated violations may subject a violator to higher civil
penalties as set forth in the fee schedule adopted by the town.
      (2)   Imminent hazards to life and property. Those violations determined
to be imminent hazards to life and property include but are not limited to the
following:
         (a)   Violations of the means of egress requirements imposed by the
North Carolina Fire Prevention Code;
         (b)   Overcrowding in violation of occupancy limits established
pursuant to the North Carolina Building Code and required under the North
Carolina Fire Prevention Code;
         (c)   Occupancy of a structure or premises without a certificate of
occupancy;
         (d)   Ongoing construction or operations without applicable permits;
         (e)   Dangerous storage or unlawful amounts of combustible, flammable,
explosive, or otherwise hazardous materials;
         (f)   Hazardous conditions arising from defective or improperly
installed equipment for handling or using combustible, flammable, explosive, or
otherwise hazardous materials;
         (g)   Dangerous accumulations of rubbish, waste paper, boxes,
shavings, or other highly combustible materials;
         (h)   Accumulations of dust or waste material in air conditioning or
ventilation systems, or of grease in kitchen or other exhaust ducts, or
inadequate clearances to unprotected combustible materials from hoods, grease
extractors, and ducts; and
         (i)   Obstructions that may interfere with Fire Department operations.
      (3)   Other correction orders. All other correction orders issued under
this section for violations that do not constitute imminent hazards shall be
corrected within 30 days. Failure to correct such violation within 30 days
shall result in imposition of a civil penalty in the amount specified by the
fee schedule approved by the town, per day, per violation, until the violation
has been completely corrected. Should the violation go uncorrected after 24
hours, a civil complaint for collection of unpaid fees and penalties owed under
this chapter may be initiated and other legal proceedings including criminal
prosecution may be initiated. Repeated violations may subject a violator to
higher civil penalties as set forth in the fee schedule adopted by the town.
(Ord. 2015-12-0426, passed 12-14-2015)
§ 93.032 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person who has been served with a notice of violation and order
for correction of violations of the North Carolina Fire Prevention Code may
appeal the notice and order to the North Carolina Building Code Council within
ten days from the date of issuance.
   (B)   Any person who has been served with a notice of violation and order
for correction of violations of the provisions of this chapter which are not
violations of the North Carolina Fire Prevention Code or which relate to fees
or penalties charged under this chapter may appeal to the Town Manager, whose
decisions shall be final. Appeals must be filed in writing within ten days from
the date of issuance.
(Ord. 2015-12-0426, passed 12-14-2015)
OPEN BURNING
§ 93.060 JURISDICTION.
   This subchapter is effective in all areas of the municipality.
(Ord. 2015-12-0426, passed 12-14-2015)
§ 93.061 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to regulate certain open burning in order
to protect the public from the hazards of fires and air pollution.
(Ord. 2015-12-0426, passed 12-14-2015)
§ 93.062 SCOPE.
   This subchapter shall apply to all operations involving open burning except
those specifically exempted by this subchapter.
(Ord. 2015-12-0426, passed 12-14-2015)
§ 93.063 BURNING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall cause, suffer, allow, or permit open burning of combustible
material except as may be allowed in compliance with this subchapter.
(Ord. 2015-12-0426, passed 12-14-2015)
§ 93.064 PERMISSIBLE OPEN BURNING WITH PERMIT.
   (A)   While recognizing that open burning contributes to air pollution,
certain types of open burning may reasonably be allowed in the public interest.
The authority to conduct open burning under the provisions of this section does
not exempt or excuse a person from the consequences, damages, or injuries which
may result from such conduct nor does it excuse or exempt any person from
complying with all applicable laws, ordinances, regulations, and orders of
governmental entities having jurisdiction even though open burning is conducted
in compliance with this section.
   (B)   The following types of open burning are permissible with a town
burning permit.
      (1)   Fires purposely set to agricultural lands for disease control, pest
control, and other accepted agricultural or wildlife management practices.
      (2)   Fires purposely set to forest lands for accepted forest management
practices.
      (3)   Fires purposely set in rural areas for rights-of-way maintenance.
      (4)   Camp fires and fires used solely for outdoor cooking and other
recreational purposes or for human warmth and comfort, when confined to
containers approved by the Fire Chief or their designee.
      (5)   The burning of trees, brush, and other vegetable matter in
connection with construction projects or the clearing of land or rights-of-way,
with the following limitations:
         (a)   Prevailing winds at the time of burning must be away from any
city, town, roadway, or built-up area, the ambient air of which may be
significantly affected by smoke, fly-ash, or other air contaminants from the
burning;
         (b)   The location of the burning must be at least 1,000 feet away
from any dwelling other than a dwelling or structure located on the property on
which the burning is conducted;
         (c)   The amount of dirt on the material being burned must be
minimized;
         (d)   Heavy oils, asphaitic materials, items containing natural or
synthetic rubber, or any materials other than plant growth may not be burned;
and
         (e)   Initial burning may generally be commenced only between the
hours of 9:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m. and no combustible material may be added to
the fire between 3:00 p.m. of one day and 9:00 a.m. of the following day.
      (6)   Open burning of leaves, tree branches, or yard trimmings
originating on the premises of private residences and burned on the premises of
origin in areas where no public pickup facilities are available, only when such
burning is done between 9:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m. and does not create a nuisance.
(Ord. 2015-12-0426, passed 12-14-2015)
§ 93.065 CONDITIONS OF BURNING PERMIT.
   (A)   No open burning for which a permit has been lawfully issued shall be
allowed without a copy of the valid permit kept at the burning site.
   (B)   No open burning for which a permit has been lawfully issued shall be
allowed without a competent person being present at all times until the fire is
completely extinguished.
   (C)   No open burning for which a permit has been lawfully issued shall be
allowed when the burning conditions violate the provisions of this subchapter,
the conditions and requirements stated in the burning permit, or the directives
of the Fire Chief or their designee.
   (D)   No open burning for which a permit has been lawfully issued shall be
allowed without sufficient resources at the site to extinguish the fire as
needed or ordered.
(Ord. 2015-12-0426, passed 12-14-2015)
§ 93.066 LIABILITY FOR EXTINGUISHMENT.
   If any person, firm, or entity shall ignite or maintain a fire in violation
of this subchapter and the Town Fire Department is called on to control or
extinguish the fire or any other fire resulting therefrom, the responsible
party shall be liable to the town for the applicable fire service fees and
costs as well as any other costs endured by the town in bringing the fire under
control and extinguishing it, and all other actual, reasonable costs incurred
incidental thereto.
(Ord. 2015-12-0426, passed 12-14-2015)
§ 93.999 PENALTY.
   The violation of any provision of this chapter shall constitute a
misdemeanor punishable upon conviction by a fine not exceeding $50 or by
imprisonment not exceeding 30 days, as provided in G.S. § 14-4. It is hereby
made the special duty of the Chief of Police or their designee who may be on
duty to coordinate with the Fire Chief or their designee to enforce such
penalties.
(Ord. 2015-12-0426, passed 12-14-2015)
CHAPTER 94: ANIMALS
Section
Animal Nuisances
   
94.01   Authority; adoption date
   
94.02   Definitions
   
94.03   Running at large, generally
   
94.04   Vicious animal
   
94.05   Vaccination, collar required
   
94.06   Keeping stray animals
   
94.07   Cats at large
   
94.08   Responsibility of owners
   
94.09   Notification of violation
   
94.10   Enforcement
   
94.11   Impoundment
   
94.12   Tethering ban
Keeping of Horses
   
94.25   Riding or walking horses on or along streets and sidewalks; unlawful
   
94.26   Allowing horses to run at large; unlawful
   
94.27   Riding at night prohibited
   
94.28   Adoption date
Keeping of Livestock
   
94.40   Definitions
   
94.41   Livestock prohibited
   
94.42   Exception
   
94.43   Unlawful to harbor certain animals
   
94.44   Existing animals; time frame to comply
   
94.45   Fowl
   
94.46   Fowl at large prohibited
   
94.47   Containment of gallinaceous birds
   
94.48   Gallinaceous birds at large
Bird Sanctuary
   
94.60   Establishment of town as bird sanctuary
 
   
94.99   Penalty
ANIMAL NUISANCES
§ 94.01 AUTHORITY; ADOPTION DATE.
   (A)   This subchapter is adopted by the Board of Commissioners for the town
under authority of G.S. § 14-4, Violation of local ordinances misdemeanor; G.S.
§ 160A-186, Regulation of domestic animals; G.S. § 160A-187, Possession or
harboring of dangerous animals; and rabies control, G.S. § 130A-184.
   (B)   This subchapter was adopted on October 10, 2005.
(Ord. eff. 10-10-2005)
§ 94.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMALS. Any dog or cat, including both male and female.
   HARBOR. To act as custodian of an animal, whether by feeding or affording
shelter.
   OWNER.  Any person, firm or corporation owning, keeping or harboring an
animal. For the purpose of this subchapter, the head of a household shall be
deemed the OWNER in respect to any animal or animals owned, kept or harbored by
any person residing in the household and kept on the premises.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE ANIMAL. Any animal or group of animals which:
      (1)   Is repeatedly found at large;
      (2)   Damages any property, either public or private, of anyone other
than its owner;
      (3)   Is vicious;
      (4)   Causes fouling of the air by odors;
      (5)   Causes unsanitary conditions of enclosures or surroundings;
      (6)   By virtue of number or type is offensive or dangerous to the public
health, safety or welfare;
      (7)   Excessively makes disturbing noises such as barking, howling and
whining;
      (8)   Is diseased and dangerous to the public health; and
      (9)   Defecates on any property, either public or private, other than the
property of the owner or person harboring the animal.
   RUNNING AT LARGE. Any animal off the premises of his or her owner and not
under sufficient physical restraint, such as a leash, cage or similar effective
device to allow the animal to be controlled.
   STRAY. Any animal running at large which does not have a collar, harness or
halter upon which is attached a tag identifying the name and address of the
owner.
   VICIOUS ANIMALS. Any animal which has bitten, scratched or otherwise
attacked one or more persons without provocation, or an animal in which a
propensity to attack humans exist, or which propensity is known or reasonably
should be known to the owner.
(Ord. eff. 10-10-2005)
§ 94.03 RUNNING AT LARGE, GENERALLY.
   No person shall permit any animal owned or harbored by him or her to be at
large within the town unless accompanied by and under the control, through the
use of a leash, rope, chain, cage or likewise device, of the owner or a
responsible person at all times.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog to allow the animal to
be at large in the town whether on private or public property.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, harboring, keeping or in
charge of any dog to fail to remove feces deposited by the dog on any street,
park or other publicly owned area.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, harboring, keeping or in
charge of any dog to fail to remove feces deposited by the dog on any private
property unless the owner of the property has given permission allowing that
use of the property.
(Ord. eff. 10-10-2005) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 VICIOUS ANIMAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, business or corporation to own,
keep, have charge of, shelter, feed, harbor or take care of any animal which is
a vicious animal as defined in §
94.02 unless the animal is kept in a secure enclosure. In addition to any other
sanctions which may be applicable, if any vicious animal be found running at
large or is a stray, it shall be seized as quickly as possible by Surry County
Animal Control at the request of the Town Police Department. If the vicious
animal cannot be safely caught and impounded, the animal may be slain by the
Town Police Department or other designated official such as an officer with
Surry County Animal Control.
(Ord. eff. 10-10-2005) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 VACCINATION, COLLAR REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every person within the town who owns, controls or harbors a dog or
cat shall have the animal vaccinated annually against hydrophobia. For a period
longer than one year the dog or cat need not be vaccinated until the
termination of the period of immunity. In every case, the vaccination
certificate shall state the type and quantity of serum administered and the
period of immunity hydrophobia afforded thereby.
   (B)   Every person within the town who owns, controls or harbors a dog or
cat shall be responsible for the wearing by the dog or cat at all times a
collar on which is prominently displayed a vaccination tag indicating a
vaccination which currently affords the dog or cat immunity to hydrophobia.
There shall also be affixed to the collar an identification tag stating the
name and address of the owner of the animal.
(Ord. eff. 10-10-2005)
§ 94.06 KEEPING STRAY ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willingly or intentionally harbor,
feed, keep in possession by confinement, or otherwise, any animal which does
not belong to him or her, or has not been legally entrusted to him or her,
unless he or she shall, within 48 hours from the time the animal came into his
or her possession, comply with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. eff. 10-10-2005) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.07 CATS AT LARGE.
   Owners and harborers of cats shall not permit their cat to run at large to
the annoyance or nuisance of other persons within the town.
(Ord. eff. 10-10-2005) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.08 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNERS.
   Owners of animals are responsible for the acts of their animals. The owner
of any animal who commits any nuisance, as defined and or stipulated in this
subchapter, upon the private property of another person or property belonging
to the town, is criminally and civilly responsible and accountable for the acts
of his or her animals.
(Ord. eff. 10-10-2005) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.09 NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATION.
   This subchapter requires that any complaining party contact the Police
Department by mail, electronic communication or phone, stating the nuisance
being created by the animal, with a description of the animal and the owner’s
name, if known. Reports to the police of vicious or dangerous animals should be
followed with a written complaint explaining the details to the Police
Department. Upon proper notification of any violation of this subchapter by a
complaining party, and before a citation is issued, all persons allegedly
violating any part of this subchapter shall be notified of the alleged
violation by the Town Police Department. The alleged violator shall be given a
copy of this subchapter. The contacting police officer shall explain this
subchapter to the alleged violator. Whenever it comes to the attention of the
Chief of Police that an animal is at large within the town, the Chief of Police
shall cause to be served upon the owner or the person who harbors the animal a
notice substantially as follows:
Office of the Chief of Police
Elkin, North Carolina
Date:                             
“To _______________________________:
“Take notice that a (dog, cat) described as_________________________ , and
reputedly owned or harbored by you, has been reported as (violation), contrary
to section __________ of the Town of Elkin Animal Nuisance Ordinance.
Therefore, you are hereby required to take up and confine that animal on your
own premises immediately and prevent it from (violation) anytime in the future;
otherwise, the animal may be impounded by Surry County Animal Control.
“Further take notice that you are required to report to my office without delay
that you have complied with the terms of this notice.”
                                                  
Chief of Police
(Ord. eff. 10-10-2005)
§ 94.10 ENFORCEMENT.
   The alleged violator will have 24 hours in which to abate or correct the
violation or nuisance once he or she has been given a copy of the ordinance and
an explanation of the violation by the Town Police Department. If the alleged
violator does not abate or correct the violation within 24 hours after he or
she has been duly warned, the Police Department shall issue the violator a
citation for violating this subchapter. In the event there is a second
complaint made to the Chief of Police concerning the same animal and nuisance
violation, the violator will be issued a second citation for the nuisance
violation and the nuisance animal will be impounded by Surry County Animal
Control as soon as possible at the request of the Town Police Department.
(Ord. eff. 10-10-2005)
§ 94.11 IMPOUNDMENT.
   In the event the violator has not complied with this subchapter after the
first offence citation has been issued and the Chief of Police receives a
second complaint, the violator will be issued a second citation and the animal
will be impounded. The Town Police Department will contact Surry County Animal
Control and request the nuisance animal be picked up and impounded as soon as
possible. Violator(s) may retrieve their animal(s) from Surry County Animal
Control after compliance with all policies and regulation stipulated by Surry
County Animal Control.
(Ord. eff. 10-10-2005)
§ 94.12 TETHERING BAN.
   (A)   Tethering ban violation policy and procedure.
      (1)   Upon receiving a complaint regarding a dog that has been tethered,
the town will report the complaint to Surry County Animal Control. The Animal
Control Administrative Assistant will immediately check Animal Control records
for an exemption on file or Shelter Pro for an exemption as documented by an
Animal Control Officer (ACO).
      (2)   If no exemption is found, a Surry County ACO will report to the
premises of the reported offense.
      (3)   At the residence, the ACO will speak with the owner of the tethered
dog to see if the tethering falls into any of the acceptable exemption
categories.
      (4)   If the dog does fall under an acceptable exemption category as
listed in the ordinance and the tethering ban exemption policy, the ACO will
assure all guidelines for tethering are being followed.
      (5)   If all guidelines are being followed and the dog is exempt under
any reason, the ACO will document the complaint and outcome in Shelter Pro,
including the reason for the exemption and description of the dog in question,
and report this to the Elkin Police Department.
      (6)   If guidelines for tethering are not being followed appropriately,
or the animal is tethered with no possible reason for exemption, the ACO will
issue a verbal warning.
      (7)   An ACO will follow up on the situation within 48 business hours to
assure all guidelines are being met or that the dog is no longer being tethered
inappropriately.
      (8)   Should said dog still be tethered or tethered inappropriately, a
fine of $100 payable to Surry County will be issued to the owner.
      (9)   If the dog is found to be tethered inappropriately again in the
future, a criminal summons will be issued by an ACO.
   (B)   Tethering ban exemption policy and procedure.
      (1)   A person may tether or restrain a dog under one of the following
exemption. Please note that exemptions can be revoked at any time should
guidelines not be followed correctly.
         (a)   Usage of the dog in shepherding or herding livestock.
         (b)   Use of the dog in the business of cultivating agricultural
products where the restraining is reasonably necessary for the safety of the
dog.
         (c)   Use of the dog in lawful hunting activities.
         (d)   Use of the dog at a dog training or performance events.
         (e)   Camping or other recreation where tethering is required by the
camping or recreational area where the dog is located.
         (f)   Any activity where a tethering dog is in visual range of its
owner or keeper, and the owner or keeper is located outside with the dog.
         (g)   After taking possession of a dog that appears to be stray,
having first advised Animal Control authorities of the capture of the dog, the
dog may be tethered or restrained, not to exceed seven days.
         (h)   Walking on a handheld leash.
         (i)   In accordance with tethering restrictions in effect within any
of the municipalities in Surry County. Tethering restrictions in effect within
any of the municipalities in Surry County will take precedence over this
section.
         (j)   Up to one year after this ordinance version goes into effect.
         (k)   Acceptance of Tethering Ban Exemption application by Surry
County Animal Control, and strict adherence to Surry County Animal Control
Ordinance, Article VII, Section 3c, outlines as follows:
            1.   No tethering a dog to a cable trolley system that allows
movement of the restraining vehicle.
            2.   The length of the cable along which the tethering device can
move must be at least ten feet.
            3.   The tethering device must be of such length that the dog is
able to move 15 feet away from the cable perpendicularly.
            4.   The tethering device must be attached in such manner as to
prevent strangulation or other injury to the dog and entanglement with objects.
            5.   Tethers must be made of rope, twine, cord, or similar material
with a swivel on one end or must be made of a chain that is at least ten feet
in length with swivels on both ends, and which does not exceed 10% of the dog’s
body weight.
            6.   All collars or harnesses used for the purpose of tethering a
dog must be made of nylon or leather; no choke type collars or pronged collars.
            7.   Must be tethered in such a manner as to allow the dog access
to adequate food, water and shelter.
            8.   No tethering sick, diseased or injured dogs.
      (2)   Tethering ban exemption applications reviewed on a case by case
basis.
      (3)   ACO must verify that above requirements are being met.
      (4)    Animals tethered legally must be given time off the restraint
every day and receive daily socialization.
      (5)   In order to be eligible for the tethering ban exemption, the dog
must have rabies vaccination up to date and be spayed or neutered. This will be
verified by ACO.
      (6)   A separate application must be completed for each dog needing a
tethering exemption. Should one of the dogs become deceased and a new dog is
obtained, a new application must be submitted for a tethering ban exemption.
      (7)   Animal Control reserves the right to make revoke exemptions as
deemed necessary.
   (C)   Employee non-compliance to these policies could result in a non-
compliance notification and/or be subject to the disciplinary process.
(Ord. 2018-05-0006, eff. 5-14-2018)
KEEPING OF HORSES
§ 94.25 RIDING OR WALKING HORSES ON OR ALONG STREETS AND SIDEWALKS; UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful at all times for any person to ride or walk a horse, or
to permit a horse to walk or to be ridden on or along Main Street, Standard
Street, South Bridge Street, North Bridge Street, Commerce Street, Front
Street, Spring Street, Elk Spur Street, Highway 268 West, Highway 268 East,
Gwyn Avenue, town parks, town cemeteries, Elkin Village Shopping Center,
Elkmont Shopping Center and Surry Square Shopping Center. These streets and
places are restricted without a permit from the Chief of Police or Town
Manager.
(Ord. eff. 8-4-1986) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.26 ALLOWING HORSES TO RUN AT LARGE; UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful at all times for any person having control or ownership
of a horse to permit the horse to run at large within the corporate limits. For
purposes of this provision, the phrase TO RUN AT LARGE shall mean to walk or
roam without restraint or confinement, either by a rider or through some rope,
chain, fence, pen or other enclosure.
(Ord. eff. 8-4-1986) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.27 RIDING AT NIGHT PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride a horse or to permit a horse to
be ridden within the corporate limits between the hours of dusk and dawn.
(Ord. eff. 8-4-1986) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.28 ADOPTION DATE.
    This subchapter was adopted on August 4, 1986.
(Ord. eff. 8-4-1986)
KEEPING OF LIVESTOCK
§ 94.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIRDS OF PREY. Including but not limited to eagles, hawks, owls and falcons.
   CROCODILIANS. Including but not limited to any of various reptiles of the
order Crocodylia (i.e., alligators, crocodiles and gavials).
   GALLINACEOUS BIRDS. Species of birds, including but not limited to chickens,
ducks, geese, quail, pheasants, guineas, turkeys, grouse and all domesticated
and non-domesticated fowl.
   MAMMALS OF PREY. Including but not limited to large cats and bears.
   NON-DOMESTICATED PRIMATES. Including but not limited to monkeys, gorillas
and orangutans.
(Ord. eff. 4-12-2004)
§ 94.41 LIVESTOCK PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation with less than
eight acres of land upon which to keep the livestock to keep, harbor or
maintain swine, mules, cattle, goats, horses, sheep, llamas, emus, gallinaceous
birds, birds of prey, large mammals of prey, crocodilians, poisonous snakes,
non-domesticated primates or other livestock within the corporate limits of the
town.
(Ord. eff. 4-12-2004) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.42 EXCEPTION.
   Except for the keeping of swine, large mammals of prey, alligators,
crocodilians and non-domesticated primates in §
94.41, this subchapter does not apply to the owners or occupants of any parcel
of land consisting of at least eight acres of land upon which to keep the
livestock, provided the land is contiguous and provided the owner maintains a
200-foot buffer between the livestock and all adjoining property lines.
Excluding the buffer area, not more than one animal(s) classified as livestock
may be maintained for each acre of land inside the buffer area.
(Ord. eff. 4-12-2004)
§ 94.43 UNLAWFUL TO HARBOR CERTAIN ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, harbor or maintain any swine,
large mammals of prey, alligators, crocodilians and non-domesticated primates
within town limits of the town.
(Ord. eff. 4-12-2004) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.44 EXISTING ANIMALS; TIME FRAME TO COMPLY.
   All persons, firms or corporations now keeping or maintaining any livestock
within areas which become subject to the provisions of this subchapter through
the extension of corporate limits, shall within three years of the effective
date of the expansion of the area comply with all provisions of this
subchapter.
(Ord. eff. 4-12-2004)
§ 94.45 FOWL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain, keep or house any fowl
within 200 feet of any residential or commercial building, school or church, or
other establishment.
(Ord. eff. 4-12-2004) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.46 FOWL AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to permit any fowl, including but not limited to
chickens, ducks, geese, pheasant, quail, grouse, turkeys, guineas or other
gallinaceous birds, to run at large.
(Ord. eff. 4-12-2004) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.47 CONTAINMENT OF GALLINACEOUS BIRDS.
   Any gallinaceous birds kept within the corporate limits of the town must be
contained by a fence, building or other enclosure that will ensure the birds
will not run at large.
(Ord. eff. 4-12-2004)
§ 94.48 GALLINACEOUS BIRDS AT LARGE.
   Any gallinaceous birds found running at large may be taken into possession
and/or destroyed by the Town Police Department or Surry County Animal Control
Department.
(Ord. eff. 4-12-2004)
BIRD SANCTUARY
§ 94.60 ESTABLISHMENT OF TOWN AS BIRD SANCTUARY.
   (A)   A city may by ordinance create and establish a bird sanctuary within
the city limits pursuant to G.S. § 160A-188. Although the Town of Elkin has had
signs posted for numerous years at town limits declaring the Town of Elkin to
be a bird sanctuary, there is no record of an ordinance being filed with the
North Carolina Department of Transportation. The Town of Elkin Board of
Commissioners finds that it is appropriate that a bird sanctuary within the
town limits be created. Therefore, a bird sanctuary is hereby created and
established within the town to conform to the corporate boundaries thereof.
   (B)   This section may not protect any birds classed as a pest under G.S.
Chapter 113, Art. 22A, and the Structural Pest Control Act of North Carolina of
1955 or the North Carolina Pesticide Law of 1971. When a bird sanctuary has
been established, it shall be unlawful for any person to hunt, kill, trap, or
otherwise take any protected birds within the town limits except pursuant to a
permit issued by the North Carolina Wildlife Resources Commission under G.S. §
113-274(c)(la) or under any other license or permit of the Wildlife Resources
Commission specifically made valid for use in taking birds within city limits.
   (C)   Protected birds shall be deemed to include all types and classes of
birds not designated as unprotected by the Wildlife Resources Commission or by
any law of the state.
(Ord. effective 5-13-2013)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   If any person(s) shall violate §§
94.01 through
94.11, he or she shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor and
shall be fined in an amount not to exceed $50 or imprisoned not exceeding 30
days as provided by G.S. § 14-4. Each day the violation continues to exist
shall be considered a separate offense.
   (C)   The violation of §§
94.25 through
94.28 shall constitute a misdemeanor punishable upon conviction by a fine not
exceeding $50 or by imprisonment not exceeding 30 days, as provided in G.S. §
14-4.
   (D)   Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of §§
94.40 through
94.48 shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not
exceeding $50 and/or imprisoned for not exceeding 30 days. Each day a person,
firm or corporation violates that subchapter shall be considered a separate
offense.
(Ord. eff. 8-4-1986; Ord. eff. 4-12-2004; Ord. eff. 10-10-2005)
CHAPTER 95: NUISANCES, SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT
Section
Weeds and Unlawful Conditions on Private Property
   
95.01   Unlawful conditions enumerated
   
95.02   Notice of violations
   
95.03   Failure to comply
   
95.04   Additional remedies
   
95.05   Adoption date
Unnecessary Noises
   
95.20   Unreasonably loud, disturbing and unnecessary noise prohibited
   
95.21   Examples
   
95.22   Noise measurement
Noises from Motor Vehicles
   
95.35   Loud, disturbing noises emanating from a motor vehicle prohibited
   
95.36   Operation of motor vehicle
   
95.37   Noise measurement
 
   
95.99   Penalty
WEEDS AND UNLAWFUL CONDITIONS ON PRIVATE PROPERTY
§ 95.01 UNLAWFUL CONDITIONS ENUMERATED.
   (A)   The following enumerated and described conditions, or any combination
thereof, are hereby found, deemed and declared to constitute a detriment,
danger and hazard to the health, safety, morals and general welfare of the
inhabitants of the corporate limits and are found, deemed and declared to be
public nuisances wherever the conditions may exist and the creation,
maintenance or failure to abate any nuisances is hereby declared unlawful:
      (1)   Any weeds or other vegetation having an overall height of more than
18 inches above the surrounding ground, provided that the following shall not
be considered to be a part of this condition: trees and ornamental shrubs;
cultured plants; natural vegetation on undeveloped property that is not a
threat to the character of surrounding properties; and flowers and growing and
producing vegetable plants;
      (2)   Any accumulation of trash and/or garbage which is the result of the
absence or of overflowing or improperly closed trash or garbage containers;
      (3)   Accumulation in an open place of hazardous or toxic materials and
chemicals;
      (4)   An open place of concentration of combustible items such as
mattresses, boxes, paper, automobile tires and tubes, garbage, trash, refuse,
brush, old clothes, rags or any other combustible materials or objects of a
like nature;
      (5)   Any accumulation of garbage, rubbish, trash or junk causing or
threatening to cause a fire hazard, or causing or threatening to cause the
accumulation of stagnant water, or causing or threatening to cause the
inhabitation therein of rats, mice, snakes, mosquitoes or vermin prejudicial to
the public health;
      (6)   Any accumulation of animal or vegetable matter that is offensive by
virtue of odors or vapors or by the inhabitance therein of rats, mice, snakes
or vermin of any kind which is or may be dangerous or prejudicial to the public
health;
      (7)   The open storage of any discarded ice box, furniture, refrigerator,
stove, glass, building materials, building rubbish or similar items;
      (8)   Any condition detrimental to the public health which violates the
rules and regulations of the Surry or Wilkes County Health Departments;
      (9)   Any building or other structure which has been burned, partially
burned or otherwise partially destroyed and which is unsightly or hazardous to
the safety of any person, is a continuing fire hazard or which is structurally
unsound to the extent that the Town Manager or his or her designee can
reasonably determine that there is a likelihood of personal or property injury
to any person or property entering the premises;
      (10)   Any condition which blocks, hinders or obstructs in any way the
natural flow of branches, streams, creeks, surface waters, ditches or drains,
to the extent that the premises is not free from standing water; and
      (11)   The outside or outdoors use of any furniture originally designed
or intended for interior use, such as but not limited to couches, sofas,
chairs, recliners or other like items.
   (B)   When any condition in violation of this section is found to exist, the
Code Administrator or such persons as may be designated by the Town Manager, or
the Town Manager himself or herself, shall give notice to the owner of the
premises to abate or remove such conditions within ten days. Such notice shall
be in writing, shall include a description of the premises sufficient for
identification and shall set forth the violation and state that, if the
violation is not corrected within ten days, the city may proceed to correct the
same as authorized by this section. Service of such notice shall be by any one
of the following methods.
      (1)   By delivery to any owner personally or by leaving the notice at the
usual place of abode of the owner with a person who is over the age of 16 years
and a member of the family of the owner.
      (2)   By depositing the notice in the United States Post Office addressed
to the owner at his last known address with postage prepaid thereon.
      (3)   By posting and keeping posted, for ten days, a copy of the notice,
in placard form, in a conspicuous place on the premises on which the violation
exists, when notice cannot be served by method (1) and (2).
   (C)   If the owner of any property fails to comply with a notice given
pursuant to this section within ten days after the service of such notice, he
shall be subject to prosecution for violation of this section in accordance
with law and each day that such failure continues shall be a separate offense.
In addition, the Town Manager, or his or her designee, may have the condition
described in the notice abated, removed or otherwise corrected and all expenses
incurred thereby shall be chargeable to and paid by the owner of the property
and shall be collected as taxes and levies are collected. All such expenses
shall constitute a lien against the property on which the work was done.
   (D)   The procedure set forth in this chapter shall be in addition to any
other remedies that may now or hereafter exist under law for the abatement of
public nuisances, and this chapter shall not prevent the town from proceeding
in a criminal action against any person, firm or corporation violating the
provisions of this chapter as provided in G.S. § 14-4.
   (E)   Repeat offense. Any violation reoccurring on the same property by the
same property owner more than once within a 12-month period shall be considered
a repeat offense provided the reoccurrence is a violation of the same
provision. A notice of the repeat violation shall be issued by the Code
Administrator or his or her designee and shall have a three day grace period
before the penalty is assessed. (See Town of Elkin Schedule of Fees.) A three
day warning period shall be granted, in that this provision applies only to
violations that occur more than once in a 12-month period and proper notice was
given for the initial violation as prescribed under this section. After this
three day period, for each day the repeat violation remains, the property owner
shall be subject to a civil penalty of (see Town of Elkin Schedule of Fees).
Should this repeat violation remain unabated after the seventh day from
notification of the repeat violation, the town shall seek to recover the
penalty together with all costs by filing a civil action in the General Court
of Justice in the nature of a suit to collect a debt. The collection of a
penalty pursuant hereto shall not foreclose further proceedings for penalties
coming due subsequent to the date of the filing of a prior proceeding. The
provisions of this section may also be enforced through any other appropriate
remedies as prescribed in the Nuisance Ordinance.
(Ord. eff. 9-8-2008; Ord. passed 4-14-2014) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.02 NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   When any condition in violation of this section is found to exist, the
Code Administrator or any persons as may be designated by the Town Manager, or
the Town Manager himself or herself shall give notice to the owner of the
premises to abate or remove the conditions within ten days. The notice shall be
in writing, shall include a description of the premises sufficient for
identification and shall set forth the violation and state that, if the
violation is not corrected within ten days, the town may proceed to correct the
same as authorized by this section.
   (B)   Service of the notice shall be by any one of the following methods:
      (1)   By delivery to any owner personally or by leaving the notice at the
usual place of abode of the owner with a person who is over the age of 16 years
and a member of the family of the owner;
      (2)   By depositing the notice in the United States Post Office addressed
to the owner at his or her last known address with postage prepaid thereon; or
      (3)   By posting and keeping posted, for ten days, a copy of the notice,
in placard form, in a conspicuous place on the premises on which the violation
exists, when notice cannot be served by method (B)(1) and (2).
(Ord. eff. 9-8-2008) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.03 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   If the owner of any property fails to comply with a notice given pursuant to
this section, within ten days after the service of the notice, he or she shall
be subject to prosecution for violation of this subchapter in accordance with
law, and each day that the failure continues shall be a separate offense. In
addition, the Town Manager, or his or her designee, may have the condition
described in the notice abated, removed or otherwise corrected and all expenses
incurred thereby shall be chargeable to and paid by the owner of the property
and shall be collected as taxes and levies are collected. All these expenses
shall constitute a lien against the property on which the work was done.
(Ord. eff. 9-8-2008) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.04 ADDITIONAL REMEDIES.
   The procedure set forth in this chapter shall be in addition to any other
remedies that may now or hereafter exist under law for the abatement of public
nuisances, and this chapter shall not prevent the town from proceeding in a
criminal action against any person, firm or corporation violating the
provisions of this chapter as provided in G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. eff. 9-8-2008) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.05 ADOPTION DATE.
   This subchapter was adopted on September 8, 2008.
(Ord. eff. 9-8-2008)
UNNECESSARY NOISES
§ 95.20 UNREASONABLY LOUD, DISTURBING AND UNNECESSARY NOISE PROHIBITED.
   Under and by virtue of the authority granted in the General Statutes,
subject to the provisions of this subchapter, the creation of any unreasonably
loud, disturbing and unnecessary noise in the town is prohibited. Any noise
which registers more than 60 dB(A) will be probable cause for a violation of
this subchapter. Noise of a character, intensity and duration as to be
detrimental to the life or health of any individual is prohibited.
(Ord. eff. 3-1-1997) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.21 EXAMPLES.
   The following acts among others are declared to be loud, disturbing and
unnecessary noises in violation of this provision, but this enumeration shall
not be deemed to be exclusive, namely:
   (A)   Blowing horns. The sounding of any horn, whistle or signals device on
any automobile, motorcycle, bus or other vehicle or railroad train except as a
danger signal or as required by law, so as to create any unreasonable, loud or
harsh sound or the sounding of the device for an unnecessary and unreasonable
period of time;
   (B)   Radios, record players and the like. The playing of any radio,
television set, record player, musical instrument or sound-producing or sound-
amplifying device in a manner or with such volume, particularly during hours
between 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or
repose of any person in any dwelling, hotel or other type of residence;
   (C)   Pets. The keeping of any animal or bird which, by causing frequent or
long continued noise, shall disturb the comfort and repose of any person in the
vicinity; and
   (D)   Use of vehicles. The use of any automobile, motorcycle or vehicle so
out of repair, so loaded or operated in a manner as to create loud or
unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling, screeching of tires or other noise.
(Ord. eff. 3-1-1997)
§ 95.22 NOISE MEASUREMENT.
   For the purpose of determined dB(A)s as referred to in this subchapter, the
noise shall be measured on the A-weighting scale on a sound level meter of
standard design and quality having characteristics established by the American
National Standards Institute.
(Ord. eff. 3-1-1997)
NOISES FROM MOTOR VEHICLES
§ 95.35 LOUD, DISTURBING NOISES EMANATING FROM A MOTOR VEHICLE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to create or assist in creating
any unreasonably loud and disturbing noise emanating from a motor vehicle.
   (B)   Any noise which registers more than 60 dB(A) will be probable cause
for a violation of this subchapter.
   (C)   The foregoing limitations on the operation of a motor vehicle shall
not apply to the operation of horns, sirens or other emergency warning devices
actually being used in emergency circumstances.
(Ord. eff. 3-1-1994) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.36 OPERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful to operate or allow the operation of any motor vehicle
in the town:
   (A)   Which has had its muffler-exhaust and/or other noise-control equipment
removed, altered or maintained in disrepair as to create unreasonable loud and
disturbing noises;
   (B)   By engaging in jackrabbit starts, spinning tires, racing engines or
other operations which create unreasonably loud and disturbing noises; or
   (C)   Off the boundaries of a public street for racing or other operations
which create unreasonably loud and disturbing noises.
(Ord. eff. 3-1-1994) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.37 NOISE MEASUREMENT.
   For the purpose of determined dB(A)s as referred to in this subchapter, the
noise shall be measured on the A-weighting scale on a sound level meter of
standard design and quality having characteristics established by the American
National Standards Institute.
(Ord. eff. 3-1-1994)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of §§
95.20 through
95.22, shall upon conviction be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished
in accordance with the provision of G.S. § 14-4.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of §§
95.35 through
95.37 shall upon conviction be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished in
accordance with the provisions of G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. eff. 3-1-1994; Ord. eff. 3-1-1997)
CHAPTER 96: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
96.001   Display of street addresses on all houses and business buildings;
required
Driveway Cuts
   
96.015   Purpose
   
96.016   Definitions
   
96.017   Procedures
   
96.018   Appeal process
   
96.019   Permit required
   
96.020   Presumption
   
96.021   Punishment
   
96.022   Adoption date
Construction of Streets and Sidewalks
   
96.035   Permit required for cutting of street or sidewalk
   
96.036   Application for permit
   
96.037   Adjustment of fee
   
96.038   Disposition of fees
   
96.039   Openings to be filled
Poles, Wires and Conduits  
   
96.055   Permits limited to single lines
   
96.056   By agreement, separate lines or wires on same poles
   
96.057   Care and inspection of poles
   
96.058   Use of poles and underground conduits for town purposes
Use of Streets
   
96.075   Storage or display of merchandise, goods, equipment or tools
prohibited
 
   
96.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 96.001 DISPLAY OF STREET ADDRESSES ON ALL HOUSES AND BUSINESS BUILDINGS;
REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every owner of property with a structure
thereon to affix to the structure and otherwise display the official street
number of the property at a conspicuous place, visible from the street on which
the property fronts. All street numbers shall be displayed numerically and no
display of street numbers shall be spelled.
   (B)   The official street number affixed on any house, building or other
structure located on improved property shall not be less than three inches in
height. However, the building number of any apartment, townhouse, condominium
or other multi-family facility shall not be less than six inches in height and
shall be placed in either the approximate center of the building or on the
street end of the building; provided, the number is easily visible from either
a public or private street, or from the parking lot which served the building
or facility.
   (C)   All official street numbers affixed on any house, building or
structure located on improved property except apartments, townhouses,
condominium complexes or other multi-family facilities, shall be maintained
within three feet of the front entrance and shall be easily visible and
readable. Official unit numbers, letters or other designations on individual
apartments, townhouses, condominiums or multi-family facilities shall not be
less than three inches in height and shall be displayed within three feet of
the front entrance of each unit.
   (D)   Where a house, building or structure located on improved property is
located more than 100 feet from the street on which the property fronts, or if
the topography of the property prohibits the numbers from being seen from the
street or regardless of the distance from the street, the assigned street
address also shall be posted near the driveway of the property and adjacent to
the street right-of-way. If a property owner has difficulty complying with this
subchapter due to topography of the building or structure or any unforseen
circumstance that may inhibit compliance with this subchapter, the property
owner shall contact the Chief of Police or his or her designate to render a
solution to the problem of compliance. The placement of the assigned street
numbers on the street curb is permissible but may not be used to meet the
requirements of this section.
   (E)   All displays of official street numbers shall be of a contrasting
color to the color of the house, building or structure located on the property,
and the displays shall be clearly visible when illuminated.
   (F)   Following the posting of the street address numbers as required, the
owner or occupant shall maintain the numbers at all times in accordance with
the above standards.
   (G)   Owners of all houses, buildings or other structures located on
improved property within the corporate limits of the town on the effective date
of this subchapter shall comply with the provisions contained herein within one
year following the adoption of this subchapter. Any house, building or
structure erected, or any display of a street number which is replaced or
altered after the effective date of this subchapter, shall comply with the
provisions contained in this section.
   (H)   The failure of any house, building or structure located on improved
property in the corporate limits of the town to have affixed thereto or
otherwise displayed the official street number of the property in accordance
with the standards contained in division (A) above is hereby declared to be a
nuisance. In addition to all other remedies provided by law, the Code
Enforcement Officer or his or her authorized representative shall have
authority to summarily abate, remove or remedy those conditions declared to be
nuisance by this section. A notice shall be sent to the owner of the property
containing any deficiencies.
   (I)   A property owner, upon receiving this notice, shall have 15 days to
correct the deficiencies listed therein. If any property owner shall fail,
neglect or refuse to correct the deficiencies, the Code Enforcement Officer or
his or her authorized representative shall have authority to remove and correct
them, including the removing of any unofficial number or number in violation of
division (A) above and the installation and proper display upon the property of
the official street number assigned thereto. The expense of the action shall be
paid by the person in default and, if not paid, shall be a lien upon the land
or premises where the deficiency arose, and shall be collected as unpaid taxes.
   (J)   This section was adopted on June 3, 1991.
(Ord. eff. 6-3-1991)
DRIVEWAY CUTS
§ 96.015 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose and intent of this subchapter to prevent damage to the
streets, curbs and sidewalks in the town and to regulate construction of new
driveways, streets, alleyways, parking areas and other land uses which require
driveway cuts.
(Ord. eff. 8-12-2002)
§ 96.016 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRIVEWAY CUT. A designated driving area connected to a driveway, street,
parking area, alleyway or other vehicle path to allow access to these areas by
motor vehicles.
   SIDEWALKS. A walking path provided and maintained for pedestrian traffic.
SIDEWALKS may be constructed from concrete, asphalt, brick, rock, stone, rock
dust or other building materials.
(Ord. eff. 8-12-2002)
§ 96.017 PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Prior to making a driveway cut, the owner of the property shall make
application to the Town Zoning Officer for a permit to construct a driveway cut
and/or to cross over a town sidewalk.
   (B)   The Zoning Officer shall review the application and may either grant
the permit or deny the permit based upon the following standards:
      (1)   Whether or not the property owner has at least one driveway cut to
his or her property;
      (2)   The nature and need for an additional driveway cut;
      (3)   The impact upon adjoining property owners;
      (4)   The number of driveway cuts existing along the street, including
the proximity of the driveway cuts to the proposed driveway cut; or
      (5)   Any impact upon traffic safety, including the proximity of the
proposed driveway cut to any street or alley intersections.
(Ord. eff. 8-12-2002)
§ 96.018 APPEAL PROCESS.
   The applying property owner who has been denied a driveway cut permit by the
Zoning Officer shall have the right to appeal the denial to the Town Board of
Adjustment within ten days of the date of the written denial by the Zoning
Officer.
(Ord. eff. 8-12-2002)
§ 96.019 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   From and after the effective date of this subchapter, it shall be unlawful
for any person to construct or make a driveway cut in the town without having
first obtained a permit for the driveway cut.
(Ord. eff. 8-12-2002)
§ 96.020 PRESUMPTION.
   Any driveway cut or damage to the street, curb or sidewalk caused by the
driveway cut shall raise a rebuttal presumption that the owner of the property
adjacent to the driveway cut was the person who made the driveway cut in
violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. eff. 8-12-2002)
§ 96.021 PUNISHMENT.
   A violation of this subchapter shall constitute a general misdemeanor
punishable by the payment of a fine as set forth in §
96.999.
(Ord. eff. 8-12-2002)
§ 96.022 ADOPTION DATE.
   This subchapter was adopted on August 12, 2002.
(Ord. eff. 8-12-2002)
CONSTRUCTION OF STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
§ 96.035 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR CUTTING OF STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   It shall be unlawful to make any opening in any street or sidewalk without a
permit therefor issued by the Public Works Director.
(1940 Code, Ch. R, Art. I, § 1) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.036 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Any person, firm or corporation, desiring to make any opening in any street
or sidewalk, shall make written application therefor which application shall
show the location of the proposed opening, the purpose thereof, and the
approximate number of square yards of surface to be cut. The application shall
be accompanied by the fee required by the next following section.
(1940 Code, Ch. R, Art. I, § 2)
§ 96.037 ADJUSTMENT OF FEE.
   If, when the opening is being made, it appears that the number of square
yards of surface to be cut is greater than is shown by the application, the
applicant shall immediately pay the remainder of the fee due the town. If, when
the opening is completed, the number of square yards of surface actually cut
varies from the number for which the fee was paid, the proper adjustment shall
immediately be made by the applicant or by the town.
(1940 Code, Ch. R, Art. I, § 4)
§ 96.038 DISPOSITION OF FEES.
   All fees collected under the provisions of this subchapter shall be paid
into the General Fund.
(1940 Code, Ch. R, Art. I, § 5)
§ 96.039 OPENINGS TO BE FILLED.
   All openings made in any public street, alley or sidewalk under the
provisions of this subchapter shall immediately upon the accomplishment of the
purpose for which the same was made, be completely filled up, and the surface
thereof shall be made flush with the adjacent surface of the street. Any hard
surface removed will be replaced by the person removing or causing same to be
removed. Every day during which the opening remains unfilled in violation of
the provisions of this section shall constitute a separate offense.
(1940 Code, Ch. R, Art. I, § 6) Penalty, see §
96.999
POLES, WIRES AND CONDUITS
§ 96.055 PERMITS LIMITED TO SINGLE LINES.
   No permit shall be issued for the erection of poles on a street where there
is already a line of poles on the street for the purpose of supporting
electric, telegraph or telephone wires.
(1940 Code, Ch. R, Art. II, § 2)
§ 96.056 BY AGREEMENT, SEPARATE LINES OR WIRES ON SAME POLES.
   Whenever any telephone or telegraph company shall desire to place wires
along any street upon which it does not have a line of poles, and there are
poles along the street owned by another company, then the companies may
maintain their wires upon the same poles. If an agreement cannot be reached
between the company owning the line of poles and the company desiring to use
the poles, then the companies may submit the question of compensation and other
pertinent matters in controversy to three disinterested persons for
arbitration, or they may submit the matter to the Board of Commissioners. This
section shall apply to poles owned by the town as well as to companies
operating under franchise from the town.
(1940 Code, Ch. R, Art. II, § 3)
§ 96.057 CARE AND INSPECTION OF POLES.
   It shall be the duty of the owners of all poles supporting telephone or
telegraph wires to keep the poles in safe condition and for that purpose to
inspect the same once every three months.
(1940 Code, Ch. R, Art. II, § 4)
§ 96.058 USE OF POLES AND UNDERGROUND CONDUITS FOR TOWN PURPOSES.
   One duct in all underground conduit systems shall be provided for the use of
the town free of charge, and the town shall have the use of any and all poles
on streets for police and fire alarm telegraph systems.
(1940 Code, Ch. R, Art. II, § 5)
USE OF STREETS
§ 96.075 STORAGE OR DISPLAY OF MERCHANDISE OR OTHER GOODS, EQUIPMENT OR TOOLS
PROHIBITED.
   Under and by virtue of the authority granted in G.S. § 160A-296 of granting
municipalities the power to regulate vehicular traffic upon public streets
within the corporate limits, it shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to display or cause to be displayed; to store or cause to be
stored; to place or cause to be placed; to park or cause to be parked; to
locate or cause to be located; to relocate or cause to be relocated; to exhibit
or cause to be exhibited on any public street of the town, any merchandise,
goods, equipment, tools, produce or other items for sale or not for sale.
(Ord. eff. 10-11-1972) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   A violation of §§
96.015 through
96.022 shall constitute a general misdemeanor punishable by the payment of a
fine not exceeding $500 or imprisonment not exceeding 30 days pursuant to G.S.
§ 14-4. In addition to the criminal violation, the town may institute an
appropriate action in the District Court of Surry County asking the Court to
enjoin the owners’ use of the unlawful driveway cut and in addition thereto,
the town may seek damages for the full costs of repairing any damages to the
street curb and/or sidewalk caused by the unlawful driveway cut.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of §
96.075, shall upon conviction be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished
in accordance with the provisions of G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. eff. 10-11-1972; Ord. eff. 8-12-2002)
CHAPTER 97: CEMETERIES
Section
General
   
97.001   Superintendent; appointment, duties generally
   
97.002   Control of cemeteries
   
97.003   Promulgation and enforcement of rules
   
97.004   Superintendent a special policeman to eject violators
   
97.005   When burials prohibited
   
97.006   When open to public
   
97.007   Entering cemetery after closing hours
   
97.008   Advertisements, posters and the like
   
97.009   Trucks and wagons forbidden
   
97.010   Riding of bicycles, horses and motorcycles prohibited
   
97.011   Driving on roads; speed limit
   
97.012   Parking
   
97.013   Firearms
   
97.014   Disturbances
   
97.015   Defacing or removing property generally; flowers and the like
   
97.016   Defacing or removing monuments and the like
   
97.017   Dogs and fowl
   
97.018   Grave mounds; permanent boxes, urns and the like on grave plots
   
97.019   Trees, shrubs, other plants, floral arrangements; planting and removal
   
97.020   Removal or pruning when plants detrimental
   
97.021   Removal of non-conforming or unsightly flowers
   
97.022   Number of floral arrangements allowed during certain period; exception
   
97.023   Interment; notice
   
97.024   Interment records to be kept
Monuments, Mausoleums, Markers, Coping and the Like
   
97.040   Monument specifications; foundations
   
97.041   Mausoleum locations; specifications; foundations
   
97.042   Markers; placement; specifications
   
97.043   Markers to be at grade level
   
97.044   Erection of objectionable monuments and the like, prohibited; removal
of damaged and the like
   
97.045   Enclosures around lot or grave spaces
Sale of Lots or Plots
   
97.060   Charges for cemetery lots
   
97.061   Cash sales
   
97.062   Further provisions as to sale to non-residents
   
97.063   Sales to corporations and business concerns
   
97.064   Speculation prohibited
   
97.065   Limitation on number of lots a person may purchase
   
97.066   Procedure for transfer
Definitions
   
97.080   Definitions
 
   
97.999   Penalties
GENERAL
§ 97.001 SUPERINTENDENT; APPOINTMENT, DUTIES GENERALLY.
   There shall be a Superintendent of the Town Cemetery who shall be appointed
by the Town Manager. The Superintendent shall perform all the duties prescribed
herein and such other duties as may be assigned him by the Town Manager.
(Ord. 2017-03-0462, eff. - -)
§ 97.002 CONTROL OF CEMETERIES.
   The Town Manager, through the Superintendent, shall have absolute charge of
the city cemetery with authority to enforce all ordinances, rules, and
regulations, relating to the cemetery; shall have the same kept in good order,
and shall superintend the digging of all graves, and all interments and
disinterment's.
(Ord. 2017-03-0462, eff. - -)
§ 97.003 PROMULGATION AND ENFORCEMENT OF RULES.
   The Town Manager is authorized, subject to approval of the Town Board of
Commissioners, to make and carry out and enforce suitable rules and regulations
for the operation and maintenance of the city cemetery not inconsistent with
this chapter. It shall be unlawful for any person to fail, neglect, or refuse
to comply with such rules.
(Ord. 2017-03-0462, eff. - -)
§ 97.004 SUPERINTENDENT A SPECIAL POLICEMEN TO EJECT VIOLATORS.
   The Superintendent may be sworn as a special policeman with full power to
arrest intruders and depredators, and any person willfully violating any of the
cemetery rules or regulations or ordinances may be ejected from the grounds by
the Superintendent.
(Ord. 2017-03-0462, eff. - -)
§ 97.005 WHEN BURIALS PROHIBITED.
   Burials are prohibited in the Town Cemetery on Easter Day and Christmas Day.
(Ord. 2017-03-0462, eff. - -)
§ 97.006 WHEN OPEN TO PUBLIC.
   The Town Cemetery shall remain open to the public from 7:30 a.m. to Sunset;
provided, that the Town Manager may order the same closed during an emergency
when in his opinion an emergency exists as to require such closing.
(Ord. 2017-03-0462, eff. - -)
§ 97.007 ENTERING CEMETERY AFTER CLOSING HOURS.
   No person shall enter the Town Cemetery except during the hours in which
they are open to the public as set forth herein, except upon written permission
first granted by the Town Manager or the Superintendent.
(Ord. 2017-03-0462, eff. - -)
§ 97.008 ADVERTISEMENTS, POSTERS, AND THE LIKE.
   No advertising of any description shall be permitted within any of the Town
Cemetery. No bills, posters, place-cards, pictures or any other like or similar
device shall be attached or posted on either the inside or outside of any wall
or fence enclosing the Town Cemetery.
(Ord. 2017-03-0462, eff. - -)
§ 97.009 TRUCKS AND WAGONS FORBIDDEN.
   Commercial trucks and wagons, except those engaged in cemetery business
shall be permitted inside the gates of the Town Cemetery.
(Ord. 2017-03-0462, eff. - -)
§ 97.010 RIDING OF BICYCLES, HORSES AND MOTORCYCLES PROHIBITED.
   Horseback riding and the riding of bicycles or motorcycles are hereby
prohibited in the Town Cemetery.
(Ord. 2017-03-0462, eff. - -)
§ 97.011 DRIVING ON ROADS; SPEED LIMIT.
   No person shall drive a vehicle on any part of the grounds of the Town
Cemetery except upon the main roads and avenues provided therein for vehicular
traffic. The speed of vehicles in the cemetery shall not exceed ten miles per
hour.
(Ord. 2017-03-0462, eff. - -)
§ 97.012 PARKING.
   No person shall park or cause to remain parked any vehicle within any
cemetery of the city unless engage in attendance at burial service or otherwise
engaged in activities which call for the presence of such vehicle within the
cemetery.
(Ord. 2017-03-0462, eff. - -)
§ 97.013 FIREARMS.
   Except in the case of military funerals and veterans or military
commemorative exercises, it shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to
carry firearms into the Town Cemetery.
(Ord. 2017-03-0462, eff. - -)
§ 97.014 DISTURBANCES.
   Any person disturbing the quite and good order of the Town Cemetery by
unnecessary noise of any kind or by any other improper conduct may be ejected
from the grounds. Any person refusing to leave the cemetery when notified to do
so for any disturbance, improper conduct or other violation of any of the
regulations or ordinances concerning such cemetery shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2017-03-0462, eff. - -)
§ 97.015 DEFACING OR REMOVING PROPERTY GENERALLY; FLOWERS AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in any way to disturb any grave; deface,
pull up or remove anything put or placed to mark a grave, or any wall fence or
enclosure around a grave, or any flowers, shrubs, or trees on any cemetery lot
or elsewhere in the cemetery; provided, that the same shall not be a violation
if done in compliance with the rules and ordinances pertaining to the
cemeteries under a permit duly granted by the Town Manager or the
Superintendent.
(Ord. 2017-03-0462, eff. - -)
§ 97.016 DEFACING OR REMOVING MONUMENTS AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, willfully and without authority to
defile, deface, desecrate, place any mark upon or otherwise injure any
monument, headstone or marker contained in any cemetery duly and lawfully
maintained.
(Ord. 2017-03-0462, eff. - -)
§ 97.017 DOGS AND FOWL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow his dog or other animal or fowl
to enter the Town Cemetery, and all dogs and fowl found within the enclosures
or grounds of any city cemetery shall be impounded.
(Ord. 2017-03-0462, eff. - -)
§ 97.018 GRAVE MOUNDS; PERMANENT BOXES, URNS, AND THE LIKE ON GRAVE PLOTS.
   No grave mounds will be permitted in the cemetery, nor shall the placing of
any permanent boxes, urns, metal ornaments, seats or similar items be permitted
upon any grave or plot within the cemetery.
(Ord. 2017-03-0462, eff. - -)
§ 97.019 TREES, SHRUBS, OTHER PLANTS, FLORAL ARRANGEMENTS; PLANTING AND
REMOVAL.
   No trees, shrubs or plants shall be planted in, pruned, or removed from the
Town Cemetery without the consent and written approval of the Town Manager or
the Superintendent. The Town Manager or the Superintendent shall have authority
to prune, remove or transplant any tree shrub, plant or other growth necessary
for the general beauty, welfare, and best interest of the cemetery.
(Ord. 2017-03-0462, eff. - -)
§ 97.020 REMOVAL OR PRUNING WHEN PLANTS DETRIMENTAL.
   If any trees, shrubs, or other plants situated in any lot shall, by means of
their encroaching roots or branches, become detrimental to the adjacent lots,
driveways or walks, the Superintendent is authorized and empowered to enter
onto lot and remove or trim any trees or shrubs that have become objectionable.
(Ord. 2017-03-0462, eff. - -)
§ 97.021 REMOVAL OF NON-CONFORMING OR UNSIGHTLY FLOWERS.
   The Superintendent shall have the authority to remove all floral design,
flowers, weeds, plants and herbage of any kind from the cemeteries as soon as,
in his judgment, they become unsightly or do not conform to the standards.
(Ord. 2017-03-0462, eff. - -)
§ 97.022 NUMBER OF FLORAL ARRANGEMENTS ALLOWED DURING CERTAIN PERIOD;
EXCEPTION.
   Between March 1 and November 1, more than one floral design or floral
arrangement per grave is prohibited in the Town Cemetery, except for a period
of seven days following interment.
(Ord. 2017-03-0462, eff. - -)
§ 97.023 INTERMENT; NOTICE.
   Notice of an interment in town cemeteries must be given to the
Superintendent not less than 12 hours in advance, at which time the precise
location for the interment must be given. However, if the interment should
occur on a Sunday or on a holiday observed by the town, the notice of
internment should be given to the Superintendent not later than 5:00 p.m. the
preceding day. The company performing the interment shall notify the
Superintendent of the date, plot number and the location within the lot of the
interment. All owners, individuals or funeral services must complete, in full,
the Interment Authorization Form. This form shall be provided to the town prior
to the burial.
(Ord. 2017-03-0462, eff. - -)
§ 97.024 RECORDS TO BE KEPT.
   Suitable books shall be provided and kept for entries by the Superintendent
of interments in the Town Cemetery. Such entries shall contain the name, age,
sex, date of death and date or burial of every person in the Town Cemetery.
MONUMENTS, MAUSOLEUMS, MARKERS, COPING AND THE LIKE
§ 97.040 MONUMENT SPECIFICATIONS; FOUNDATIONS.
   The requirements as to monuments in the Town Cemetery shall be as follows:
   (A)   No monument shall be placed or erected on any lot having fewer than
two grave lots, nor shall more than one monument be placed on any one lot. The
location of all monuments shall be subject to prior, written approval of the
cemetery Superintendent. Application for placement must be filed five working
days prior to approval and/or placement.
   (B)   No monument shall be placed or erected which shall have a face area
greater than 28 square feet, nor a width greater than five and one-half feet.
   (C)   No monument shall be placed or erected on any lot unless such monument
shall be a minimum of two feet in height, not including base, two feet in width
and eight inches thick, provided, that the Superintendent may authorize
reasonable exception within old sections (A-K, 1934,1957 and 1967) of Hollywood
Cemetery.
   (D)   All monuments shall be constructed of first quality granite or marble
only.
   (E)   The foundations for all monuments shall be of solid masonry concrete
and columns of sufficient number to sustain the weight of the monument. All
foundations for monuments must be laid not less than two and one-half feet
below the grade of the lot. The area at the top of such foundations must be at
least equal to that of the base of the superstructure. The mixture of concrete
shall be a 1-2-4 mix. Foundations shall be constructed by the monument company
under the specifications set out above at the expense of the owner/company.
   (F)   The owner of monument and other memorial structures shall keep them in
good repair, and any structure found to be unsightly and in dilapidated
condition may be removed by the town.
(Ord. 2017-03-0462, eff. - -)
§ 97.041 MAUSOLEUM LOCATIONS; SPECIFICATIONS; FOUNDATIONS.
   The requirements as to mausoleums in the Town Cemetery shall be as follows:
   (A)   No mausoleums shall be erected in the cemetery, except upon lots
specifically designated by the Superintendent for that purpose.
   (B)   No mausoleum shall be erected on any lot within the Town Cemetery
until complete specifications and plans have been submitted to the cemetery
Superintendent for approval and permit issued therefore.
   (C)   Mausoleums shall be constructed to specifications of the Town Engineer
by a private contractor under the direction of the Superintendent, and at the
expense of the owner. Foundations shall not ordinarily be less than six feet
deep unless specifically authorized by the Superintendent.
(Ord. 2017-03-0462, eff. - -)
§ 97.042 MARKERS; PLACEMENT; SPECIFICATIONS.
   The requirements as to markers in the town cemeteries shall be as follows:
   (A)   No more than one marker may be placed on any grave, and in turn, no
more than one grave may be embraced by any one marker within the Town Cemetery.
   (B)   All markers which shall be placed on any grave within the city
cemetery shall be 12 inches in width, 24 inches in length, and six inches in
thickness. Any standard markers furnished to the family of any deceased veteran
by the government of the United States, and which may not be within the
specifications specified herein, are excepted from said specifications and may
be placed on the grave of any deceased veteran.
   (C)   All grave markers shall be constructed of first quality granite or
marble, or of bronze.
   (D)   All granite or marble markers shall be installed so the face is flush
to the ground and the excavated area around the marble shall be backfilled with
sod from the excavated area.
   (E)   Bronze markers shall be of a size 12 inches wide and 24 inches long. A
vase of bronze may be attached as part of the marker, as long as the dimensions
of the vase shall not be included in the overall dimensions of the marker.
Bronze markers shall be installed in a concrete base so as to lie flush with
the ground.
(Ord. 2017-03-0462, eff. - -)
§ 97.043 MARKERS TO BE AT GRADE LEVEL.
   There shall be a four-inch concrete "Skirt" around all stones installed
(Head stones, foot stones. Corner stones, monuments) with said "skirt"
installed and maintained flush and level with surrounding ground.
(Ord. 2017-03-0462, eff. - -)
§ 97.044 ERECTION OF OBJECTIONABLE MONUMENTS AND THE LIKE, PROHIBITED; REMOVAL
OF DAMAGED AND THE LIKE.
   The town reserves the right to refuse or prohibit the erection or placing of
any monument, marker or mausoleum if in the judgment of the Superintendent such
memorial is objectionable in design, or is faulty constructed, or is made of
inferior materials, or is not in compliance with cemetery rules and regulations
governing same, and further reserves the right to remove monuments which in the
judgment of the Superintendent are damaged or deteriorated beyond use.
(Ord. 2017-03-0462, eff. - -)
§ 97.045 ENCLOSURES AROUND LOT OR GRAVE SPACES.
   No coping, curbing, fencing, planting, or enclosures of any kind shall be
permitted around any lot or grave space within the Town Cemetery.
(Ord. 2017-03-0462, eff. - -)
SALE OF LOTS OR PLOTS
§ 97.060 CHARGES FOR CEMETERY LOTS.
   The charges for a cemetery lot shall be available upon request from Town
Hall or the Superintendent. Applicable recording fees shall be paid by
purchaser, in addition to purchase price, at time of purchase.
(Ord. 2017-03-0462, eff. - -)
§ 97.061 CASH SALES.
   Persons desiring to purchase plots in the city cemetery shall file an
application of purchase (available at Town Hall) so the Superintendent may set
an appointment with the purchaser to lay off the plot in question and require
an immediate cash payment according to the charges established by the City
Council. On payment of the required sum, the Superintendent shall issue a
certificate to the purchaser of such lot or plot specifying the same and the
price thereof. Upon presentation of such certificate to the Town Clerk a deed
shall be made out and executed. A copy of such deed shall be delivered to the
purchaser and a copy shall be kept by the Town Clerk in a book to be kept in
his office for that purpose.
(Ord. 2017-03-0462, eff. - -)
§ 97.062 FURTHER PROVISIONS AS TO SALE TO NON-RESIDENTS.
   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, the purchase price of
cemetery lots are hereby fixed by the Town Board of Commissioners at a price at
least 50% higher to persons residing outside the corporate limits of the town
than to persons residing within the corporate limits of the town, irrespective
of ownership of property within the town.
(Ord. 2017-03-0462, eff. - -)
§ 97.063 SALES TO CORPORATIONS AND BUSINESS CONCERNS.
   Sales of cemetery lots to any corporation or to business concerns are hereby
expressly forbidden.
(Ord. 2017-03-0462, eff. - -)
§ 97.064 SPECULATION PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to buy or
otherwise acquire any city cemetery lot or burial space for the purpose of
speculation or sale.
(Ord. 2017-03-0462, eff. - -)
§ 97.065 LIMITATION OF NUMBER OF LOTS A PERSON MAY PURCHASE.
   No natural person shall be entitled to purchase more than two Town Cemetery
lots except where there are unusual and extraordinary circumstances surrounding
the particular situation making it necessary that he have more than two, and in
such latter case only when he has applied for and received the specific
approval of the Superintendent. Lots shall be sold in groups of two or four and
when four are purchased they shall be in the surveyed area of nine feet by 21
feet.
(Ord. 2017-03-0462, eff. - -)
§ 97.066 PROCEDURE FOR TRANSFER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or transfer any lot in the city
cemetery without first obtaining the consent and approval of the
Superintendent. A copy of the new deed shall be returned to the Town Hall for
appropriate recording.
(Ord. 2017-03-0462, eff. - -)
DEFINITIONS
§ 97.080 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PLOT. A four-grave surveyed area of ground measuring nine feet wide by 21
feet long or a two-grave surveyed area of ground measuring nine feet wide by
ten and one-half feet long. Length is measured in an East/West direction.
   LOT. Each burial space within a designated plot measuring approximately four
and one-half feet long by ten and one-half feet long.
   MONUMENT. Shall be the only above ground structure located on a grave lot
typically identifying a family or families.
   MARKER. Shall be the single stone placed to identify a particular individual
buried in a plot within a lot.
(Ord. 2017-03-0462, eff. - -)
§ 97.999 PENALTIES.
   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of this chapter,
shall upon conviction be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished in
accordance with the provisions of G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. 2017-03-0462, eff. - -)
CHAPTER 98: ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
   
98.01   Placement of visually monitored alarms
   
98.02   Notification of police by private company
   
98.03   Automatic dialing system
   
98.04   Accurate operation; no liability
   
98.05   Accidental or false burglar alarm; charge
   
98.06   Accidental or false fire alarm; cost
   
98.07   Failure to pay
§ 98.01 PLACEMENT OF VISUALLY MONITORED ALARMS.
   Beginning August 5, 1997, the Town Police Department will no longer allow
visually monitored burglar, hold-up or fire alarms to be placed within the
communications room of the Town Police Department.
(Ord. eff. 8-5-1997)
§ 98.02 NOTIFICATION OF POLICE BY PRIVATE COMPANY.
   Persons, firms and corporations located within the town limits who employ a
private security alarm company must instruct the security company to contact
the Town Police Department by telephone, in the event of an alarm being
activated.
(Ord. eff. 8-5-1997)
§ 98.03 AUTOMATIC DIALING SYSTEM.
   (A)   If a person, firm or corporation located within the town limits
installs an automatic dialing alarm system on his, her or their property, which
is designed to contact the Town Police or Fire Department by telephone in the
event the alarm is activated, he, she or they must notify the Chief of Police
prior to the activation of the alarm system.
   (B)   All automatic burglar, hold-up and fire dialing alarm systems must be
installed in such a manner that the recorded alarm signals will dial 911. The
Town Police Department telecommunicator will use reasonable diligence to
dispatch all burglar, hold-up or fire alarms immediately after they are
received.
(Ord. eff. 8-5-1997)
§ 98.04 ACCURATE OPERATION; NO LIABILITY.
   (A)   The town or the Town Police Department assumes no liability in
connection with a default of any fire, hold-up or burglar alarm system
installed by any person, firm or corporation or any action or failure of action
on the part of town or any of town employees.
   (B)   The accurate operation of an alarm is totally the responsibility of
the person, firm or corporation which owns the alarm system.
(Ord. eff. 8-5-1997)
§ 98.05 ACCIDENTAL OR FALSE BURGLAR ALARM; CHARGE.
   If a burglar or hold-up alarm is set off accidentally or is false, a $25
charge will be assessed against the person, firm or corporation that owns or is
responsible for the operation of the alarm and that amount shall be paid to the
town.
(Ord. eff. 8-5-1997)
§ 98.06 ACCIDENTAL OR FALSE FIRE ALARM; COST.
   If a false or accidental fire alarm is dispatched and the firefighting
personnel are dispatched, it will be the responsibility of the person, firm or
corporation that owns or is responsible for the operation of the alarm to pay
to the town the expense incurred by the town. The major expense in this case
will be to pay the volunteer firefighters at the town’s current rate of pay and
Fire Department vehicle operation.
(Ord. eff. 8-5-1997)
§ 98.07 FAILURE TO PAY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who fails to pay to the town the service
charge for false alarm services within 30 days from written notice by the town
may have the service charge assessed against his, her or its real property. No
business license will be issued or renewed while the service charge is
considered delinquent. As an alternative to collecting the charges as an
assessment, the town may elect to collect the charges by civil action.
(Ord. eff. 8-5-1997)
CHAPTER 99: PUBLIC LIBRARY
Section
   
99.01   Library established
   
99.02   Donations
   
99.03   Title of property
   
99.04   Use to be free
§ 99.01 LIBRARY ESTABLISHED.
   Pursuant to the authority granted by G.S. 153A-263, there is hereby
established a free public library in the town, to be known as the “Elkin Public
Library,” and which shall be supported only by gifts and appropriation of
nontax revenue available for that purpose, unless under statutory authority, an
election is requested or called, and held, at which the voters authorize the
levy of a special tax for library purposes.
(Ord. eff. 2-7-1966)
§ 99.02 DONATIONS.
   With the consent of the Board of Commissioners, expressed in each case by an
appropriate resolution or ordinance, the Library Board of Trustees may accept
any gift, grant, devise or bequest made or offered by any person for library
purposes and may carry out the conditions of the donations.
(Ord. eff. 2-7-1966)
§ 99.03 TITLE OF PROPERTY.
   Title to all property given, granted or conveyed, donated, devised or
bequeathed to, or otherwise acquired by the town for a library shall vest in
and be held in the name of the town, and any conveyance, grant, donation,
devise, bequest or gift to or in the name of the Library Board of Trustees
shall be deemed to have been made directly to the town.
(Ord. eff. 2-7-1966)
§ 99.04 USE TO BE FREE.
   The use of the public library hereinbefore created and established shall be
forever free to the inhabitants of the town, subject to reasonable rules and
regulations as may be adopted by the Library Board of Trustees and approved by
the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. eff. 2-7-1966)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS LICENSING
      
111.   BEGGING, SOLICITING AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
      
112.   RESIDENTIAL SALES
      
113.   CABLE TELEVISION SERVICES
      
114.   FOOD SERVICE
      
115.   COMMERCIAL, OPEN AIR, ACCESSORY SALES AND LIMITED DURATION EVENTS
      
116.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS LICENSING
Section
License Taxes
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   License tax upon certain trades and business operations
   
110.03   Unlawful to conduct business without a license
   
110.04   Duration of license tax
   
110.05   License required for every separate business
   
110.06   License required for every place of business
   
110.07   Display of license required; exception
   
110.08   No abatement of license tax
   
110.09   When due; late penalty
   
110.10   Conflicts
   
110.11   Adoption date
Special Events
   
110.25   Nondiscrimination
   
110.26   Definitions
   
110.27   Allowance of special event upon issuance of a permit
   
110.28   Approval of applications
   
110.29   Considerations for special event permit requests
   
110.30   Sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages
   
110.31   Firearms
   
110.32   Application fee
 
   
110.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Schedule of License Taxes
LICENSE TAXES
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENT. The person having the agency for the manufacturer, producer or
distributor.
   BUSINESS. Any business, trade, occupation, profession, avocation or calling
of any kind, subject, by the provision of this subchapter, to a license tax.
   ENGAGED IN THE BUSINESS. Engaged in the business as owner or operator.
   FISCAL YEAR. The period beginning with July 1 and ending with June 30 next
following.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, company or corporation.
   QUARTER. Any three consecutive months.
(Ord. eff. 7-1-2001)
§ 110.02 LICENSE TAX UPON CERTAIN TRADES AND BUSINESS OPERATIONS.
   In addition to the tax on property and poles, as otherwise provided for, and
under the power and authority conferred in the laws of this state, there shall
be levied and collected annually, or more often, where provided for, a
privilege license tax on trades, professions, agencies, business operations,
exhibitions, circuses and all subjects authorized to be licensed, as set out in
the following sections and schedule in Appendix A. All licenses shall be a
personal privilege and shall not be transferable. Nothing herein contained
shall be construed to prevent the Board of Commissioners from imposing from
time to time, as they may see fit, any license taxes as are not specifically
herein defined, or from increasing or decreasing the amount of any special
license tax, or from prohibiting or regulating the business or acts licensed,
and all licenses are granted subject to the provisions of existing ordinances
for those thereafter enacted.
(Ord. eff. 7-1-2001)
§ 110.03 UNLAWFUL TO CONDUCT BUSINESS WITHOUT A LICENSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or his or her agent or servant to engage
in or carry on a business in the town for which there is required a license,
without first having paid the license tax and obtained the license. For the
purpose of this section, the opening of a place of business, or offering to
sell, followed by a single sale or the doing of any act or thing in furtherance
of the business shall be construed to be ENGAGING IN OR CARRYING ON THE
BUSINESS; and each day that the person, firm or corporation shall engage in or
carry on the business as aforesaid, shall be construed to be a separate
offense.
(Ord. eff. 7-1-2001) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04 DURATION OF LICENSE TAX.
   All taxes provided for and fixed in the following sections and schedule
shall be for 12 months, unless otherwise specified.
(Ord. eff. 7-1-2001)
§ 110.05 LICENSE REQUIRED FOR EVERY SEPARATE BUSINESS.
   The payment of any particular tax imposed by this subchapter shall not
relieve the person paying the same from any other tax imposed by this
subchapter for any other business he or she may carry on, unless so provided by
the section imposing the tax; it being the intent of this subchapter that
license taxes prescribed by various sections or subsections of this subchapter
applicable to any business shall be cumulative except where otherwise
specifically provided.
(Ord. eff. 7-1-2001)
§ 110.06 LICENSE REQUIRED FOR EVERY PLACE OF BUSINESS.
   A license issued for the privilege of conducting a business is only valid
for the business conducted at the place and by the licensee named therein.
Every person doing business in more than one factory, mill, warehouse, store,
stand or other place of business shall secure a separate license for each place
of business, unless the places of business are contiguous to each other,
communicate directly with and open into each other, and are operated as a unit.
If the business is moved or if the licensee sells to another, then a new
license is necessary, unless a special permit to continue business under the
original license is obtained from the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. eff. 7-1-2001)
§ 110.07 DISPLAY OF LICENSE REQUIRED; EXCEPTION.
   Every license must be kept prominently displayed at the place of business of
the licensee named in the license, or, if the licensee has no fixed place of
business, the licensee must keep the same whatever the business is being
operated and where it can be inspected at any time by the proper municipal
official.
(Ord. eff. 7-1-2001)
§ 110.08 NO ABATEMENT OF LICENSE TAX.
   No license tax shall be abated, nor shall any refund of any part thereof be
made, in any case where the licensee discontinues his or her business before
the end of the period for which the license was issued.
(Ord. eff. 7-1-2001)
§ 110.09 WHEN DUE; LATE PENALTY.
   All license taxes imposed by this subchapter shall be due and payable to the
Town Clerk on or before July 1 or at the date of engaging in the business,
trade, employment or profession, or doing the act, and after that date shall be
subject to a penalty of 5% for each 30 days that the tax remains unpaid, in
addition to other pains and penalties which may be imposed for continuing or
engaging in business without the required license.
(Ord. eff. 7-1-2001)
§ 110.10 CONFLICTS.
   All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with this subchapter are
hereby repealed; provided that the repeal shall in no way affect any rights
heretofore acquired for the collection of any tax heretofore levied or assessed
or the validity of any sales for taxes heretofore made or any rights heretofore
acquired under any ordinance of the town.
(Ord. eff. 7-1-2001)
§ 110.11 ADOPTION DATE.
   This subchapter was read, approved and adopted on June 11, 2001.
(Ord. eff. 7-1-2001)
SPECIAL EVENTS
§ 110.25 NONDISCRIMINATION.
   The Chief of Police shall uniformly consider each application upon its
merits and shall not discriminate in granting or denying a permit under this
subchapter based upon political, religious, ethnic, race, disability, sexual
orientation or gender-related grounds.
(Ord. eff. 6-12-2010)
§ 110.26 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. The person that represents the sponsor and that will complete,
sign, take responsibility for and have notarized the event application.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The Chief of Police of the town, or his or her designee.
   CITY LIMITS. Any area within the incorporated limits of the town.
   DEMONSTRATION. Any demonstration, picketing, pamphleteering, leafletting,
march or other event organized or held primarily for purposes associated with
the First Amendment of the U.S. Constitution. This term shall not include
purely commercial speech or for-profit events.
   FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT. An establishment engaged in the business of
regularly selling food, customarily but not exclusively to be eaten on the
premises, including businesses that are commonly referred to as restaurants,
cafés, grills and other establishments that have a food counter where food is
sold.
   MALT BEVERAGE. Any beer, lager, malt liquor, ale, porter, or any other
brewed or fermented beverage containing at least 0.5%.
   OPEN CONTAINER. A container whose seal has been broken or a container other
than the manufacturer’s unopened original container.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Public streets, sidewalks and rights-of-way of public streets,
parking lots, alleys and any other town-owned property that is open to the
general public (i.e., any property that is a part of the Town Recreation and
Parks System).
   SIDEWALK. Any area or way set aside or open to the general public for
purposes of pedestrian traffic, regardless of its construction (i.e., paved
asphalt, concrete, rock dust, dirt or other construction types).
   SPECIAL EVENT. Includes but is not limited to parades, festivals,
demonstrations, blocking streets or any other assemblies where two or more
people are gathered together and the event is open to the general public,
excluding family reunions and birthday parties of less than 100 people.
   SPONSOR. Any group, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company,
school or organization of any kind that is sponsoring the event.
   STREET. Any place or way set aside or open to the general public for
purposes of vehicular traffic, including any right-of-way or median strip
thereof and is maintained by the town or the State Department of
Transportation; and all public vehicular areas and parking lots both private
and public.
   TOWN. The Town of Elkin.
   TOWN PROPERTY. Any property owned, leased or occupied by the town.
   UNFORTIFIED WINE. Wine that has an alcoholic content produced only by
natural fermentation by the addition of pure cane, beet or dextrose sugar, and
that has an alcoholic content of not more than 17% alcohol by volume.
   WINERY.  An establishment regularly engaged in the manufacture, sale or
marketing of wine.
(Ord. eff. 6-12-2010)
§ 110.27 ALLOWANCE OF SPECIAL EVENT UPON ISSUANCE OF A PERMIT.
   Upon issuance of a permit by the Chief of Police, restaurants, food service
establishments, businesses, wineries and any other organizations may hold a
special event within public rights-of-way and on town-owned property within the
town corporate limits as designated in a special event permit.
(Ord. eff. 6-12-2010)
§ 110.28 APPROVAL OF APPLICATIONS.
   Applications may be approved by the Chief of Police upon meeting the
following requirements.
   (A)   A written application for a special event permit, including street
closures, must be submitted to the Chief of Police at least 30 days prior to
the event. A detailed site map indicating, at a minimum, the stage area,
concessions, tables and seating area, designated beer or wine gardens, parking
areas and locations where the road may be blocked off shall also be required. A
copy of the application and permit shall be submitted and retained by the
office of the Town Clerk.
   (B)   A statement of the applicant’s intent whether to serve or to allow the
consumption of beer and wine. If serving alcoholic beverages, a copy of the
applicant’s ABC permit demonstrating that the applicant is properly licensed to
allow the consumption of beer and wine within the plan-defined area, and a
verified statement by the applicant that:
      (1)   Applicant’s/sponsor’s ABC permit is in good standing; and
      (2)   The applicant/sponsor has not been cited for any violation of its
ABC permit for the premises within the previous three-year period. If the
applicant has been cited, the applicant must provide a statement describing the
circumstances for which it was cited and describing what, if any, penalty was
imposed for the incident.
   (C)   The applicant’s plan must also indicate that the festival or event
area must be maintained, and all debris or refuse removed from the area, at
regular intervals during the business day so as to maintain an orderly
appearance and to prevent the attraction of vermin, insects or other pests to
the area.
   (D)   The plan must also indicate that the applicant must maintain an
unobstructed path for pedestrian travel on all sidewalks within the event area
at least five feet wide at all times. If the permit does not provide for street
closure, the applicant must maintain an unobstructed path for vehicular traffic
on all streets within the event.
   (E)   The applicant agrees to remove all obstructions and additions to the
festival area immediately upon completion of the festival in order to open the
streets to public use as soon as possible.
   (F)   The applicant agrees that at no time will anyone be allowed to block
access to a fire hydrant in the street festival area.
   (G)   The applicant, or an authorized officer or member of the sponsoring
group, must sign an agreement to indemnify and hold the town harmless from any
and all claims of property damage, personal injury or death arising from any
services provided at the special event by the applicant or his or her designee.
   (H)   The Town Recreation and Parks Director must also approve any request
for the use of any property that is under his or her direction that is a part
of the Town Recreation and Parks Department.
   (I)   The Chief of Police will notify the Town Manager and all department
heads before a permit is issued to make them aware of the application and to
determine if there are any issues that need to be considered.
(Ord. eff. 6-12-2010)
§ 110.29 CONSIDERATIONS FOR SPECIAL EVENT PERMIT REQUESTS.
   In the review of the special event permit requests, the Chief of Police
shall be guided by the following considerations:
   (A)   The number of permits issued and the area or areas for which these
permits are issued in relation to crowd density, traffic control, the ability
to protect persons and property, fire prevention and control, general safety
and availability of town assets and resources to ensure the reasonable
protection of the general public; and the disruption of normal business for
merchants in the area;
   (B)   In those instances in which the Chief of Police, or designee,
considers town resources to be insufficient to meet the above considerations,
the Police Chief, or designee, may require the applicant for the permit to
provide, at the applicant’s expense, town police officer(s) for the duration of
the permit; and
   (C)   The Chief of Police, or designee, shall have the authority to
designate the boundaries of any public street festival or special event area.
To accommodate such an event, the Police Chief, or designee, is further
authorized to temporarily close any public streets, sidewalks or other town-
owned areas within the boundaries of any proposed special event.
(Ord. eff. 6-12-2010)
§ 110.30 SALE AND CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   (A)   Sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages may be permitted at
special events.
   (B)   It shall be lawful for a special event sponsor to serve or sell malt
beverages and unfortified wine where the boundaries of the area in which those
beverages are sold and consumed is clearly delineated in the permit, where
access to that area is restricted to persons who shall be at least 21 years of
age and where the following requirements are met:
      (1)   All applicable health, ABC laws and town ordinance(s) concerning
alcohol are complied with unless waived by the Town Board prior to the event;
      (2)   All malt beverages or unfortified wines must be sold and consumed
within the area delineated in the permit for the sale and consumption of malt
beverages or unfortified wine;
      (3)   All empty bottles and cans shall be recycled or handled in such a
way as to not be broken or left on town property;
      (4)   The sponsor shall be required to maintain proper decorum and order
and to leave the area in a clean condition;
      (5)   The applicant/sponsor shall have in full force general liability
and liquor liability insurance in the amount $1,000,000 each, with the town
being named as an additional insured; and
      (6)   In addition to approval by the Chief of Police, the Board of
Commissioners of the town shall approve each permit for the sale and
consumption of alcoholic beverages at special events.
(Ord. eff. 6-12-2010)
§ 110.31 FIREARMS.
   Except for sworn certified law enforcement personnel, the possession of
firearms at the special event area is prohibited.
(Ord. eff. 6-12-2010) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.32 APPLICATION FEE.
   The application processing fee will be based on the current schedule of fees
as established by the Town Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. eff. 6-12-2010)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Every person who shall violate any provision of §§
110.01 through
110.11 and Appendix A to this chapter, or carry on any business, trade,
vocation or profession, on which a license tax has been fixed, without having
first applied for and procured the required license, shall be liable to a
penalty of $50 or imprisonment for 30 days for each offense, and each day or
part of a day the business, trade, vocation or profession is carried on without
the required license shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
   (B)   Any violation of §§
110.25 through
110.32 shall constitute a misdemeanor, punishable as provided in G.S. § 14-4. A
fine of $100 will be assessed for any violation of that subchapter to the
applicant. A violation of an event permit issued pursuant to this subchapter
may result in an immediate revocation of the permit and a possible ban on
future permits.
(Ord. eff. 7-1-2001; Ord. eff. 6-12-2010)
APPENDIX A: SCHEDULE OF LICENSE TAXES
   On the following trades, professions, agencies, business operations and
other subjects herein set out, the following taxes shall be levied and
collected.
License Schedule
Business G.S. Cite/Fee
License Schedule
Business                                                                          G.S. Cite/Fee
Advertising:                                                                      G.S. § 160A-211
Every person, firm or corporation who or which is engaged in the business of
outdoor advertising by placing, erecting or maintaining advertising signs or      $35.00 per city (tax is not applicable to theaters taxed by § 105 when
structures (e.g., sign boards, poster boards or printed bulletins) or any other   permission of owner is secured)
outdoor advertising devices
Amusements:                                                                       G.S. § 160A-211
Moving pictures or vaudeville shows—admissions. Every person, firm or corporation
engaged in the business of operating a moving picture show or place where         $25.00
vaudeville exhibitions, or theater or opera house where public exhibitions, or
performances are given for compensation
Automobile, Motorcycle Dealers and Service Stations:                              G.S. § 160A-211
   (1) Automotive service stations: Every person, firm or corporation engaged in
the business of servicing, storing, painting, repairing, and the like or in the   $12.50
business of retailing and/or delivering tires, tools, batteries, auto radios,
motor fuels and/or lubricants and other automotive accessories
   (2) Automotive equipment and supply dealers at wholesale: Every person, firm
or corporation engaged in the business of buying, selling, distributing,
exchanging and/or delivering automobile accessories, including auto radios,       $37.50
parts, batteries, tools and/or other automotive equipment or supplies at
wholesale
   (3) Motor vehicle dealers: Every person, firm or corporation engaged in the
business of buying, selling, distributing, servicing, storing and/or exchanging
motor vehicles, trailers, semi-trailers, tires, tools and other supplies or       $25.00
accessories and/or automotive equipment, excepting dealers in semi-trailers
weighing not more than 500 pounds and carrying not more than 1,000-pound load and
to be towed by passenger cars
   (4) Motorcycle dealers: Every person, firm or corporation engaged in the
business of selling, buying, distributing and/or exchanging motorcycles or        $12.50
motorcycles supplies
 
License Schedule
Business G.S. Cite/Fee
License Schedule
Business                                                                      G.S. Cite/Fee
Barber Shops and Beauty Salons:                                               G.S. § 160A-211
                                                                              (G)
Every person, firm or corporation engaged in the business of conducting a     $2.50 per chair
barber shop, manicurist, cosmetologist, beautician or operator
Bicycle Dealers:                                                              G.S. § 160A-211
Any person, firm or corporation engaged in the business of buying and/or      $25.00
selling bicycles, supplies and accessories
Billiards and Pool Tables:                                                    G.S. § 160A-211
Every person, firm or corporation renting, maintaining or owning a building
wherein there is a table or tables at which billiards or pool is played,      $25.00
whether operated by slot or otherwise, shall pay license tax for each
business location
Bondsmen:                                                                     G.S. § 105-41
Every person, firm or corporation engaged in the business of writing or
executing for a consideration, appearance, compliance or bail bonds, or any   $15.00
type bond required in connection with criminal proceedings
Bowling Alleys:                                                               G.S. § 160A-211
Every person, firm or corporation engaged in the business of operating a      $10.00 per alley
bowling alley
Café, Restaurants, Cafeterias, Lunch Stands:                                 G.S. § 160A-211
Every person, firm or corporation engaged in the business of operating a
restaurant, café, cafeteria, hotel with dining service on the European plan,
drug store or lunch stand, or other place where prepared food is sold
   No seats to 4 seats                                                     $25.00
   5 or more seats                                                         $42.50
Carnival Companies:                                                           G.S. § 105-38
Every person, firm or corporation engaged in the business of a circus,        $25.00 per day
Carnival Company or a show of like kind
 
License Schedule
Business G.S. Cite/Fee
License Schedule
Business                                                                       G.S. Cite/Fee
Chain Stores:                                                                  G.S. § 160A-
                                                                               211
Every person, firm or corporation engaged in the business of operating or
maintaining under the same general management, supervision or ownership two or
more stores, or mercantile establishments where merchandise is sold or offered
for sale, or from which the merchandise is sold and/or distributed at
wholesale or retail and the like is deemed a branch or chain store operator.
   Per each chain store located in city or town—except for the particular
store in which the principal office of the chain is located and so designated  $50.00
by the chain
Cigar, Cigarette and Tobacco Retailers:                                        G.S. § 160A-
                                                                               211
Every person, firm or corporation engaged in the business of retail and/or     $10.00
cigars, cigarettes, tobacco and any other tobacco products
Computer gaming establishment:
Any business enterprise utilizing one or more computers as game promotions or  $5,000.00 per
for amusement. In a game promotion, a person may conduct a game of chance in   establishment
connection with the sale of consumer products or services and/or for which the plus $500.00
elements of chance and prize are present. This term includes but is not        per machine,
limited to internet sweepstakes, internet cafés and cybercafés. This         computer or
definition only applies where a machine emits, issues, displays, prints out or terminal,
otherwise records any receipt, paper, coupon, token or other form of record    whether or
which is capable of being redeemed, exchanged or repurchased for cash, cash    not the same
equivalent, prizes, services or any other item of value, whether or not the    may be
value of the distribution is determined by electronic games played or by       connected or
predetermined odds. This includes a system which invites patrons to purchase   connectable
prepaid internet access cards that also allows them to use computer terminals  to the
with gaming software an ancillary benefit. This term does not include any      internet
lottery approved by this state. This tax does not apply to any game or process either by
prohibited by G.S. §§ 14-304 through 14-309; provided, however, once the tax landline or
is paid, determination that the game or process for which the tax was paid was wireless
or is prohibited by G.S. §§ 14-304 through 14-309 shall not entitle the      connection,
establishment to a refund of the tax paid, and the tax paid shall be           for each
forfeited. This category shall not include libraries, hotels, motels or other  fiscal year
businesses offering lodging, businesses operating only electronic video games  or any part
which require the insertion or entry of either money or tokens, passwords or   thereof
other items purchased from the business.
 
License Schedule
Business G.S. Cite/Fee
License Schedule
Business                                                      G.S. Cite/Fee
Contractors and Construction Companies:                       G.S. § 160A-211
Every person, firm or corporation who for a fixed price,
commission, fee or wage offers or bids to construct any       $10.00
building, street, sidewalk, bridge, sewer or water system,
grading or other improvement or structure
Daycare Centers:                                              G.S. § 160A-211
Every person, firm or corporation engaged in the business of
providing service for daycare services shall pay a privilege
license tax as follows:
   Fewer than 50 children                                  $75.00
   50-99 children                                          $125.00
   100-149 children                                        $225.00
   150-200 children                                        $325.00
   More than 200 children                                  $425.00
Dry Cleaners, Pressing Club and Hat Blockers:                 G.S. § 160A-211
Every person, firm or corporation operating a dry cleaning    $50.00
plant, pressing club or hat blocking establishment
   Solicitors for plants located outside the corporate limi$100.00
Firearms:                                                     G.S. § 160A-211
Every person, firm or corporation engaged in selling or       $50.00
offering for sale firearms
Fortune Tellers:                                              G.S. § 160A-211
Engaging in the business of telling or pretending to tell
fortunes, practicing the art of palmistry, clairvoyance and   $750.00
other crafts of a similar kind for a reward
Gasoline, Benzine, Lubricating Oil and Greases:               G.S. § 160A-211
Every person, firm or corporation selling illuminating or
lubricating oil or grease, or benzine, naphtha, gasoline or
other similar products
   Less than 10,000 population                             $25.00
   10,000 or more                                          $50.00
 
License Schedule
Business G.S. Cite/Fee
License Schedule
Business                                                                          G.S. Cite/Fee
Itinerant Merchants and Salespersons:                                             G.S. § 160A-
                                                                                  211
Every itinerant salesperson or merchant who shall expose for sale goods, wares or
merchandise, either on the streets or in a building, not being a regular merchant
of the municipality (each itinerant salesperson or merchant shall be required to  $100.00
provide to the Town Clerk written permission to use property for sales from the
property owner. No license shall be issued without this written permission)
Junk Dealers:                                                                     G.S. § 160A-
                                                                                  211
Every person, firm or corporation engaged in the business of buying and/or
selling what is commonly known as junk, including scrap materials, waste paper    $15.00
and the like, shall pay a license tax
Laundries:                                                                       G.S. § 160A-
                                                                                  211
   (1) Out of town laundries: Every person, firm or corporation engaged in the
business of laundry work and/or supplying or renting clean linens or towels or    $100.00
wearing apparel when the work is performed outside the municipality or when linen
or towels or wearing apparel are supplied by businesses outside the municipality
   (2) Laundries located in town: Every person, firm or corporation engaged in
the business of laundry work and/or supplying or renting clean linen or towels or $50.00
wearing apparel who is not subject to division (1) above
Loan Agencies and Check Cashing Businesses:                                       G.S. § 105-88
Every person, firm or corporation engaged in the regular business of making loans
or lending money, accepting liens on, or contracts of assignments of salaries or
wages or other security or evidences of debt for repayment in installment         $100.00
payments or otherwise and maintaining in connection with same any office or
established place for conduct of business and/or advertising or soliciting the
business in any manner
Pawnbrokers:                                                                      G.S. § 105-88
Every person, firm or corporation engaged in the regular business of pawnbroker   $275.00
(effective July 1, 2001)
Merchandising Dispensers:                                                         G.S. § 160A-
                                                                                  211
Cigarette dispensing machines: An annual occupational license from operators of   Exempt
cigarette dispensing machines
 
License Schedule
Business G.S. Cite/Fee
License Schedule
Business                                                         G.S. Cite/Fee
Music Machines:                                                  G.S. § 160A-
                                                                 211
Every person, firm or corporation engaged in the business of     $5.00 per
operating, maintaining or placing on location any machine, which machine
plays records or produces music
Musical Instruments:                                             G.S. § 160A-
                                                                 211
Every person, firm or organization engaged in the business of
selling or offering for sale pianos, organs, victrolas or        $5.00 maximum
victrola records, radios and/or radio accessories, and
television sets and accessories, parts and repair
Peddlers:                                                        G.S. § 160A-
                                                                 211
Any person who shall carry from place to place any goods, wares
or merchandise and sell or offer to sell or barter the same,
shall be deemed peddlers, except wholesale dealers with
established warehouses and selling only to merchants for resale,
shall pay a license tax as follows:
   Peddlers on foot                                           $10.00
   Peddler with vehicles                                      $25.00
   Peddler of farm products (e.g., fruits, vegetables and the $25.00
like)
Pinball Machines:                                                G.S. § 160A-
                                                                 211
Every person, firm or corporation engaged in the business of     $25.00
providing legal pinball machines for sale or use
Plumbing, Heating Contractors and Electricians:                  G.S. § 160A-
                                                                 211
Every person, firm or corporation engaged in business as a
plumber, steam or gas fitter or installing heating systems or    $50.00
installing electrical equipment
Undertakers and Coffin Retailers:                                G.S. § 160A-
                                                                 211
Every person, firm or corporation engaged in the business of     $50.00
burying the dead or in the retail sale of coffins
And all other trades, professions or businesses conducted within the corporate
limits of the town, which are subject to special license or privilege taxes
and the maximum amount allowed by the laws of this state, for cities and
towns, with the population the size of the town, as provided in the Revenue
Act enacted by the General Assembly of North Carolina, Session of 1959 as
amended
 
(Ord. eff. 7-1-2001; Ord. eff. 2-14-2005; Ord. eff. 4-12-2010; Ord. eff. 5-24-
2010)
CHAPTER 111: BEGGING, SOLICITING AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
Section
   
111.01   Prohibition; where and how
   
111.02   Definitions
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 PROHIBITION; WHERE AND HOW.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, association, organization or other
corporate entity to solicit alms, beg or ask for money or other things of
value, to exhibit one’s self for the purpose of soliciting, begging or asking
for money or other things of value, or to solicit or otherwise offer the sale
of goods for services:
   (A)   In or upon the vehicle-traveled portion of any public street, alley or
highway;
   (B)   In an intimidating or aggressive manner in a public area; or
   (C)   On private property if the owner, tenant or lawful occupant has asked
the person not to solicit on the property, or has posted a sign clearly
indicating that solicitations are not welcome on the property.
(Ord. eff. 1-10-2011) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRESSIVE MANNER. Includes, without limitation, the following conduct:
      (1)   Intentionally or recklessly making any physical contact with or
touching another person in the course of the solicitation without the person’s
consent;
      (2)   Following the person being solicited, if that conduct is intended
to or is likely to cause a reasonable person to fear imminent bodily harm or
the commission of a criminal act upon property in the person’s possession; or
is intended to or is reasonably likely to intimidate the person being solicited
into responding affirmatively to the solicitation;
      (3)   Continuing to solicit within five feet of the person being
solicited after the person has made a negative response, if continuing the
solicitation is intended to or is likely to cause a reasonable person to fear
imminent bodily harm or the commission of a criminal act upon property in the
person’s possession; or is intended to or is reasonably likely to intimidate
the person being solicited into responding affirmative to the solicitation;
      (4)   Intentionally or recklessly blocking the safe or free passage of
the person being solicited or requiring the person, or the driver of a vehicle,
to take evasive action to avoid physical contact with the person asking the
solicitation;
      (5)   Intentionally or recklessly using obscene or abusive language or
gestures intended to or likely to cause a reasonable person to fear imminent
bodily harm or the commission of a criminal act upon property in the person’s
possession; or using words or gestures intended to or reasonably likely to
intimidate the person into responding to the solicitation; or
      (6)   Approaching the person being solicited in a manner that is intended
to or is likely to cause a reasonable person to fear imminent bodily harm or
the commission of a criminal act upon property in the person’s possession; or
is intended to or is reasonably likely to intimidate the person being solicited
into responding affirmatively to the solicitation.
   CORPORATE LIMITS.  Any area within the incorporated limits of the town.
   INTIMIDATE or INTIMIDATING MANNER. Any conduct that would cause a reasonable
person to fear imminent bodily harm or the commission of a criminal act upon
property in the person’s possession, and causes a person to do something he or
she would not otherwise have done.
   PUBLIC AREA.  Any area to which the general public has access, which
includes but is not limited to rights-of-way, sidewalks, parking lots, parks,
playgrounds, plazas, any property owned or operated by the town, any buildings,
premises or other structures open to the general public including the doorways
and entrances to the buildings, premises or other structures and the grounds
enclosing them. This will include any property that is a part of the Town
Recreation and Parks System.
   PUBLIC STREET. Any street, right-of-way, alley, road, highway, bridge or
other property owned, operated or maintained by the town or the State
Department of Transportation which is open to the general public upon which
motor vehicles traverse.
   SOLICIT ALMS, BEG OR ASK. To request an immediate donation of money or other
thing of value from another person, regardless of the solicitor’s purpose or
intended use of the money or other thing of value. The solicitation, begging or
asking may be without limitation by the spoken, written or printed word or by
other means of communication.
(Ord. eff. 1-10-2011)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, association or organization violating the provisions of
this chapter shall upon conviction be responsible for a Class 3 misdemeanor and
shall be punished in accordance with the provisions of G.S. § 14-4, and shall
be required to pay a penalty of not more than $500.
(Ord. eff. 1-10-2011)
CHAPTER 112: RESIDENTIAL SALES
Section
   
112.01   Purpose
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   Time limitations
   
112.04   Space limitations
   
112.05   Permits
   
112.06   Enforcement
   
112.07   Adoption date
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 PURPOSE.
   In order to protect the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the
town, the Board of Commissioners has determined that regulating the number and
length of occasional residential sales is necessary. Some sales seem to be
ongoing businesses producing unsightly premises and dangerous traffic
situations inappropriate for residential areas.
(Ord. eff. 3-18-2002)
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CALENDAR YEAR.  January 1 through December 31.
   DWELLING. Any building or portion thereof designed, arranged or used for
living quarters, excluding motels, hotels or other structures designed for
transient residence.
   GOODS. Merchandise for sale typically used in personal, household or family
settings.
   PERMIT. A license issued by the town allowing a residential sale at a
particular dwelling.
   RESIDENTIAL SALE. Sales of goods from a dwelling; and includes any offer to
sell goods either at retail or at auction. RESIDENTIAL SALE includes the terms
yard sale, garage sale, rummage sale or any other term to describe these type
sales.
(Ord. eff. 3-18-2002)
§ 112.03 TIME LIMITATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to conduct a residential sale for more than two
consecutive days with operating hours from 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m., or to
conduct more than two separate sales at the same dwelling within any calendar
year.
(Ord. eff. 3-18-2002) Penalty, see §
112.99 
§ 112.04 SPACE LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   A person may not place on display any goods under the provisions of
this section closer than ten feet from the front property line of the dwelling.
   (B)   Displays may not extend beyond the property line of the permitted
dwelling.
   (C)   Articles for sale may be displayed inside the garage, inside the
backyard and on a driveway, but only so as not to hinder emergency equipment
access to any structures on the property.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as preempting additional
restrictions imposed by the town or the state.
(Ord. eff. 3-18-2002)
§ 112.05 PERMITS.
   Any person desiring to hold a residential sale shall first obtain from the
town a permit to hold the sale. The cost of each permit shall be $5. Each
permit shall be in the name of a person who resides in the dwelling and who
shall be responsible for conducting the sale and shall state the exact street
address of the dwelling at which the sale will be held. Each permit shall also
indicate the date upon which the sale shall be conducted. If the sale is not
conducted on the date indicated, the holder of the permit may have the permit
revised by the town to state a different date if the holder wishes to
reschedule the sale. Any permit issued and not revised shall be conclusive
evidence that the sale was held on the date indicated. Permits must be
displayed in plain view.
(Ord. eff. 3-18-2002)
§ 112.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   Enforcement of this chapter shall be the responsibility of the Zoning
Officer, but the town police may enforce the ordinance by citation.
(Ord. eff. 3-18-2002)
§ 112.07 ADOPTION DATE.
   This chapter was adopted March 18, 2002.
(Ord. eff. 3-18-2002)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Civil penalties. Civil penalties may be assessed for violations of
this chapter as follows: a warning citation for the first violation, $25 for
the second violation and $50 for each successive violation.
   (B)   Criminal penalties. A violation of this chapter shall constitute a
misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of up to $500 as authorized by G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. eff. 3-18-2002)
CHAPTER 113: CABLE TELEVISION SERVICES
Section
   
113.01   Statement of intent and purpose
   
113.02   Short title
   
113.03   Definitions
   
113.04   Franchise requirements
   
113.05   Design provisions
   
113.06   Institutional network, public educational and governmental (PEG)
access
   
113.07   Technical standards and customer service practices
   
113.08   Construction standards
   
113.09   General financial and insurance provisions
   
113.10   Revocation
   
113.11   Foreclosure, receivership and abandonment
   
113.12   Purchase by grantor upon termination of franchise term or revocation
of franchise
   
113.13   Sale or transfer of franchise
   
113.14   Rights of individuals protected
   
113.15   Miscellaneous provisions
   
Appendix A: Customer Service Standards
§ 113.01 STATEMENT OF INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   The town, pursuant to applicable federal and state law, is authorized
to grant one or more nonexclusive franchises to construct, operate, maintain
and reconstruct cable systems within the incorporated areas of the town.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners of the town finds that cable service has
become an integral part of its citizens’ lives, and that evolving cable systems
have the potential to play an even more dramatic role in the future, providing
great benefits and advanced capabilities to the town. At the same time, the
Board further finds that the public convenience, safety and general welfare can
best be served by establishing regulatory powers that are vested in the town or
those persons the town designates.
   (C)   In order to ensure that the town and its residents receive state-of-
the-art cable services and capabilities as this technology further evolves, all
franchises granted pursuant to this chapter will be subject to periodic review
and modifications to keep current with changing law, technology and services.
It is the intent of this chapter to help ensure that local cable operators
provide the best possible cable service to residents of the town, and any
franchises issued pursuant to this chapter shall be deemed to include this
finding as an integral part thereof.
   (D)   Further, it is recognized that cable systems have the capacity to
provide entertainment and information services to the town’s residents, and may
have the capacity to provide a variety of broadband, interactive communications
services to institutions and individuals. For these purposes, the following
goals underlie the regulations contained herein:
      (1)   Cable television services should be made available to all of the
town’s residents at the lowest reasonable cost;
      (2)   The system should be capable of accommodating both the present and
reasonably foreseeable future state-of-the-art cable television needs of the
town; and
      (3)   The systems authorized by this chapter shall be responsive to the
needs and interests of the local community, and shall provide the widest
possible diversity of information sources and services to the public. Each of
the above-enumerated goals shall be sought to the maximum extent, taking into
account the costs and benefits to the residents of the town.
   (E)   The Board further finds that ongoing industry consolidation could
result in less local accountability, and that, therefore, stringent customer
service standards, including liquidated damages provisions, may be the only
practical means of ensuring compliance and approximating the costs of franchise
agreement noncompliance to the town and its residents.
(Ord. eff. 10-8-2001)
§ 113.02 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Town Master Cable
Services Regulatory Ordinance,” and it shall become a part of the ordinances of
the town. This chapter shall take effect and be in force from and after its
adoption for the grant of any new franchise agreement or renewal of any
franchise existing at the time of adoption. All ordinances or parts of the town
code in conflict with the provisions of this chapter are hereby repealed.
(Ord. eff. 10-8-2001)
§ 113.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future tense, words in the plural number include the singular number, and words
in the singular number include the plural number. The words “shall” and “will”
are mandatory and “may” is permissive. Words not defined shall be given their
common and ordinary meaning.
   ADDITIONAL SERVICE. Any cable service other than basic service provided over
the system.
   BASIC CABLE SERVICE. Any cable service tier that includes the lawful
retransmission of local television broadcast signals and any public,
educational and governmental access programming required by this chapter or a
franchise agreement to be carried on the basic tier. BASIC CABLE SERVICE as
defined herein shall be consistent with 47 U.S.C. § 543(b)(7) (1997), and shall
include any signal of any television broadcast station that is provided by a
grantee to any subscriber, except a signal which is secondarily transmitted by
a satellite carrier beyond the local service area of the station. Additional
signals may be added to the basic tier by the grantee.
   BOARD. The Board of Commissioners of the Town of EIkin, North Carolina or
its delegates.
   CABLE ACT.  The Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984, Pub. L. No. 98-549
(codified at 47 U.S.C. §§ 521-611 (1982) and Supp. V. 1987), as amended by the
Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992, Pub. L. No.
102-385, and the Telecommunications Act of 1996, Pub. L. No. 104-104 (1996) as
may, from time to time, be amended.
   CABLE INTERNET SERVICE. Any cable service offered by a grantee whereby
persons receive access to the internet or high-speed data information services
through the cable system.
   CABLE SERVICE or SERVICE.
      (1)   The one-way transmission to subscribers of either video programming
or other programming service;
      (2)   Subscriber interaction, if any, which is required for the selection
or use of the video programming or other programming service; and
      (3)   For purposes of this chapter, CABLE INTERNET SERVICE shall be
considered CABLE SERVICE unless determined otherwise by state or federal law.
   CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEM or CABLE SYSTEM. A facility, consisting of a set of
closed transmission paths and associated signal generation, reception and
control equipment that is designed to provide cable service to multiple
subscribers within the franchise area; but the term does not include:
      (1)   A facility that serves only to retransmit the television signals of
one or more television broadcast stations;
      (2)   A facility that serves subscribers without using any public right-
of-way; or
      (3)   A facility of a common carrier which is subject, in whole or in
part, to the provisions of 47 U.S.C. §§ 201-226, except that the facility shall
be considered a CABLE SYSTEM to the extent the facility, whether on a common
carrier basis or otherwise, is used in the transmission of video programming
directly to subscribers.
   CAPITAL CONTRIBUTION. A contribution provided by a grantee as determined in
a franchise agreement that may at the town’s discretion be utilized for the
capital costs of the municipal access channel facilities, or to help defray the
costs of an I-net.
   CHANNEL. A portion of the electromagnetic frequency spectrum that is capable
of carrying one standard video signal, in either analog or digital form.
Consistent with future changes in technology and/or applicable law, the parties
may mutually agree to a different definition in an individual franchise
agreement.
   COMPLAINT. Any written or electronic inquiry, allegation or assertion, made
by a person regarding service.
   CONTROL. The holding of legal or financial control of or over the holder of
the franchise, the service provider or system owner or operator, regardless of
whether the control is direct or indirect, or is exercised or is permitted to
be exercised directly or indirectly through other persons, holdings or
entities. CONTROL shall always be deemed to rest in the hands of any person or
entity that has the right or authority to establish or change any policy or
practice of the holder of the franchise or the service provider, whether the
CONTROL may be exercised directly, or indirectly through other persons,
holdings or entities.
   CONVERTER. An electronic device that converts signals to a frequency not
susceptible to interference within the television receiver of a subscriber and,
through the use of an appropriate channel selector, permits a subscriber to
view all authorized subscriber signals delivered at designated converter dial
locations.
   DIRECT INCREMENTAL COSTS. The costs actually incurred by a grantee in
meeting an obligation under its franchise which the grantee would not otherwise
have incurred, in order to either operate and conduct the business of its cable
system or meet another obligation of the franchise.
   DOWNSTREAM SIGNAL. A signal originating from or provided by a system to a
subscriber terminal or other terminal, including video, audio or digital
signals or any other type of data or information for either programs or other
uses, such as security alert services and the like.
   DROP. The cable or cables that connect users of the system to the
distribution system in order to receive service.
   EDUCATIONAL ACCESS CHANNELS. Channels specially designated for locally
produced noncommercial educational access programming use.
   EFFECTIVE DATE. The date a franchise becomes effective in accordance with
the franchise and the rules and procedures of the town.
   FAIR MARKET VALUE. The price that a willing buyer would pay to a willing
seller for a going concern based on the system valuation prevailing in the
industry at the time.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission or a designated representative.
   FRANCHISE. The rights and obligations extended by the town pursuant to an
initial authorization or a renewal thereof, to a person to own, lease,
construct, maintain or operate a cable system in the right-of-way within the
franchise area for the purpose of providing cable services. Any authorization,
in whatever form granted, shall not mean or include:
      (1)   Any other permit or authorization required for the privilege of
transacting and carrying on a business within the town required by the
ordinances and laws of the town, including the provision of telecommunications
services; or
      (2)   Any generally applicable nondiscriminatory permit, agreement or
authorization required in connection with operations in the right-of-way,
including without limitation permits and agreements for placing devices on or
in poles, conduits or other structures, whether owned by the town or a private
entity, or for excavating or performing other work in or along the right-of-
way.
   FRANCHISE AGREEMENT. The document which grants a franchise pursuant to this
chapter.
   FRANCHISE AREA. The geographic area for which a franchise is granted under
the authority of this chapter. If not otherwise specifically stated in the
franchise agreement, the FRANCHISE AREA shall be the entire geographic
unincorporated area within the town as it is now or may in the future be
constituted.
   FRANCHISE FEE. Any tax, fee or assessment of any kind imposed by the town or
other governmental entity on a grantee solely because of its status and
activities as such. The term FRANCHISE FEE does not include:
      (1)   Any tax, fee or assessment of general applicability (including any
tax, fee or assessment imposed on both utilities and cable operators or their
services but not including a tax, fee or assessment that is unduly
discriminatory against cable operators or cable subscribers);
      (2)   Capital costs that are required by a franchise agreement to be
incurred by a grantee for public access channels equipment and facilities;
      (3)   Requirements or charges incidental to the award or enforcement of a
franchise, including payments for bonds, security funds, letters of credit,
insurance, indemnification, compliance audits, penalties or liquidated damages;
or
      (4)   Any fee imposed under U.S.C. Title 17.
   GOVERNMENT ACCESS CHANNELS. Channels specially designated for locally
produced noncommercial governmental access programming use.
   GRANTEE. A person who is granted a franchise or that person’s lawful
successors, transferees or assignees.
   GRANTOR.  The town.
   GROSS REVENUES. Any and all revenue, whether received in the form of cash,
credits, barter, trade, property or consideration of any kind or nature,
arising from, attributable to or in any way derived by the grantee from the
operation of a grantee’s system to provide cable service, whether the revenue
is received by the grantee, its affiliates or any person in which the grantee
has a financial interest, or by any other person who operates the system,
directly or indirectly. This definition is intended to reach as broadly as
possible to encompass all revenue. GROSS REVENUE includes, by way of
illustration and not limitation, amounts charged for basic service; optional
premium, per-channel, per-program services; cable programming services; audio
services; launch fees; channel guide subscriptions; installation,
disconnection, reconnection and changes-in-service; equipment sales or rentals;
leased channel fees; late fees and administrative charges of any type;
consideration received from programmers; advertising revenue; and revenue from
the sale of subscriber names and addresses. To the extent that grantee receives
revenue from cable services provided to a subscriber for a fixed price that
also includes non-cable services (i.e., those services are “bundled”), grantee
shall allocate an appropriate portion of those revenues for inclusion in GROSS
REVENUES. If the fixed price of the bundled services is lower than the
aggregate of the prices of those services if purchased individually, then the
appropriate amount of the revenue to be allocated to each service shall be
proportional to the individual price of that service when compared to the
aggregate of the individual prices of those services when unbundled.
      (1)   GROSS REVENUES shall not include:
         (a)   Bad debt except to the extent that bad debts are recovered;
         (b)   The revenue of any person, including without limitation a
supplier of programming to the grantee to the extent that the revenue is also
included in GROSS REVENUE of the grantee;
         (c)   Pass-through payments received by the grantee from third-party
programmers to purchase services from entities other than the grantee, which
services benefit only the third-party programmers and for which the grantee
neither received nor provides any consideration; or
         (d)   Any taxes on services furnished by the grantee which are imposed
directly on any subscriber by the state, the town or other governmental unit
and which are collected by the grantee on behalf of the governmental unit. A
franchise fee is not such a tax.
      (2)   To the extent the scope of GROSS REVENUES is limited by federal law
or judicial action, the definitions herein shall be so amended.
   HEADEND. The electronic control center of the system including components
that amplify, filter and convert incoming broadcast and other television and
electronic signals for distribution over the cable system.
   INSTITUTIONAL NETWORK or I-NET. Capacity, fibers or both, from both within
the primary cable network and/or separately constructed networks that are
dedicated to municipal users or other governmental and educational users as
determined by the town for two-way, broadband, noncommercial, non-competitive,
not-for-profit communications. The I-NET includes all equipment and maintenance
of equipment required to make the capacity available, including but not limited
to fiber, cable modems, coaxial cable and all switching, routing, transmitting
and receiving equipment necessary for the use of the I-NET as determined in the
individual franchise agreement.
   INSTITUTIONAL NETWORK SERVICES.  The provision of an I-net by a grantee to
municipal users and other governmental and educational users as determined by
the town, pursuant to the terms of a franchise agreement for noncommercial,
non-competitive, not-for-profit applications, including but not limited to two-
way dedicated voice, data, video, internet and telephony channels connecting
and interconnecting user facilities; computerized traffic control systems; GIS
systems; and the interconnection of facilities serving police, fire and other
public safety systems.
   LOCKOUT DEVICE. A mechanical or electrical accessory to a subscriber’s
terminal that inhibits the video or audio portions of a certain program or
certain channel(s) provided by way of a cable system.
   NONCOMMERCIAL. Channels or programming that are operated on a not-for-profit
basis.
   NORMAL BUSINESS HOURS. Those hours during which most similar businesses in
the community are open to serve customers. In all cases, NORMAL BUSINESS HOURS
must include some evening hours at least one night per week and/or some weekend
hours.
   NORMAL OPERATING CONDITIONS. Any and all situations or conditions that are
ordinarily within the control of a grantee, including but not limited to
management or corporate decisions; employee conduct; staffing levels; special
promotions; pay-per-view events; rate increases; regular peak or seasonal
demand periods; electronic and video equipment; and maintenance, repair or
upgrade of the cable system, and any associated computer or software systems.
Those conditions that are not within the control of a grantee include but are
not limited to natural disasters; civil disturbances; power outages; telephone
network outages; and severe or unusual weather conditions. A condition shall
not be deemed to be beyond the grantee’s control if committed by a corporation
or other business entity which the grantee controls.
   OTHER PROGRAMMING SERVICE. Information that a grantee makes available to all
subscribers generally.
   PERSON. Any corporation, partnership, proprietorship, individual,
organization, company, governmental entity or any natural person.
   PUBLIC ACCESS CHANNELS. Channels specially designated for locally produced,
noncommercial public access programming use.
   REASONABLE NOTICE. Written notice addressed to the town or grantee at a
location as the parties have designated in the franchise agreement as the
address to which notice shall be transmitted to it, which notice shall be sent
by certified mail and postmarked not less than seven business days prior to
that day in which the party giving the notice shall commence any action which
requires the giving of notice. In computing the seven days, holidays recognized
by the town shall be excluded.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY.  Each of the following which have been, or are hereafter,
dedicated to the public and maintained by any public authority or by others and
located within the town, including without limitation the surface and space
within, above and below any real property in which the town has an interest in
law or equity, whether held in fee, or other estate or interest, or as a
trustee for the public, including but not limited to any public street,
boulevard, road, highway, freeway, lane, alley, court, sidewalk, parkway,
swale, river, tunnel, viaduct, bridge, park or any other place, area,
easements, rights-of-way and similar public property and areas, or real
property owned by or under the control of the town.
   SCHOOL. Any state-accredited public or nonprofit educational institution
including primary and secondary schools, both public and private.
   SERVICE INTERRUPTION. The loss of picture or sound on one or more cable
channels.
   STANDARD INSTALLATION. Any service drop not exceeding 150 feet from a single
point or pedestal attachment to the subscriber’s residence.
   STATE-OF-THE-ART. The addition of new services and associated equipment as
they are developed, available and when economically feasible and marketable to
subscribers as specifically required under the terms of a franchise agreement.
   SUBSCRIBER. Any person who or which elects to subscribe for any purpose to
cable service provided by a grantee by means of, or in connection with, the
cable system, and whose premises or facilities are physically wired and
lawfully activated to receive cable service from grantee’s cable system.
   SYSTEM. A grantee’s cable system operated pursuant to a franchise agreement
within the franchise area.
   TOWN. The Town of Elkin, North Carolina, as it is now or may in the future
be constituted.
   TOWN ADMINISTRATOR. A person designated by the Town Manager to represent the
town in all business with the grantee.
   TRAINED REPRESENTATIVE. Employees of the grantee who have the authority and
capability while speaking with a subscriber to, among other things, answer
billing questions, adjust bills and schedule service and installation calls.
   UPSTREAM SIGNAL. A signal originating from a subscriber’s terminal to the
headend of the system including video, audio or digital signals or any other
type of data or information for either programs or other uses such as security
alert services and the like.
(Ord. eff. 10-8-2001)
§ 113.04 FRANCHISE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Unlawful to operate without a franchise. It shall be unlawful for any
person to construct, operate or maintain a cable system or to provide cable
service in the town without a franchise. The person shall be subject to a fine
of $500 per day. The payment of the fine notwithstanding, all violators shall
be subject to all other applicable provisions of this chapter, including but
not limited to the payment of a franchise fee. Cable systems may elect for a
statewide franchise granted under state law
   (B)   Franchises non-exclusive. Any franchise granted pursuant to this
chapter shall be nonexclusive. The grantor specifically reserves the right to
grant, at any time, any additional franchises for a cable system or any
component thereof, to any other person including itself, as it deems
appropriate, subject to applicable federal and state law.
   (C)   Franchises nondiscriminatory. In the event the town grants more than
one franchise or similar authorization for the construction, operation or
maintenance of any cable system to a qualified person in the town, the town
shall grant the franchises on terms that are nondiscriminatory and
competitively neutral, provided that nothing herein shall be construed as
requiring the use of identical terms or conditions, in accordance with federal
law.
   (D)   Term of the franchise. A franchise agreement shall establish the term
of each individual franchise.
   (E)   Federal, state and town jurisdiction.
      (1)   The town shall exercise appropriate regulatory authority under the
provisions of this chapter, the Cable Act and all applicable laws. This
authority shall be vested in the Town Board of Commissioners and administered
through the Town Manager or his or her designee in order to provide day-to-day
administration and enforcement of the provisions of this chapter and any
franchise granted hereunder, and to carry out the town’s responsibilities with
regard to cable service.
      (2)   This chapter shall be construed in a manner consistent with all
applicable federal and state laws.
      (3)   In the event that the federal or state government discontinues
preemption in any area of cable communications over which it currently
exercises jurisdiction in a manner as to expand rather than limit municipal
regulatory authority, the grantor may, if it so elects, adopt rules and
regulations in these areas to the extent permitted by law, provided the same do
not materially alter the rights and obligations of a grantee under any existing
franchise.
      (4)   The grantee’s rights are subject to the police powers of the town
to adopt and enforce ordinances necessary to the health, safety and welfare of
the public. Grantee shall comply with all applicable general laws and
ordinances enacted by the town pursuant to that power.
      (5)   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all franchises
granted or renewed after the effective date of this chapter. This chapter shall
also apply to all existing franchises, to the extent not inconsistent with the
terms of any franchise or applicable law. In the event of any conflict between
the terms and conditions of a franchise agreement and the provisions of this
chapter, and other generally applicable regulatory ordinances of the town, the
terms of this chapter shall control unless otherwise expressly set forth in the
franchise agreement. A franchise agreement (including all of grantee’s
particular rights, powers, protections, privileges, immunities and obligations
associated therewith as the same exist on the date hereof) shall constitute a
legally binding contract between the town and grantee, and as such, cannot be
amended, modified or changed by the town or grantee without the consent of
grantee and grantor in any manner whatsoever, whether by ordinance, rule,
regulation or otherwise, to impose on grantee more stringent or burdensome
requirements or conditions; provided, however, that nothing herein contained
shall preclude the town from the proper exercise of its police powers, or its
powers of eminent domain.
      (6)   In the event of a change in state or federal law which by its terms
would require the town to amend this chapter, the parties shall modify the
existing franchise in a mutually agreed-upon manner.
      (7)   The grantee shall not be relieved of its obligation to comply with
any of the provisions of this chapter or a franchise agreement by reason of any
failure of the town to enforce prompt compliance.
   (F)   Rights reserved to grantor. In addition to any rights specifically
reserved to grantor by this chapter or a franchise agreement, grantor reserves
to itself every right and power that is required to be reserved by a provision
of any other ordinance or under any other franchise.
   (G)   Franchise agreement.
      (1)   Every grantee shall agree to the terms and provisions of a
franchise agreement as negotiated between the grantee and the grantor.
      (2)   In addition to those matters required elsewhere in this chapter to
be included in the franchise agreement, each franchise agreement must contain
the following express representations by each grantee:
         (a)   Grantee has examined all of the provisions of this chapter and
accepts and agrees to all of the provisions of this chapter, as it exists as of
the effective date of the grantee’s franchise agreement; and
         (b)   Grantee recognizes, unless otherwise agreed in the applicable
franchise agreement, the right of the town to adopt any additional regulations
of general applicability as it shall find necessary in the exercise of its
police power.
      (3)   Every franchise agreement shall contain further conditions or
provisions as may be negotiated between the town and a grantee, except that no
conditions or provisions shall be such as to conflict with any provisions of
state or federal law. In case of any conflict or of any ambiguity between any
terms or provisions of a franchise agreement and this chapter, the provisions
of this chapter shall control, unless expressly set forth in the franchise
agreement.
   (H)   Initial franchise applications. Any person desiring an initial
franchise for a cable system shall file an application with the town. An
application for an initial franchise for a cable television system shall
contain, where applicable:
      (1)   A statement as to the proposed franchise area;
      (2)   Resume or prior history of applicant, including the legal,
technical and financial expertise of applicant in the cable television field;
      (3)   List of the partners, general and limited, of the applicant, if a
partnership; or a list of the principals of the applicant, if a limited
liability company; or the percentage of stock owned or controlled by
shareholders holding 10% or greater, if a corporation;
      (4)   List of officers, directors and managing employees of applicant,
together with a description of the background of each person;
      (5)   The names and addresses of any parent or subsidiary of applicant or
any other business entity owning or in control of applicant, in whole or in
part, or owned or controlled in whole or in part by applicant;
      (6)   A current financial statement of applicant verified by a CPA audit
or otherwise certified to be true, complete, and correct to the reasonable
satisfaction of the town;
      (7)   Proposed preliminary construction and cable service schedule; and
      (8)   Any additional information that the town may require for the
administration of the franchise.
   (I)   Consideration of initial applications. Upon receipt of any application
and application fee for an initial franchise, the Town Administrator shall
prepare a report and make his or her recommendations respecting the application
to the Board.
   (J)   Franchise renewal. Franchise renewals shall be in accordance with
applicable law, including but not limited to the Cable Communications Policy
Act of 1984, as amended, being 47 U.S.C. §§ 521 et seq.. Grantor and a grantee,
by mutual consent, may enter into renewal negotiations at any time during the
term of the franchise.
   (K)   Grant of additional franchise and competing service. Competing or
overlapping franchises may have an adverse impact on the public rights-of-way
and on the quality and availability of services to the public. In considering
whether to grant one or more additional franchises, the town shall specifically
consider, and address in a written report or in provisions of the franchise
agreement, the following issues:
      (1)   The positive and/or negative impact of an additional franchise on
the community;
      (2)   The ability and willingness of the specific applicant in question
to provide cable services to the franchise area;
      (3)   The amount of time it will take the applicant to complete
construction of the proposed system and activate service in the franchise area;
and whether the applicant can complete construction and activation of its
system pursuant to industry standards;
      (4)   The financial capabilities of the applicant and its guaranteed
commitment to make the necessary investment to erect, maintain and operate the
proposed cable system for the duration of the franchise term. In order to
ensure that any prospective grantee does have the requisite current financial
capabilities, the town may request equity and debt financing commitment
letters, current audited financial statements, bonds, letters of credit or
other documentation to demonstrate to the town’s satisfaction that the
requisite funds to construct and operate the proposed system are available;
      (5)   The quality and technical reliability of the proposed system, based
upon the applicant’s plan of construction and the method of distribution of
signals and the applicant’s technical qualifications to construct and operate
the system;
      (6)   The experience of the applicant in the erection, maintenance and
operation of a cable system;
      (7)   The capacity of the public rights-of-way to accommodate one or more
additional cable systems and the potential disruption of those public rights-
of-way and private property that may occur if one or more additional franchises
are granted;
      (8)   The likelihood and ability of the applicant to continue to provide
competing cable service to subscribers within the franchise area for the
duration of the franchise;
      (9)   Any other information as the town may deem appropriate to be
considered prior to granting any competing or overlapping franchise; and
      (10)   The purpose of this section is to ensure that any competition
which may occur among grantees will be on terms which, when taken as a whole,
are nondiscriminatory according to federal law.
   (L)   Permits for non-franchised entities.  
      (1)   The town may issue a license, easement or other permit to a person
other than the grantee to permit that person to traverse any portion of the
grantee’s franchise area within the town in order to provide service outside,
but not within the town. The license or easement, absent a grant of a franchise
in accordance with this chapter, shall not authorize nor permit the person to
provide cable service to any subscriber within the town nor render any other
service within the town.
      (2)   The granting of the license, easement or permit shall be
conditioned upon the payment of a fee for occupancy of the public right-of-way
to the extent permitted by applicable law.
   (M)   Review for competition. The town recognizes that the cable television
and telecommunications industries are in a period of convergence, that the
technologies and services provided by these industries are rapidly changing,
and that the Telecommunications Act of 1996 promoted and encouraged competition
between and among these formally discrete industries. At this time it is
premature to know fully the extent to which there will be changes in law,
technology or services that may impact entities that have been or may be
granted franchises or licenses to use the town’s rights-of-way. It is the
desire of the town to be a communications-friendly town, that encourages the
development of competitive advanced communications capabilities for the benefit
of all its citizens. For this reason the regulatory ordinances and franchises
of the town should not impede or restrict the fair opportunity to compete, but
rather are intended to provide uniform and consistent requirements for all
similarly situated providers.
   (N)   Application and renewal fees.
      (1)   An application fee shall not be deemed to be franchise fees within
the meaning of § 622 of the Cable Act (47 U.S.C. § 542), and the payments shall
not be deemed to be “payments in kind” or any involuntary payments chargeable
against the compensation to be paid to the town by grantee, or part of the
compensation to be paid to the town by grantee pursuant to this chapter or a
franchise agreement.
      (2)   All applicants for an initial franchise grant shall submit an
application fee of $2,500 to compensate the town for its costs in reviewing,
preparing and awarding a franchise, including the costs of outside consultants.
Upon grant of a franchise the town may request the payment of an additional fee
to the extent that the reasonable costs of the franchise review and negotiation
process exceed the initial application fee amount. Consistent with the Cable
Act, being 47 U.S.C. §§ 521 et seq., all these fees shall not constitute or be
credited towards a grantee’s franchise fee obligations. Reasonable costs
include staff time, professional fees and administrative costs as determined
necessary by the town.
      (3)   The town reserves the right, unless prohibited by applicable law,
to require a grantee to pay the incidental costs of the franchise renewal and
negotiation process. Incidental costs include staff time, professional fees and
administrative costs as stated in the franchise agreement.
(Ord. eff. 10-8-2001)
§ 113.05 DESIGN PROVISIONS.
   (A)   System design.
      (1)   Agreement. Every grantee shall offer service that meets the current
and future needs of the town, taking into account the costs of meeting those
needs. The franchise agreement shall incorporate a description of the grantee’s
application in accordance with §
113.04(H), including the general design and capabilities of the system to
identify for the town how the system will meet the current and future cable
service needs of the town.
      (2)   State-of-the-art review. The franchise agreement shall include
provisions to ensure cable service and cable system compatibility with changes
in law, technology and programming and services to maintain a state-of-the-art
system throughout the franchise term.
   (B)   The system. Every system shall pass by every single-family dwelling
unit and multiple-family dwelling unit within the franchise area in accordance
with line extension policies set forth in this chapter. Service shall be
provided to subscribers in accordance with the schedules and line extension.
Unless specified otherwise, service shall also be extended to commercial
buildings on a consistent basis with the residential line extension policies.
   (C)   Drops to public buildings.
      (1)   Every grantee shall provide installation of at least one cable
drop, and provide monthly basic cable service, without charge, to public
buildings in accordance with the line extension policies of this chapter, or as
otherwise specified in the applicable franchise agreement. Schools shall also
receive one cable drop and basic cable service at no charge. Following the
town’s designation of additional buildings(s) to receive cable service, and
upon the town’s request, a grantee shall complete construction of the drop and
outlet within 30 days.
      (2)   All cable service outlets shall not be utilized for commercial
purposes.
      (3)   In instances where the drop to the public building exceeds 150
feet, the grantee may charge for the actual and reasonable cost of its labor
and materials.
      (4)   Every grantee that offers two-way interactive broadband services to
subscribers within the town shall provide and install at no cost for the term
of the franchise agreement cable modems at every school and to all public
libraries, within the franchise area that are passed by the portions of the
grantee’s cable system that are capable of supporting the two-way services.
   (D)   Use of grantee facilities. The town shall have the right to install
and maintain town equipment, at the actual cost for the space, not including
cost for existing space. Cost will be limited to any incremental cost for any
wire or fixtures. This applies to the excess space upon the poles and within
the underground pipes and conduits of a grantee, any wires and fixtures desired
by the town to the extent that the installation and maintenance does not
interfere or compete with existing operations of a grantee. The town will
relinquish its use of the poles and conduits upon 90 days’ notice from a
grantee that town’s use interferes with company’s actual or anticipated use of
the same.
   (E)   Upgrade of system. Every grantee shall upgrade its system (herein
referred to as the “system upgrade”), if required, as set forth in its
respective franchise agreement.
   (F)   Nondiscriminatory access to cable system. Grantee may be required to
allow nondiscriminatory access to its cable system if it shall be required by
federal law. Prior to the enactment of this requirement, a grantee shall be
provided with reasonable notice and an opportunity to be heard, including the
right to present evidence with respect to the need for that requirement.
Grantee reserves, and has not waived, any right it may have, or may later be
determined to have, to challenge the town’s implementation of an open access
requirement.
(Ord. eff. 10-8-2001)
§ 113.06 INSTITUTIONAL NETWORK, PUBLIC EDUCATIONAL AND GOVERNMENTAL (PEG)
ACCESS.
   (A)   Every grantee shall, to the extent required by federal statutes,
provide institutional networks to the extent that a grantee is obligated to
provide the support pursuant to its franchise agreement. This may be supported
pursuant to a separate contract arrangement if so agreed upon in the franchise
agreement.
   (B)   Every grantee shall provide a channel or channels, bandwidth capacity,
service and funding for separate public, educational and government (PEG)
access channels, as specified in its franchise agreement. All these PEG access
channels shall be available to all subscribers as part of basic cable service.
   (C)   Oversight and administration of the PEG access channels shall be set
forth in the franchise agreement. The town may designate a community access
corporation or similar entity to administer one or more of the access channels.
   (D)   Cost associated with construction and operation of the I-net shall not
be a franchise fee unless specified in the franchise agreement
(Ord. eff. 10-8-2001)
§ 113.07 TECHNICAL STANDARDS AND CUSTOMER SERVICE PRACTICES.
   (A)   General technical standards and customer service practices.
      (1)   This section incorporates technical standards and establishes
customer service practices with which a grantee must comply. In addition, a
grantee shall comply with any additional or stricter requirements established
by FCC regulations, or other federal regulation that may be adopted or amended
from time to time.
      (2)   A grantee shall maintain equipment and keep records as are required
to enable the grantor to determine whether the grantee is in compliance with
all standards required by these regulations and other applicable laws.
   (B)   Books and records available to the grantor.
      (1)   The grantee shall maintain an office within the town. The town
shall have the right, upon reasonable notice, to inspect and copy or transcribe
at any time, during normal business hours, all books, records, maps, plans,
financial records, service complaint logs, performance test results and other
like materials of the grantee kept or maintained by grantee or under its
control concerning the operations, finances, affairs, transactions or property
of grantee when necessary to ascertain the grantee’s compliance with this
chapter or the franchise agreement. Access to the aforementioned records shall
not be denied by the grantee on the basis that the records contain proprietary
information. Access to proprietary information shall be allowed at a site of
the grantee’s choosing and shall be held in confidence by the town.
      (2)   If any of the maps or records are not kept in the town, or upon
reasonable notice made available in the town, and if the town shall determine
that an examination of the records is necessary or appropriate, all reasonable
expenses necessarily incurred in making the examination shall be paid by
grantee.
   (C)   Reports required. The grantee shall file with the town, upon
reasonable request:
      (1)   Regulatory communications. All reports required by the Federal
Communications Commission (FCC), including but not limited to annual proof of
performance tests and results, Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) reports, and
all petitions, applications and communications of all types submitted by
grantee to the FCC, the Security and Exchange Commission (SEC), or any other
federal or state regulatory commission or agency having jurisdiction over any
matter affecting operation of grantee’s system;
      (2)   Facilities report. An annual report setting forth the physical
miles of plant construction and plant in operation at the end of the fiscal
year will be made available at the local office of the grantee for review by
the town;
      (3)   Rebuild/upgrade/construction reports. These reports shall be sent
to the town 30 days after the initial franchise agreement is awarded and
monthly thereafter until construction is completed as specified in this chapter
or the franchise agreement;
      (4)   Proof of performance tests. Proof of performance test results
performed as required by the FCC shall be supplied to the town;
      (5)   Test required by town. Tests required by town as specified in this
chapter shall be submitted within 30 days of notification;
      (6)   Grantee rules. The grantee’s schedule of charges, regular
subscriber service policy regarding the processing of subscriber complaints,
delinquent subscriber disconnect and reconnect procedures and any other terms
and conditions adopted as the grantee’s policy in connection with its
subscribers shall be in accordance with applicable state and federal laws,
rules or regulations;
      (7)   Proof of bonds and insurance. Grantee shall submit to the town the
required performance bond, or a certified copy thereof, and insurance
certificates as required under the terms and conditions described in this
chapter;
      (8)   Financial and ownership reports. The following financial reports
for the franchise area shall be submitted to the town, upon reasonable notice
and as required by the town:
         (a)   A statement verifying the amount of gross annual revenues
derived from the franchise, certified by the Vice President for Finance or a
duly authorized officer or manager of the grantee; and
         (b)   An annual list of officers and members of the Board of Directors
of grantee and of grantee’s parent corporation, if applicable.
      (9)   Additional reports. The grantee shall prepare and furnish to the
town at the times and in the form prescribed any additional reports with
respect to its operation, affairs, transactions or property, as may be
reasonably necessary and appropriate to ascertain grantee’s compliance with
this chapter or the franchise agreement.
   (D)   Technical standards. The technical standards used in the operation of
a system shall comply, at a minimum, with the technical standards promulgated
by the FCC relating to cable systems pursuant to the FCC’s rules and
regulations found in Title 47, §§ 76.601 to 76.617, as may be amended or
modified from time to time, which regulations are expressly incorporated herein
by reference. The results of any tests required by the FCC, or a franchise
agreement shall be made available to the town within 30 days of written
request.
   (E)   Test and compliance procedure.
      (1)   Tests for a system shall be performed periodically in a manner so
as to conform to FCC specifications. The town shall notify the grantee of its
desire to witness the tests for a period of 90 days beyond the date of request.
Grantee shall notify the town at least five business days prior to conducting
the tests. Representatives of the town may witness the tests and written test
reports shall be made available to the town upon request. If any test locations
fail to meet these specifications, the grantee shall be required to indicate
what corrective measures have been or will be taken. Grantee shall have the
site re-tested on a timely basis as needed.
      (2)   Complaints. Whenever there have been similar complaints made or
when there exists other evidence, which, in the reasonable judgment of the
town, casts doubt on the reliability or quality of the grantee’s system, the
town shall have the right and authority to compel the grantee to test, analyze
and report on the performance of its system. The town may require additional
tests, full or partial repeat tests, different test procedures, or tests
involving a specific subscriber’s terminal. Reports on the tests shall be
delivered to the town no later than 30 days after the town formally requests
the tests and shall include the following information: the nature of the
complaints which precipitated the special tests; what system component was
tested; the equipment used and procedures employed in the testing; the results
of the tests; and methods by which the complaints were resolved. The tests and
analyses shall be supervised by an engineer or other trained technical
specialist who shall sign all records of the special tests and forward same to
the town with a report interpreting the results of the tests and recommending
what actions should be taken by the town. All the tests conducted by grantee
shall be at the expense of the grantee.
      (3)   Consultants. The town shall have the right to employ or contract
with qualified consultants and attorneys, if necessary or desirable, to assist
in the administration of this or any other section of this chapter or the
franchise agreement. If test results differ by more than 10% from the FCC
technical standard, the grantee shall reimburse the town for its reasonable
costs associated with the testing.
   (F)   Emergency requirements. Each grantee must provide emergency alert
override capabilities in a manner consistent with the FCC’s emergency alert
system (“EAS”) rules and consistent with any state and/or regional emergency
alert system plans adopted in response to the FCC’s EAS rules that are
applicable to the franchise area.
   (G)   Programming decisions. Each grantee shall provide programming from
each of the broad programming categories identified in its franchise agreement.
All programming decisions remain within the sole discretion of each grantee,
provided that each grantee complies with federal law regarding notice to
grantor and subscribers prior to any channel additions, deletions or
realignments, and further subject to the grantee’s signal carriage obligations
pursuant to 47 U.S.C. §§ 531 through 536, as may be amended and subject to the
town’s rights pursuant to 47 U.S.C. § 545, as may be amended. The grantee shall
use its good faith efforts to ensure diversity of programming.
   (H)   Cable system office hours and telephone availability. Attached as
Appendix A are the Federal Communication Commission (FCC) Customer Service
Standards with which grantee must comply.
   (I)   Parental control. Every grantee shall make available to any subscriber
upon request a “lockout” device for blocking both video and audio portions of
any channel(s) of programming entering the subscriber’s premises. The device
shall be provided at a reasonable charge, except to the extent that federal law
specifically provides otherwise. The grantee may, however, require a reasonable
security deposit for the use of this device. This section shall not apply to
channels that are on the basic or expanded basic tier of programming unless the
subscriber receives service via a programmable terminal device, such as a
converter.
   (J)   Periodic subscriber survey. The franchise agreement shall provide
terms for a periodic subscriber survey to assess the cable service needs and
interests of the community throughout the term of the franchise as well as
procedures for review and implementation of changes identified through any
survey.
   (K)   Installations exceeding standard installation. Service drops in excess
of 150 feet and concealed wiring in the home shall be charged to the subscriber
based upon time and material. The desire of the subscriber as to the point of
entry into the residence shall be observed whenever possible. Runs in building
interiors shall be as unobtrusive as possible. The grantee shall use due care
in the process of installation and shall repair any damage to the subscriber’s
property caused by the installation. Restoration shall be undertaken within no
more than ten days after the damage is incurred and shall be completed as soon
as possible thereafter.
   (L)   Service area and line extension policy.
      (1)   Discrimination. No grantee may discriminate in the build-out of its
system to a particular area of the town in providing service to an individual
or groups of residents on the basis of race, creed, religion or economic
condition. Unless the franchise agreement provides otherwise, every grantee
shall serve all areas of the town equally with populations of at least 15
residential dwelling units per cable mile as measured from a grantee’s existing
distribution system, including areas annexed subsequent to the grant of the
franchise. The franchise agreement shall provide a schedule of the areas to be
served, and the specific build-out requirements of the grantee, and shall also
describe the process for extending service to areas that will meet minimum
density requirements at some future date. Unless the franchise agreement
provides otherwise, every grantee shall extend service to commercial areas at
no additional costs where the costs to do so does not exceed the same costs of
providing service in a residential area with a density of 15 homes per mile.
      (2)   Stages. During the initial construction phase of a new system, a
grantee may implement its system in stages pursuant to a schedule and line
extension policy established in its franchise agreement that serves all areas
of the town equally, provided that any deviation from the service and line
extension requirements of this chapter do not discriminate between different
areas of the town on the basis of race, creed, religion or economic condition.
A grantee of a new franchise shall comply with all customer service obligations
with respect to customers whose premises are passed by portions of the
grantee’s network which are fully activated, tested and available for service.
      (3)   Cost-sharing. Pursuant to division (L)(1) of this section, and in
franchise agreements with a 15 homes-per-mile requirement in areas with less
than 15 homes per proposed cable mile, grantee shall offer a cost-sharing
arrangement to residents. Grantee shall bear its pro rata share of the current
construction costs based upon the actual number of homes per mile. The cost-
sharing arrangement shall consist of the following: on the request of a
subscriber desiring service, grantee shall prepare, at its cost, an engineering
survey and cost analysis to determine the cost of the plant extension required
to provide service to the subscriber from the closest usable point on the cable
system. The cost of construction shall be allocated based on the following
formula: if a request for extension into a residential area requires the
construction of cable plant which does not pass at least 15 homes per cable
mile, a proportionate share of construction costs shall be borne by grantee and
by the subscribers. For example, if there are ten dwelling units per mile,
grantee’s share will equal 10/15th of the construction cost. The remaining cost
will be shared equally by each subscriber in the area to be constructed. The
line extension formula shall also be applied to a portion of a cable mile
meeting proportionate density requirements. For example, if there are seven
dwelling units per one-half mile, the grantee shall construct the plant. The
cost sharing described above would be utilized if there were less than the
proportionate share of dwelling units per the portion of a mile needed to reach
the dwelling units. Should additional subscribers request cable service,
subscribers utilizing the cost-sharing plan for extension shall be reimbursed
pro rata for their contribution or a proportional share thereof. In that case,
the pro rata shares shall be recalculated and each new subscriber shall pay the
new pro rata share, and all prior subscribers shall receive refunds. In any
event, at the end of 24 months from completion of the project, the subscribers
are no longer eligible for refunds, and the amounts paid by subscribers will be
credited to the plant account of the grantee. The average cost of the line
extension shall be recalculated annually based upon the current costs of labor
and material. Each person contributing toward the direct cost of the line
extension shall waive all ownership interest in the line extension. All
equipment and components of the line extension, including but not limited to
cable wire, electronics and pedestals, shall at all times remain the exclusive
property of the grantee.
   (M)   Town monitoring. In addition to free cable service required by this
chapter, grantee shall provide one service feed to Town Administration Offices
(unless otherwise specified by town) that shall receive without charge all
basic and expanded basic cable programming provided by grantee. This service
shall be provided in such a manner that the town may monitor the programming
and use of the cable system for compliance with the franchise agreement and
this chapter. The services provided pursuant to this requirement shall be in a
secure office location, and not in a location open to public viewing.
   (N)   Access to inside wiring. Access to, and ownership of, inside wiring
shall be in accordance with §§ 76.800 et seq. of the FCC rules and regulations
as the same may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. eff. 10-8-2001)
§ 113.08 CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Right-of-way construction. Prior to commencing any construction in the
town, a grantee must obtain all necessary permits and licenses required by
federal, state and generally applicable town laws, ordinances and rules and pay
all associated nondiscriminatory fees. Further, a grantee shall comply with all
applicable laws, ordinances, rules and standards relating to the construction,
operation and maintenance of a cable system.
   (B)   Compliance with laws. The construction, installation and maintenance
of the cable system shall be effectuated by grantee in a manner that is
consistent with the laws, ordinances and construction standards of the state,
the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the National Electrical
Safety Code, National Electrical Code and the FCC, to the extent applicable, as
well as all other laws, rules, regulations and ordinances that are generally
applicable and promulgated pursuant to the town’s lawful police power. All open
connections on splitters, couplers and other devices shall be properly
terminated.
   (C)   Minimum interference. All of grantee’s construction, installation,
operation, repair and maintenance, and the arrangement of its lines, cables and
other appurtenances, on public or private property, shall be conducted in such
a manner as to not unreasonably interfere with the rights and reasonable
convenience of property owners that may be affected. In the event the work is
not in accordance with applicable rules and regulations, the town may require
the removal, within a period of time after notice as is reasonable under the
circumstances, of grantee’s lines, cables and appurtenances from the public
rights-of-way in question, at the sole expense of the grantee.
   (D)   Repair of property. Grantee shall promptly repair and restore any town
or private property which may be damaged as a result of the construction,
installation, operation, repair, maintenance or removal of the cable system.
Any property damaged or destroyed shall be promptly repaired and restored by
grantee, at grantee’s sole cost and expense to the reasonable satisfaction of
the town, to its condition prior to being damaged, or shall be replaced by
grantee with equivalent property. The town may inspect and approve the
condition of the public rights-of-way and cables, wires, attachments and poles
after restoration. The liability, indemnity, insurance and performance bond as
provided herein shall continue in full force and effect during the period of
any removal and until the grantee has fully complied with the terms and
conditions of this chapter and the franchise agreement. In the event of a
failure by the grantee to complete any restoration work required by the town
within the time as may be established by the town and to the reasonable
satisfaction of the town, the town may, following reasonable notice to the
grantee, cause the work to be done and the grantee shall reimburse the town the
cost thereof within 30 days after receipt of an itemized list of the cost, or
the town may at its option recover the costs through the performance bond
provided by grantee. The town shall be permitted to seek legal and equitable
relief to enforce the provisions of this section.
   (E)   Erection of poles. Grantee shall not erect any pole on or along any
public rights-of-way in an existing aerial utility system without the advance
written approval of the town. If additional poles in an existing aerial route
are required, grantee shall negotiate, as needed, with the owners thereof for
the installation of the needed poles. Grantee shall negotiate the lease of pole
space and facilities from the existing pole owners for all aerial construction,
under mutually acceptable terms and conditions.
   (F)   Reservations of street rights. Nothing in this chapter shall be
construed to prevent the town from constructing storm or sanitary sewers,
grading, paving, repairing or altering any public rights-of-way, or laying
down, repairing or removing water mains, traffic signal control systems, town
fiber plant, or constructing or establishing any public utility, service or
other public work that the town may operate or undertake now or in the future.
All the work shall be done, insofar as practicable, in a manner as not to
obstruct, injure or prevent the free use and operation of poles, wires,
conduits, conductors, pipes or appurtenances of grantee. If town in its
reasonable judgment shall determine that grantee’s facilities interfere with
the construction location or repair of any public right-of-way or public
improvement, then all the facilities of grantee shall be removed or replaced,
or temporarily disconnected, in a manner as shall be directed by the town so
that the same shall not interfere with the public works of the town. The
removal or replacement shall be at the expense of grantee; provided, however,
that nothing in this chapter shall preclude grantee from seeking reimbursement
for removal or replacement costs from any public funds generally available to
right-of-way users for the reimbursement of the costs.
   (G)   Underground installation. In those areas within the town where cable
television, telephone or electrical facilities are currently placed
underground, all cable system facilities shall remain or be placed underground.
In areas where either telephone or electric utility facilities are above ground
at the time of installation, grantee may install its cable system facilities
above ground, provided that at the time that both electric and telephone
utility facilities are placed underground, grantee shall likewise place its
cable system facilities underground without cost to the town. Nothing contained
in this section shall require a grantee to construct, operate and maintain
underground any ground-mounted appurtenances, except that grantee shall take
steps to minimize the number and visual impact of the facilities. If the
grantor reimburses any utility for the relocation, grantee shall be similarly
reimbursed. This section shall not prevent the town or any of its agencies or
joint agencies from requiring the installation or relocation of cable services
facilities underground pursuant to a separate ordinance or regulation or
requirement imposed in accordance with the exercise of the general police power
or regulatory function of the agency or joint agency.
   (H)   Conduit.
      (1)   The town shall not be responsible for any cuts or damage to buried
or underground facilities of a grantee that are not clearly marked or cannot be
located through the state “one-call” service.
      (2)   Grantee shall provide the town detailed strand and trench maps in
both paper and a mutually agreed upon electronic format of all new underground
and buried cable facilities upon activation of the sections of the system.
      (3)   Grantee shall provide a contact number for the town to call in
emergency situations requiring an immediate response on the part of the town.
If the grantee does not properly and effectively identify the precise location
of its facilities within 45 minutes of an emergency call from the town, the
town shall not be responsible for damage to the grantee’s facilities.
   (I)   Clearing poles and cables. Grantee shall have the right to remove,
trim, cut and to keep clear of its poles, cables, underground conduits and
related equipment the trees in and along the public rights-of-way, but, in the
exercise of that right, grantee shall not cut the trees to any greater extent
than is reasonably necessary for the construction, erection, installation,
maintenance and use of cable system equipment. Except in emergency situations,
grantee shall not remove, trim or cut the trees from any public rights-of-way
without first providing reasonable notice to the town of its intention to do
so, the notice to be delivered not less than ten days in advance. The grantee
shall compensate the town or any private owners of the trees for any damage
proximately caused by grantee’s negligent conduct.
   (J)   Moving facilities. Grantee, on the request of the town, or any person
holding a building permit issued by the town, or any permit issued by an
appropriate state agency, shall temporarily move its wires, cables, poles or
other cable system facilities to permit the moving of large objects, vehicles,
buildings or other structures. The expense of these temporary moves shall be
paid to grantee by the person requesting the same and grantee shall have the
authority to require payment in advance. Grantee shall be given not less than
30 days’ advance notice to arrange for these temporary moves.
   (K)   Work performed by others. To the extent applicable, all provisions of
this chapter shall apply to any subcontractors or others performing any work or
services pursuant to the provisions of a franchise agreement on behalf of a
grantee.
   (L)   Liability. Nothing contained in this chapter shall relieve any person
from liability arising out of the failure to exercise reasonable care to avoid
injuring grantee’s facilities while performing any work connected with grading,
re-grading or changing the line of any public rights-of-way or with the
construction of any sewer or water system or utility system.
(Ord. eff. 10-8-2001)
§ 113.09 GENERAL FINANCIAL AND INSURANCE PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Franchise fee.
      (1)   The administration of this chapter or the franchise agreement
imposes upon the town additional regulatory responsibility and expense and in
consideration for permission to use the public rights-of-way of the town for
the construction, operation and maintenance of a cable system within the town,
a grantee of any franchise hereunder shall pay to the town a franchise fee in
an amount as designated in the franchise agreement, up to the maximum amount
allowed by applicable law. To the extent that applicable law changes the
maximum authorized franchise fee, the town reserves the right to change the
franchise fee as stated in the franchise agreement, by adopting an ordinance
establishing the new franchise fee rate and allowing reasonable notice to the
grantee for administration of the change. The town shall hold a public hearing
prior to adopting any change in the franchise fee.
      (2)   Payments due the grantor under this section shall be computed
quarterly, for the preceding quarter. Each quarterly payment shall be due and
payable no later than 45 days after the end of the preceding quarter. Each
payment shall be accompanied by a brief report by a grantee showing the basis
for the computation and a “franchise fee worksheet” listing all of the sources
of revenues attributable to the operation of grantee’s system in the town. All
these payments shall be certified as correct by an officer of the grantee.
      (3)   No acceptance of any payment shall be construed as an accord that
the amount paid is in fact the correct amount, nor shall the acceptance of
payment be construed as a release of any claim grantor may have for further
sums payable under the provisions of this chapter or a franchise agreement. All
amounts paid shall be subject to audit and recomputation by grantor or its
designee at any time during any calendar year (but not more than once per
calendar year) upon 20 calendar days’ notice, which shall include a request for
any documents sought to be reviewed. Audits shall be at the expense of the
grantee if the additional amount due is greater than 2% of the amount paid. Any
additional amount due to the town as a result of the audit shall be paid within
60 days following written notice to the grantee by the town which notice shall
include a copy of the audit report. Grantor’s right to audit and grantee’s
obligation to retain records related to the franchise fee audit, shall expire
three years from the date on which the most recent franchise fee payment by the
grantee was due from the time of written notice.
      (4)   In the event that any franchise payment or recomputed amount is not
made on or before the dates specified herein, the grantee shall pay as
additional compensation an interest charge, computed from the due date, at the
annual rate equal to the commercial prime interest rate of the town’s primary
depository bank during the period that the unpaid amount is owed.
   (B)   Performance bond. Each grantee shall maintain a performance bond with
the town to ensure compliance with this chapter and the applicable franchise
agreement, in an amount and in a manner as set forth in the grantee’s franchise
agreement.
   (C)   Penalties procedure.
      (1)   Whenever the grantor has reason to believe that a grantee has
violated any material provision of a franchise agreement or this chapter, the
grantor shall first notify the grantee of the material violation and demand
correction within a reasonable time, which shall not be less than 20 days in
the case of the failure of a grantee to pay any sum or other amount due the
grantor under a franchise agreement, and 30 days in all other cases. If a
grantee fails to correct the violation within the time prescribed, or if a
grantee is unable to correct the violation and fails to commence corrective
action within the time prescribed and to diligently remedy the violation
thereafter, the grantee shall then be given written notice of not less than 20
days for public comment. The notice shall indicate with reasonable specificity
the violation alleged to have occurred.
      (2)   At the public hearing, the Board shall hear and consider all
relevant evidence and thereafter render findings and a decision based upon the
evidence. Any hearing must, at a minimum, provide the grantee a full and fair
opportunity to be heard by the Board.
      (3)   In the event the Board finds that a grantee has corrected the
violation or promptly commenced correction of the violation after notice
thereof from the grantor and is diligently proceeding to fully remedy the
violation, or that no violation has occurred, the proceedings shall terminate
and no penalty or other sanction shall be imposed.
      (4)   In the event the Board finds that a violation exists and that a
grantee has not corrected the same in a satisfactory manner or did not promptly
commence and diligently proceed to correct the violation, the Board may impose
liquidated damages to be collected from the performance bond, as set out in the
franchise agreement.
      (5)   If the Board elects to assess liquidated damages, then that
election shall constitute the grantor’s exclusive remedy for a period of 60
days. Thereafter, if a grantee remains in noncompliance, the grantor may pursue
any other available remedy.
      (6)   In the event that a franchise is cancelled or terminated by reason
of the default of a grantee, the performance bond deposited pursuant to a
franchise agreement shall remain in effect and available to the grantor until
all pending claims or penalties are resolved or settled, after which point any
remaining amounts in the performance bond shall revert to the grantee.
      (7)   The rights reserved to the grantor with respect to the security
fund are in addition to all other rights of the grantor, whether reserved by a
franchise agreement, this chapter or authorized by law, and no action,
proceeding or exercise of a right with respect to the performance bond shall
affect any other right grantor may have.
      (8)   In instances of repeated violations, whether remedied or not, the
grantor shall serve special notice outlining additional remediation
requirements. Failure to cure, as measured by repeated instances of the same
violation, is evidence of an evasive practice and may lead to revocation under
§
113.10(A).
      (9)   Grantee acknowledges that noncompliance with the provisions of the
franchise agreement and the master ordinance will harm subscribers and the town
and the amounts of actual damages will be difficult or impossible to ascertain.
The town may therefore assess the following liquidated damages against grantee
for unexcused noncompliance with the requirements of the franchise agreement
and master ordinance. Grantee acknowledges that the liquidated damages set
forth below are a reasonable approximation of actual damages and that this
provision is intended to provide compensation and is not a penalty. All damages
provided shall be cumulative, unless expressly stated.
         (a)   For failure to materially complete construction or extend
service in accordance with the ordinance and the franchise agreement: $250/
calendar day for each day the violation continues;
         (b)   For failure to materially comply with requirements for access
channels: $250/calendar day for each day the violation continues;
         (c)   For failure to comply with the material requirements of the I-
net provisions of the ordinance/franchise agreement: $250/calendar day for each
day the violation continues;
         (d)   For repeated, wilful or continuing failure to submit reports,
maintain records, provide documents or information: $250/calendar day for each
day the violation continues;
         (e)   For failure to comply with the material requirements of the
customer service standards: $250/calendar day for each day the violation
continues;
         (f)   For failure to comply with the transfer provisions: $250/
calendar day for each day the violation continues; and
         (g)   For violation of other material provisions of the ordinance and
the franchise agreement: up to $250/day for each day the violation continues.
      (10)   For the purposes of calculating the amount of liquidated damages,
time periods shall be tolled for such time as grantee is found to be diligently
working to remedy the violation.
   (D)   Bonds, indemnification and insurance. Each grantee shall maintain
bonds and insurance with the town in amounts and in a manner as set forth in
the grantee’s franchise agreement. Each grantee also shall be required to
indemnify the town in a manner as set forth in the grantee’s franchise
agreement.
(Ord. eff. 10-8-2001)
§ 113.10 REVOCATION.
   (A)   Grounds for revocation. The grantor reserves the right to revoke the
franchise, and all rights and privileges pertaining thereto, in the event that:
      (1)   A grantee substantially violates any material provision of this
chapter or a franchise agreement;
      (2)   A grantee attempts to evade any of the material provisions of this
chapter or a franchise agreement;
      (3)   A grantee practices an act of fraud or deceit upon the grantor;
      (4)   A grantee becomes insolvent, unable or unwilling to pay its debts,
or is adjudged bankrupt;
      (5)   A grantee fails to provide or maintain in full force and effect the
liability and indemnification coverage or the performance bond as required
pursuant to its franchise; or
      (6)   A grantee violates any orders or rulings of any regulatory body
having jurisdiction over the grantee relative to this chapter or the franchise
and after notice thereof, shall continue the violation and not remedy the same
within 60 days.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   Whenever the grantor has reason to believe that there may be
grounds for revocation of a franchise, the grantor shall first notify the
grantee in writing of its basis for believing grounds for revocation exist.
This notice shall indicate with reasonable specificity the grounds for
revocation that are believed to exist so that the grantee may have a reasonable
opportunity to cure or otherwise address the same. If a grantee fails to
adequately cure or address the purported grounds for revocation within 30 days
of the notice, then the grantor may, upon 30 days’ written notice to the
grantee, commence a public administrative hearing to determine whether there
exists any ground for revocation.
      (2)   The administrative hearing shall be conducted so as to protect the
full due process rights of the parties and provide for, at a minimum, the right
to have counsel, the right to call and cross- examine witnesses and the right
to a full transcript of the proceedings.
      (3)   After the close of the hearing, grantor or the designated hearing
officer shall issue a written decision based on the record of the proceedings,
stating with specificity the findings and reasons supporting the decision.
      (4)   Upon revocation, a grantee shall have a period of 120 days
subsequent to the date of the formal adoption of a revocation of the franchise
by the town within which to file an appeal with a court of competent
jurisdiction.
      (5)   During the appeal period, the franchise shall remain in full force
and effect.
(Ord. eff. 10-8-2001)
§ 113.11 FORECLOSURE, RECEIVERSHIP AND ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   Foreclosure. Upon the foreclosure or other judicial sale of all or a
part of a system, a grantee shall notify the grantor of that fact, and the
notification shall be treated as a notification that a change in control of the
grantee has taken place, and the provisions of this chapter governing the
consent to transfer or change in ownership shall apply without regard to how
the transfer or change in ownership occurred.
   (B)   Receivership. Apart from and supplemental to the right to revoke a
franchise, grantor shall have the right to cancel a franchise agreement 120
days after the appointment of a receiver or trustee to take over and conduct
the business of a grantee, whether in receivership, reorganization, bankruptcy
or other action or proceeding, unless the receivership or trusteeship shall
have been vacated prior to the expiration of the 120 days, or unless:
      (1)   Within 120 days after its election or appointment, the receiver or
trustee has fully complied with all the provisions of grantee’s franchise
agreement and this chapter and remedied all defaults thereunder; and
      (2)   The receiver or trustee, within the 120 days, has executed an
agreement, duly approved by a court having jurisdiction, whereby the receiver
or trustee assumes and agrees to be bound by each and every provision of this
chapter and the applicable franchise agreement.
(Ord. eff. 10-8-2001)
§ 113.12 PURCHASE BY GRANTOR UPON TERMINATION OF FRANCHISE TERM OR REVOCATION
OF FRANCHISE.
   The grantor may, in accordance with and to the extent permitted by 47 U.S.C.
§ 547, upon the payment of a fair valuation, purchase, condemn, acquire, take
over and hold the property and plant of a grantee, in whole or in part, on the
following conditions:
   (A)   Upon revocation of a franchise, a fair valuation shall be an equitable
value that shall not include any sum attributable to the value of the franchise
itself, and plant and property shall be valued according to its book value at
the time of revocation, or the system’s initial cost less depreciation and
salvage;
   (B)   At the expiration of a franchise agreement and following a denial of
renewal of the franchise agreement, a fair valuation shall be the fair market
value of the plant and property, exclusive of the value attributed to the
franchise itself; and
   (C)   In the event the grantor shall acquire a franchise pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter or a franchise agreement, and commenced operation of
the system, the grantor shall reimburse the grantee for the fair market value
of the system.
(Ord. eff. 10-8-2001)
§ 113.13 SALE OR TRANSFER OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   No grantee shall sell, transfer, lease, assign, sublet or dispose of,
in whole or in part, an interest in or control of a franchise or cable system
or any of the rights or privileges granted by a franchise agreement, without
the prior consent of the grantor, which consent shall not be unreasonably
denied or delayed and may be denied only upon a good-faith finding by the
grantor that the proposed transferee lacks the legal, technical or financial
qualifications to consummate the transaction and operate the system so as to
perform its obligations under this chapter and the applicable franchise
agreement. This section shall not apply to sales of property or equipment in
the normal course of business. Consent from the grantor shall not be required
for a transfer in trust, mortgage or other instrument of hypothecation, in
whole or in part, to secure an indebtedness or for a transfer to a corporation,
partnership or other entity controlling, controlled by or under common control
with a grantee.
   (B)   (1)   The following additional events shall be deemed to be a sale,
assignment or other transfer of an interest in or control of a grantee or its
franchise or cable system requiring compliance with this section:
         (a)   The sale, assignment or other transfer of all or a majority of a
grantee’s assets;
         (b)   The sale, assignment or other transfer of capital stock or
partnership, membership or other equity interests in a grantee by one or more
of its existing shareholders, partners, members or other equity owners so as to
create a new controlling interest in a grantee;
         (c)   The issuance of additional capital stock or partnership,
membership or other equity interest by a grantee so as to create a new
controlling interest in a grantee; and
         (d)   A grantee’s agreement to transfer management or operation of the
grantee or the system.
      (2)   The term CONTROLLING INTEREST as used herein is not limited to
major stockholders but includes actual working control in whatever manner
exercised.
   (C)   In the case of any sale or transfer of ownership of an interest in or
control of a grantee or its franchise or cable system, the town shall have 120
days to act upon any request for approval of the sale or transfer that contains
or is accompanied by any information as is required in accordance with FCC
regulations and the requirements of this chapter and the applicable franchise
agreement, including information related to the legal, technical and financial
qualifications, and the proposed transferee’s ability to operate the system in
accord with this chapter and the franchise agreement. Failure to provide all
information reasonably requested by the town as part of its review may be
grounds for a denial of the proposed transfer. If the town fails to render a
final decision on the request within 120 days after receipt by the town of all
required information, the request shall be deemed granted unless the grantee
and the town agree to an extension of the 120-day period.
   (D)   The consent or approval of the town to any transfer of the grantee
shall not constitute a waiver or release of the rights of the town in and to
the public rights-of-way, and any transfer shall, by its terms, be expressly
subject to the terms and conditions of this chapter and the franchise
agreement.
   (E)   In the absence of extraordinary circumstances, the town will not
approve any transfer or assignment of the franchise prior to completion of
construction of the proposed initial system.
   (F)   Any approval by the town of a transfer shall be contingent upon the
prospective new grantee becoming a signatory to the franchise agreement.
(Ord. eff. 10-8-2001)
§ 113.14 RIGHTS OF INDIVIDUALS PROTECTED.
   (A)   Discriminatory practices prohibited. No grantee shall deny service,
deny access or otherwise discriminate against subscribers, programmers or
general citizens on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex,
disability or age. Every grantee shall strictly adhere to the equal employment
opportunity requirements of state and federal law. Each grantee shall comply at
all times with all other applicable federal, state and local laws, and all
executive and administrative orders relating to nondiscrimination.
   (B)   Subscriber privacy. Grantees shall at all times comply with the
federal subscriber privacy requirements codified at 47 U.S.C. § 551.
(Ord. eff. 10-8-2001)
§ 113.15 MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Rate regulation. The town reserves the right to regulate rates for all
services offered over the cable system, to the extent permitted by federal or
state law. The grantee shall be subject to the rate regulation provisions
provided for herein, and those of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC)
at 47 C.F.R., pt. 76.900, subpt. N. The town shall follow the rules relating to
cable rate regulation promulgated by the FCC at 47 C.F.R., pt. 76.900, subpt.
N. To the extent required by applicable federal or state law, the grantee shall
establish rates that are nondiscriminatory within the same general class of
subscribers and which must be applied fairly and uniformly to all subscribers
in the franchise area for all services. Nothing contained herein shall prohibit
the grantee from offering:
      (1)   Discounts to commercial and multiple-family dwelling subscribers
billed on a bulk basis;
      (2)   Promotional discounts;
      (3)   Reduced installation rates for subscribers who have multiple
services;
      (4)   Discounts for senior citizens and/or low-income residents; or
      (5)   Reduced rates to subscribers who receive non-cable services in
addition to cable services.
   (B)   Rights reserved to grantor.
      (1)   Upon either the expiration or revocation of a franchise, the
grantor may permit and/or require a grantee to continue to operate the cable
system for an extended period of time not to exceed three months from the date
of the expiration or revocation. A grantee shall continue to operate the system
under the terms and conditions of this chapter and the applicable franchise
agreement and to provide cable service and any and all other services which the
grantee had been providing.
      (2)   The grantor shall have the right to compel continued operation of
the cable system whether by the grantee or a trustee or receiver or by the
grantor, and to ensure that the operation is consistent with public interest as
determined by a court of competent jurisdiction. The grantee may not remove
equipment or documents necessary for continued operation of the system.
      (3)   At all reasonable times, the grantee shall permit examination by
the town of the system, together with any appurtenant property of the grantee
situated within or without the town when necessary to ascertain the grantee’s
compliance with this chapter, the franchise agreement and all applicable laws.
      (4)   The town shall have the right of intervention in any suit or
proceeding to which the grantee is a party relative to grantee’s operations in
the town, and the grantee shall not oppose that intervention by the town.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided by applicable law, the grantee shall
have no recourse whatsoever against the town or its officials, boards,
commissions, agents or employees for any loss, cost, expense or damage arising
out of any provision or requirements of this chapter or the franchise
agreement, or of their enforcement.
   (C)   Non-enforcement by the town. Grantee shall not be relieved of its
obligation to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter or the
franchise agreement by reason of any failure of the town to enforce prompt
compliance.
   (D)   Governing law and choice of forum. Any dispute arising with respect to
this chapter or a franchise agreement granted pursuant to it, shall be subject
to review by the state and federal courts having primary jurisdiction in the
town.
   (E)   Severability. If any material portion of this chapter, or a franchise
agreement adopted pursuant to it, is held by an authority of competent
jurisdiction, to be invalid or unlawful as conflicting with applicable laws now
or hereafter in effect, or is held by a court or competent governmental
authority to be modified in any way in order to conform to the requirements of
any applicable laws, the provision shall be considered a separate, distinct and
independent part of this chapter or franchise agreement, and, to the extent
possible, the holding shall not affect the validity and enforceability of all
other provisions thereof.
   (F)   Publication of notices. All public notices required to be published by
the grantor under this chapter or any franchise agreement shall be published in
a manner consistent with the public notice laws of the state.
   (G)   System construction capabilities and schedule.
      (1)   The cable system shall generally conform to the system design and
channel capacity specifications set forth by the grantee in its application for
a franchise submitted to the town. At a minimum, the grantee shall construct a
system with equivalent technical capabilities to a hybrid fiber coax (HFC) 750
MHZ cable system. The grantee is permitted to modify its design and
implementation plan, pursuant to the conditions provided herein, to accommodate
technological innovations and refinements that enhance system reliability and
capacity.
      (2)   The initial construction required under initial franchise agreement
shall be completed in compliance with a schedule specified therein. If the
grantee shows that, notwithstanding its due diligence, that it has been unable
to extend service to a specified area because the acts or omissions of a third
party (excluding the grantee’s subcontractors or agents) or other factors have
caused a delay in construction beyond that reasonably expected during the
course of construction, and the grantee proposes a reasonable alternative
deadline for extension of service to that area, the town shall grant reasonable
extensions of time to complete construction.
(Ord. eff. 10-8-2001)
APPENDIX A: CUSTOMER SERVICE STANDARDS
   Customer Service Standards
   Grantee shall at all times comply with the more stringent of the customer
service and consumer protection provisions of the town’s Master Cable Services
Regulatory Ordinance, the franchise agreement or the FCC.
   (A)   Grantee will at all times comply with the town’s Customer Service
Standards in addition to compliance with the FCC standards (Title 47 C.F.R.,
pt. 76 (Cable Television Service), subpt. H (General Operating Requirements) as
amended.
   (B)   The town’s Customer Service Standards are:
      (1)   The Customer Service Standards as set forth below are the standards
set for all affected cable operators. This provision is the town’s notice of
its intent to enforce the standards.
      (2)   Effective with adoption of this chapter, a cable operator shall be
subject to the following Customer Service Standards.
         (a)   Cable system office hours and telephone availability.
            1.   The cable operator will maintain a local, toll-free or
collect-call telephone access line which will be available to its subscribers
24 hours a day, seven days a week.
               a.   Trained company representatives will be available to
respond to customer telephone inquiries during normal business hours.
               b.   After normal operating conditions, the access line may be
answered by a service or an automated response system, including an answering
machine. Inquiries received after normal business hours must be responded to by
a trained company representative on the next business day.
            2.   Under normal operating conditions, telephone answer time by a
customer representative, including wait time, shall not exceed 30 seconds when
the connection is made. If the call needs to be transferred, transfer time
shall not exceed 30 seconds. These standards shall be met no less than 90% of
the time under normal operating conditions, measured on a quarterly basis.
            3.   The operator is required to have equipment or perform surveys
to measure compliance with the telephone answering standards above.
            4.   Under normal operating conditions, the customer will receive a
busy signal less than 3% of the time.
            5.   Customer service center and bill payment locations will be
open at least during normal business hours and will be conveniently located.
         (b)   Installations, outages and service calls. Under normal operating
conditions, each of the following six standards will be met no less than 95% of
the time measured on a quarterly basis.
            1.   Standard installations will be performed within seven business
days after an order has been placed.
            2.   Excluding conditions beyond the control of the operator, the
cable operator will begin working on “service interruptions” promptly and in no
event later than 24 hours after the interruption becomes known. The cable
operator must begin actions to correct other service problems the next business
day after notification of the service problem.
            3.   The “appointment window” alternatives for installations,
service calls and other installation activities will be either a specific time
or, at maximum, a four-hour time block during normal business hours. (The
operator may schedule service calls and other installation activities outside
of normal operating hours.)
            4.   An operator may not cancel an appointment with a customer
after the close of business on the business day prior to the scheduled
appointment.
            5.   If a cable operator representative is running late for an
appointment with a customer and will not be able to keep the appointment as
scheduled, the customer will be contacted. The appointment will be rescheduled,
as necessary, at a time that is convenient for the customer.
            6.   Complaint log. The cable operator shall establish a complaint
log. The log will be provided to the town, upon reasonable request for the
purpose of ascertaining compliance with the ordinance or franchise agreement.
The complaint log shall be available for review for the current and past two
years and be in a format convenient to the grantee. The log shall have
sufficient information to indicate the date of the complaint, nature of the
complaint and the grantee’s resolution of the complaint.
         (c)   Communications between cable operators and cable subscribers.
            1.   Notifications to subscribers.
               a.   The cable operator shall provide written information on
each of the following areas at the time of installation of service, at least
annually to all subscribers, and at any time upon request:
                  (i)   Products and services offered;
                  (ii)   Prices and options for programming services and
conditions of subscription to programming and other services;
                  (iii)   Installation and service maintenance policies;
                  (iv)   Instruction on how to use the cable service;
                  (v)   Channel positions of programming carried on the system;
and
                  (vi)   Billing and complaint procedures, including the
address and telephone number of the local franchise authority’s cable office.
               b.   Customers will be notified of any changes in rates,
programming service or channel positions as soon as possible through
announcements on the cable system and in writing. Notice must be given to
subscribers a minimum of 30 days in advance of the changes if the change is
within the control of the cable operator, in addition, the cable operator shall
notify subscribes 30 days in advance of any significant changes in the other
information required by the preceding division.
            2.   Billing.
               a.   Bills will be clear, concise and understandable. Bills must
be fully itemized, with itemizations, including but not limited to basic and
premium service charges and equipment charges. Bills will also clearly
delineate all activity during the billing period, including optional charges,
rebates and credits.
               b.   In case of a billing dispute, the cable operator must
respond to a written complaint from a subscriber within 30 days.
            3.   Refunds. Refund checks will be issued promptly, but no later
than either:
               a.   The customer’s next billing cycle following resolution of
the request of 30 days, whichever is earlier; or
               b.   The return of the equipment supplied by the cable operator
if service is terminated.
            4.   Credits. In the case of an outage, multiple or single, in
excess of 24 hours, the grantee shall make every effort to credit the
subscriber’s account based on the period of outage, reasons for outage and
general good business practices. Credits for service will be issued no later
than the customer’s next billing cycle following the determination that a
credit is warranted.
         (d)   Late payment for cable service.
            a.   If grantee assesses a processing fee for late payments, each
bill shall specify on its face in a fashion emphasizing same, such as bold-face
type, underlined type or a larger font: “For payments received after  [date]  a
$        processing fee for late payment may be charged.”
            b.   No processing fees for late payment, however denominated,
shall be added to a subscriber’s bill less than 15 calendar days after the date
printed on mailing of the bill to the subscriber, and shall not exceed the
amount permitted under applicable law.
(Ord. eff. 10-18-2001)
CHAPTER 114: FOOD SERVICE
Section
Sidewalk Cafes
   
114.01   Sidewalk cafes permitted
   
114.02   Regulations
   
114.03   Alcohol service
   
114.04   Permit revocation
SIDEWALK CAFES
§ 114.01 SIDEWALK CAFES PERMITTED.
   (A)   The Town of Elkin shall allow areas of town sidewalks to be used by
restaurants to serve patrons outside in areas immediately adjoining the
restaurant property ("sidewalk cafes") pursuant to the requirements of this
chapter. SIDEWALK CAFES are defined as an extension of a business beyond the
building's exterior walls, onto sidewalks in front of, or in alleyways or
property behind, their business. There are two types of sidewalk cafes
permitted:
      (1)   A cafe with tables and chairs for food service without alcohol, or
outside seating purposes only. No permits are required for a business that will
not be providing alcoholic beverages, however a one-time application to approve
a sidewalk cafe not selling alcohol must be submitted and approved, and the
regulations in §
114.02 below must be met at all times.
      (2)   A cafe with tables and chairs for food service allowing for service
of alcoholic beverages outside in approved, designated locations that are
partitioned off for alcoholic beverage service. Restaurants, cafes, and
businesses that wish to open a sidewalk cafe with alcohol must submit an
application, be approved, and pay to the town an annual permit fee. Regulations
in §§
114.02 and
114.03 below must be met at all times as well as special alcohol and late night
food service hours.
   (B)   Alcohol served outside on the restaurant's private property is not
controlled by town ordinances and do not require a permit. However, all Alcohol
Beverage Control (ABC) rules and regulations shall apply, as well as The
Americans With Disabilities Act (ADA) requirements.
   (C)   No business owner may operate a sidewalk cafe or serve alcohol on
public sidewalks, parking lots or alleyways, without first submitting an
application for a sidewalk cafe. Approval of the application and/or a permit
may take up to 60 business days. All fees for the alcohol permit must be paid
in full before the permit will be issued.
   (D)   Permits will be issued each year and will expire on June 30 of the
following year. If a permitted business operation/ sidewalk cafe is
discontinued, no refund of the permit fee shall be made. Permits issued
pursuant to this section shall not be transferable or assignable. Permits may
prohibit operation during special events and contain other conditions and
restrictions as may be necessary to protect the public health, safety and
welfare. In accordance with the town's Schedule of Fees, an annual fee will
cover the costs of processing and issuing the Sidewalk Cafe Permit each year.
An existing permit must be renewed prior to July 1 each year to continue
alcohol sales.
(Ord. eff. 5-12-2014)
§ 114.02 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The sidewalk cafe must be associated with an operating business so
that it is under the same management, and is adjacent to, and shares the same
preparation facilities, restroom facilities and other customer convenience
facilities as the business.
   (B)   The tables, chairs and other furnishings used in the sidewalk cafe
shall not be anchored and shall be of a type of street furniture that is easily
movable, but heavy enough to sustain strong winds.
   (C)   The placement of tables, chairs, umbrellas and other furnishings must
be depicted in a site plan submitted with the application and shall be
considered an extension of the business. The outside cafe area shall leave a
minimum of three feet of unobstructed space (as measured from the sidewalk's
curb towards the building) for the passage of pedestrians and wheelchairs. [ADA
minimum is a 36-inch allowable width with sidewalks being at least five feet in
width]. No fire exits or lanes may be blocked and must remain clear at all
times. Adjacent business frontage cannot be used for the purposes of a sidewalk
cafe.
   (D)   Each sidewalk cafe shall provide adequate waste receptacles for its
patrons, and if applicable, recycle bins. At the end of each business day and
during operating hours, the operator shall remove all trash and debris of any
sort from the receptacles and sidewalk area in and around the sidewalk cafe. In
addition, the operator shall remove from the sidewalk and street alongside and
from abutting properties, any other trash or debris originating as a result of
the operation of the sidewalk cafe. If multiple complaints are received
regarding trash violations at a location, the permit to serve alcohol at that
location may be suspended for 30 days, or revoked until the next permit cycle
begins, and a new application is submitted and approved.
   (E)   If a waste receptacle is not currently located in front of the
proposed sidewalk cafe, one should be provided by the business owner to
accommodate the disposal of trash by their patrons. The waste receptacle must
be similar in style to current receptacles used along Main Street in Elkin.
   (F)   There shall be NO SMOKING in the sidewalk cafe area.
   (G)   Any damage to the sidewalks, light poles, town receptacles or any
other town property that occurs as a result of the sidewalk cafe, or due to
misuse or as a result of negligence, shall be the responsibility of the
business owner/ permit holder to repair or replace.
   (H)   The hours of operation of all sidewalk cafes can be scheduled during
regular business hours. However, sidewalk cafes that serve alcohol can only
serve alcoholic beverages and late night food menus outside from 10:00 a.m. to
12:00 midnight, Monday through Saturday, and 12:00 noon through 12:00 midnight
on Sundays. Noise ordinances go into effect at 10:00 p.m. every evening.
(Ord. eff. 5-12-2014; Ord. eff. 10-6-2014)
§ 114.03 ALCOHOL SERVICE.
   (A)   The sidewalk cafe area serving alcohol must comply with all
requirements of the North Carolina ABC Commission, including but not limited to
the requirement that the area that contains tables, chairs, umbrellas and such
for serving patrons must be confined to an area designated with a "boundary
apparatus" or barrier that clearly defines the area within which alcohol must
be contained. Barriers that enclose the sidewalk cafe cannot be relocated to
accommodate extended areas of service not provided on the original site plan.
However, changes for the site plan can be submitted for approval to the Town
throughout the year.
   (B)   The style of barrier or boundary apparatus must be approved. Plans and
example photos should be attached with the permit application.
   (C)   Alcoholic beverages may be served in approved sidewalk cafes, provided
that the cafe shall be part of a restaurant business and shall otherwise be
authorized, permitted or licensed under North Carolina law to serve and sell
alcoholic beverages for "on-premises" consumption. If an adjacent property is
owned by the same building owner, service may be extended in front of the
adjacent property with the approval of the town. Provided, however, the
business address of the adjacent property must be included in the restaurant's
"on premises" ABC license and insurance coverage. The business owner must show
proof of this coverage.
   (D)   Copies of all permits and licenses issued by the county, state or the
town, including health department, ABC permits, and business licenses,
necessary for the operation of the business, must be on file with the town.
   (E)   Signs shall be posted, visible at all exit points from the sidewalk
cafe, that it is unlawful to remove alcoholic beverages from the premises.
Signs must be approved by the Town Planning Director (for more information,
call 336-794-6467) before purchasing and installing.
   (F)   No outdoor bar is allowed within the sidewalk cafe, nor shall outdoor
preparation of alcoholic beverages be permitted.
   (G)   The permit applicant shall provide to the town proof of insurance
policy, issued by an insurance company licensed to do business in the state,
protecting the permittee and the town from all claims for damages to property
and bodily injury, including death, which may arise from operation under or in
connection with the permit. The insurance shall name the town as additional
insured and shall provide that the policy shall not terminate or be canceled
prior to the expiration date, without 30 days advance written notice to the
town. The insurance shall afford minimum limits of $1,000,000 aggregate
annually. In addition to the aforesaid general liability coverage provided by
the permittee on behalf of the town, the permittee shall also offer proof of a
liquor liability policy or endorsement issued by an insurance company licensed
to do business in the state, which protects the permittee and the town from all
claims for damages to property or bodily injury, including death, which may
arise from operation under or in connection with the permittee (and
specifically for the sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages as authorized
by this chapter). This liquor liability policy or endorsement shall name the
town as additional insured and shall provide that the policy or endorsement
shall not terminate or be canceled prior to the expiration date, without 30
days written notice to the town. The liquor liability insurance policy or
endorsement shall afford minimum limits of $1,000,000 aggregate annually.
(Ord. eff. 5-12-2014)
§ 114.04 PERMIT REVOCATION.
   (A)   The application and/or permit may be revoked by the town if it is
found that the business operator has:
      (1)   Deliberately misrepresented or provided false information in the
permit application;
      (2)   Violated any provision of the County Health Department regulations
or of this chapter;
      (3)   Violated any law, regulation or ordinance regarding the possession,
sale, transportation or consumption of intoxicating beverages or controlled
substances;
      (4)   Operated the sidewalk cafe in a manner as to create a public
nuisance or to constitute a hazard to the public health, safety or welfare;
      (5)   Failed to consistently maintain the sidewalk cafe and the area
around it, in a neat and trash-free manner;
      (6)   In the event that the town determines that good grounds exist for
the revocation of an application or permit issued under this chapter, it shall
provide the business operator a notice to show cause, stating with
particularity the grounds therefor, why the sidewalk cafe application or permit
should not be revoked. The business owner may, within 15 days of receipt of
this notice, submit to the town, in writing, their contention as to why the
permit should not be revoked. The Town Manager shall review the decision, the
owner’s contentions and make a decision which shall be final. If an application
or a permit is revoked, the business owner cannot reapply for another sidewalk
cafe application or permit until the next permit cycle begins. If a permit is
revoked for the sale of alcohol outside of the establishment, this shall not
affect the placement of the tables, chairs, and other items placed outside the
restaurant, as they may remain outside for food service only.
   (B)   All applications shall be presented to the "Main Street and Community
Manager" of the Town of Elkin for approval. The "Main Street and Community
Manager" shall be the primary person responsible for insuring that this chapter
is complied with.
(Ord. eff. 5-12-2014)
CHAPTER 115: COMMERCIAL, OPEN AIR, ACCESSORY SALES
AND LIMITED DURATION EVENTS
Section
   
115.01   Purpose
   
115.02   Definitions
   
115.03   Open air sales, accessory, commercial yard sales and limited duration
events
   
115.04   Open air sales, accessory
   
115.05   Commercial yard sales
   
115.06   Limited duration events
   
115.07   Permit required; exceptions
   
115.08   Town owned property
§ 115.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is designed to provide businesses the opportunity for temporary
uses to promote public health, safety and general welfare.
(Ord. passed 9-14-2015)
§ 115.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall apply to this chapter as defined unless
context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INVENTORY OF GOODS. Anything of value offered for sale to the public by any
person.
   ITINERANT MERCHANTS. Engaging in the business of itinerant merchant, defined
as “merchant, other than a merchant with an established retail store in the
county (city), who transports an inventory of goods to a building, vacant lot,
or other location in a county (city) and who, at the location, displays the
goods for sale and sells the goods at retail or offers the goods for sale at
retail.”
   PEDDLERS. Engaging in the business of peddler, defined as “a person who
travels from place to place with an inventory of goods, who sells the goods for
sale at retail, and who delivers the identical goods he carries with him.”
(Ord. passed 9-14-2015)
§ 115.03 OPEN AIR SALES, ACCESSORY, COMMERCIAL YARD SALES AND LIMITED DURATION
EVENTS.
   (A)   No structures, sales, displays, rides, or activities pertaining to the
event or sale are permitted in any required setback, public or private right-
of-way or landscaping areas.
   (B)   No use regulated by this section may occupy required parking spaces,
access, maneuvering areas, or loading spaces or areas (during normal business
hours).
(Ord. passed 9-14-2015)
§ 115.04 OPEN AIR SALES, ACCESSORY.
   Open air sales, accessory are permitted with a zoning compliance permit
subject to the following:
   (A)   Open air sales, accessory must be directly subordinate to the
operations of the permittee engaging in the principal use on the zoning lot
(i.e. outdoor sales of auto parts at an auto parts store, clothing brought
outside a clothing store, etc.) and meet the requirements of §
115.03 above, are permitted.
   (B)   Food vendors are allowed solely as a promotional tool in conjunction
with open air sales, accessory.
   (C)   A fee is required for each event and for each individual vendor on
site for that event (See Schedule of Fees, Town of Elkin).
(Ord. passed 9-14-2015)
§ 115.05 COMMERCIAL YARD SALES.
   (A)   A zoning lot may be utilized for this use five times within any
calendar year. Each occurrence of this use shall be limited to two consecutive
days.
   (B)   Signs shall be regulated by § 71, of the Elkin Zoning Ordinance.
   (C)   This use requires parking as specified by § 72, of the Elkin Zoning
Ordinance, in addition to the required parking provided for the principal use
of the property.
   (D)   Written permission of the property owner that commercial yard sales
use may occur on the property is required.
   (E)   An application for this use shall be submitted at least five business
days prior to the event.
   (F)   A fee is required for each event and for each individual vendor on
site for that event (See Schedule of Fees, Town of Elkin).
(Ord. passed 9-14-2015)
§ 115.06 LIMITED DURATION EVENTS.
   (A)   Limited duration events shall include circuses, carnivals, fairs,
concerts, and similar events.
   (B)   The event shall occur for five days or less.
   (C)   Signs shall be regulated by § 71, of the Elkin Zoning Ordinance.
   (D)   Temporary uses require parking as specified by § 72, of the Elkin
Zoning Ordinance, in addition to the required parking provided for the
principal use of the property.
   (E)   Written permission of the property owner that the limited duration
event may occur on the property is required.
   (F)   Restroom facilities are required based on the North Carolina Building
Code.
   (G)   An application for this use shall be submitted at least 21 business
days prior to the event.
   (H)   A site plan identifying event areas, and existing and proposed
structures, access, parking and
maneuvering areas is required. A statement shall be included on the site plan
that the use meets all applicable performance standards for the town and comply
with all other ordinances (i.e. noise and lighting requirements).
   (I)   A fee is required for each event and for each individual vendor on
site for that event (See Schedule of Fees, Town of Elkin).
(Ord. passed 9-14-2015)
§ 115.07 PERMIT REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   In order to promote community organizations, this ordinance shall not apply
to any bona fide organization meeting the guideline of the IRS Section 501(c)
3. (The fee will be waved but the frequency of events and property owner’s
signed permission will still be enforced/required). Also exempt from this
ordinance will be the merchants who are authorized for sale in the Surry County
Farmers Market, at the Elkin Location.
(Ord. passed 9-14-2015)
§ 115.08 TOWN OWNED PROPERTY.
   Town owned property cannot be used, for any of the events listed, unless a
formal request is presented to the Town Board and approved.
(Ord. passed 9-14-2015)
CHAPTER 116: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
116.01   Sunday sales
§ 116.01 SUNDAY SALES.
   Pursuant to the authority granted by S.L. 2017-87 any establishment located
in the corporate limits of the Town of Elkin and holding an ABC permit issued
pursuant to G.S. § 18B-1001 is permitted to sell beverages allowed by its
permit beginning at 10:00 a.m. on Sundays.
(Ord. 2017-08-0483, eff. 8-14-2017)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
Disorderly Conduct and Other Offenses
   
130.01   Disturbing public meetings
   
130.02   Drinking and possession of alcoholic beverages in public
Damaging Property
   
130.20   Defacing signs
   
130.21   Writing or drawing obscene words or pictures on buildings or walls
Weapons
   
130.35   Possession of weapons on town-owned property
   
130.36   Prohibiting the use of bow are arrow or similar within the city limits
   
130.37   Discharge of firearms and air guns
   
130.38   Hunting in town
Loitering
   
130.50   Loitering upon the premises or parking lot of business after hours
   
130.51   Loitering in the streets
   
130.52   Loitering around business houses
 
   
130.99   Penalty
DISORDERLY CONDUCT AND OTHER OFFENSES
§ 130.01 DISTURBING PUBLIC MEETINGS.
   It shall be unlawful to disturb any public meeting or exhibition or place of
public amusement by words, acts or otherwise.
(1940 Code, Ch. H, § 6) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 DRINKING AND POSSESSION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES IN PUBLIC.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drink any beer, wine, whiskey
or other intoxicating beverage while on a public parking lot, public street,
public alleyway or public sidewalk or while in a vehicle which is on a public
parking lot, public street, public alleyway or public sidewalk in the town.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, except wholesale dealers making
lawful delivery of beer and wine to retailers, to have in his or her possession
any beer, wine, whiskey or other intoxicating beverage, the label of which is
visible, while on a public parking lot, public street, public alleyway or
public sidewalk in the town.
(Ord. eff. 9-10-1965) Penalty, see §
130.99
DAMAGING PROPERTY
§ 130.20 DEFACING SIGNS.
   It shall be unlawful to injure or deface any sign, advertisements, post or
billboard which has been lawfully installed, placed or erected upon any street,
sidewalk or public place.
(1940 Code, Ch. H, § 8) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.21 WRITING OR DRAWING OBSCENE WORDS OR PICTURES ON BUILDINGS OR WALLS.
   It shall be unlawful to write, draw or carve any obscene letter, word or
picture on any public or private building, fence or wall without the owner’s
permission.
(1940 Code, Ch. H, § 10) Penalty, see §
130.99
WEAPONS
§ 130.35 POSSESSION OF WEAPONS ON TOWN-OWNED PROPERTY.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(2) below, all persons are
prohibited from possessing weapons as defined in G.S. § 14-269 in town-owned
buildings, their appurtenant premises, playgrounds and parks.
      (2)   This prohibition shall not apply to the following persons:
         (a)   Officers and enlisted personnel of the armed forces of the
United States when in discharge of their official duties as such and acting
under orders requiring them to carry arms and weapons;
         (b)   Civil officers of the United States while in the discharge of
their official duties;
         (c)   Officers and soldiers of the militia and the national guard when
called into actual service; or
         (d)   Officers of the state, or of any county, city or town, charged
with the execution of the laws of the state, when acting in the discharge of
their official duties.
   (B)   A conspicuous notice shall be posted at each entrance to any property
set forth in division (A)(1) above stating: “Possession of weapons or carrying
a concealed handgun is prohibited.”
   (C)   Weapons possessed in violation of this section are hereby declared to
be contraband. The Chief of Police or his or her designee shall hold the
weapons for disposal pursuant to court order. In the absence of any court order
the weapons shall be destroyed.
(Ord. eff. 12-4-1995) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.36 PROHIBITING THE USE OF BOW AND ARROW OR SIMILAR WITHIN THE CITY
LIMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fire within the town limits a
compound bow, crossbow, recurve bow, long bow or other archery equipment and
propel through the air a projectile, arrow, bolt or other similar object.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the language of division (A) above, this section shall
not apply to the use of “legal archery equipment” (as defined by the State
Wildlife Resources Commission) for the taking of deer during any period of time
designated by the State Wildlife Resources Commission for the legal taking of
deer by use of archery equipment.
(Ord. eff. 10-1-1992; Ord. eff. 1-1-2008) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.37 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS AND AIR GUNS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      FIREARM. Any firearm capable of propelling a projectile, including but
not limited to any rifle, shotgun or any hand gun, air rifle or hand gun,  CO 2
rifle or hand gun within the Elkin Town Limits.
   (B)   Prohibitions. Except for the exceptions hereafter set forth, it shall
be unlawful for any person or members of a corporation, firm or organization to
discharge any firearm capable of propelling a projectile, including but not
limited to any rifle, shotgun or any hand gun, air rifle or hand gun,  CO 2
rifle or hand gun within the Elkin Town Limits.
   (C)   Permitted exceptions to this section.  
      (1)   When properly utilizing an indoor firing range which has been
approved by the town and fully complies with all federal, state and town laws,
rules and regulations.
      (2)   When firing a firearm which does not propel a projectile at:
         (a)   A funeral or other ceremony where Military Honors are presented;
or
         (b)   At a Town of Elkin Special Event which has been permitted by the
town provided that the special event permit expressly identifies the type of
firearm that will be fired and further states that no projectile will be
propelled from said firearm.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent any citizen
from discharging a firearm when “lawfully” defending his or her person or
property.
      (4)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit or prevent any
sworn law enforcement officer from discharging his firearm in the performance
of his/her sworn duties.
(Ord. eff. 2-18-1965; Ord. eff. - - ; Ord. 2018-01-0001, eff. 1-8-2018)
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.38 HUNTING IN TOWN.
   No person shall shoot squirrels or birds within the corporate limits of the
town.
(1940 Code, Ch. H, § 13) Penalty, see §
130.99
LOITERING
§ 130.50 LOITERING UPON THE PREMISES OR PARKING LOT OF BUSINESS AFTER HOURS.
   It shall be unlawful to loiter, singularly or in large numbers, upon the
premises or parking lot of any store, restaurant, theater, shop, warehouse or
other business establishment after the store, restaurant, theater, shop,
warehouse or other business establishment has closed its doors to the public
and is no longer serving the public, when the store, restaurant, theater, shop,
warehouse or other business establishment has posted one or more signs in plain
and open view on its buildings or driveway entrances forbidding the loitering
or use of its premises by vehicular traffic or by persons on foot after
cessation of its business activity for the day.
(Ord. eff. 10-12-1970; Ord. eff. 5-5-1978) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.51 LOITERING IN THE STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person not having any legitimate business at
the time, to loiter or congregate or loaf on the streets in the town between
the hours of 12:00 midnight and sunrise.
(Ord. eff. 7-16-1968) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.52 LOITERING AROUND BUSINESS HOUSES.
   It shall be unlawful to loiter on any street, or about any public place, so
as to interfere with the free passage of pedestrians using the sidewalks.
(1940 Code, Ch. H, § 5) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of §
130.02 shall upon conviction be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished
in accordance with the provisions of G.S. § 14-4.
   (C)   Any person in violation of §
130.35 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be fined not
to exceed $500 or imprisoned for not more than six months or both.
   (D)   Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of §
130.36 shall be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor and shall be fined not more
than $500; provided, however, the minimum fine shall be greater than $50.
   (E)   Any person, firm, corporation or organization violating the provisions
of §
130.37 shall upon conviction be responsible for an infraction and shall be
punished in accordance with the provisions of G.S. § 14-4. A violation of §
130.37 is a Class 3 misdemeanor and shall be punishable by a $50 fine.
   (F)   Violation of §
130.50 shall be a misdemeanor and punishable on a conviction by a fine not
exceeding $50 or imprisonment not exceeding 30 days, as provided by G.S. § 14-
4.
   (G)   Any person violating the provisions of §
130.51 shall upon conviction be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished
in accordance with the provisions of G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. eff. 2-18-1965; Ord. eff. 9-10-1965; Ord. eff. 7-16-1968; Ord. eff. 10-
12-1970; Ord. eff. 5-5-1978; Ord. eff. 10-1-1992; Ord. eff. 12-4-1995; Ord. eff
1-1-2008; Ord. 2018-01-0001, eff. 1-8-2018)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING CODES
      
151.   FLOOD DAMAGE PROTECTION
      
152.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
153.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING CODES
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Permit required; fees
Minimum Housing Code
   
150.15   Findings, purpose; authority; adoption date
   
150.16   Scope
   
150.17   Definitions
   
150.18   Office of Housing Inspector created; powers and duties
   
150.19   Inspections
   
150.20   Preliminary investigations; notices; hearings
   
150.21   Dwelling unfit for human habitation
   
150.22   Standards of dwelling fitness
   
150.23   Dwellings not in compliance but not unfit for human habitation
   
150.24   Failure to comply with order
   
150.25   Service of complaints and orders
   
150.26   Appeals
   
150.27   Alternative remedies
   
150.28   Conflict with other provisions
   
150.29   Violations
   
150.30   Repeal and reenactment of Existing Housing Code
Repair, Closing or Demolition of Abandoned Structures
   
150.45   Finding intent
   
150.46   Duties of the Code Enforcement Officer
   
150.47   Powers of the Code Enforcement Officer
   
150.48   Standards for enforcement
   
150.49   Procedure for enforcement
   
150.50   Methods of service of complaints and orders
   
150.51   In rem action by Code Enforcement Officer; placarding
   
150.52   Costs of lien on premises
   
150.53   Alternative remedies
   
150.54   Adoption date
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 PERMIT REQUIRED; FEES.
   (A)   Permit required. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation of the town to start constructing or altering any building within
the town without first obtaining from the Planning Director of the town an
official zoning permit.
   (B)   Fees. Based on the schedule of fees.
(Ord. eff. 10-12-1970; Ord. eff. 6-18-1971) Penalty, see §
150.99
MINIMUM HOUSING CODE
§ 150.15 FINDINGS, PURPOSE; AUTHORITY; ADOPTION DATE.
   (A)   Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-441, it is hereby found and declared that
there exist in the town dwellings which are unfit for human habitation due to
dilapidation, defects increasing the hazards of fire, accidents and other
calamities, lack of ventilation, light and sanitary facilities, and due to
other conditions rendering the dwellings unsafe and unsanitary, and dangerous
and detrimental to the health, safety and morals, and otherwise inimical to the
welfare of the residents of the town.
   (B)   In order to protect the health, safety and welfare of the residents of
the town, as authorized by G.S. Chapter 160A, Article 19, Part 6, it is the
purpose of this subchapter to establish minimum standards of fitness for the
initial and continued occupancy of all buildings used for human habitation, as
expressly authorized by G.S. § 160A-444.
   (C)   In addition, it is hereby found and declared, under the authority of
G.S. § 160A-174, that there exist in the town dwellings which, although not
meeting the classification as unfit for human habitation, fail to fully comply
with all the minimum standards for housing fitness as established herein and
therefore have present one or more conditions which are inimical to the public
health, safety and general welfare. These conditions, if not corrected, can
lead to deterioration and dilapidation of dwellings which render them unfit for
human habitation.
   (D)   This subchapter was adopted on June 14, 2010.
(Ord. eff. 6-14-2010)
§ 150.16 SCOPE.
   (A)   This subchapter is hereby declared to be remedial and shall be
construed to secure the beneficial interests and purposes thereof which are
public safety, health and general welfare through structural strength,
stability, sanitation, adequate light and ventilation and safety to life and
property from fire and other hazards incident to the construction, alteration,
repair, removal, demolition, use and occupancy of dwellings, apartment houses,
rooming houses or buildings, structures or premises used or intended for use as
such.
   (B)   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to all existing housing
and to all housing hereafter constructed within the town. Portable, mobile or
demountable buildings or structures, including trailers, manufactured homes and
mobile homes, when used or intended for use for housing within the
jurisdiction, shall be subject to the applicable provisions of this subchapter.
This subchapter establishes minimum requirements for the initial and continued
occupancy of all buildings used for human habitation and does not replace or
modify requirements otherwise established for the construction, repair,
alteration or use of buildings, equipment or facilities except as provided in
this subchapter.
   (C)   The provisions of this subchapter shall also apply to abandoned
structures which are found by the Town Board of Commissioners to be a health or
safety hazard as a result of the attraction of insects or rodents, conditions
creating a fire hazard, dangerous conditions constituting a threat to children
or frequent use by vagrants as living quarters in the absence of sanitary
conditions.
(Ord. eff. 6-14-2010)
§ 150.17 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Whenever
the words “dwelling,” “dwelling unit,” “rooming house,” “rooming unit” or
“premises” are used in this subchapter, they shall be construed as though they
were followed by the words “or any part thereof.”
   ABANDONED STRUCTURE. Any structure, whether designed and intended for
residential or other uses, which has been vacant or not in active use,
regardless of purpose or reason, for the past two-year period and which is
determined by the Housing Inspector to be unfit for human habitation or
occupancy based upon the standards as set forth in this subchapter.
   BASEMENT. A portion of a building which is located partly underground,
having access to light and air from windows located above the level of the
adjoining ground.
   CELLAR. A portion of a building located partly or wholly underground having
inadequate access to light and air from windows located partly or wholly below
the level of the adjoining ground.
   DETERIORATED DWELLING. A dwelling that is unfit for human habitation and can
be repaired, altered or improved to comply with all of the minimum standards
established by this subchapter, at a cost not in excess of 50% of its value, as
determined by finding of the Housing Inspector.
   DILAPIDATED DWELLING. A dwelling that is unfit for human habitation and
cannot be repaired, altered or improved to comply with all of the minimum
standards established by this subchapter at a cost not in excess of 50% of its
value, as determined by finding of the Housing Inspector.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, manufactured home or mobile home, or part
thereof, used and occupied for human habitation or intended to be so used, and
includes any accessory buildings and structures and appurtenances belonging
thereto or usually enjoyed therewith, except that it does not include any
manufactured home or mobile home, which is used solely for a seasonal vacation
purpose.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling and
forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are used or intended to
be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating.
   EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rodents or other
pests by eliminating their harborage places; by removing or making inaccessible
materials that may serve as their food; by poisoning, spraying, fumigating,
trapping or by any other recognized and legal pest elimination methods approved
by the Housing Inspector.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   HABITABLE ROOM. A room or enclosed floor space used or intended to be used
for living, sleeping, cooking or eating purposes, excluding bathrooms, water
closet compartments, laundries, heater rooms, foyers or communicating
corridors, closets and storage spaces.
   HOUSING INSPECTOR. The person appointed by the Town Manager to carry out the
administration and enforcement of this subchapter. Also known as CODE
ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   INFESTATION. The presence, within or around a dwelling, of any insects,
rodents or other pests in a number as to constitute a menace to the health,
safety or welfare of the occupants or to the public.
   MANUFACTURED HOME (MOBILE HOME).  A structure as defined in G.S. § 143-145
(7).
   MULTIPLE DWELLING.  Any dwelling containing more than two dwelling units.
   OCCUPANT. Any person over one year of age living, sleeping, cooking or
eating in, or a resident, dweller or inhabitant, having actual possession of a
dwelling unit or rooming unit.
   OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care or control of a building or part
thereof, in which dwelling units or rooming units are let.
   OWNER. The holder of the title in fee simple and every mortgagee of record.
   PARTIES IN INTEREST. All individuals, associations and corporation who have
interests of record in a dwelling and any who are in possession thereof.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Any housing authority or any officer who is in charge of
any department or branch of the government of the town, county or state
relating to health, fire, building regulations or other activities concerning
dwellings in the town.
   ROOMING HOUSE. Any dwelling, or that part of any dwelling containing one or
more rooming units, in which space is let by the owner or operator to three or
more persons who are not husband and wife, son or daughter, mother or father or
sister or brother of the owner or operator.
   ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
used or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for cooking or
eating purposes.
   RUBBISH. Combustible and noncombustible waste materials except garbage and
ashes, and the term shall include but not be limited to paper, rags, cartons,
boxes, wood, excelsior, rubber, leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin
cans, metals, mineral matter, glass crockery and dust.
   SUPPLIED. Paid for, furnished or provided by, or under the control of, the
owner or operator.
(Ord. eff. 6-14-2010)
§ 150.18 OFFICE OF HOUSING INSPECTOR CREATED; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   For the purposes of administering and enforcing the provisions of this
subchapter, the Office of Housing Inspector is hereby created.
   (B)   The Housing Inspector shall be appointed by the Town Manager, and
shall have powers as may be necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate
the purposes and provisions of this subchapter, including, without limiting the
generality of the foregoing, in addition to others herein granted, the
following powers:
      (1)   Investigations. To investigate the dwelling and building conditions
in the town in order to determine which dwellings therein are unfit for human
habitation and dangerous, being guided in the examination of dwellings and
buildings by the requirements set forth in this subchapter;
      (2)   Oaths, witnesses and the like. To administer oaths and affirmations
and to examine witnesses and receive evidence;
      (3)   Right of entry. To enter upon and within premises and dwellings at
all reasonable times for the purpose of making examinations and investigations;
provided, that the entries shall be made in such a manner as to cause the least
possible inconvenience to the persons in possession;
      (4)   Warrants; citations and the like. To swear criminal warrants, issue
civil citations and to take any other actions as may be necessary to carry out
the enforcement procedures of this subchapter; and
      (5)   Delegation of functions and the like. To delegate any of his or her
functions and powers under this subchapter to any officers and agents as he or
she may designate.
(Ord. eff. 6-14-2010)
§ 150.19 INSPECTIONS.
   For the purpose of carrying out the intent of this subchapter, the Housing
Inspector, upon proper identification, is hereby authorized to enter, examine
and survey at all reasonable times all dwellings, dwelling units, rooming
houses, rooming units and premises, including abandoned structures. The owners
or occupants of every dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming unit or rooming house,
or the person in charge thereof, shall give the Housing Inspector free access
to the dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house or rooming unit, and its
premises, at all reasonable times for the purposes of the inspection,
examination and survey. Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall
give the owner thereof, or his or her agent or employee, access to any part of
the dwelling or dwelling unit, and its premises, at all reasonable times for
the purpose of making any repairs or alterations as are necessary to effect
compliance with the provisions of this subchapter or with any lawful order
issued pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. eff. 6-14-2010)
§ 150.20 PRELIMINARY INVESTIGATIONS; NOTICES; HEARINGS.
   (A)   In the event a petition is filed charging that any dwelling is unfit
for human habitation, by a public authority or at least three town residents/
property owners, it will be the responsibility of the Housing Inspector to
conduct a preliminary investigation of the dwelling. If his or her preliminary
investigation discloses a basis for the charges, he or she shall issue and
cause to be served upon the owner and parties in interest in the dwellings a
complaint stating the charges in that respect and containing a notice that a
hearing will be held before the Housing Inspector (or his or her designated
agent) at a place within the town therein fixed not less than ten days nor more
than 30 days after the serving of the complaint; that the owner and parties in
interest shall be given the right to file an answer to the complaint and to
appear in person, or otherwise, and give testimony at the place and time fixed
in the complaint; and that the rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or
equity shall not be controlling in hearings before the Housing Inspector.
   (B)   Upon the issuance of a complaint and notice of hearing pursuant to
this section, the Inspector may cause the filing of a notice of lis pendens,
with a copy of the complaint and notice of hearing attached thereto, in the
office of the Clerk of Superior Court of the county, to be indexed and cross-
indexed in accordance with the indexing procedures of the General Statutes. The
Inspector shall cause a copy of the notice of lis pendens to be served upon the
owners and parties in interest in the dwelling at the time of filing in
accordance with G.S. § 160A-445, as applicable. Upon compliance with the
requirements of any order issued based upon the complaint and hearing, the
Inspector shall direct the Clerk of Superior Court to cancel the notice of lis
pendens.
(Ord. eff. 6-14-2010)
§ 150.21 DWELLING UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION.
   (A)   The Housing Inspector shall determine that a dwelling is unfit for
human habitation if he or she finds that any one of the following conditions
exist in the dwelling:
      (1)   Interior walls or vertical studs which seriously list, lean or
buckle to the extent as to render the dwelling unsafe;
      (2)   Supporting member or members which show 33% or more damage or
deterioration, or non-supporting, enclosing or outside walls, or covering which
shows 50% or more of damage or deterioration (if required, the assistance and
professional opinion of the Surry or Wilkes County Building Inspections
Department, will be solicited);
      (3)   Floors or roofs which have improperly distributed loads, which are
overloaded or which have insufficient strength to be reasonably safe for the
purpose used;
      (4)   Any damage by fire, wind or other causes as to render the dwelling
unsafe;
      (5)   Dilapidation, decay, unsanitary conditions or disrepair which is
dangerous to the health, safety or welfare of the occupants or other people in
the town;
      (6)   Inadequate facilities for egress in case of fire or panic;
      (7)   Defects significantly increasing the hazards of fire, accident or
other calamities;
      (8)   Lack of adequate ventilation, light, heating or sanitary facilities
to the extent as to endanger the health, safety or general welfare of the
occupants or other residents of the town;
      (9)   Lack of proper electrical, heating or plumbing facilities required
by this subchapter which constitutes a definite health or safety hazard; and
      (10)   Lack of connection to a potable water supply and/or to the public
sewer or other approved sewage disposal system, the lack of either one of which
renders a dwelling unfit for human habitation. For the purposes of this
standard, a dwelling is not connected to a potable water supply if the water
supply has been cut off because of nonpayment of the water bill or otherwise or
if the system for any reason is not receiving a flow of potable water to the
tap.
   (B)   In addition to the ten conditions stated above, any one of which
renders a dwelling unfit for human habitation, the Housing Inspector shall
determine that a dwelling is unfit for human habitation if he or she finds that
a dwelling fails to fully comply with seven or more of the enumerated standards
of dwelling fitness set forth in §
150.22.
(Ord. eff. 6-14-2010)
§ 150.22 STANDARDS OF DWELLING FITNESS.
   (A)   Structural standards.
      (1)   Structural integrity. Walls, partitions, supporting members, sills,
joists, rafters or other structural members shall not list, lean or buckle;
shall not be rotted, deteriorated or damaged; and shall not have holes or
cracks which might admit rodents.
      (2)   Supports. Floors or roofs shall have adequate supporting members
and strength to be reasonably safe for the purpose used.
      (3)   Foundations. Foundations, foundation walls, piers or other
foundation supports shall not be deteriorated or damaged.
      (4)   Steps. Steps, stairs, landings, porches or other parts or
appurtenances shall be maintained in a condition that they will not fail or
collapse.
      (5)   Egress. Adequate facilities for egress in case of fire or panic
shall be provided.
      (6)   Interior materials. Interior walls and ceilings of all rooms,
closets and hallways shall be furnished of suitable materials which will, by
use of reasonable household methods, promote sanitation and cleanliness, and
shall be maintained in such a manner so as to enable the occupants to maintain
reasonable privacy between various spaces.
      (7)   Weatherization. The roof, flashings, exterior walls, basement
walls, floors and all doors and windows exposed to the weather shall be
constructed and maintained so as to be weather- and watertight.
      (8)   Chimneys. There shall be no chimneys or parts thereof which are
defective, deteriorated or in danger of falling, or in a condition or location
as to constitute a fire hazard.
      (9)   Floors. There shall be no use of the ground for floors or wood
floors on the ground.
   (B)   Plumbing standards.
      (1)   Facilities. Each dwelling unit shall contain not less than a
kitchen sink, lavatory, tub or shower, water closet, and an adequate supply of
both cold water and hot water. All water shall be supplied through an approved
pipe distribution system connected to a potable water supply. For the purposes
of this standard, a dwelling is not connected to a potable water supply if the
water supply has been cut off because of non-payment of the water bill or
otherwise or if the system for any reason is not receiving a flow of potable
water to the tap.
      (2)   Maintenance. All plumbing fixtures shall meet the standards of the
State Plumbing Code and shall be maintained in a state of good repair and in
good working order.
      (3)   Accessible. All required plumbing fixtures shall be located within
the dwelling and be accessible to the occupants of the same. The water closet
and tub or shower shall be located in a room or rooms affording privacy to the
use.
   (C)   Heating standards, generally. Every dwelling shall have facilities for
providing heat in accordance with either division (C)(1) or (2) below. The
facilities shall be maintained in a state of good repair and good working
order.
      (1)   Central and electrical heating systems. Every central or electric
heating system shall be of sufficient capacity so as to heat all habitable
rooms, bathrooms and water closet compartments in every dwelling to which it is
connected with a minimum temperature of 70ºF measured at a point three feet
above the floor during average winter conditions.
      (2)   Other heating facilities. Where a central or electric heating
system is not provided, each dwelling shall be provided with sufficient
electrical receptacles, fireplaces, chimneys, flues or gas vents whereby
heating appliances may be connected so as to heat all habitable rooms,
bathrooms and water closet compartments with a minimum temperature of 70ºF
measured three feet above the floor during average winter conditions.
   (D)   Electrical standards.
      (1)   Wiring. Every dwelling shall be wired for electric lights and
convenience receptacles. Every habitable room shall contain at least two floor
or wall type electrical convenience receptacles, connected in such manner as
determined by the State Electrical Code. There shall be installed in every
bathroom, water closet room, laundry room and furnace room at least one
supplied ceiling or wall type electric light fixture. In the event wall or
ceiling light fixtures are not provided in any habitable room, then each
habitable room shall contain at least three floor or wall type electric
convenience receptacles.
      (2)   Hall lights. Every public hall and stairway in every multiple
dwelling shall be adequately lighted by electric lights at all times when
natural light is not sufficient.
      (3)   Maintenance. All fixtures, receptacles, equipment and wiring shall
be maintained in a state of good repair, safe, capable of being used, and
installed in accordance with the State Electrical Code.
   (E)   Ventilation standards.
      (1)   Generally. Every habitable room shall have at least one window or
skylight facing directly to the outdoors. The minimum total window area,
measured between stops, for every habitable room shall be 10% of the floor area
of the room. Whenever walls or other portions of structures face a window of
any room and the light obstructions are located less than five feet from the
window and extend to a level above that of the ceiling of the room, the window
shall not be deemed to face directly to the outdoors and shall not be included
as contributing to the required minimum total window area. Whenever the only
window in a room is a skylight type window in the top of a room, the total
window area of the skylight shall equal at least 15% of the total floor area of
the room.
      (2)   Habitable rooms. Every habitable room shall have at least one
window or skylight which can easily be opened, or other device as will
adequately ventilate the room. The total openable window area in every
habitable room shall be equal to at least 45% of the minimum, window area size
or minimum skylight type window size as required, or shall have other approved
equivalent ventilation.
      (3)   Bathroom and water closet room. Every bathroom equipped with more
than one water closet compartment, flush urinal, lavatory basin and bathtub or
shower shall comply with the light and ventilation requirements for habitable
rooms only.
   (F)   Space, use and location standards.
      (1)   Room sizes. Every dwelling unit shall contain at least the minimum
room size in each habitable room as required by the State Building Code. (Floor
area shall be calculated on the basis of habitable room area. However, closet
area and wall area within the dwelling may count for not more than 10% of the
required habitable floor area. The floor area of any part of any room where the
ceiling height is less than four and one-half feet shall not be considered as a
part of the floor area in computing the total area of the room to determine
maximum permissible occupancy.) Every dwelling unit shall contain at least 150
square feet of habitable floor area for the first occupant, at least 100 square
feet of additional habitable area for each of the next three occupants, and at
least 75 square feet of additional habitable floor area for each additional
occupant. In every dwelling unit and in every rooming unit, every room occupied
for sleeping purposes by one occupant shall contain at least 70 square feet of
floor area, and every room occupied for sleeping purposes by more than one
occupant shall contain at least 50 square feet of floor area for each occupant
12 years of age and over, and at least 35 square feet of floor area for each
occupant under 12 years of age.
      (2)   Ceiling height. At least one-half of the floor area of every
habitable room shall have a ceiling height of not less than seven feet and six
inches.
      (3)   Cellar. No cellar shall be used for living purposes unless:
         (a)   The floor and walls are substantially watertight;
         (b)   The total window area, total openable window area and ceiling
height are equal to those required for a habitable room; and
         (c)   The required minimum window area of every habitable room is
entirely above the grade adjoining the window area, except where the windows
face a stairwell, window well or accessory.
   (G)   Safe and sanitary maintenance standards.
      (1)   Exterior foundation, walls and roofs. Every foundation wall,
exterior wall and exterior roof shall be substantially weathertight and rodent-
proof; shall be kept in sound condition and good repair; shall be capable of
affording privacy; shall be safe to use and capable of supporting the load
which normal use may cause to be placed thereon. Every exterior wall shall be
protected with paint or other protective covering to prevent the entrance or
penetration of moisture or the weather.
      (2)   Interior floors, walls and ceilings. Every floor, interior wall and
ceiling shall be substantially rodent-proof; shall be kept in sound condition
and good repair; and shall be safe to use and capable of supporting the load
which normal use may cause to be placed thereon.
      (3)   Windows and doors. Every window, exterior door, basement or cellar
door and hatchway shall be substantially weathertight, watertight and rodent-
proof; and shall be kept in sound working condition and good repair.
      (4)   Stairs, porches and appurtenances. Every inside and outside stair,
porch and any appurtenances thereto shall be safe to use and capable of
supporting the load that normal use may cause to be placed thereon; and shall
be kept in sound condition and good repair.
      (5)   Bathroom and kitchen floors. Every bathroom and kitchen floor
surface and water closet compartment floor surface shall be constructed and
maintained so as to be reasonably impervious to water and so as to permit the
floor to be easily kept in sound condition and good repair.
      (6)   Supplied facilities. Every supplied facility, piece of equipment or
utility which is required under this subchapter shall be so constructed or
installed that it will function safely and effectively and shall be maintained
in satisfactory working condition.
      (7)   Drainage. Every yard shall be properly graded so as to obtain
thorough drainage and so as to prevent the accumulation of stagnant water.
      (8)   Smoke detector systems. Every dwelling unit shall be provided with
an approved, listed smoke detector installed in accordance with the
manufacturer’s recommendations and listing. When activated, the detector shall
provide an audible alarm. The detector shall be tested in accordance with and
meet the requirements of UL 217, Single and Multiple Station Smoke Detectors.
   (H)   Insect, rodent and infestation control standards.
      (1)   Screens. For protection against mosquitoes, flies and other insects
every dwelling shall have:
         (a)   Supplied and installed screens on every door opening leading
directly from the dwelling to outdoor space; except that sliding doors, doors
with self-closing devices, doors on mobile homes with self-closing devices and
doors that open into rooms of living spaces that are artificially ventilated or
air conditioned are exempt from this provision; and
         (b)   Supplied and installed screens on every window or other device
with an opening to outdoor space, except that this requirement shall not apply
for any room or rooms of a dwelling that are ventilated year round with an
operable and installed heating and air conditioning system.
      (2)   Rodent control. Every basement or cellar window used or intended to
be used for ventilation, and every other opening to a basement which might
provide an entry for rodents, shall be supplied with screens installed or any
other approved device as will effectively prevent their entrance.
      (3)   Infestation. Every dwelling shall be maintained in a manner to be
free of any infestation of insects, rodents or other pests. Every occupant of a
dwelling containing a single dwelling unit shall be responsible for the
extermination of any insects, rodents or other pests therein or on the
premises; and every occupant of a dwelling unit in a dwelling containing more
than one dwelling unit shall be responsible for extermination whenever his or
her dwelling unit is the only one infested. Whenever infestation exists in two
or more of the dwelling units in any dwelling or in the shared or public parts
of any dwelling containing two or more dwelling units, extermination shall be
the responsibility of the owner.
      (4)   Rubbish storage and disposal. Every dwelling shall be supplied with
approved containers and covers for storage of rubbish as required by town
ordinances, and the owner, operator or agent in control of the dwelling or
dwelling unit shall be responsible for the removal of rubbish.
      (5)   Garbage storage and disposal. Every dwelling shall be supplied with
an approved garbage disposal facility, which may be an adequate mechanical
garbage disposal unit (mechanical sink grinder) in each dwelling unit or an
incinerator unit, to be approved by the Inspector, in the structure for the use
of the occupants of each dwelling unit, or an approved outside garbage
container as required by town ordinances.
   (I)   Rooming house standards. All of the provisions of this subchapter, and
all of the minimum standards and requirements of this subchapter, shall be
applicable to rooming houses and to every person who operates a rooming house
or who occupies or lets to another for occupancy any rooming unit in any
rooming house, except as provided in the following divisions (I)(1) through
(4).
      (1)   Water closet, hand lavatory and bath facilities. At least one water
closet, lavatory basin and bathtub or shower, properly connected to an approved
water and sewer system and in good working condition, shall be supplied for
each four rooms within a rooming house wherever the facilities are shared. All
these facilities shall be located within the residence building served, shall
be directly accessible from a common hall or passageway and shall not be more
than one story removed from any of the persons sharing the facilities. Every
lavatory basin and bathtub or shower shall be supplied with hot and cold water
at all times. Required facilities shall not be located in a cellar.
      (2)   Minimum floor area for sleeping purposes. Every room occupied for
sleeping purposes by one occupant shall contain at least 70 square feet of
floor area, and every room occupied for sleeping purposes by more than one
occupant shall contain at least 50 square feet of floor area for each occupant
12 years of age and over and at least 35 square feet of floor area for each
occupant under 12 years of age.
      (3)   Sanitary conditions. The operator of every rooming house shall be
responsible for the sanitary maintenance of all walls, floors and ceilings, and
for the sanitary maintenance of every other part of the rooming house; and
shall be further responsible for the sanitary maintenance of the entire
premises where the entire structure or building within which the rooming house
is contained is leased or occupied by the operator.
      (4)   Sanitary facilities. Every water closet, flush urinal lavatory
basin and bathtub or shower required by division (I)(1) of this section shall
be located within the rooming house and within a room or rooms which afford
privacy and are separate from the habitable rooms, and which are accessible
from a common hall and without going outside the rooming house or through any
other room therein.
   (J)   Full compliance. Full compliance with a standard means that if any
part of the stated standard is not complied with by a particular dwelling, then
that dwelling has failed to fully comply with the enumerated standard. For
example, in regard to standard (B)(1), if all standards are met in a dwelling
except that a supply of hot water is not provided, then the dwelling fails to
fully comply with standard (B)(1).
(Ord. eff. 6-14-2010)
§ 150.23 DWELLINGS NOT IN COMPLIANCE BUT NOT UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION.
   (A)   Failure to comply with fewer than seven standards.  In any case where
the Housing Inspector determines that a dwelling fails to fully comply with one
or more but less than seven of the above (§
150.22) enumerated standards of dwelling fitness, the dwelling shall not be
found to be unfit for human habitation and shall not be subject to the
procedures and remedies as provided for in this subchapter for dwellings unfit
for human habitation. Each failure of noncompliance, however, shall constitute
a violation of the terms of this subchapter and shall subject the violator to
the penalties and enforcement procedures, civil or criminal or both, as set
forth in § 162 of the Town Zoning Ordinance.
      (1)   In making the determination as described in this section, the
Housing Inspector shall not be required to make notice and hold the hearing as
called for in §
150.20, but the Housing Inspector may do so if the determination of the
severity and classification of dwelling fitness is not clear to the Housing
Inspector upon preliminary investigation.
      (2)   If required, the assistance and professional opinion of the Surry
or Wilkes County Building Inspections Department will be solicited.
   (B)   Procedure after hearing; order.  
      (1)   If, after notice and hearing, the Housing Inspector determines that
the dwelling under consideration is unfit for human habitation in accordance
with the standards set forth above, he or she shall state in writing his or her
findings of fact in support of that determination and shall issue and cause to
be served upon the owner thereof an order:
         (a)   If the repair, alteration or improvement of the dwelling can be
made at a cost of less than 50% of the value of the dwelling, requiring the
owner, within the time specified, to repair, alter or improve the dwelling in
order to render it fit for human habitation or to vacate and close the dwelling
as a human habitation, based upon the Housing Inspector’s standards for closing
dwellings; or
         (b)   If the repair, alteration or improvement of the dwelling cannot
be made at a cost of less than 50% of the value of the dwelling, requiring the
owner, within the time specified in the order, to repair, alter or improve the
dwelling in order to render it fit for human habitation or to remove or
demolish the dwelling.
      (2)   If, after notice and hearing, the Housing Inspector determines that
the dwelling under consideration is not unfit for human habitation but is not
in full compliance with one or more standards of dwelling fitness as set forth
above, he or she may proceed with the enforcement procedures of this code,
civil or criminal or both.
   (C)   Notification. Whenever a determination is made pursuant to this
section that a dwelling must be vacated and closed, or removed or demolished,
under the provisions of the section, notice of the order shall be given by
first-class mail to any organization involved in providing or restoring
dwellings for affordable housing that has filed a written request for these
notices. A minimum period of time not to exceed 90 days from the mailing of the
notice shall be given before removal or demolition by action of the Inspector,
to allow the opportunity for any organization to negotiate with the owner to
make repairs, lease or purchase the property for the purpose of providing
affordable housing. The Inspector shall certify the mailing of the notices, and
the certifications shall be conclusive in the absence of fraud. Only an
organization that has filed a written request for the notices may raise the
issue of failure to mail the notices, and the sole remedy shall be an order
requiring the Inspector to wait 90 days before causing removal or demolition.
(Ord. eff. 6-14-2010)
§ 150.24 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ORDER.
   (A)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to repair, alter or improve
or to vacate and close the dwelling, the Housing Inspector may:
      (1)   Cause the dwelling to be repaired, altered or improved or to be
vacated and closed; or
      (2)   Cause to be posted on the main entrance of the dwelling a placard
with the following words: “This building is unfit for human habitation; the use
or occupation of this building for human habitation is prohibited and
unlawful.” Occupation of a building so posted shall constitute a violation of
this subchapter.
   (B)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to repair, alter, improve
or remove or demolish the dwelling, the Housing Inspector may:
      (1)   Cause the dwelling to be vacated and removed or demolished; or
      (2)   Cause to be posted on the main entrance of the dwelling a placard
with the following words: “This building is unfit for human habitation; the use
or occupation of this building for human habitation is prohibited and
unlawful.” Occupation of a building so posted shall constitute a violation of
this subchapter.
   (C)   The duties of the Housing Inspector set forth in divisions (A) and (B)
above shall not be exercised until the Town Commissioners shall have by
ordinance ordered the Housing Inspector to proceed to effectuate the purpose of
this subchapter with respect to the particular property or properties which the
Housing Inspector shall have found to be unfit for human habitation and which
property or properties shall be described in the ordinance. No ordinance shall
be adopted to require demolition of a dwelling until the owner has first been
given a reasonable opportunity to bring it into conformity with the Housing
Code. For the purposes of this division (C), a period of 90 days following the
date of the Housing Inspector’s order shall constitute a reasonable
opportunity. The ordinance shall be recorded in the office of the Register of
Deeds in the county wherein the property or properties are located and shall be
indexed in the name of the property owner in the grantor index.
   (D)   The amount of the cost of repairs, alterations or improvements, or
vacating and closing, or removal or demolition by the Housing Inspector shall
be a lien against the real property upon which the cost was incurred, which
lien shall be filed, have the same priority and be collected as the lien for
special assessment provided in G.S. Chapter 160A, Article 10. If the dwelling
is removed or demolished by the Housing Inspector, he or she shall sell the
materials of the dwelling, and any personal property, fixture or appurtenances
found in or attached to the dwelling, and shall credit the proceeds of the sale
against the cost of the removal or demolition and any balance remaining shall
be deposited in the Superior Court by the Housing Inspector, shall be secured
in a manner directed by the Court, and shall be disbursed by the Court to the
persons found to be entitled thereto by final order of the decree of the Court.
   (E)   If any occupant fails to comply with an order to vacate a dwelling,
the Housing Inspector may file a civil action in the name of the town to remove
the occupant. The action to vacate the dwelling shall be in the nature of
summary ejectment and shall be commenced by filing a complaint naming as
parties-defendant any persons occupying the dwelling. The Clerk of Superior
Court shall issue a summons requiring the defendant to appear before a
magistrate at a certain time, date and place not to exceed ten days from the
issuance of the summons to answer the complaint. The summons and complaint
shall be served as provided in G.S. § 42-29. The summons shall be returned
according to its tenor, and if on its return it appears to have been duly
served, and if at the hearing the Housing Inspector produces the certified copy
of an ordinance adopted by the Town Commissioners pursuant to division (C)
above authorizing the Housing Inspector to proceed to vacate the occupied
dwelling, the magistrate shall enter judgment ordering that the premises be
vacated and that all persons be removed. The judgment ordering that the
dwelling be vacated shall be enforced in the same manner as the judgment for
summary ejectment entered under G.S. § 42-30. An appeal from any judgment
entered hereunder by the magistrate may be taken as provided in G.S. § 7A-228,
and the execution of the judgment may be stayed as provided in G.S. § 7A-227.
An action to remove an occupant of a dwelling who is a tenant of the owner may
not be in the nature of a summary ejectment proceeding pursuant to this
division (E) unless the occupant was served with notice at least 30 days before
the filing of the summary ejectment proceeding that the Town Commission has
ordered the Housing Inspector to proceed to exercise his or her duties under
divisions (A), (B) and (C) of this section to vacate and close or remove and
demolish the dwelling.
   (F)   If the Town Commissioners shall have adopted an ordinance, or the
Housing Inspector shall have issued an order, ordering a dwelling to be
repaired or vacated and closed, as provided in §
150.23(A), and if the owner has vacated and closed the dwelling and kept the
dwelling vacated and closed for a period of one year pursuant to the ordinance
or order, then if the Town Commissioners shall find that the owner has
abandoned the intent and purpose to repair, alter or improve the dwelling in
order to render it fit for human habitation and that the continuation of the
dwelling in its vacated and closed status would be inimical to the health,
safety, morals and welfare of the town, in that the dwelling would continue to
deteriorate, would create a fire and safety hazard, would be a threat to
children and vagrants, would attract persons intent on criminal activities,
would cause or contribute to blight and the deterioration of property values in
the area, and would render unavailable property and a dwelling which might
otherwise have been made available to ease the persistent shortage of decent
and affordable housing in the town; then in those circumstances, the Town
Commissioners may, after the expiration of the one-year period, enact an
ordinance and serve the ordinance on the owner, setting forth the following:
      (1)   If it is determined that the repair of the dwelling to render it
fit for human habitation can be made at a cost not exceeding 50% of the then
current value of the dwelling, the ordinance shall require that the owner
either repair or demolish and remove the dwelling within 90 days; or
      (2)   If it is determined that the repair of the dwelling to render it
fit for human habitation cannot be made at a cost not exceeding 50% of the then
current value of the dwelling, the ordinance shall require the owner to
demolish and remove the dwelling within 90 days.
   (D)   The ordinance shall be recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds
in the county wherein the property or properties are located and shall be
indexed in the name of the property owner in the grantor index. If the owner
fails to comply with this subchapter, the Housing Inspector shall effect the
purpose of this subchapter.
(Ord. eff. 6-14-2010) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.25 SERVICE OF COMPLAINTS AND ORDERS.
   (A)   Complaints or orders issued by the Housing Inspector pursuant to an
ordinance adopted under this subchapter, except those being prosecuted under §
162 of the Zoning Ordinance, shall be served upon persons either personally or
by registered or certified mail. When service is made by registered or
certified mail, a copy of the complaint or order may also be sent by regular
mail. Service shall be deemed sufficient if the registered or certified mail is
unclaimed or refused, but the regular mail is not returned by the post office
within ten days after the mailing. If regular mail is used, a notice of the
pending proceedings shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises
affected.
   (B)   If the identities of any owners or the whereabouts of persons are
unknown and cannot be ascertained by the Housing Inspector in the exercise of
reasonable diligence, and the Housing Inspector makes an affidavit to that
effect, then the serving of the complaint or order upon the unknown owners or
other persons may be made by publication in a newspaper having general
circulation in the town at least once no later than the time at which personal
service would be required under the provisions of this subchapter. When service
is made by publication, a notice of the pending proceedings shall be posted in
a conspicuous place on the premises thereby affected.
(Ord. eff. 6-14-2010)
§ 150.26 APPEALS.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment is hereby appointed as the Housing Appeals
Board to which appeals from any decision or order of the Housing Inspector may
be taken. Except where this subchapter provides for different rules or
procedures, the Board of Adjustment acting as the Housing Appeals Board shall
follow its rules of procedure, which may be amended to provide specifically for
this function. (Only the in-town, Board of Adjustment members are permitted to
vote on minimum housing appeals.)
   (B)   An appeal from any decision or order of the Housing Inspector may be
taken by any person aggrieved thereby or by any officer, board or commission of
the town. Any appeal from the Housing Inspector shall be taken within ten days
from the rendering of the decision or service of the order by filing with the
Housing Inspector and with the Board a notice of appeal which shall specify the
grounds upon which the appeal is based. Upon the filing of any notice of
appeal, the Housing Inspector shall forthwith transmit to the Board all the
papers constituting the record upon which the decision appealed from was made.
When an appeal is from a decision of the Housing Inspector refusing to allow
the person aggrieved thereby to do any act, his or her decision shall remain in
force until modified or reversed. When any appeal is from a decision of the
Housing Inspector requiring the person aggrieved to do any act, the appeal
shall have the effect of suspending the requirement until the hearing by the
Board, unless the Housing Inspector certifies to the Board, after the notice of
appeal is filed with him or her, that because of facts stated in the
certificate (a copy of which shall be furnished the appellant), a suspension of
his or her requirement would cause imminent peril to life or property. In that
case the requirement shall not be suspended except by a restraining order,
which may be granted for due cause shown upon not less than one day’s written
notice to the Housing Inspector, by the Board, or by a court of record upon
petition made pursuant to division (E) of this section.
   (C)   The Board of Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for hearing
appeals, shall give due notice to the parties and shall render its decision
within a reasonable time. Any party may appear in person or by agent or
attorney. The Board may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the
decision or order appealed from, and may make any decision and order that in
its opinion ought to be made in the matter, and to that end it shall have all
the powers of the Housing Inspector, but the concurring vote of four-fifths of
the members of the Board shall be necessary to reverse or modify any decision
or order of the Housing Inspector. The Board shall have power also in passing
upon appeals, when practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships would result
from carrying out the strict letter of the chapter, to adapt the application of
the chapter to the necessities of the case to the end that the spirit of the
chapter shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured and substantial
justice done.
   (D)   Every decision of the Board shall be subject to review by proceedings
in the nature of certiorari instituted within 15 days of the decision of the
Board, but not otherwise.
   (E)   Any person aggrieved by an order issued by the Housing Inspector or a
decision rendered by the Board may petition the Superior Court for an
injunction, restraining the Housing Inspector from carrying out the order or
decision and the Court may, upon the petition, issue a temporary injunction
restraining the Housing Inspector pending a final disposition of the cause. The
petition shall be filed within 30 days after issuance of the order or rendering
of the decision. Hearings shall be had by the Court on a petition within 20
days, and shall be given preference over other matters on the Court’s calendar.
The Court shall hear and determine the issues raised and shall enter the final
order or decree as law and justice may require. It shall not be necessary to
file bond in any amount before obtaining a temporary injunction under this
division.
(Ord. eff. 6-14-2010)
§ 150.27 ALTERNATIVE REMEDIES.
   (A)   Nothing in this subchapter nor any of its provisions shall be
construed to impair or limit in any way the power of the town to define and
declare nuisances and to cause their removal or abatement by summary
proceedings or otherwise nor shall enforcement of one remedy provided herein
prevent the enforcement of any other remedy or remedies provided herein or in
other ordinances or laws. In addition to the remedies provided for herein, any
violation of the terms of this subchapter shall subject the violator to the
penalties and remedies, either criminal or civil or both, as set forth in §
162, penalties, of the Town Zoning Ordinance.
   (B)   No dwelling shall be hereafter erected, altered, moved or changed in
occupancy without a certificate of occupancy. In any case where the Housing
Inspector, after notice and hearing as required herein, finds that a dwelling
or dwelling unit is unfit for human habitation, he or she shall withhold
issuance of a certificate of occupancy for the dwelling or dwelling unit until
a time that he or she determines that it is fit for human habitation. In
addition, in any case where the Housing Inspector, after preliminary
investigation as provided for herein, concludes, based upon that investigation,
that a dwelling or dwelling unit is unfit for human habitation and believes
that the occupancy of the dwelling or dwelling unit could cause imminent peril
to life or property from fire or other hazards, he or she shall withhold
issuance of a certificate of occupancy for the dwelling or dwelling unit until
a time that he or she determines that it is fit for human habitation.
   (C)   If any dwelling is erected, constructed, altered, repaired, converted,
maintained or used in violation of this subchapter or of any valid order or
decision of the Housing Inspector or Board made pursuant to any ordinance or
code adopted under authority of this subchapter, the Housing Inspector may
institute any appropriate action or proceedings to prevent the unlawful
erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration or occupancy, to restrain,
correct or abate the violation, to prevent the occupancy of the dwellings, or
to prevent any illegal act, conduct or use in or about the premises of the
dwelling.
(Ord. eff. 6-14-2010)
§ 150.28 CONFLICT WITH OTHER PROVISIONS.
   Notwithstanding any express provision of this subchapter, should the
requirements set forth herein conflict with the provisions of the State
Building Codes in effect at the time of the construction of the structure, or
as are currently in effect in this state, the “less” restrictive provisions
shall apply to the alleged violation; however, the current provisions of the
State Building Codes shall control and serve as the standard for all repairs,
additions and re-modeling work to the structure in question. Additionally, in
the event any provision, standard or requirement of this subchapter is found to
be in conflict with any provision of any other ordinance or code of the town,
the provision which establishes the higher standard or more stringent
requirement for the promotion and protection of the health and safety of the
residents of the town’s jurisdiction shall prevail.
(Ord. eff. 6-14-2010)
§ 150.29 VIOLATIONS.
   In addition to the conditions, acts or failures to act that constitute
violations specified in this subchapter, it shall be unlawful for the owner of
any dwelling or dwelling unit to fail, neglect or refuse to repair, alter or
improve the same, or to vacate and close or vacate and remove or demolish the
same, upon order of the Inspector duly made and served as herein provided,
within the time specified in the order. It shall be unlawful for the owner of
any dwelling, with respect to which an order has been issued pursuant to §
150.23, to occupy or permit the occupancy of the same after the time prescribed
in the order for its repair, alteration or improvement or its vacation and
closing, or vacation and removal or demolition.
(Ord. eff. 6-14-2010) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.30 REPEAL AND REENACTMENT OF EXISTING HOUSING CODE.
   The rewriting of this subchapter in part carries forth by reenactment some
of the provisions of the existing Housing Code of the town and it is not
intended to repeal but rather to reenact and continue in force the existing
provisions so that all rights and liabilities that have been accrued are
preserved and may be enforced. All provisions of the Housing Code which are not
reenacted herein are hereby repealed. All suits at law or in equity and/or all
prosecutions resulting from the violation of the Housing Code in effect, which
are now pending in any of the courts of this state or of the United States,
shall not be abated or abandoned by reason of the adoption of this subchapter,
but shall be prosecuted to their finality the same as if this subchapter had
not been adopted; and any and all violations of the existing chapter,
prosecutions for which have not been instituted may be filed and prosecuted;
and nothing in this subchapter shall be so construed as to abandon, abate or
dismiss any litigation or prosecution now pending and/or which may have been
instituted or prosecuted.
(Ord. eff. 6-14-2010)
REPAIR, CLOSING OR DEMOLITION OF ABANDONED STRUCTURES
§ 150.45 FINDING INTENT.
   It is hereby found that there exists within the town one or more abandoned
structures which the Board of Commissioners of the town finds to be hazardous
to the health, safety and welfare of the residents of the town due to the
attraction of insects or rodents, conditions creating a fire hazard, dangerous
conditions constituting a threat to children, or frequent use by vagrants as
living quarters in the absence of sanitary facilities. Therefore, pursuant to
the authority granted by G.S. § 160A-441, it is the intent of this subchapter
to provide for the repair, closing or demolition of the abandoned structures in
accordance with the same provisions and procedures as are set forth by law for
the repair, closing or demolition of dwellings unfit for human habitation.
(Ord. eff. 4-24-1984)
§ 150.46 DUTIES OF THE CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Officer is hereby designated as the town officer
to enforce the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Code Enforcement Officer:
      (1)   To locate abandoned structures within the town and determine which
structures are in violation of this subchapter;
      (2)   To take any action pursuant to this subchapter as may be necessary
to provide for the repair, closing or demolition of the structure;
      (3)   To keep an accurate record of all enforcement proceedings begun
pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter; and
      (4)   To perform any other duties as may be prescribed herein or assigned
to him or her by the Board of Commissioners of the town.
(Ord. eff. 4-24-1984; Ord. eff. 5-1-1989)
§ 150.47 POWERS OF THE CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   The Code Enforcement Officer is authorized to exercise any powers as may be
necessary to carry out the intent and the provisions of this subchapter,
including the following powers, in addition to others herein granted:
   (A)   To investigate the condition of buildings within the town in order to
determine which structures are abandoned and in violation of this subchapter;
   (B)   To enter upon premises for purpose of making inspections;
   (C)   To administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses and receive
evidence; and
   (D)   To designate other officers, agents and employees of the town as he or
she deems necessary to carry out the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. eff. 4-24-1984; Ord. eff. 5-1-1989)
§ 150.48 STANDARDS FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Every abandoned structure within the town shall be deemed in violation
of this subchapter whenever the structure constitutes a hazard to the health,
safety or welfare of the town citizens as a result of:
      (1)   The attraction of insects or rodents;
      (2)   Conditions creating a fire hazard;
      (3)   Dangerous conditions constituting a threat to children; or
      (4)   Frequent use by vagrants as living quarters in the absence of
sanitary facilities.
   (B)   In making the preliminary determination of whether or not an abandoned
structure is in violation of this subchapter, the Code Enforcement Officer may,
by way of illustration and not limitation, consider the presence or absence of
the following conditions:
      (1)   Holes or cracks in the structure’s floors, walls, ceilings or roof
which might attract or admit rodents and insects, or become breeding places for
rodents and insects;
      (2)   The collection of garbage or rubbish in or near the structure which
might attract rodents and insects, or become breeding places for rodents and
insects;
      (3)   Violations of the State Building Code, the State Electrical Code or
the Fire Prevention Code which constitute a fire hazard in the structure;
      (4)   The collection of garbage, rubbish or combustible material which
constitutes a fire hazard in the structure;
      (5)   The use of the structure or nearby grounds or facilities by
children as a play area;
      (6)   Violations of the State Building Code which might result in danger
to children using the structure or nearby grounds or facilities as a play area;
and
      (7)   Repeated use of the structure by transients and vagrants, in the
absence of sanitary facilities, for living, sleeping, cooking or eating.
(Ord. eff. 4-24-1984; Ord. eff. 5-1-1989)
§ 150.49 PROCEDURE FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Preliminary investigation; notice; hearing.  Whenever a petition is
filed with the Code Enforcement Officer by at least five residents of the town
charging that any structure exists in violation of this subchapter or whenever
it appears to the Code Enforcement Officer, upon inspection, that any structure
exists in violation hereof, he or she shall, if his or her preliminary
investigation discloses a basis for those charges, issue and cause to be served
upon the owner of and parties in interest in the structure a complaint stating
the charges and containing a notice that a hearing will be held before the Code
Enforcement Officer at a place therein fixed, not less than ten nor more than
30 days after the serving of the complaint. The owner or any party in interest
shall have the right to file an answer to the complaint and to appear in
person, or otherwise, and give testimony at the place and time fixed in the
complaint. Notice of the hearing shall also be given to at least one of the
persons signing a petition relating to the structure. Any person desiring to do
so may attend the hearing and give evidence relevant to the matter being heard.
The rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity shall not be
controlling in hearings before the Code Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   Procedure after hearing. After the notice and hearing, the Code
Enforcement Officer shall state in writing his or her determination whether the
structure violates this subchapter. If the Code Enforcement Officer determines
that the structure is in violation, he or she shall state in writing his or her
findings of fact to support that determination, and shall issue and cause to be
served upon the owner thereof an order directing and requiring the owner to
either repair, alter and improve the structure or else remove or demolish the
same within a specified period of time not to exceed 90 days.
   (C)   Failure to comply with order.
      (1)   In personam remedy. If the owner of any structure shall fail to
comply with an order of the Code Enforcement Officer within the time specified
therein, the Code Enforcement Officer may submit to the Board of Commissioners
of the town at its next regular meeting a resolution directing the Town
Attorney to petition the superior court for an order directing the owner to
comply with the order of the Code Enforcement Officer, as authorized by G.S. §
160A-446(g).
      (2)   In rem remedy. After failure of an owner of a structure to comply
with an order of the Code Enforcement Officer within the time specified
therein, if injunctive relief has not been sought or has not been granted as
provided in the preceding division (C)(1), the Code Enforcement Officer shall
submit to the Board of Commissioners of the town an ordinance ordering the Code
Enforcement Officer to cause the structure to be removed or demolished, as
provided in the original order of the Code Enforcement Officer, and pending the
removal or demolition, to placard the structure as provided by G.S. § 160A-443.
   (D)   Petition to Superior Court by owner. Any person aggrieved by an order
issued by the Code Enforcement Officer shall have the right, within 30 days
after issuance of the order, to petition the Superior Court for a temporary
injunction restraining the Code Enforcement Officer pending a final disposition
of the cause, as provided by G.S. § 160A-446(f).
(Ord. eff. 4-24-1984; Ord. eff. 5-1-1989)
§ 150.50 METHODS OF SERVICE OF COMPLAINTS AND ORDERS.
   Complaints or orders issued by the Code Enforcement Officer shall be served
upon persons either personally or by registered or certified mail, but if the
whereabouts of the persons are unknown and the same cannot be ascertained by
the Code Enforcement Officer in the exercise of reasonable diligence, the Code
Enforcement Officer shall make an affidavit to that effect, and the serving of
the complaint or order upon the person may be made by publication in a
newspaper having general circulation in the town at least once, no later than
the time at which personal service is required under §
150.49. Where service is made by publication, a notice of the pending
proceedings shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises affected by
the complaint or order.
(Ord. eff. 4-24-1984; Ord. eff. 5-1-1989)
§ 150.51 IN REM ACTION BY CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER; PLACARDING.
   (A)   After failure of the owner of a structure to comply with an order of
the Code Enforcement Officer issued pursuant to the provisions of this
subchapter, and upon adoption by the Board of Commissioners of the town of an
ordinance authorizing and directing him or her to do so, as provided by G.S. §
160A-443(5), the Code Enforcement Officer shall proceed to cause the structure
either to be repaired or else removed or demolished, as directed by the
ordinance of the Board of Commissioners of the town and shall cause to be
posted on the main entrance of the structure a placard prohibiting the use or
occupation of the structure. Use or occupation of a building so posted shall
constitute a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Each ordinance shall be recorded in the office of the Register of
Deeds of Surry County, and shall be indexed in the name of the property owner
in the grantor index, as provided by G.S. § 160A-443(5).
(Ord. eff. 4-24-1984; Ord. eff. 5-1-1989) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.52 COSTS OF LIEN ON PREMISES.
   As provided by G.S. § 160A-446(6), the amount of the cost of any removal or
demolition caused to be made or done by the Code Enforcement Officer pursuant
to this subchapter shall be a lien against the real property upon which the
cost was incurred. The lien shall be filed, have the same priority, and be
enforced and the costs collected as provided by G.S. Chapter 160A, Article 10.
(Ord. eff. 4-24-1984; Ord. eff. 5-1-1989)
§ 150.53 ALTERNATIVE REMEDIES.
   Neither this subchapter nor any of its provisions shall be construed to
impair or limit in any way the power of the town to define and declare
nuisances and to cause their abatement by summary action or otherwise, or to
enforce this subchapter by criminal process, and the enforcement of any remedy
provided herein shall not prevent the enforcement of other remedy or remedies
provided herein or in other ordinances or laws.
(Ord. eff. 4-24-1984)
§ 150.54 ADOPTION DATE.
   This subchapter was adopted on April 24, 1984.
(Ord. eff. 4-24-1984)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of §
150.01 shall upon conviction be guilty of misdemeanor and shall be punished in
accordance with the provisions of G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. eff. 10-12-1970; Ord. eff. 6-18-1971)
CHAPTER 151: FLOOD DAMAGE PROTECTION
Section
Administrative Provisions
   
151.001   Statutory authorization
   
151.002   Findings of fact
   
151.003   Statement of purpose
   
151.004   Objectives
   
151.005   Definitions
General Provisions
   
151.020   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
151.021   Basis for establishing the special flood hazard areas
   
151.022   Establishment of floodplain development permit
   
151.023   Compliance
   
151.024   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
151.025   Interpretation
   
151.026   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
151.040   Designation of Floodplain Administrator
   
151.041   Floodplain development application, permit and certification
requirements
   
151.042   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
   
151.043   Corrective procedures
   
151.044   Variance procedures
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
151.060   General standards
   
151.061   Specific standards
   
151.062   Standards for floodplains without established base flood elevations
   
151.063   Standards for riverine floodplains with base flood elevations, but
without established floodways or non-encroachment areas
   
151.064   Floodways and non-encroachment areas
Legal Status Provisions
   
151.080   Effect on rights and liabilities under the existing flood damage
prevention ordinance
   
151.081   Effect upon outstanding floodplain development permits
 
   
151.999   Penalty
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
§ 151.001 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   (A)   The legislature of this state has in G.S. Chapter 143, Article 21,
Part 6; G.S. Chapter 160A, Article 19, Parts 3, 5 and 8; and G.S. Chapter 160A,
Article 8, delegated the responsibility to local governmental units to adopt
regulations designed to promote the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   Therefore, the Board of Commissioners of the town does ordain as
follows in this chapter.
(Ord. eff. 10-6-2003; Ord. eff. 3-12-2012; Ord. eff. 8-11-2014; Ord. eff. 11-
10-2014)
§ 151.002 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood-prone areas within the jurisdiction of the town are subject
to periodic inundation, which results in loss of life, property, health and
safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary
public expenditures of flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax
base, all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general
welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities, and by the
occupancy in flood-prone areas by uses vulnerable to floods or other hazards.
(Ord. eff. 10-6-2003; Ord. eff. 3-12-2012; Ord. eff. 8-11-2014; Ord. eff. 11-
10-2014)
§ 151.003 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote public health, safety and
general welfare, and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions within flood-prone areas, by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety and
property due to water or erosion hazards, or that result in damaging increases
in erosion, flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities that
serve those uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging and all other development that may
increase erosion or flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or that may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Ord. eff. 10-6-2003; Ord. eff. 3-12-2012; Ord. eff. 8-11-2014; Ord. eff. 11-
10-2014)
§ 151.004 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are to:
   (A)   Protect human life, safety and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business losses and interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities (i.e., water and
gas mains, electric, telephone, cable and sewer lines, streets and bridges)
that are located in flood-prone areas;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas; and
   (G)   Ensure that potential home buyers are aware that property is in a
special flood hazard area.
(Ord. eff. 10-6-2003; Ord. eff. 3-12-2012; Ord. eff. 8-11-2014; Ord. eff. 11-
10-2014)
§ 151.005 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter
shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage,
and to give this chapter its most reasonable application.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure located on the same
parcel of property as the principal structure, and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure. Garages, carports and storage
sheds are common urban ACCESSORY STRUCTURES. Pole barns, hay sheds and the like
qualify as ACCESSORY STRUCTURES on farms, and may or may not be located on the
same parcel as the farm dwelling or shop building.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING BUILDING). An extension or increase in the floor
area or height of a building or structure.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated Zone AO on a community’s flood
insurance rate map (FIRM), with base flood depths determined to be from one to
three feet. These areas are located where a clearly defined channel does not
exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate, and where
velocity flow may be evident.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. See definition of SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA
(SFHA).
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). A determination of the water surface elevations
of the base flood as published in the flood insurance study. When the BFE has
not been provided in a SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA, it may be obtained from
engineering studies available from a federal, state or other source using FEMA-
approved engineering methodologies. This elevation, when combined with the
FREEBOARD, establishes the REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. See definition of STRUCTURE.
   CHEMICAL STORAGE FACILITY. A building, portion of a building, or exterior
area adjacent to a building used for the storage of any chemical or chemically
reactive products.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
   DISPOSAL. As defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(6), the discharge, deposit,
injection, dumping, spilling, leaking or placing of any solid waste into or on
any land or water so that the solid waste, or any constituent part of the solid
waste, may enter the environment or be emitted into the air or discharged into
any waters, including groundwaters.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building that has its lowest elevated
floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear walls, posts, piers,
pilings or columns.
   ENCROACHMENT. The advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation,
buildings, structures or development into a floodplain, which may impede or
alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A
manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities
for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) was
completed before the initial effective date of the floodplain management
regulations adopted by the community.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). An official map of a community,
issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, on which the special flood
hazard areas and the floodways are delineated. This official map is a
supplement to and shall be used in conjunction with the flood insurance rate
map (FIRM).
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). An official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, where the boundaries of the special
flood hazard areas have been defined as Zone A.
   FLOOD INSURANCE. The insurance coverage provided under the National Flood
Insurance Program.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM).  An official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, on which both the special flood hazard
areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community are delineated.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS).  An examination, evaluation and determination
of flood hazards, corresponding water surface elevations (if appropriate),
flood insurance risk zones and other flood data in a community issued by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency. The flood insurance study report includes
flood insurance rate maps (FIRMs) and flood boundary and floodway maps (FBFMs),
if published.
   FLOOD-PRONE AREA. See definition of FLOODPLAIN.
   FLOOD ZONE. A geographical area shown on a flood hazard boundary map or
flood insurance rate map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the
area.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The individual appointed to administer and enforce
the floodplain management regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. Any type of permit that is required in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter, prior to the commencement of
any development activity.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including but not limited
to emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations, and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances and other applications of police power. This term describes federal,
state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, that provide standards
for preventing and reducing flood loss and damage.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures that reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation facilities,
structures, and their contents.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   FLOODWAY ENCROACHMENT ANALYSIS. An engineering analysis of the impact that a
proposed encroachment into a floodway is expected to have on the floodway
boundaries and base flood elevations. The evaluation shall be prepared by a
qualified, North Carolina-licensed engineer, using standard engineering methods
and models.
   FREEBOARD. The height added to the base flood elevation (BFE) to account for
the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than
the height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such
as wave action, blockage of bridge openings, and the hydrological effect of
urbanization of the watershed. The base flood elevation (BFE) plus the
FREEBOARD establishes the REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY. A facility that cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located in close proximity to water, limited to a
docking or port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or
passengers, shipbuilding or ship repair. The term does not include long-term
storage, manufacture, sales or service facilities.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITY.  As defined in G.S. Ch. 130A, Article
9, a facility for the collection, storage, processing, treatment, recycling,
recovery or disposal of hazardous waste.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE (HAG). The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface, prior to construction, immediately next to the proposed walls of the
structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of Interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic landmarks in
communities with a CERTIFIED LOCAL GOVERNMENT (CLG) PROGRAM; or
      (4)   Certified as contributing to the historical significance of a
historic district designated by a community with a CERTIFIED LOCAL GOVERNMENT
(CLG) PROGRAM. CERTIFIED LOCAL GOVERNMENT (CLG) PROGRAMS are approved by the
U.S. Department of the Interior, in cooperation with the North Carolina
Department of Cultural Resources through the State Historic Preservation
Officer, as having met the requirements of the National Historic Preservation
Act of 1966, as amended in 1980.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG). The elevation of the ground, sidewalk or patio
slab immediately next to the building, or deck support, after completion of the
building.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or limited storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR, provided that the
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, built
on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a permanent
foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term MANUFACTURED HOME
does not include a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, not including the land value and that of
any accessory structures or other improvements on the lot. MARKET VALUE may be
established by independent certified appraisal, replacement cost depreciated by
age of building and quality of construction (actual cash value), or adjusted
assessed values.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of this chapter, the National Geodetic Vertical
Datum (NGVD) as corrected in 1929, the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) as
corrected in 1988, or other vertical control datum used as a reference for
establishing varying elevations within the floodplain, to which base flood
elevations (BFEs) shown on a FIRM are referenced. Refer to each FIRM panel to
determine datum used.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of the floodplain management regulations and
includes any subsequent improvements to the structures.
   NON-ENCROACHMENT AREA. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing by more than one foot the water surface
elevation as designated in the flood insurance study report.
   POST-FIRM. Construction or other development for which the START OF
CONSTRUCTION occurred on or after the effective date of the initial flood
insurance rate map.
   PRE-FIRM. Construction or other development for which the START OF
CONSTRUCTION occurred before the effective date of the initial flood insurance
rate map.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. At least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure is above ground.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND/OR NUISANCE.  Anything injurious to the safety or health
of an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of persons,
or which unlawfully obstructs the
free passage or use, in the customary manner, of any navigable lake, or river,
bay, stream, canal or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV). A vehicle that is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less, when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light-
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REFERENCE LEVEL. The top of the lowest floor for structures within the
special flood hazard areas designated as Zone AE, A, A99 or AO.
   REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. The BASE FLOOD ELEVATION plus the
FREEBOARD. In SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS where base flood elevations (BFEs)
have been determined, this elevation shall be the BFE. In SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD
AREAS where base no BFE has been established, this elevation shall be at least
two feet above the highest adjacent grade.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. To bring the structure or other development into
compliance with state or community floodplain management regulations, or, if
this is not possible, to reduce the impacts of its noncompliance. Ways that
impacts may be reduced include protecting the structure or other affected
development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement provisions of the
ordinance or otherwise deterring future similar violations, or reducing federal
financial exposure with regard to the structure or other development.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook and the like.
   SALVAGE YARD. Any non-residential property used for the storage, collection
and/or recycling of any type of equipment, and including but not limited to
vehicles, appliances and related machinery.
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY. Any facility involved in the disposal of
solid waste, as defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(35).
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SITE. As defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(36), any place
at which solid wastes are disposed of by incineration, sanitary landfill or any
other method.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). The land in the floodplain subject to a 1%
or greater chance of being flooded in any given year as determined in §
151.021.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement or other
improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The ACTUAL START means
either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site,
such as the pouring of slabs or footings, installation of piles, construction
of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. PERMANENT CONSTRUCTION does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a
basement, footings, piers or foundations, or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part
of the building, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions
of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, a manufactured home, or a gas,
liquid or liquefied gas storage tank that is principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure during any
one-year period, whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before-
damaged condition would equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the
structure before the damage occurred. See definition of SUBSTANTIAL
IMPROVEMENT. SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE also means flood-related damage sustained by a
structure on two separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost
of repairs at the time of each flood event, on the average, equals or exceeds
25% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any combination of repairs, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement of a structure, taking place
during any one-year period, for which the cost equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value of the structure before the START OF CONSTRUCTION of the
improvement. This term includes structures that have incurred SUBSTANTIAL
DAMAGE, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
      (1)   Any correction of existing violations of state or community health,
sanitary or safety code specifications that have been identified by the
community code enforcement official, and that are the minimum necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure, and the alteration is approved by a variance issued
pursuant to §
151.044.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications or
other evidence of compliance required in §§
151.040 et seq. and §§
151.060 et seq. is presumed to be in VIOLATION until the time that that
documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION (WSE). The height, in relation to mean sea level, of
floods of various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of riverine
areas.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
(Ord. eff. 10-6-2003; Ord. eff. 3-12-2012; Ord. eff. 8-11-2014; Ord. eff. 11-
10-2014)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.020 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all special flood hazard areas within the
jurisdiction, including extraterritorial jurisdictions (ETJs) of the town.
(Ord. eff. 10-6-2003; Ord. eff. 3-12-2012; Ord. eff. 8-11-2014; Ord. eff. 11-
10-2014)
§ 151.021 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   The special flood hazard areas are those identified under the cooperating
technical state (CTS) agreement between the State of North Carolina and FEMA in
its FIS, dated August 18, 2009, for Surry County, and associated FIRM panels
(4941L, 4942K, 4943J, 4951K, 4952J, 4953J, 4961K and 4962K), including any
digital data developed as part of the flood insurance study, which are adopted
by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter. Future revisions to the
FIS and FIRM panels that do not change flood hazard data within the
jurisdictional authority of the town are also adopted by reference and declared
a part of this chapter. Subsequent revisions to the FIRM should be adopted
within 12 months
(Ord. eff. 10-6-2003; Ord. eff. 3-12-2012; Ord. eff. 8-11-2014; Ord. eff. 11-
10-2014)
§ 151.022 ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities within special flood hazard areas as determined in §
151.021.
(Ord. eff. 10-6-2003; Ord. eff. 3-12-2012; Ord. eff. 8-11-2014; Ord. eff. 11-
10-2014)
§ 151.023 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted,
altered or developed in any way without full compliance with the terms of this
chapter and other applicable regulations.
(Ord. eff. 10-6-2003; Ord. eff. 3-12-2012; Ord. eff. 8-11-2014; Ord. eff. 11-
10-2014)
§ 151.024 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(Ord. eff. 10-6-2003; Ord. eff. 3-12-2012; Ord. eff. 8-11-2014; Ord. eff. 11-
10-2014)
§ 151.025 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. eff. 10-6-2003; Ord. eff. 3-12-2012; Ord. eff. 8-11-2014; Ord. eff. 11-
10-2014)
§ 151.026 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
consideration. Larger floods can and will occur. Actual flood heights may be
increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not imply that land
outside the special flood hazard areas or uses permitted within those areas
will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create
liability on the part of the town, or by any officer or employee thereof, for
any flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any
administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. eff. 10-6-2003; Ord. eff. 3-12-2012; Ord. eff. 8-11-2014; Ord. eff. 11-
10-2014)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 151.040 DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Planning Director or designee, hereinafter referred to as the
“Floodplain Administrator”, is hereby appointed to administer and implement the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. eff. 10-6-2003; Ord. eff. 3-12-2012; Ord. eff. 8-11-2014; Ord. eff. 11-
10-2014)
§ 151.041 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT APPLICATION, PERMIT AND CERTIFICATION
REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Application requirements. Application for a floodplain development
permit shall be made to the Floodplain Administrator prior to any development
activities located within special flood hazard areas. The following items shall
be presented to the Floodplain Administrator to apply for a floodplain
development permit:
      (1)   A plot plan, drawn to scale, which shall include but shall not be
limited to the following specific details of the proposed floodplain
development:
         (a)   The nature, location, dimensions and elevations of the area of
development/disturbance; existing and proposed structures, utility systems,
grading/pavement areas, fill materials, storage areas, drainage facilities and
other development;
         (b)   The boundary of the special flood hazard area as delineated on
the FIRM or other flood map as determined in §
151.021, or a statement that the entire lot is within the special flood hazard
area;
         (c)   Flood zone(s) designation of the proposed development area as
determined on the FIRM or other flood map as determined in §
151.021;
         (d)   The boundary of the floodway(s) or non-encroachment area(s) as
determined in §
151.021;
         (e)   The base flood elevation (BFE), where provided, as set forth in
§
151.021, §
151.042 or §
151.062;
         (f)   The old and new location of any watercourse that will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
         (g)   The certification of the plot plan by a registered land surveyor
or professional engineer.
      (2)   Proposed elevation, and method thereof, of all development within a
special flood hazard area, including but not limited to:
         (a)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the proposed
reference level (including basement) of all structures;
         (b)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any
nonresidential structure in Zone AE, A or AO will be floodproofed; and
         (c)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any proposed
utility systems will be elevated or floodproofed.
      (3)   If floodproofing, a floodproofing certificate (FEMA Form 81-65),
with supporting data, an operational plan, and an inspection and maintenance
plan that include, but are not limited to, installation, exercise and
maintenance of floodproofing measures;
      (4)   A foundation plan, drawn to scale, which shall include details of
the proposed foundation system, to ensure all provisions of this chapter are
met. These details include but are not limited to:
         (a)   The proposed method of elevation, if applicable (i.e., fill,
solid foundation perimeter wall, solid backfilled foundation, open foundation
on columns/posts/piers/piles/shear walls); and
         (b)   Openings to facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic
flood forces on walls in accordance with §
151.061(D)(3), when solid foundation perimeter walls are used in Zones A, AO,
AE and A1-30.
      (5)   Usage details of any enclosed areas below the lowest floor;
      (6)   Plans and/or details for the protection of public utilities and
facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, to be located and
constructed to minimize flood damage;
      (7)   Certification that all other local, state and federal permits
required prior to floodplain development permit issuance have been received;
      (8)   Documentation for placement of recreational vehicles and/or
temporary structures, when applicable, to ensure the provisions of §
151.061(F) and (G) of this chapter are met; and
      (9)   A description of proposed watercourse alteration or relocation,
when applicable, including an engineering report on the effects of the proposed
project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse, and the effects on
properties located both upstream and downstream; and a map (if not shown on
plot plan) showing the location of the proposed watercourse alteration or
relocation.
   (B)   Permit requirements. The floodplain development permit shall include,
but not be limited to:
      (1)   A description of the development to be permitted under the
floodplain development permit;
      (2)   The special flood hazard area determination for the proposed
development per available data specified in §
151.021;
      (3)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
reference level and all attendant utilities;
      (4)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
protection of all public utilities;
      (5)   All certification submittal requirements with timelines;
      (6)   A statement that no fill material or other development shall
encroach into the floodway or non-encroachment area of any watercourse, as
applicable; and
      (7)   The flood opening requirements, if in Zone A, AO, AE or A1-30.
   (C)   Certification requirements.
      (1)   Elevation certificates.
         (a)   An elevation certificate is required prior to the actual start
of any new construction. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to
the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the elevation of the reference
level, in relation to mean sea level. The Floodplain Administrator shall review
the certificate data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be
corrected by the permit holder prior to the beginning of construction. Failure
to submit the certification or failure to make required corrections shall be
cause to deny a floodplain development permit.
         (b)   A final as-built elevation certificate is required after
construction is completed and prior to certificate of compliance/occupancy
issuance. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain
Administrator a certification of final as-built construction of the elevation
of the reference level and all attendant utilities. The Floodplain
Administrator shall review the certificate data submitted. Deficiencies
detected by the review shall be corrected by the permit holder immediately, and
prior to certificate of compliance/occupancy issuance. In some instances,
another certification may be required to certify corrected as-built
construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure to make required
corrections shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a certificate of
compliance/occupancy.
      (2)   Floodproofing certificate. If non-residential floodproofing is used
to meet the regulatory flood protection elevation requirements, a floodproofing
certificate (FEMA Form 81-65), with supporting data, an operational plan, and
an inspection and maintenance plan, is required prior to the actual start of
any new construction. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to
the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the floodproofed design
elevation of the reference level and all attendant utilities, in relation to
mean sea level. Floodproofing certification shall be prepared by or under the
direct supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by
same. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data, the
operational plan, and the inspection and maintenance plan. Deficiencies
detected by such review shall be corrected by the applicant prior to permit
approval. Failure to submit the certification or failure to make required
corrections shall be cause to deny a floodplain development permit. Failure to
construct in accordance with the certified design shall be cause to withhold
the issuance of a certificate of compliance/occupancy.
      (3)   If a manufactured home is placed within Zone A, AO, AE or A1-30 and
the elevation of the chassis is more than 36 inches in height above grade, an
engineered foundation certification is required per §
151.061(C)(2).
      (4)   If a watercourse is to be altered or relocated, a description of
the extent of watercourse alteration or relocation; a professional engineer’s
certified report on the effects of the proposed project on the flood-carrying
capacity of the watercourse, and the effects to properties located both
upstream and downstream; and a map showing the location of the proposed
watercourse alteration or relocation, shall all be submitted by the permit
applicant prior to issuance of a floodplain development permit.
      (5)   Certification exemptions. The following structures, if located
within Zone A, AO, AE or A1-30, are exempt from the elevation/floodproofing
certification requirements specified in divisions (C)(1) and (2) above:
         (a)   Recreational vehicles meeting requirements of §
151.061(F)(1);
         (b)   Temporary structures meeting requirements of §
151.061(G); and
         (c)   Accessory structures with footprints of less than 150 square
feet meeting requirements of §
151.061(H).
   (D)   Determinations for existing buildings and structures. For applications
for building permits to improve buildings and structures, including
alterations, movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, change of occupancy,
additions, rehabilitations, renovations, substantial improvements, repairs of
substantial damage, and any other improvement of or work on such buildings and
structures, the Floodplain Administrator, in coordination with the Building
Official, shall:
      (1)   Estimate the market value, or require the applicant to obtain an
appraisal of the market value prepared by a qualified independent appraiser, of
the building or structure before the start of construction of the proposed
work. In the case of repair, the market value of the building or structure
shall be the market value before the damage occurred and before any repairs are
made;
      (2)   Compare the cost to perform the improvement, the cost to repair a
damaged building to its pre-damaged condition, or the combined costs of
improvements and repairs, if applicable, to the market value of the building or
structure;
      (3)   Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage; and
      (4)   Notify the applicant if it is determined that the work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage, and that compliance
with the flood-resistant construction requirements of the State Building Code
and this chapter is required.
(Ord. eff. 10-6-2003; Ord. eff. 3-12-2012; Ord. eff. 8-11-2014; Ord. eff. 11-
10-2014)
§ 151.042 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Floodplain Administrator shall perform, but not be limited to, the
following duties:
   (A)   Review all floodplain development applications and issue permits for
all proposed development within special flood hazard areas to assure that the
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
   (B)   Review all proposed development within special flood hazard areas to
assure that all necessary local, state and federal permits have been received,
including Section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of
1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334;
   (C)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Department of Public Safety,
Division of Emergency Management, State Coordinator for the National Flood
Insurance Program, prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and
submit evidence of this notification to the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA);
   (D)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of the watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is maintained;
   (E)   Prevent encroachments into floodways and non-encroachment areas,
unless the certification and flood hazard reduction provisions of §
151.064 are met;
   (F)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the
reference level (including basement) of all attendant utilities of all new or
substantially improved structures, in accordance with the provisions of §
151.041(C);
   (G)   Obtain the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which
the new or substantially improved structures and all utilities have been
floodproofed, in accordance with the provisions of §
151.041(C);
   (H)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of all public
utilities, in accordance with the provisions of §
151.041(C);
   (I)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, obtain
certifications from a registered professional engineer or architect in
accordance with the provisions of §§
151.041(C) and
151.061(B);
   (J)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of boundaries
of the special flood hazard areas, floodways or non-encroachment areas (for
example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions), make the necessary interpretation. The person
contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity
to appeal the interpretation as provided in this subchapter;
   (K)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data has not been provided in
accordance with the provisions of §
151.021, obtain, review and reasonably utilize any BFE data, along with
floodway data or non-encroachment area data available from a federal, state or
other source, including data developed pursuant to §
151.062(B)(2), in order to administer the provisions of this chapter;
   (L)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is provided, but no floodway or
non-encroachment area data has been provided in accordance with the provisions
of §
151.021, obtain, review and reasonably utilize any floodway data and/or non-
encroachment area data available from a federal, state or other source in order
to administer the provisions of this chapter;
   (M)   When the lowest floor and the lowest adjacent grade of a structure or
the lowest ground elevation of a parcel in a special flood hazard area is above
the base flood elevation (BFE), advise the property owner of the option to
apply for a letter of map amendment (LOMA) from FEMA. Maintain a copy of the
LOMA issued by FEMA in the floodplain development permit file;
   (N)   Permanently maintain all records that pertain to the administration of
this chapter and make these records available for public inspection,
recognizing that such information may be subject to the Privacy Act of 1974, as
amended;
   (O)   Make on-site inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant to
a floodplain development permit progresses, the Floodplain Administrator shall
make as many inspections of the work as may be necessary to ensure that the
work is being done according to the provisions of the local ordinance and the
terms of the permit. In exercising this power, the Floodplain Administrator has
a right, upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises
within the jurisdiction of the community at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action;
   (P)   Issue stop-work orders as required. Whenever a building or part
thereof is being constructed, reconstructed, altered or repaired in violation
of this chapter, the Floodplain Administrator may order the work to be
immediately stopped. The stop-work order shall be in writing and directed to
the person doing the work. The stop-work order shall state the specific work to
be stopped, the specific reason(s) for the stoppage, and the condition(s) under
which the work may be resumed. Violation of a stop-work order constitutes a
misdemeanor;
   (Q)   Revocation of floodplain development permits as required. The
Floodplain Administrator may revoke and require the return of the floodplain
development permit by notifying the permit holder in writing, stating the
reason(s) for the revocation. Permits shall be revoked for any substantial
departure from the approved application, plans or specifications; for refusal
or failure to comply with the requirements of state or local laws; or for false
statements or misrepresentations made in securing the permit. Any floodplain
development permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state or
local law may also be revoked;
   (R)   Make periodic inspections throughout all special flood hazard areas
within the jurisdiction of the community. The Floodplain Administrator and each
member of his or her inspections department shall have a right, upon
presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
territorial jurisdiction of the department at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action;
   (S)   Follow through with corrective procedures of §
151.043;
   (T)   Review, provide input and make recommendations for variance requests.
   (U)   Maintain a current map repository to include, but not be limited to,
the FIS report, FIRM and other official flood maps and studies adopted in
accordance with the provisions of §
151.021, including any revisions thereto, including letters of map change,
issued by FEMA. Notify state and FEMA of mapping needs.
   (V)   Coordinate revisions to FIS reports and FIRMs, including letters of
map revision based on fill (LOMR-Fs) and letters of map revision (LOMRs).
(Ord. eff. 10-6-2003; Ord. eff. 3-12-2012; Ord. eff. 8-11-2014; Ord. eff. 11-
10-2014)
§ 151.043 CORRECTIVE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Violations to be corrected. When the Floodplain Administrator finds
violations of applicable state and local laws, it shall be his or her duty to
notify the owner or occupant of the building of the violation. The owner or
occupant shall immediately remedy each of the violations of law cited in the
notification.
   (B)   Actions in event of failure to take corrective action. If the owner of
a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action, the
Floodplain Administrator shall give the owner written notice, by certified or
registered mail to the owner’s last known address or by personal service,
stating that:
      (1)   The building or property is in violation of the floodplain
management regulations;
      (2)   A hearing will be held before the Floodplain Administrator at a
designated place and time, not later than ten days after the date of the
notice, at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by
counsel, and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
      (3)   Following the hearing, the Floodplain Administrator may issue an
order to alter, vacate or demolish the building; or to remove fill as
applicable.
   (C)   Order to take corrective action. If, upon a hearing held pursuant to
the notice prescribed above, the Floodplain Administrator shall find that the
building or development is in violation of this chapter, he or she shall make
an order in writing to the owner, requiring the owner to remedy the violation
within a specified time period, not less than 60 calendar days, nor more than
150 calendar days. Where the Floodplain Administrator finds that there is
imminent danger to life or other property, he or she may order that corrective
action be taken in a lesser period as may be feasible.
   (D)   Appeal. Any owner who has received an order to take corrective action
may appeal the order to the local elected governing body, by giving notice of
appeal in writing to the Floodplain Administrator and the Clerk, within ten
days following issuance of the final order. In the absence of an appeal, the
order of the Floodplain Administrator shall be final. The local governing body
shall hear an appeal within a reasonable time and may affirm, modify and
affirm, or revoke the order.
   (E)   Failure to comply with order. If the owner of a building or property
fails to comply with an order to take corrective action for which no appeal has
been made, or fails to comply with an order of the governing body following an
appeal, the owner shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished in the
discretion of the court.
(Ord. eff. 10-6-2003; Ord. eff. 3-12-2012; Ord. eff. 8-11-2014; Ord. eff. 11-
10-2014) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.044 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment, as established by the town, hereinafter
referred to as the “Appeal Board,” shall hear and decide requests for variances
from the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board may appeal
the decision to the Court, as provided in G.S. Chapter 7A.
   (C)   Variances may be issued for:
      (1)   The repair or rehabilitation of historic structures, upon the
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure’s continued designation as a historic structure, and that the
variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design
of the structure;
      (2)   Functionally dependent facilities, if determined to meet the
definition as stated in §
151.005, provided the provisions of divisions (I)(2),(3) and (5) of this
section have been satisfied, and such facilities are protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety; or
      (3)   Any other type of development, provided it meets the requirements
of this section.
   (D)   In passing upon variances, the Appeal Board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this chapter and:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of that damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location as a
functionally dependent facility, as defined in §
151.005, where applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the floodwaters, and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      (11)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (E)   A written report addressing each of the above factors shall be
submitted with the application for a variance.
   (F)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of
this chapter, the Appeal Board may attach any conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes and objectives of this
chapter.
   (G)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice, specifying the difference between the base flood elevation (BFE) and
the elevation to which the structure is to be built, and that such construction
below the BFE increases risks to life and property, and that the issuance of a
variance to construct a structure below the BFE will result in increased
premium rates for flood insurance up to $25 per $100 of insurance coverage.
Such notification shall be maintained with a record of all variance actions,
including justification for their issuance.
   (H)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency and
the State of North Carolina upon request.
   (I)   Conditions for variances:
      (1)   Variances may not be issued when the variance will make the
structure in violation of other federal, state or local laws, regulations or
ordinances;
      (2)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway or
non-encroachment area if the variance would result in any increase in flood
levels during the base flood discharge.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief;
      (4)   Variances shall only be issued prior to development permit
approval.
      (5)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, or
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   (J)   A variance may be issued for solid waste disposal facilities or sites,
hazardous waste management facilities, salvage yards and chemical storage
facilities that are located in special flood hazard areas, provided that all of
the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The use serves a critical need in the community;
      (2)   No feasible location exists for the use outside the special flood
hazard area;
      (3)   The reference level of any structure is elevated or floodproofed to
at least the regulatory flood protection level;
      (4)   The use complies with all other applicable federal, state and local
laws; and
      (5)   The town has notified the Secretary of the State Department of
Public Safety of its intention to grant a variance at least 30 days prior to
granting the variance.
(Ord. eff. 10-6-2003; Ord. eff. 3-12-2012; Ord. eff. 8-11-2014; Ord. eff. 11-
10-2014)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 151.060 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas, the following provisions are required:
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be designed
(or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure;
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage;
   (C)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damages;
   (D)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding to the regulatory flood protection elevation. These include but are
not limited to HVAC equipment, water softener units, bath/kitchen fixtures,
ductwork, electric/gas meter panels/boxes, utility/cable boxes, hot water
heaters and electric outlets/switches;
   (E)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems, and
discharges from the systems into floodwaters;
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding;
   (H)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a structure
in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall meet the requirements
of “new construction” as contained in this chapter;
   (I)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the repair, reconstruction or
replacement of a building or structure existing on the effective date of this
chapter, and located totally or partially within the floodway, non-encroachment
area or stream setback; provided there is no additional encroachment below the
regulatory flood protection elevation in the floodway, non-encroachment area or
stream setback; and provided that the repair, reconstruction or replacement
meets all of the other requirements of this chapter;
   (J)   New solid waste disposal facilities, hazardous waste management
facilities, salvage yards and chemical storage facilities shall not be
permitted, except by variance as specified in §
151.044(J). A structure or tank for chemical or fuel storage incidental to an
allowed use, or to the operation of a water treatment plant or wastewater
treatment facility, may be located in a special flood hazard area only if the
structure or tank is either elevated or floodproofed to at least the regulatory
flood protection elevation, and certified according to §
151.041(C);
   (K)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall be
consistent with the need to minimize flood damage;
   (L)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water
systems, located and constructed to minimize flood damage;
   (M)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards;
   (N)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
received all necessary permits from those governmental agencies for which
approval is required by federal or state law, including Section 404 of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334.
   (O)   When a structure is partially located in a special flood hazard area,
the entire structure shall meet the requirements for new construction and
substantial improvements.
   (P)   When a structure is located in multiple flood hazard zones or in a
flood hazard risk zone with multiple base flood elevations, the provisions for
the more restrictive flood hazard risk zone and the highest base flood
elevation (BFE) shall apply.
(Ord. eff. 10-6-2003; Ord. eff. 3-12-2012; Ord. eff. 8-11-2014; Ord. eff. 11-
10-2014)
§ 151.061 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation (BFE) data has
been provided, as set forth in §
151.021 or §
151.062, the following provisions, in addition to the provisions of §
151.060, are required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction or substantial improvement
of any residential structure (including manufactured homes) shall have the
reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the regulatory
flood protection elevation, as defined in §
151.005.
   (B)   Nonresidential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall have the reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the
regulatory flood protection elevation, as defined in §
151.005. Structures located in A, AE, AO and A1-30 Zones may be floodproofed to
the regulatory flood protection elevation in lieu of elevation, provided that
all areas of the structure, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, below the regulatory flood protection elevation are watertight,
with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water, using structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and the effect of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer or
architect shall certify that the floodproofing standards of this division are
satisfied. Such certification shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator
as set forth in §
151.041(C), along with the operational plan and the inspection and maintenance
plan.
   (C)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   New or replacement manufactured homes shall be elevated so that the
reference level of the manufactured home is no lower than the regulatory flood
protection elevation, as defined in §
151.005.
      (2)   Manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement, either
by a certified engineered foundation system, or in accordance with the State of
North Carolina Regulations for Manufactured Homes adopted by the Commissioner
of Insurance pursuant to G.S. § 143-143.15. Additionally, when the elevation
would be met by an elevation of the chassis 36 inches or less above the grade
at the site, the chassis shall be supported by reinforced piers or an
engineered foundation. When the elevation of the chassis is above 36 inches in
height, an engineering certification is required.
      (3)   All enclosures or skirting shall be in accordance with division (D)
below.
      (4)   An evacuation plan must be developed for evacuation of all
residents of all new, substantially improved or substantially damaged
manufactured home parks or subdivisions located within flood-prone areas. This
plan shall be filed with and approved by the Floodplain Administrator and the
local Emergency Management Coordinator.
   (D)   Elevated buildings.  A fully enclosed area, of new construction and
substantially improved structures, that is below the lowest floor:
      (1)   Shall not be designed or used for human habitation, but shall only
be used for parking of vehicles, building access or limited storage of
maintenance equipment used in connection with the premises. Access to the
enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow for parking of vehicles
(garage door) or limited storage of maintenance equipment (standard exterior
door), or entry to the living area (stairway or elevator). The interior portion
of such enclosed area shall not be finished or partitioned into separate rooms,
except to enclose storage areas;
      (2)   Shall be constructed entirely of flood-resistant materials at least
to the regulatory flood protection elevation; and
      (3)   Shall include, in Zones A, AO, AE and A1-30, flood openings to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on walls, by allowing for the
entry and exit of floodwaters. To meet this requirement, the openings must
either be certified by a professional engineer or architect, or meet or exceed
the following minimum design criteria:
         (a)   A minimum of two flood openings on different sides of each
enclosed area subject to flooding;
         (b)   The total net area of all flood openings must be at least one
square inch for each square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding;
         (c)   If a building has more than one enclosed area, each enclosed
area must have flood openings to allow floodwaters to automatically enter and
exit;
         (d)   The bottom of all required flood openings shall be no higher
than one foot above the adjacent grade;
         (e)   Flood openings may be equipped with screens, louvers or other
coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions; and
         (f)   Enclosures made of flexible skirting are not considered
enclosures for regulatory purposes, and, therefore, do not require flood
openings. Masonry or wood underpinning, regardless of structural status, is
considered an enclosure and requires flood openings as outlined above.
   (E)   Additions/improvements.
      (1)   Additions and/or improvements to pre-FIRM structures, when the
addition and/or improvements, in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure, are:
         (a)   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvements
must be designed to minimize flood damages, and must not be any more
nonconforming than the existing structure; or
         (b)   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
      (2)   Additions to post-FIRM structures that are a substantial
improvement, with no modifications to the existing structure other than a
standard door in the common wall, shall require only the addition to comply
with the standards for new construction.
      (3)   Additions and/or improvements to post-FIRM structures, when the
addition and/or improvements, in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure, are:
         (a)   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvements
only must comply with the standards for new construction; or
         (b)   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
      (4)   Any combination of repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition
or improvement of a building or structure taking place during a one-year
period, the cumulative cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value
of the structure before the improvement or repair is started, must comply with
the standards for new construction. For each building or structure, the one-
year period begins on the date of the first improvement or repair of that
building or structure subsequent to the effective date of this chapter. If the
structure has sustained substantial damage, any repairs are considered
substantial improvement, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The
requirement does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a building required to correct
existing health, sanitary or safety code violations identified by the Building
Official, and that are the minimum necessary to assume safe living conditions;
or
         (b)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure.
   (F)   Recreational vehicles.
      (1)   Temporary placement.  Recreational vehicles placed temporarily in
flood hazard areas shall;
         (a)   Be on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days; or
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use. A recreational
vehicle or park model is READY FOR HIGHWAY USE, if it is on its wheels or its
jacking system is attached to the site only by quick, disconnect-type utilities
and security devices, and it has no permanent attachments such as additions,
rooms, stairs, decks and porches.
      (2)   Permanent placement.  Recreational vehicles that do not meet the
limitations of temporary placement shall meet all the requirements for new
construction,
   (G)   Temporary nonresidential structures. Prior to the issuance of a
floodplain development permit for a temporary structure, the applicant must
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a plan for the removal of the structure
(s) in the event of a hurricane, flash flood or other type of flood-warning
notification. The following information shall be submitted in writing to the
Floodplain Administrator for review and written approval:
      (1)   A specified time period for which the temporary use will be
permitted. Time specified may not exceed three months, renewable up to one
year;
      (2)   The name, address and phone number of the individual responsible
for the removal of the temporary structure;
      (3)   The time frame prior to the event at which a structure will be
removed (i.e., minimum of 72 hours before landfall of a hurricane or
immediately upon flood-warning notification);
      (4)   A copy of the contract or other suitable instrument with the entity
responsible for physical removal of the structure; and
      (5)   Designation, accompanied by documentation, of a location outside
the special flood hazard area to which the temporary structure will be moved.
   (H)   Accessory structures.  When accessory structures (sheds, detached
garages and the like) are to be placed within a special flood hazard area, the
following criteria shall be met:
      (1)   Accessory structures shall not be used for human habitation
(including working, sleeping, living, cooking or restroom areas);
      (2)   Accessory structures shall not be temperature-controlled;
      (3)   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential;
      (4)   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the
building site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
      (5)   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance with §
151.060(A);
      (6)   All service facilities, such as electrical and heating equipment,
shall be installed in accordance with §
151.060(D);
      (7)   Flood openings to facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic
flood forces shall be provided below the regulatory flood protection elevation
in conformance with division (D)(1) above; and
      (8)   An accessory structure with a footprint of less than 150 square
feet, or that is a minimal investment of $3,000 or less, and that satisfies the
criteria outlined above, is not required to meet the elevation or floodproofing
standards of §
151.061(B). Elevation or floodproofing certifications are required for all
other accessory structures in accordance with §
151.041(C).
   (I)   Tanks. When gas and liquid storage tanks are to be placed within a
special flood hazard area, the following criteria shall be met:
      (1)   Underground tanks.  Underground tanks in flood hazard areas shall
be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads during conditions of the design flood,
including the effects of buoyancy, assuming the tank is empty;
      (2)   Above-ground tanks, elevated. Above-ground tanks in flood hazard
areas shall be attached to and elevated to or above the design flood elevation,
on a supporting structure designed to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement during conditions of the design flood. Tank-supporting structures
shall meet the foundation requirements of the applicable flood hazard area;
      (3)   Above-ground tanks, not elevated.  Above-ground tanks that do not
meet the elevation requirements of division (B) of this section shall be
permitted in flood hazard areas, provided the tanks are anchored or otherwise
designed and constructed to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads during conditions of the
design flood, including the effects of buoyancy, assuming the tank is empty,
and the effects of flood-borne debris.
      (4)   Tank inlets and vents.  Tank inlets, fill openings, outlets and
vents shall be:
         (a)   At or above the design flood elevation or fitted with covers
designed to prevent the inflow of floodwater or outflow of the contents of the
tanks during conditions of the design flood; and
         (b)   Anchored to prevent lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic
and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy, during conditions of
the design flood.
   (J)   Other development. Prior to the issuance of a floodplain development
permit for a temporary structure, the applicant must submit to the Floodplain
Administrator a plan for the removal of the structure(s) in the event of a
hurricane, flash flood or other type of flood-warning notification. The
following information shall be submitted, in writing, to the Floodplain
Administrator for review and written approval:
      (1)   Fences in regulated floodways and NEAs. Fences in regulated
floodways and NEAs that have the potential to block the passage of floodwaters,
such as stockade fences and wire-mesh fences, shall meet the limitations of §
151.064.
      (2)   Retaining walls, sidewalks and driveways in regulated floodways and
NEAs. Retaining walls, sidewalks and driveways that involve the placement of
fill in regulated floodways shall meet the limitations of §
151.064.
      (3)   Roads and watercourse crossings in regulated floodways and NEAs.
Roads and watercourse crossings, including roads, bridges, culverts, low-water
crossings and similar means for vehicles or pedestrians to travel from one side
of a watercourse to the other side, that encroach into regulated floodways
shall meet the limitations of §
151.064.
(Ord. eff. 10-6-2003; Ord. eff. 3-12-2012; Ord. eff. 8-11-2014; Ord. eff. 11-
10-2014)
§ 151.062 STANDARDS FOR FLOODPLAINS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS.
   Within the special flood hazard areas designated as Approximate Zone A and
established in §
151.021, where no base flood elevation (BFE) data has been provided by FEMA,
the following provisions, in addition to the provisions of §
151.060, shall apply:
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements or new development, shall be permitted within a distance of 20
feet each side from top of bank, or five times the width of the stream,
whichever is greater, unless certification, with supporting technical data, by
a registered professional engineer is provided, demonstrating that such
encroachments shall not result in any increase in flood levels during the
occurrence of the base flood discharge.
   (B)   The BFE used in determining the regulatory flood protection elevation
shall be determined, based on the following criteria:
      (1)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is available from other
sources, all new construction and substantial improvements within such areas
shall also comply with all applicable provisions of this chapter, and shall be
elevated or floodproofed in accordance with standards in §§
151.060 and
151.061.
      (2)   When floodway or non-encroachment data is available from a federal,
state or other source, all new construction and substantial improvements within
floodway and non-encroachment areas shall also comply with the requirements of
§§
151.061 and
151.064.
      (3)   All subdivision, manufactured home park and other development
proposals shall provide base flood elevation (BFE) data, if development is
greater than five acres or has more than 50 lots/manufactured home sites. Such
base flood elevation (BFE) data shall be adopted by reference in accordance
with §
151.021 and utilized in implementing this chapter.
      (4)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is not available from a
federal, state or other source as outlined above, the reference level shall be
elevated or floodproofed (nonresidential) to or above the regulatory flood
protection elevation, as defined in §
151.005. All other applicable provisions of §
151.061 shall also apply.
(Ord. eff. 10-6-2003; Ord. eff. 3-12-2012; Ord. eff. 8-11-2014; Ord. eff. 11-
10-2014)
§ 151.063 STANDARDS FOR RIVERINE FLOODPLAINS WITH BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS, BUT
WITHOUT ESTABLISHED FLOODWAYS OR NON-ENCROACHMENT AREAS.
   Along rivers and streams where base flood elevation (BFE) data is provided
by FEMA, or is available from another source, but neither floodway nor non-
encroachment areas are identified for a special flood hazard area on the FIRM
or in the FIS report, the following requirements shall apply to all development
within such areas:
   (A)   Standards of §§
151.060 and
151.061; and
   (B)   Until a regulatory floodway or non-encroachment area is designated, no
encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial improvements or
other development, shall be permitted unless certification, with supporting
technical data, by a registered professional engineer is provided,
demonstrating that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will not increase
the water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point
within the community.
(Ord. eff. 10-6-2003; Ord. eff. 3-12-2012; Ord. eff. 8-11-2014; Ord. eff. 11-
10-2014)
§ 151.064 FLOODWAYS AND NON-ENCROACHMENT AREAS.
   (A)   Areas designated as floodways or non-encroachment areas are located
within the special flood hazard areas established in §
151.021. The floodways and non-encroachment areas are extremely hazardous areas
due to the velocity of floodwaters that have erosion potential and carry debris
and potential projectiles.
   (B)   The following provisions, in addition to standards outlined in §§
151.060 and
151.061, shall apply to all development within these areas:
      (1)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements and other developments, shall be permitted unless:
         (a)   It is demonstrated that the proposed encroachment would not
result in any increase in the flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood, based on hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with
standard engineering practice, and presented to the Floodplain Administrator
prior to issuance of floodplain development permit; or
         (b)   A conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR) has been approved
by FEMA. A letter of map revision (LOMR) must also be obtained upon completion
of the proposed encroachment.
      (2)   If division (B)(1) above is satisfied, all development shall comply
with all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this chapter;
      (3)   Manufactured homes may be permitted, provided the following
provisions are met:
         (a)   The anchoring and the elevation standards of §
151.061(C); and
         (b)   The no encroachment standard of division (B)(1) above.
(Ord. eff. 10-6-2003; Ord. eff. 3-12-2012; Ord. eff. 8-11-2014; Ord. eff. 11-
10-2014)
LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS
§ 151.080 EFFECT ON RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES UNDER THE EXISTING FLOOD DAMAGE
PREVENTION ORDINANCE.
   (A)   This chapter in part comes forward by re-enactment of some of the
provisions of the Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance enacted October 6, 2003, as
amended, and it is not the intention to repeal, but rather to reenact and
continue to enforce without interruption such existing provisions, so that all
rights and liabilities that have accrued thereunder are reserved and may be
enforced. The enactment of this chapter shall not affect any action, suit or
proceeding instituted or pending. All provisions of the Flood Damage Prevention
Ordinance of the town enacted on October 6, 2003, as amended, that are not
reenacted herein are repealed.
   (B)   Municipal: The date of the initial Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance
for Surrey County is October 29, 1979.
(Ord. eff. 10-6-2003; Ord. eff. 3-12-2012; Ord. eff. 8-11-2014; Ord. eff. 11-
10-2014)
§ 151.081 EFFECT UPON OUTSTANDING FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMITS.
   Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the plans,
construction, size or designated use of any development, or any part thereof,
for which a floodplain development permit has been granted by the Floodplain
Administrator, or his or her authorized agents, before the time of passage of
this chapter; provided, however, that when construction is not begun under an
outstanding permit within a period of six months subsequent to the date of
issuance of the outstanding permit, construction or use shall be in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. eff. 10-6-2003; Ord. eff. 3-12-2012; Ord. eff. 8-11-2014; Ord. eff. 11-
10-2014)
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall constitute a
misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any
of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $50
or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both. Each day the violation
continues shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing herein contained
shall prevent the town from taking any other lawful action as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. eff. 10-6-2003; Ord. eff. 3-12-2012; Ord. eff. 8-11-2014; Ord. eff. 11-
10-2014)
CHAPTER 152: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
   
152.01   Subdivisions; adopted by reference
§ 152.01 SUBDIVISIONS; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The subdivisions regulations for the town are hereby adopted by reference as
if set out in full herein. Copies are available through the town offices and on
the town’s website.
(Ord. eff. 11-3-1997; Ord. eff. 8-11-2003; Ord. eff. 5-8-2006; Ord. eff. 9-14-
2009)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING
Section
   
153.01   Zoning regulations; adopted by reference
   
153.02   Digital zoning map
§ 153.01 ZONING REGULATIONS; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The zoning regulations of the town are hereby adopted by reference as if set
out in full herein. Copies are available through town offices and on the town’s
website.
(Ord. eff. 4-25-1958; Ord. 11-15-1962; Ord. eff. 7-14-1966; Ord. eff. 4-8-1970;
Ord. eff. 2-3-1975; Ord. eff. 10-3-1977; Ord. eff. 12-5-1977; Ord. eff. 2-6-
1978; Ord. eff. 9-8-1980; Ord. eff. 10-6-1986; Ord. eff. 5-2-1988; Ord. eff. 5-
2-1988; Ord. eff. 10-3-1988; Ord. eff. 2-5-1990; Ord. eff. 3-4-1991; Ord. eff.
4-1-1991; Ord. eff. 10-7-1991; Ord. eff. 12-2-1991; Ord. eff. 12-7-1992; Ord.
eff. 1-1-1993; Ord. eff. - -[1993]; Ord. eff. 5-3-1993; Ord. eff. 5-3-1993;
Ord. eff. 10-1-1993; Ord. eff. 12-6-1993; Ord. eff. 10-2-1995; Ord. eff. 12-4-
1995; Ord. eff. 12-4-1995; Ord. eff. 6-3-1996; Ord. eff. 8-5-1996; Ord. eff. 8-
5-1996; Ord. eff. 9-23-1996; Ord. eff. 12-2-1996; Ord. eff. 4-7-1997; Ord. eff.
6-2-1997; Ord. eff. 10-6-1997; Ord. eff. 3-2-1998; Ord. eff. 3-2-1998; Ord.
eff. 11-9-1998; Ord. eff. 12-14-1998; Ord. eff. 3-8-1999; Ord. eff. 3-8-1999;
Ord. eff. 3-8-1999; Ord. eff. 5-10-1999; Ord. eff. 4-12-1999; Ord. eff. 8-9-
1999; Ord. eff. 12-13-1999; Ord. eff. 4-10-2000; Ord. eff. 10-9-2000; Ord. eff.
10-8-2001; Ord. eff. - -; Ord. eff. 7-8-2002; Ord. eff. 9-2-2002; Ord. eff. 9-
8-2003; Ord. eff. 9-8-2003; Ord. eff. 12-15-2003; Ord. eff. 8-9-2004; Ord. eff.
8-9-2004; Ord. eff. 12-13-2004; Ord. eff. 12-13-2004; Ord. eff. 6-13-2005; Ord.
eff. 8-8-2005; Ord. eff. 2-13-2006; Ord. eff. 4-10-2006; Ord. eff. 8-14-2006;
Ord. eff. 9-11-2006; Ord. eff. 10-9-2006; Ord. eff. 1-8-2007; Ord. eff. 7-16-
2007; Ord. eff. 7-16-2007; Ord. eff. 9-8-2008; Ord. eff. 10-20-2008; Ord. eff.
11-10-2008; Ord. eff. 8-10-2009)
§ 153.02 DIGITAL ZONING MAP.
   The official zoning map of the town dated 1990 is hereby replaced with the
digital “Official Zoning Map of the Town of Elkin,” dated May 9, 2005.
(Ord. eff. 5-9-2005)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
[Reserved]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to 1940 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
G.S. Section Code Section
G.S. Section                        Code Section
1-593                               10.05
Ch. 1A                              93.10
Ch. 7A                              151.044
7A-227                              150.24
7A-228                              150.24
Ch. 14, Art. 27A                    90.32
14-1(a)                             72.99
                                    33.99,
                                    70.99,
                                    71.19,
                                    71.99,
                                    72.70,
                                    72.99,
                                    Ch. 73,
                                    90.99,
                                    93.031,
                                    93.999,
14-4                                94.01,
                                    94.99,
                                    95.01,
                                    95.04,
                                    95.99,
                                    96.999,
                                    97.999,
                                    110.99,
                                    111.99,
                                    112.99,
                                    130.99,
                                    150.99
14-4(a)                             10.99,
                                    72.99
14-4(b)                             70.99
14-269                              130.35
14-304 through 14-309               Ch. 110 Appx A
14-399                              90.25
14-415.11(c)                        90.19
14-415.23                           90.19
18B-1001                            116.01
20-171.6                            90.17
42-29                               150.24
42-30                               150.24
Ch. 44A                             91.09
Ch. 63, Art. 4                      92.46
90-86 et seq.                       90.24
Ch. 105                             35.23;
                                    Ch. 110 Appx A
Ch. 105, Art. 3                     35.16
Ch. 105, Subch. I                   35.16
Ch. 105, Subch. 1, Art. 9           35.22,
                                    35.99
105-38                              Ch. 110 Appx A
105-41                              Ch. 110 Appx A
105-58                              Ch. 110 Appx A
105-88                              Ch. 110 Appx A
105-164.16                          35.20
Ch. 113, Art. 22A                   94.60
113-35(a)                           90.24,
                                    90.25
113-274(c)(1a)                      94.60
115C-1 et seq.                      93.024
Ch. 130A, Art. 9                    151.005
130A-184                            94.01
130A-290(a)(6)                      151.005
130A-290(a)(35)                     151.005
130A-290(a)(36)                     151.005
136-141                             91.12
136-143                             91.12
Ch. 143, Art. 8                     34.06
Ch. 143, Art. 21, Part 6            151.001
Ch. 143, Art. 33C                   32.06,
                                    32.07
143-129                             34.07
143-129(e)                          34.03
143-143.15                          151.061
143-145(7)                          150.17
143-318.10(d)                       32.06
143-318.10(e)                       32.06
143-318.11                          32.06
153A-263                            99.01
Ch. 160A, Art. 8                    151.001
Ch. 160A, Art. 10                   150.24,
                                    150.52
Ch. 160A, Art. 12                   34.21
Ch. 160A, Art. 18                   90.01,
                                    90.02
Ch. 160A, Art. 19, Parts 3, 5 and 8 151.001
Ch. 160A, Art. 19, Part 6           150.15
160A-174                            150.15
160A-175                            10.99,
                                    93.031
160A-175(c)                         72.28
160A-175(d)                         72.28
160A-175(e)                         72.28
160A-186                            94.01
160A-187                            94.01
160A-188                            94.60
160A-193                            91.02
160A-211                            Ch. 110 Appx A
160A-266(c)                         34.24
160A-296                            71.18,
                                    96.075
160A-301                            72.20
160A-301(b)                         72.40
160A-303                            91.02
160A-303.2                          91.02
160A-314(b)                         51.06
160A-350 et seq.                    90.15
160A-353                            90.02
160A-441                            150.15,
                                    150.45
160A-443                            150.49
160A-443(5)                         150.51
160A-444                            150.15
160A-445                            150.20
160A-446(f)                         150.49
160A-446(g)                         150.49
160A-446(6)                         150.52
164-7                               10.14
                                    
 
REFERENCES TO 1940 CODE
1940 Code Section 2013 Code Section
1940 Code Section         2013 Code Section
Ch. A, § 2               30.16
Ch. A, § 3               30.17
Ch. A, § 4               30.18
Ch. A, § 5               30.19
Ch. A, § 6               30.20
Ch. A, § 7               30.21
Ch. A, § 8               30.22
Ch. A, § 9               30.23
Ch. A, § 11              30.36
Ch. A, § 12              30.37
Ch. A, § 14              30.38
Ch. A, § 16              30.55
Ch. A, § 17              30.56
Ch. A, § 18              30.57
Ch. A, § 20              30.39
Ch. A, § 21              30.58
Ch. A, § 23              30.59
Ch. B, Art. I, § 1       30.01
Ch. B, Art. I, § 2       30.02
Ch. B, Art. II, § 1      31.01,
                          31.20
Ch. B, Art. II, § 2      31.21
Ch. B, Art. II, § 3      31.22
Ch. B, Art. III, § 4     31.02
Ch. B, Art. III, § 5     31.03
Ch. D, Art. I, § 1       35.01
Ch. D, Art. I, § 2       35.02
Ch. G, Art. I, § 1       70.01
Ch. G, Art. I, §§ 2, 3, 70.01
Ch. G, Art. III, § 1     70.30
Ch. G, Art. III, § 2     70.31
Ch. G, Art. III, § 3     70.32
Ch. G, Art. III, § 4     70.33
Ch. G, Art. III, § 5     70.34
Ch. G, Art. III, § 6     70.35
 
1940 Code Section 2013 Code Section
1940 Code Section    2013 Code Section
Ch. G, Art. IV, § 1 70.50
Ch. G, Art. IV, § 2 70.51
Ch. G, Art. IV, § 3 70.52
Ch. G, Art. IV, § 6 70.53
Ch. G, Art. IV, § 7 70.54
Ch. G, Art. IV, § 8 70.55
Ch. G, Art. V, § 3  72.08
Ch. G, Art. V, § 12 72.09,
                     72.99
Ch. G, Art. V, § 13 72.10
Ch. G, Art. V, § 14 72.11
Ch. G, Art. V, § 15 72.12
Ch. G, Art. V, § 16 72.13
Ch. G, Art. V, § 17 72.14
Ch. G, Art. V, § 19 72.15
Ch. G, Art. VI, § 1 71.01
Ch. G, Art. VI, § 2 71.02
Ch. G, Art. VI, § 3 71.03
Ch. G, Art. VI, § 4 71.04
Ch. G, Art. VI, § 6 71.05
Ch. G, Art. VI, § 7 71.06
Ch. G, Art. VI, § 8 71.07
Ch. G, Art. VI, § 9 71.08
Ch. G, Art. VI, § 1071.09
Ch. G, Art. VI, § 1271.10
Ch. G, Art. VI, § 1371.11
Ch. G, Art. VI, § 1471.12
Ch. G, Art. VI, § 1571.13
Ch. G, Art. VI, § 1671.14
Ch. G, Art. VI, § 1871.15
Ch. G, Art. VI, § 1971.16
Ch. G, Art. VI, § 2071.17
Ch. G, Art. VII, § 171.35
Ch. G, Art. VII, § 271.36
Ch. G, Art. VII, § 371.37
Ch. G, Art. VII, § 471.38
Ch. G, Art. VII, § 571.39
Ch. G, Schedule I    Ch. 74 Sched. I
Ch. G, Schedule V    72.12
Ch. G, Schedule X    Ch. 73 Sched. II
Ch. G, Schedule XI   Ch. 73 Sched. III
Ch. H, § 5          130.52
 
1940 Code Section 2013 Code Section
1940 Code Section   2013 Code Section
Ch. H, § 6         130.01
Ch. H, § 8         130.20
Ch. H, § 10        130.21
Ch. H, § 13        130.38
Ch. R, Art. I, § 1 96.035
Ch. R, Art. I, § 2 96.036
Ch. R, Art. I, § 4 96.037
Ch. R, Art. I, § 5 96.038
Ch. R, Art. I, § 6 96.039
Ch. R, Art. II, § 296.055
Ch. R, Art. II, § 396.056
Ch. R, Art. II, § 496.057
Ch. R, Art. II, § 596.058
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        5-4-1998    30.15
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.     Date Passed        Description
-            - -                72.16,
                                72.99
-            - -                Ch. 73 Sched. II
-            - -                Ch. 73 Sched. III
2            - -                Ch. 73 Sched. VII
8            - -                Ch. 73 Sched. VII
9            - -                Ch. 73 Sched. VII
-            - -                Ch. 74 Sched. I
                                92.45 –
-            6-9-2003           92.56,
                                92.99
                                113.01 –
-            10-8-2001          113.15,
                                Ch. 113, Appx A
-            - -                130.37
-            - -                153.01
-            7-19-1954          Ch. 73 Sched. VII
-            10-6-1955          Ch. 73 Sched. VI
-            7-16-1956          Ch. 73 Sched. I
-            10-7-1957          Ch. 74 Sched. I
-            4-25-1958          153.01
-            11-20-1958         Ch. 74 Sched. I
-            8-4-1959           Ch. 73 Sched. VI
-            9-1-1961           Ch. 73 Sched. VII
                                70.70,
-            1-1-1962           70.99,
                                Ch. 73 Sched. VI
-            11-15-1962         153.01
-            10-9-1964          Ch. 73 Sched. VII
-            2-18-1965          130.37,
                                130.99
-            9-10-1965          130.02,
                                130.99
-            12-9-1965          Ch. 74 Sched. I
-            1-6-1966           Ch. 74 Sched. I
-            2-7-1966           99.01 –
                                99.04
-            4-7-1966           Ch. 74 Sched. I
-            7-14-1966          153.01
-            12-5-1966          52.08
-            9-1-1967           Ch. 74 Sched. I
-            11-1-1967          Ch. 74 Sched. I
-            12-1-1967          Ch. 73 Sched. VII
-            7-4-1968           Ch. 73 Sched. IV
-            7-16-1968          130.51,
                                130.99
-            1-30-1969          Ch. 73 Sched. VII
-            4-8-1970           153.01
                                33.01 –
-            7-15-1970          33.07,
                                33.99
-            8-21-1970          Ch. 74 Sched. I
-            10-12-1970         130.50,
                                130.99
-            10-12-1970         150.01,
                                150.99
-            11-13-1970         33.08,
                                33.99
-            1-4-1971           Ch. 74 Sched. I
-            3-1-1971           Ch. 74 Sched. I
-            3-1-1971           Ch. 74 Sched. I
-            5-17-1971          Ch. 73 Sched. VI
-            5-19-1971          Ch. 74 Sched. I
-            6-18-1971          150.01,
                                150.99
-            6-23-1971          71.18,
                                71.99
-            6-23-1971          Ch. 73 Sched. IV
-            12-15-1971         Ch. 74 Sched. I
-            5-3-1972           Ch. 74 Sched. I
-            10-11-1972         96.075,
                                96.999
-            3-5-1973           Ch. 74 Sched. I
-            6-30-1974          Ch. 73 Sched. IV
-            8-1-1974           Ch. 73 Sched. VI
-            8-22-1974          Ch. 73 Sched. VII
-            10-14-1974         Ch. 74 Sched. I
-            11-27-1974         72.18
-            2-3-1975           153.01
-            5-26-1975          Ch. 74 Sched. I
-            6-6-1977           52.01 –
                                52.07
-            10-3-1977          153.01
-            12-5-1977          153.01
-            2-6-1978           153.01
-            5-5-1978           130.50,
                                130.99
-            10-2-1978          Ch. 74 Sched. I
-            10-2-1978          Ch. 74 Sched. I
-            5-7-1979           Ch. 74 Sched. I
-            5-7-1979           Ch. 74 Sched. I
-            7-7-1980           Ch. 74 Sched. I
-            9-8-1980           153.01
-            3-2-1981           Ch. 74 Sched. I
-            1-5-1982           72.70
-            3-15-1982          90.46,
                                90.99
-            5-3-1982           90.45,
                                90.99
                                72.01 –
-            7-15-1982          72.07,
                                72.99
-            12-5-1983          Ch. 74 Sched. I
-            4-3-1984           Ch. 73 Sched. VII
-            4-24-1984          150.45 –
                                150.53
-            11-17-1984         Ch. 74 Sched. I
-            11-17-1984         Ch. 74 Sched. I
-            11-17-1984         Ch. 74 Sched. I
-            - -[1985]          Ch. 73 Sched. VII
-            6-10-1985          71.40
-            8-4-1986           94.25 –
                                94.28
-            10-6-1986          Ch. 73 Sched. VII
-            10-6-1986          153.01
-            5-2-1988           153.01
-            5-2-1988           153.01
-            10-3-1988          153.01
                                72.40 –
-            4-1-1989           72.44,
                                72.99
-            5-1-1989           150.46 –
                                150.52
-            11-6-1989          Ch. 73 Sched. VII 
-            1-1-1990           Ch. 73 Sched. II
-            2-5-1990           153.01
-            6-4-1990           Ch. 73 Sched. VII
-            3-4-1991           153.01
-            4-1-1991           153.01
-            6-3-1991           96.001
-            7-1-1991           Ch. 73 Sched. VII
-            10-7-1991          153.01
-            12-2-1991          153.01
                                93.30 –
-            6-1-1992           93.34,
                                93.99
-            10-1-1992          130.36,
                                130.99
-            12-7-1992          153.01
-            - -[1993]          153.01
-            1-1-1993           153.01
-            5-3-1993           153.01
-            5-3-1993           153.01
-            10-1-1993          153.01
-            10-4-1993          Ch. 73 Sched. VII
-            12-6-1993          Ch. 73 Sched. VII
-            12-6-1993          153.01
                                95.35 –
-            3-1-1994           95.37,
                                95.99
-            8-2-1994           Ch. 73 Sched. VII
-            10-3-1994          Ch. 73 Sched. VII
-            4-4-1995           50.01
-            6-30-1995          52.07
-            10-2-1995          153.01
-            12-4-1995          130.35,
                                130.99
-            12-4-1995          153.01
-            12-4-1995          153.01
-            - -[1996]          Ch. 73 Sched. VII
-            5-7-1996           Ch. 74 Sched. I
-            6-3-1996           153.01
-            8-5-1996           153.01
-            8-5-1996           153.01
-            9-23-1996          153.01
-            12-2-1996          153.01
                                95.20 –
-            3-1-1997           95.22,
                                95.99
-            4-7-1997           153.01
-            6-2-1997           153.01
-            8-5-1997           98.01 –
                                98.07
-            10-6-1997          153.01
-            11-3-1997          152.01
-            3-2-1998           153.01
-            3-2-1998           153.01
-            11-9-1998          153.01
-            12-14-1998         153.01
-            3-8-1999           153.01
-            3-8-1999           153.01
-            3-8-1999           153.01
                                71.55 –
-            3-12-1999          71.60,
                                71.99,
                                Ch. 73 Sched. V
-            4-12-1999          153.01
-            5-10-1999          153.01
-            8-9-1999           153.01
-            10-11-1999         Ch. 74 Sched. I
-            12-13-1999         153.01
-            4-10-2000          153.01
-            10-9-2000          153.01
                                110.01 –
-            7-1-2001           110.11,
                                110.99,
                                Ch. 110 Appx A
-            10-8-2001          153.01
                                51.01 –
                                51.13,
                                51.30-
-            12-10-2001         51.38,
                                51.50,
                                51.51,
                                51.65,
                                51.66
                                112.01 –
-            3-18-2002          112.07,
                                112.99
                                35.15 –
-            6-10-2002          35.26,
                                35.99
-            7-8-2002           153.01
                                96.015 –
-            8-12-2002          96.022,
                                96.999
-            9-2-2002           153.01
                                92.01 –
-            6-9-2003           92.09,
                                92.20-
                                92.32
-            8-11-2003          152.01
-            9-8-2003           153.01
-            9-8-2003           153.01
-            10-6-2003          72.17,
                                72.99
                                151.001 –
                                151.005,
                                151.020-
                                151.026,
-            10-6-2003          151.040-
                                151.044,
                                151.060-
                                151.064,
                                151.081,
                                151.999
-            12-15-2003         153.01
                                94.40 –
-            4-12-2004          94.48,
                                94.99
-            8-9-2004           153.01
-            8-9-2004           153.01
-            12-13-2004         153.01
-            12-13-2004         153.01
-            2-14-2005          Ch. 110 Appx A
-            5-9-2005           153.02
-            6-13-2005          91.01 –
                                91.13
-            6-13-2005          153.01
-            8-8-2005           153.01
                                94.01 –
-            10-10-2005         94.11,
                                94.99
-            2-13-2006          153.01
-            4-10-2006          153.01
-            5-8-2006           152.01
-            8-14-2006          153.01
-            9-11-2006          153.01
-            10-9-2006          153.01
-            1-8-2007           153.01
-            7-16-2007          153.01
-            7-16-2007          153.01
-            1-1-2008           130.36,
                                130.99
-            4-4-2008           30.35,
                                31.20
                                34.01 –
-            9-8-2008           34.07,
                                34.20-
                                34.24
-            9-8-2008           95.01 –
                                95.05
-            9-8-2008           153.01
-            10-20-2008         153.01
-            11-10-2008         153.01
-            8-10-2009          153.01
-            9-14-2009          152.01
-            9-13-2010          32.01 –
                                32.12
-            4-12-2010          Ch. 110 Appx A
-            5-24-2010          Ch. 110 Appx A
                                110.25 –
-            6-12-2010          110.32,
                                110.99
-            6-14-2010          150.15 –
                                150.30
-            12-13-2010         Ch. 73 Sched. VII
4-213        - -[2011]          Ch. 73 Sched. VII
4-214        - -[2011]          Ch. 73 Sched. VII
                                90.01 –
                                90.03,
-            12-11-2011         90.15-
                                90.32,
                                90.99
                                111.01,
-            1-10-2011          111.02,
                                111.99
-            8-8-2011           72.09,
                                72.99
                                151.001 –
                                151.005,
                                151.020-
                                151.026,
                                151.040-
-            3-12-2012          151.044,
                                151.060-
                                151.064,
                                151.080,
                                151.081,
                                151.999
-            5-13-2013          94.60
-            6-10-2013          Ch. 73 Sched. VII
-            8-5-2013 (passed)  Adopting Ordinance
-            4-14-2014 (passed) 95.01
-            5-12-2014          114.01 –
                                114.04
                                90.01 –
                                90.03,
-            8-11-2014          90.15 –
                                90.34,
                                90.99
                                151.001 –
                                151.005,
                                151.020 –
                                151.026,
                                151.040 –
-            8-11-2014          151.044,
                                151.060 –
                                151.064,
                                151.080,
                                151.081,
                                151.999
-            10-6-2014          114.02
                                51.01 –
                                51.13,
                                51.30 –
-            11-10-2014         51.38,
                                51.50,
                                51.51,
                                51.65,
                                51.66
                                151.001 –
                                151.005,
                                151.020 –
                                151.026,
                                151.040 –
-            11-10-2014         151.044,
                                151.060 –
                                151.064,
                                151.080,
                                151.081,
                                151.999
                                90.01 –
                                90.03,
                                90.15 –
2015-09-0416 9-14-2015          90.34,
                                90.45,
                                90.46,
                                90.99
                                93.001,
                                93.020 –
2015-12-0426 12-14-2015         93.032,
                                93.060 –
                                93.066,
                                93.999
-            9-14-2015          115.01 –
                                115.08
-            11-9-2015          72.20 –
                                72.28
-            2-8-2016           72.20 –
                                72.28
-            4-11-2016          36.01 –
                                36.05
2016-11-0453 11-14-2016         71.19
2017-02-0456 2-13-2017          71.19
                                97.001 –
                                97.024,
                                97.040 –
2017-03-0452 - -                97.045,
                                97.060 –
                                97.066,
                                97.080,
                                97.999
2017-08-0483 8-14-2017          116.01
2017-08-0484 8-14-2017          Ch. 73, Sch. VII
2018-01-0001 1-8-2018           130.37,
                                130.99
2018-05-0006 5-14-2018          94.12
2021-08-0083 8-9-2021           Ch. 73, Sch. VII
2021-08-0084 8-9-2021           Ch. 73, Sch. VII
                               
 
