TOWN OF FAIRMONT, NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-6 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 24-250, passed 1-16-2024
State legislation current through 2024 A.L.S. #2
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310 Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588
http://www.amlegal.com
OFFICIALS
of the
TOWN OF FAIRMONT, NORTH CAROLINA
(2024)
MAYOR                       Charles Kemp
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
COMMISSIONER                Clarence McNeill, Jr.
COMMISSIONER                J.J. McCree
COMMISSIONER                Terry Evans
COMMISSIONER                Heather Seibles
COMMISSIONER                Melvin Ellison
COMMISSIONER                Jan Tedder-Rogers
TOWN OFFICIALS
TOWN MANAGER                Jerome Chestnut
TOWN CLERK-FINANCE DIRECTOR Jennifer H. Larson, NCCMC
TOWN ATTORNEY               Jessica Scott
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE 06-103
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE TOWN OF FAIRMONT, NORTH
CAROLINA, REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN
EXISTING GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION DEALING WITH SUBJECTS
EMBRACED IN SUCH CODE OF ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the Town of Fairmont
are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in form and
substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health, safety and
general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of its affairs;
and
WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of North Carolina empower and
authorize municipalities to revise, amend, restate, codify and compile any
existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted or published
and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book form; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Town of Fairmont has authorized a
general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the Town of
Fairmont of a general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinance in
book form; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE TOWN OF
FAIRMONT:
Section 1.   The general ordinances of the Political Subdivision as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as
and shall constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the Town of Fairmont, North
Carolina."
Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinance as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following Titles:
         Charter
         Title I. General Provisions
               10. General Provisions
         Title III. Administration
               30. Mayor; Board of Commissioners
               31. Officers and Employees
               32. Organizations
               33. Police Department
         Title V. Public Works
               50. Water and Sewers
               51. Water and Sewer Extensions
               52. Solid Waste
         Title VII. Traffic Code
               70. General Provisions
               71. Traffic-control Devices
               72. Vehicle Operation Generally
               73. Stopping, Standing and Parking
               74. Pedestrians and Bicycles
               75. Traffic Schedules
               76. Parking Schedules
         Title IX. General Regulations
               90. Streets and Sidewalks
               91. Nuisances
               92. Fire Prevention and Protection
               93. Health and Sanitation
               94. Animals
               95. Parks and Recreation
         Title XI. Business Regulations
               110. General Provisions
               111. Vehicles for Hire
               112. Peddlers and Solicitors
               113. Game Rooms
               114. Motor Vehicle Storage Yards
         Title XIII. General Offenses
               130. Generally
               131. Offenses Against Public Safety
               132. Offenses Against Public Peace and Order
               133. Offenses Against Public Morals
         Title XV: Land Usage
               150. Flood Prevention
               151. Buildings; Construction Regulations
               152. Minimum Housing Standards
               153. Subdivisions
               154. Zoning
         Parallel References
            References to North Carolina General Statutes
            References to 1988 Code
            References to Ordinances
         Index
Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
Section 4.   Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Board of Commissioners and the Clerk of the Town of
Fairmont is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of
Ordinances in the Office of the Clerk.
Section 5.   Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section
6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded, and approved.
Section 6.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Board of Commissioners of the Town of Fairmont on
this 21st day of November, 2006.
ATTEST:
                        /s/
                        Charles Kemp, Mayor
/s/
Jennifer H. Larson, CMC, Town Clerk
THE CHARTER OF THE TOWN OF FAIRMONT
Art. I.      Incorporation And General Powers, §§
1.1—
1.4
Art. II.    Corporate Boundaries, §§
2.1,
2.2
Art. III.   Mayor And Board Of Commissioners, §§
3.1—3.7
Art. IV.   Election Procedure, §
4.1
Art. V.    Town Manager, §
5.1
Art. VI.   Administrative Officers And Employees, §§
6.1—
6.4
Art. VII.   Finance, §§
7.1,
7.2
Art. VIII.   Claims Against The Town, §
8.1
Art. IX.   [Eminent Domain], §
9.1
ARTICLE I. INCORPORATION AND GENERAL POWERS
SEC. 1.1 INCORPORATION AND GENERAL POWERS.
   The Town of Fairmont shall continue to be a body politic and corporate under
the name and style of the "Town of Fairmont," and shall continue to be vested
with all property and rights which now belong to the town; shall have perpetual
succession; may have a common seal and alter and renew the same at pleasure;
may sue and be sued; may contract, may acquire and hold all such property, real
and personal, as may be devised, bequeathed, sold or in any manner conveyed or
dedicated to it, or otherwise acquired by it, and may from time to time hold or
invest, sell, or dispose of the same; and shall have and may exercise in
conformity with this charter all municipal powers, functions, rights,
privileges, and immunities of every name and nature.
Editor's note:
   The town charter, being section 1 of Acts 1973, chapter 288 is printed
herein as enacted.
   The printing style, however, has been made consistent with that of the
Fairmont Municipal Code. Other changes are encased in brackets [ ]. Immediately
following the last section of the charter is an editor's note in which is
printed to [sic, the] title, etc., of chapter 288, the "introductory language"
in section 1 of chapter 288 and the "remainder" (being "legal status" sections)
of chapter 288.
SEC. 1.2 EXERCISE OF POWERS.
   All powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities of the town, its
officers, agencies, or employees, shall be carried into execution as provided
by this charter, or, if this charter makes no provision, as provided by
ordinance or resolution of the board of commissioners and as provided by the
general laws of North Carolina pertaining to municipal corporations, including
Chapter[s] 160 and 160A of the General Statutes of North Carolina.
SEC. 1.3 ENUMERATED POWERS NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The enumeration of particular powers by this charter shall not be held or
deemed to be exclusive but, in addition to the powers enumerated herein or
implied hereby, or those appropriate to the exercise of such powers, the Town
of Fairmont shall have and may exercise all powers which are granted to
municipal corporations by the general laws of North Carolina and all powers
which, under the Constitution of North Carolina, it would be competent for this
charter specifically to enumerate.
SEC. 1.4 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government of the Town of Fairmont shall be the council-manager
form.
ARTICLE II. CORPORATE BOUNDARIES
SEC. 2.1 EXISTING CORPORATE BOUNDARIES.
   The corporate boundaries of the Town of Fairmont as of the date of
ratification of this act [May 1, 1973] are as follows: [The original boundary
description is deleted in this document; the boundaries are as set forth in the
corporate map, which is on file in the clerk’s office.]
SEC. 2.2 EXTENSION OF CORPORATE BOUNDARIES.
   All extensions of the corporate boundaries shall be governed by the General
Statutes of North Carolina.
ARTICLE III. MAYOR AND BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SEC. 3.1 MAYOR AND BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.
   The town shall be governed by a mayor and a board of commissioners
consisting of six (6) members to be elected by the qualified voters of the town
voting at large.
SEC. 3.2 MAYOR AND MAYOR PRO TEMPORE.
   The mayor shall be the official head of the town government and shall
preside at all meetings of the board of commissioners. Where there is an equal
division on a question, the mayor shall determine the matter by his vote, but
he shall vote in no other case. The mayor shall exercise such powers and
perform such duties as are or may be conferred upon him by the general laws of
North Carolina, by this charter, and by the ordinances of the town. The board
of commissioners shall choose one of its numbers to act as mayor pro tempore,
and he shall perform the duties of the mayor in the mayor's absence or
disability. The mayor pro tempore as such shall have no fixed term of office,
but shall serve in such capacity at the pleasure of the remaining members of
the board.
SEC. 3.3 TERMS; QUALIFICATIONS; VACANCIES.
   (a)   The mayor and members of the board of commissioners shall serve for
terms of four years and until their successors are elected and qualified. Their
terms of office shall begin at the first regular meeting following their
election.
[Language relating to the Board which adopted the first Code for the Town is
deleted in this document.]
   (b)   No person shall be eligible to be a candidate or be elected as mayor
or as a member of the board of commissioners or to serve in such capacity,
unless he is a resident and a qualified voter of the town.
   (c)   In the event a vacancy occurs in the office of mayor or commissioner,
the board of commissioners shall by majority vote appoint some qualified person
to fill the same for the remainder of the unexpired term.
   (d)   The mayor and commissioners shall continue to receive the same
compensation they now receive until such time as this may be changed pursuant
to the provisions of G.S. 160A-64.
SEC. 3.4 ORGANIZATION OF BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS; OATHS OF OFFICE.
   The board of commissioners shall meet and organize for the transaction of
business at the first regularly scheduled meeting of the board following each
biennial election. Before entering upon their offices, the mayor and each
commissioner shall take, subscribe, and have entered upon the minutes of the
board the oath of office prescribed in article VI, section 7 of the
Constitution of North Carolina.
SEC. 3.5 MEETINGS OF BOARD.
   (a)   The town board shall fix the time and place for its regular meetings,
which shall be as often as once monthly. Special meetings may be held as
provided in G.S. 160A-71.
   (b)   All meetings of the board shall be open to the public.
SEC. 3.6 QUORUM.
   A majority of the membership of the board of commissioners shall constitute
a quorum. The number required for a quorum shall not be affected by vacancies.
A member who has withdrawn from a meeting without being excused by majority
vote of the remaining members present shall be counted as present for purposes
of determining whether or not a quorum is present.
   The adoption, amendment, repeal, pleading, or proving of ordinances shall be
in accordance with the applicable provisions of the general laws of North
Carolina not inconsistent with this charter. The yeas and nays shall be taken
upon all ordinances and resolutions and entered upon the minutes of the board.
The enacting clauses of all ordinances shall be "Be it ordained by the board of
commissioners of the Town of Fairmont". All ordinances and resolutions shall
take effect upon adoption unless otherwise provided therein.
ARTICLE IV. ELECTION PROCEDURE
[SEC. 4.1. GENERALLY.]
   Elections for mayor and commissioners for the Town of Fairmont shall be
conducted, in all respects, according to the procedures set forth in article
23, chapter 163 of the General Statutes of North Carolina.
ARTICLE V. TOWN MANAGER
SEC. 5.1 [GENERALLY.]
   The board of commissioners shall appoint a town manager who shall be the
administrative head of the town government responsible for the supervision and
administration of all departments. The town manager shall be appointed with
regard to merit only, and he need not be a resident of the town at the time of
his appointment. He shall hold office during the pleasure of the board of
commissioners and shall receive such compensation as it shall fix by ordinance.
   The town manager shall be the administrative head of the town government and
see that within the town the laws of the state and the ordinances, resolutions
and regulations of the board of commissioners are faithfully executed. He shall
attend all meetings of the board of commissioners and recommend for adoption
such measures as he shall deem expedient. He shall make reports to the board of
commissioners from time to time upon the affairs of the town and keep the board
fully advised of the town's financial condition and its future financial needs.
He shall be responsible for the appointment and removal of all employees of the
town, including heads of departments and superintendents, but not including the
town attorney. All appointments and removals made by the town manager shall be
reported to the board of commissioners at its next regular meeting.
   It shall be the duty of all officers and employees of the town to perform
such duties as may be required of them by the town manager under General
Regulations of the board of commissioners.
   The town manager shall have the powers and duties set forth in this section
of the charter, those specified in G.S. 160A-148, and such other as may
necessarily be implied for him to efficiently perform and carry out the duties
of his office.
ARTICLE VI. ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SEC. 6.1 TOWN CLERK.
   The town manager may appoint a town clerk to keep a journal of the
proceedings of the board of commissioners and to maintain in a safe place all
records and documents pertaining to the affairs of the town, and to perform
such other duties as may be required by law or as the town manager may direct.
SEC. 6.2 TOWN TAX COLLECTOR.
   The town manager may appoint a tax collector to collect all taxes, licenses,
fees and other moneys belonging to the town, subject to the provisions of this
charter and the ordinances of the town, and he shall diligently comply with and
enforce all the general laws of North Carolina relating to the collection,
sale, and foreclosure of taxes by municipalities.
SEC. 6.3 TOWN ACCOUNTANT.
   The town manager may appoint a town accountant to perform the duties of the
accountant as required by the Municipal Fiscal Control Act.
SEC. 6.4 CONSOLIDATION OF FUNCTIONS.
   The town manager may, with the approval of the board of commissioners,
consolidate any two (2) or more of the positions of the town clerk, town tax
collector, and town accountant, or may assign the functions of any one (1) or
more of these positions to the holder or holders of any other of these
positions. The town manager may also, with the approval of the board of
commissioners, himself perform all or any part of the functions of any of the
named officers, in lieu of appointing other persons to perform the same.
ARTICLE VII. FINANCE
SEC. 7.1 CUSTODY OF TOWN MONEY.
   All moneys received by the town for or in connection with the business of
the town government shall be paid promptly into the town depository or
depositories. Such institutions shall be designated by the town board in
accordance with such regulations and subject to such requirements as to
security for deposits and interest thereon as may be established by the General
Statutes of North Carolina. All interest on moneys belonging to the town shall
accrue to the benefit of the town. All moneys belonging to the town shall be
disbursed only in accordance with the provisions of the Municipal Fiscal
Control Act.
SEC. 7.2 INDEPENDENT AUDIT.
   As soon as practicable after the close of each fiscal year, an independent
audit shall be made of all books and accounts of the town government by a
certified public accountant or a qualified public accountant registered under
chapter 93 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, who shall have no
personal interest directly or indirectly in the affairs of the town or of any
of its officers. The board of commissioners shall select the public accountant,
and the results of such audit shall be made available for inspection by any
interested citizen of the town, and may be published if so ordered by the board
of commissioners.
ARTICLE VIII. CLAIMS AGAINST THE TOWN
SEC. 8.1 PRESENTATION OF CLAIM; SUIT UPON CLAIMS.
   (a)   All claims or demands against the Town of Fairmont arising in tort or
in contract shall be presented to the board of commissioners in writing, signed
by the claimant, his attorney or agent, within ninety (90) days after the claim
or demand is due or the cause of action accrues, and no suit or action shall be
brought thereon within thirty (30) days or after the expiration of twelve (12)
months from the time said claim or demand is so presented. Unless the claim or
demand is so presented within ninety (90) days after the cause of action
accrues, and unless suit is brought within twelve (12) months thereafter, any
action thereon is barred.
   (b)   No action shall be instituted against the town on account of damages
to or compensation for real property taken or used by the town for any public
purpose, or for the ejectment of the town therefrom, or to remove a cloud upon
the title thereof, unless, within two (2) years after such alleged use, the
owner, his executor, administrator, guardian, or next friend, shall have given
notice in writing to the board of commissioners of the claim, stating in the
notice the date that the alleged use commenced, a description of property
alleged to have been used, and the amount of the damage or compensation
claimed.
   (c)   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (a) and (b) of this
section, if a complainant suffers from physical or mental incapacity that
renders it impossible for him to give notice, his action shall not be barred if
notice of claim is given by him or on his behalf within six (6) months after
the termination of his incapacity; provided, that minority shall not of itself
constitute physical or mental incapacity. If the complainant is a minor, his
action shall not be barred if notice of claim is given on his behalf within
three (3) years after the happening or the infliction of the injury complained
of; or, if the minor suffers from physical or mental incapacity that renders it
impossible for him to give notice, his action shall not be barred if notice of
claim is given on his behalf within six (6) months after termination of the
incapacity, or within three (3) years after the happening or the infliction of
the injury complained of, whichever is the longer period. The town may at any
time request the appointment of a next friend to represent any person having a
potential claim against the town and known to be suffering from physical or
mental incapacity.
ARTICLE IX. [EMINENT DOMAIN]
[SEC. 9.1. GENERALLY.]
   In exercising the power of eminent domain the Town of Fairmont may, in its
discretion, use the procedures set forth in article 9 of chapter 136 of the
General Statutes, or the procedures of any general law or local act applicable
to the town.
Editor's note:
   The following are the portions of Acts 1973, chapter 288 referred to in the
editor's note located at the beginning of the charter. The material is printed
in a style consistent with the Fairmont Municipal Code.
 
CHAPTER 288
SENATE BILL 508
   AN ACT TO REVISE AND CONSOLIDATE THE CHARTER OF THE TOWN OF FAIRMONT AND TO
REPEAL PRIOR CHARTER ACTS.
The General Assembly of North Carolina enacts:
   Section 1. The Charter of the Town of Fairmont is hereby revised and
consolidated to read as follows:
"THE CHARTER OF THE TOWN OF FAIRMONT
   Section 2. The purpose of this act is to revise the Charter of the Town of
Fairmont and to consolidate herein certain acts concerning the property,
affairs, and government of the town. It is intended to continue without
interruption those provisions of prior acts which are consolidated,
specifically or by implication, into this act, so that all rights and
liabilities that have accrued are preserved and may be enforced.
   Section 3. This act shall not be deemed to repeal, modify, nor in any manner
to affect any of the following acts, portions of acts, or amendments thereto,
whether or not such acts, portions of acts, or amendments are expressly set
forth herein:
   (a)   Any acts concerning the property, affairs, or government of public
schools in the Town of Fairmont;
   (b)   Any acts validating, confirming, approving, or legalizing official
proceedings, actions, contracts, or obligations of any kind.
   Section 4. The following acts or portions of acts, having served the purpose
for which enacted, or having been consolidated into this act, are hereby
repealed: c. 112, Private Laws of 1899; c. 82, Private Laws of 1901; c. 42,
Private Laws of 1907; c. 308, Private Laws of 1913; c. 312, Private Laws of
1913; c. 476, Private Laws of 1913; c. 151, Private Laws of 1915; c. 149,
Private Laws of 1919; c. 64, Private Laws of 1921; c. 149, Private Laws of
1929; c. 183, Private Laws of 1929; c. 157, Private - Local Laws of 1931; c.
282, Session Laws of 1943; c. 198, Session Laws of 1947; c. 555, Session Laws
of 1947; c. 86, Session Laws of 1949; c. 446, Session Laws of 1949; c. 800,
Session Laws of 1949; c. 148, Session Laws of 1951; c. 223, Session Laws of
1953; c. 203, Session Laws of 1955; c. 452, Session Laws of 1957; c. 666,
Session Laws of 1957; c. 741, Session Laws of 1957; c. 43, Session Laws of
1963; c. 172, Session Laws of 1965; c. 752, Session Laws of 1967; c. 308,
Session Laws of 1969; c. 323, Session Laws of 1969; c. 772, Session Laws of
1969; c. 1007, Session Laws of 1969.
   Section 5. No provision of this act is intended, nor shall be construed, to
affect in any way any rights or interests (whether public or private):
   (a)   Now vested or accrued, in whole or in part, the validity of which
might be sustained or preserved by reference to any provisions of law repealed
by this act;
   (b)   Derived from, or which might be sustained or preserved in reliance
upon, action heretofore taken (including the adoption of ordinances or
resolutions) pursuant to or within the scope of any provision of law repealed
by this act.
   Section 6. No law heretofore repealed expressly or by implication, and no
law granting authority which has been exhausted, shall be revived by:
   (a)   The repeal herein of any act repealing such law, or
   (b)   Any provision of this act that disclaims an intention to repeal or
affect enumerated or designated laws.
   Section 7. (a) All existing ordinances and resolutions of the Town of
Fairmont, and all existing rules or regulations of departments or agencies of
the Town of Fairmont, not inconsistent with the provisions of this act, shall
continue in full force and effect until repealed, modified or amended.
   (b)   No action or proceeding of any nature (whether civil or criminal,
judicial or administrative, or otherwise) pending at the effective date of this
act by or against the Town of Fairmont or any of its departments or agencies
shall be abated or otherwise affected by the adoption of this act.
   Section 8. Severability. If any provision of this act or the application
thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, such invalidity shall
not affect other provisions or applications of this act which can be given
effect without the invalid provision or application, and to this end the
provisions of this act are declared to be severable.
   Section 9. All laws and clauses of laws in conflict with this act are hereby
repealed.
   Section 10. This act shall become effective upon its ratification.
In the General Assembly read three (3) times and ratified, this the 1st day of
May, 1973.
/s/ James E. Hunt, Jr.
President of the Senate
/s/ James E. Ramsey
Speaker of the House of Representatives
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10:
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time; computing time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinances
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the Town of Fairmont shall be
designated as the Code of Fairmont, North Carolina, and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code, unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS or TOWN BOARD. The governing body of the Town of
Fairmont, North Carolina.
      CHARTER. The Charter of the Town of Fairmont, North Carolina.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COUNTY. Robeson County, North Carolina.
      GOVERNOR. The Governor of North Carolina.
      JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving a joint authority to 3 or more persons
or officers shall be construed as giving that authority to a majority of those
persons or officers.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this municipality, unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
      OWNER. Applied to any property, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole
or a part of that property.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Every species of property except real property.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property.
      REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of North Carolina.
      STREET. Any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard,
parkway, dedicated alley, lane, viaduct, bridge and the approaches thereto
within the town, and shall mean the entire width of the right-of-way between
abutting property lines.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT. When applied to a building or land, shall include any
person who occupies the whole or a part of that building or land, whether alone
or with others.
      TOWN or MUNICIPALITY. The Town of Fairmont, North Carolina.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this town shall be by the following
rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in a section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered, unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this town exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this town for the transaction of all
municipal business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME; COMPUTING TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force,
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal or
in any way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering
system hereof and printed for inclusion herein. When subsequent ordinances
repeal any chapter, subchapter, section or division, or any portion thereof,
the repealed portions may be excluded from this code by omission from reprinted
pages. The subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in the
case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence that the subsequent ordinances
numbered or omitted are readopted as a new code by the town.
   (B)   Amendments to any of the provisions of the code shall be made by
amending the provisions by specific reference to the section number of this
code in language substantially similar to the following: “Section
               of the Code of Ordinances, Town of Fairmont, North Carolina, is
hereby amended as follows: ....” The new provisions shall then be set out in
full as desired.
   (C)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be added,
language substantially similar to the following shall be used: “The Code of
Ordinances, Town of Fairmont, North Carolina, is hereby amended by adding a
section, to be numbered               , which section shall read as follows:
....” The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (D)   All sections, subchapters, chapters or provisions desired to be
repealed must be specifically repealed by section, subchapter or chapter
number, as the case may be.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Am. Ord. 25, passed
1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (G.S. §
160A-11) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1985)
      (2)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Inspection of public records, see G.S. §§ 132-1 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   In accordance with G.S. 160A-175 and 14-4:
      (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(2), if any person shall violate
any provision of this code, he or she shall be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor
and shall be fined not more than $500. No fine shall exceed $50 unless the
pertinent section of the code expressly states that the maximum fine is greater
than $50.
      (2)   If any person shall violate any provision of this code regulating
the operation or parking of vehicles, he or she shall be responsible for a
civil fine or penalty as set by the code or by separate town ordinance.
   (B)   An ordinance contained herein may provide for its enforcement by other
remedies, as authorized in G.S. 160A-175, including the imposition of civil
fines, the ordering of specific equitable relief, including injunctions, or a
combination of remedies. In addition, any ordinance contained herein may be
enforced by an appropriate equitable remedy issuing from a court of competent
jurisdiction.
   (C)   An ordinance may provide, when appropriate, that each day’s continuing
violation shall be a separate and distinct offense.
S tatutory reference:
   Enforcement of ordinances, see G.S. § 160A-175
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   MAYOR; BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
      
31.   OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
34.   CIVIL EMERGENCIES; PREPAREDNESS
CHAPTER 30:
MAYOR; BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
Section
Mayor and Board of Commissioners
   
30.01   Duties of Mayor
   
30.02   Committees
   
30.03   Regular meetings
   
30.04   Ordinances
   
30.05   Use of telephonic devices to attend Commission meetings
Rules of Order and Procedure
   
30.15   Scope
   
30.16   Order of business
   
30.17   Agenda
   
30.18   Rules of debate
   
30.19   Addressing the Board
   
30.20   Points of order and procedure
   
30.21   Previous question; main question
   
30.22   Motions having precedence
   
30.23   Motions to adjourn; voting
Code of Ethics
   
30.40   Purpose
   
30.41   General principles underlying this Code of Ethics
   
30.42   Ethical conduct
   
30.43   Acting with integrity
   
30.44   Impropriety
   
30.45   Setting a good example
   
30.46   Openness in Board affairs
MAYOR AND BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
§ 30.01 DUTIES OF MAYOR.
   It shall be the duty of the Mayor to:
   (A)   Keep himself or herself informed as to the town’s business;
   (B)   Outline the powers and duties of special committees as the Board may
direct;
   (C)   Make recommendations to the Board; and
   (D)   Perform other duties as authorized by law or this code.
(1988 Code, § 2-26)
Statutory reference:
   General duties of Mayor, see G.S. §§ 160A-167, 160A-69
§ 30.02 COMMITTEES.
   (A)   The Mayor shall appoint whenever he or she deems necessary all special
committees except where the Board shall otherwise order. Any appointed special
committee shall cease to exist upon completion of the purpose for which it was
initially created.
   (B)   Any special committee so appointed shall have, regarding the subject
or issue for which it was created, all the rights, duties, responsibilities,
authority and powers of the Board except for the entering into or making of any
decision, contract or agreement, written or verbal, which commits or obligates
any town property, resource or official or in any other manner legally binds
the town.
   (C)   Findings, alternatives, results, recommendations or any other data or
information discovered, created or determined by any special committee shall be
presented to the Board at a time and for the purpose established or decreed by
the Board.
(1988 Code, § 2-27)
§ 30.03 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   The regular meetings of the Board shall be held on on those dates and at
those times determined by the Board of Commissioners from time to time, with
the meetings being held at the town hall unless otherwise designated by the
Board. Every member of the Board and officer shall attend all meetings of the
Board, unless excused.
(1988 Code, § 2-28)
Statutory references:
   Quorum, see G.S. § 160A-74
   Regular meeting time, place and the like, see G.S. § 160A-71
§ 30.04 ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Every ordinance amending or repealing any ordinance and every new
ordinance shall be proposed in writing and shall be approved as to form by the
Town Attorney.
   (B)   A true copy of an ordinance, which has been duly enacted by the Board,
signed by the Mayor and attested to by the Clerk, shall be known as an official
copy of any ordinance of the town.
(1988 Code, § 2-29)
§ 30.05 USE OF TELEPHONIC DEVICES TO ATTEND COMMISSION MEETINGS.
   (A)   When a Commissioner is unable to attend a regular Commission meeting
due to being unavoidably called out of town on either business or a personal
emergency, that Commissioner may make use of a telephone conference call by
speaker phone (teleconference) to participate in the Commission meeting.
   (B)   Prior to utilizing a teleconference call, the affected Commissioner
must make all efforts to rearrange his or her schedule to be in attendance at
the meeting; it shall be the responsibility of the affected Commissioner to
make arrangements for using the teleconference call method of attendance at the
meeting.
   (C)   Upon request, town administrative staff shall set up the speaker phone
prior to the meeting; the affected Commissioner shall, at his or her own
expense, call into the Town Hall at least 5 minutes prior to the scheduled
start of the meeting. Thereafter, the meeting shall proceed as if all members
were in physical attendance; Commissioners attending a Commission meeting via
teleconference shall be authorized to cast their vote on any issue; however,
should that Commissioner’s vote be a deciding vote on an issue, that issue must
be ratified at the next meeting.
   (D)   Two Commissioners may make use of this meeting attendance method at
the same meeting, and on a first-come, first-served basis. Each Commissioner
may use this method of attendance for regular meetings up to 6 times in each
calendar year, and there is no limit on Commissioner participation by telephone
for special and emergency meetings.
(Ord. 07-108, passed 4-17-2007; Am. Ord. 10-139, passed 10-19-2010; Am. Ord.
16-164, passed 5-17-2016)
RULES OF ORDER AND PROCEDURE
§ 30.15 SCOPE.
   The subchapter below applies to meetings of the Board.
(1988 Code, § 2-41)
§ 30.16 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   At the hour appointed for the meeting of the Board, the Mayor shall
take the chair and direct a call of the members by the Clerk, who shall note
the absentees. If a quorum is not present the Mayor shall send for the
absentees, and upon the appearance of a quorum shall call to order and proceed
with the order of business; if a quorum fails to attend, the meeting shall
stand adjourned to a time agreed on by a majority of the members present. The
Mayor may, when present, substitute any member of the Board to perform the
duties of the chair, but substitution shall not extend beyond adjournment,
except by special consent of the Board.
   (B)   The business of the Board shall be taken up for consideration and
disposition at regular meetings in the order determined by the Board.
   (C)   If the Board shall direct any matter to be the special business of a
future meeting, the matter shall have precedence over all other business
thereat.
(1988 Code, § 2-42)
§ 30.17 AGENDA.
   All reports, communications, ordinances, resolutions, contracts, documents
or other matters to be submitted to the Board shall be delivered or submitted
to the Manager at least 11 days prior to its meeting. The Manager shall arrange
a list of matters according to the order of business and furnish each member of
the Board and the Town Attorney with a copy of same prior to the Board meeting
and as far in advance of the meeting as time for preparation will permit.
(1988 Code, § 2-43) (Am. Ord. passed 1-17-2006)
§ 30.18 RULES OF DEBATE.
   (A)   Every member desiring to speak shall address the chair and upon
recognition by the Mayor shall confine himself or herself to the question under
debate, avoiding all personalities and indecorous language.
   (B)   A member, once recognized, shall not be interrupted when speaking,
unless it be to call him or her to order or as otherwise provided in this
subchapter. If a member, while speaking is called to order, he or she shall
cease speaking until the question of order be determined and, if in order, he
or she shall be permitted to proceed.
   (C)   The member moving the adoption of an ordinance or resolution shall
have the privilege of closing the debate.
   (D)   A motion to reconsider a vote may be made at the same or any adjourned
meeting to that at which the vote is taken, or upon notice by 1 voting with the
majority that a motion to reconsider will be made at the next regular meeting.
Motion must be made by a member of the Board voting on the prevailing side, but
may be seconded by any other member and may be made at any time and have
precedence over all other motions or while a member has the floor.
   (E)   A member may request from the Mayor the privilege of having an
abstract of his or her statement on any subject under consideration by the
Board entered in the minutes.
   (F)   The Clerk may be directed by the Mayor, with consent of the Board, to
enter in the minutes a synopsis of the discussion on any question coming before
the Board.
(1988 Code, § 2-44)
§ 30.19 ADDRESSING THE BOARD.
   (A)   Any person desiring to address the Board shall first secure the
permission of the Mayor. Any interested parties or their authorized
representatives may address the Board on matters listed on the agenda.
Preference shall be given to those persons who may have notified the Mayor in
advance of their desire to speak on the matter listed on the agenda of the
Board. After a motion is before the Board, no person shall address the Board
without first securing the permission of the Board so to do.
   (B)   Every person addressing the Board shall give his or her name and
address for the records and, unless special time is granted by the Board, shall
limit his or her remarks to 10 minutes. All remarks shall be addressed to the
Board as a body and not to any member thereof. No person, other than Board
members, the person having the floor or the Manager after obtaining permission
from the Mayor, shall be permitted to enter into any discussion either directly
or through a member of the Board. No question shall be asked a member except
through the Mayor.
   (C)   Those persons wishing to exercise their rights under G.S. § 160A-81.9
to be heard during the public comment period of a regular meeting of the Board
may do so pursuant to the current public comment procedures of the town kept on
file in the Town Clerk’s office.
(1988 Code, § 2-45)
§ 30.20 POINTS OF ORDER AND PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All questions of order shall be decided by the Mayor without debate,
subject to an appeal to the Board.
   (B)   When any point of procedure shall arise not covered by this chapter,
Robert’s Rules of Order, newly revised, shall determine the question of
procedure.
(1988 Code, § 2-46)
§ 30.21 PREVIOUS QUESTION; MAIN QUESTION.
   When the previous question is moved, and seconded by 1 other member, it
shall be put as follows: “Shall the main question be now put?” There shall be
no further amendment or debate; but following an affirmative vote by a majority
of the members present, pending amendments shall be put in their order before
the main question. If the question “Shall the main question be put?” be decided
in the negative, the main question remains before the Board.
(1988 Code, § 2-47)
§ 30.22 MOTIONS HAVING PRECEDENCE.
   When a question is under consideration, no motion shall be received except
as follows: to lay on the table; to postpone to a time certain; to postpone
indefinitely; to refer to a committee; to amend or to divide. Motions for any
of those purposes shall have precedence in the order named.
(1988 Code, § 2-48)
§ 30.23 MOTIONS TO ADJOURN; VOTING.
   (A)   A motion to adjourn shall always be in order and shall be decided
without debate.
(1988 Code, § 2-49)
   (B)   All votes by the Board shall be made by roll call vote if required by
any 2 members present. A member may be permitted to explain his or her vote
only by leave of a majority of the members present, and for explanation, he or
she may be allowed not more than 5 minutes. He or she may, if he or she
desires, have his or her reason for voting for or against any measure recorded
in the minutes.
(1988 Code, § 2-50)
CODE OF ETHICS
§ 30.40 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this Code of Ethics is to establish guidelines for ethical
standards for the Mayor and Board of Commissioners, and to help determine what
conduct is appropriate in particular cases. It should not be considered a
substitute for the law nor for a Board member’s best judgment.
(Ord. 10-137, passed 7-20-2010)
§ 30.41 GENERAL PRINCIPLES UNDERLYING THIS CODE OF ETHICS.
   (A)   The stability and proper operation of democratic representative
government depend upon public confidence in the integrity of the government and
upon responsible exercise of the trust conferred by the people upon their
elected officials.
   (B)   Governmental decisions and policy must be made and implemented through
proper channels and processes of the governmental structure.
   (C)   Board members must be able to act in a manner that maintains their
integrity and independence, yet is responsive to the interests and needs of
those they represent.
   (D)   Board members must always remain aware that at various times they play
different roles:
      (1)   As advocates, who strive to advance the legitimate needs of their
citizens;
      (2)   As legislators, who balance the public interest and private rights
in considering and enacting ordinances, resolutions, and orders;
      (3)   As decision-makers, who arrive at fair and impartial quasi-judicial
and administrative determinations.
   (E)   Board members must know how to distinguish among these roles, to
determine when each role is appropriate, and to act accordingly.
   (F)   Board members must be aware of their obligation to conform their
behavior to standards of ethical conduct that warrant the trust of their
constituents. Each official must find within his or her own conscience the
touchstone by which to determine what conduct is appropriate.
(Ord. 10-137, passed 7-20-2010)
§ 30.42 ETHICAL CONDUCT.
   (A)   Board members should obey all laws applicable to their official
actions as members of the Board. Board members should be guided by the spirit
as well as the letter of the law in whatever they do.
   (B)   At the same time, Board members should feel free to assert policy
positions and opinions without fear of reprisal from fellow Board members or
citizens. To declare that a Board member is behaving unethically because one
disagrees with that Board member on a question of policy (and not because of
that Board member’s behavior) is unfair, dishonest, and irresponsible, and is
itself unethical.
(Ord. 10-137, passed 7-20-2010)
§ 30.43 ACTING WITH INTEGRITY.
   Board members should act with integrity and independence from improper
influence as they exercise the duties of their offices. Characteristics and
behaviors consistent with this standard include the following:
   (A)   Adhering firmly to a code of sound values.
   (B)   Behaving consistently and with respect toward everyone with whom they
interact.
   (C)   Exhibiting trustworthiness.
   (D)   Living as if they are on duty as elected officials regardless of where
they are or what they are doing.
   (E)   Using their best independent judgment to pursue the common good as
they see it, presenting their opinions to all in a reasonable, forthright,
consistent manner.
   (F)   Remaining incorruptible, self-governing, and unaffected by improper
influence while at the same time being able to consider the options and ideas
of others.
   (G)   Disclosing contacts and information about issues that they receive
outside of public meetings and refraining from seeking or receiving information
about quasi-judicial matters outside of the quasi-judicial proceedings
themselves.
   (H)   Treating other Board members and the public with respect, and honoring
the opinions of others even when the Board members disagree with those
opinions.
   (I)   Not reaching conclusions on issues until all sides have been heard.
   (J)   Showing respect for their offices and not behaving in ways that
reflect badly on those offices.
   (K)   Recognizing that they are part of a group and acting accordingly.
   (L)   Recognizing that individual Board members are not generally allowed to
act on behalf of the Board, but may do so only if the Board specifically
authorizes it, and that the Board must nonetheless take official action as a
body.
(Ord. 10-137, passed 7-20-2010)
§ 30.44 IMPROPRIETY.
   (A)   Board members should avoid impropriety in the exercise of their
official duties. Their official actions should be above reproach. Although
opinions may vary about what behavior is inappropriate, this Board will
consider impropriety in terms of whether a reasonable person who is aware of
all the relevant facts and circumstances surrounding the Board member’s action
would conclude that the action was inappropriate.
   (B)   If a Board member believes that his or her actions, while legal and
ethical, may be misunderstood, that member should seek the advice of the Town
Attorney, and should consider publicly disclosing the facts of the situation
and the steps taken to resolve it.
(Ord. 10-137, passed 7-20-2010)
§ 30.45 SETTING A GOOD EXAMPLE.
   (A)   Board members should faithfully perform the duties of their offices.
They should act as especially responsible citizens whom others can trust and
respect. They should set a good example for others in the community, keeping in
mind that trust and respect must continually be earned.
   (B)   Board members should faithfully prepare for and attend meetings. They
should carefully analyze all credible information properly submitted to them,
mindful of the need not to engage in communications outside the meeting in
quasi-judicial matters. They should demand full accountability from those over
whom the Board has authority.
   (C)   Board members should be willing to bear their fair share of the
Board’s workload. To the extent appropriate, they should be willing to put the
Board’s interests ahead of their own.
(Ord. 10-137, passed 7-20-2010)
§ 30.46 OPENNESS IN BOARD AFFAIRS.
   (A)   Board members should conduct the affairs of the Board in an open and
public manner. They should comply with all applicable laws governing open
meetings and public records, recognizing that doing so is an important way to
be worthy of the public’s trust. They should remember when they meet that they
are conducting the public’s business.
   (B)   They should also remember that local government records belong to the
public and not to Board members or their employees.
   (C)   In order to ensure strict compliance with the laws concerning
openness, Board members should make clear that an environment of transparency
and candor is to be maintained at all times in the town government: they should
prohibit unjustified delay in fulfilling public records requests; they should
take deliberate steps to make certain that any closed sessions held by the
Board are lawfully conducted, and that any such sessions do not stray from the
purposes for which they are called.
(Ord. 10-137, passed 7-20-2010)
CHAPTER 31:
OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
   
31.001   Employees subject to chapter
   
31.002   Guiding principle
   
31.003   Personnel Director
   
31.004   Responsibility of Town Manager
   
31.005   Employee manual adopted
Authorization, Classification and Salary Plans
   
31.020   Authorization plan to be established
   
31.021   Allocations of positions
   
31.022   Maintenance of authorization plan
   
31.023   Organization of positions
   
31.024   Amendment of authorization plan
   
31.025   Classification plan to be established
   
31.026   Maintenance of classification plan
   
31.027   Amendment of classification plan
   
31.028   Salary schedule to be established
   
31.029   Maintenance of salary plan
   
31.030   Transition to new salary plan
   
31.031   Entrance at minimum salary
   
31.032   Salary of trainee
   
31.033   Salary of department heads
   
31.034   Earned salary increments
   
31.035   Salary; reclassified and demoted employees
   
31.036   Pay periods; effective date of salary adjustments
   
31.037   Part-time employees
Appointment, Dismissal, Demotion and Suspension
   
31.050   Applicability to subchapter
   
31.051   Statement of policy
   
31.052   Employment opportunities to be publicized; recruiting
   
31.053   Application form; re-application
   
31.054   Contents of application
   
31.055   Testing; qualification standards
   
31.056   Recommendation; determination of classification and starting salary
   
31.057   Appointments; probationary period; benefits
   
31.058   Performance reports; general and for probationary employees
   
31.059   Promotion
   
31.060   General rules of conduct; disciplinary actions
   
31.061   Reduction in force
Conditions of Employment
   
31.075   Applicability of subchapter
   
31.076   Work performed on job basis
   
31.077   Vacation and sick leave
   
31.078   Education bonus
   
31.079   Leave without pay
   
31.080   Clothing allowance
Conflict of Interest and Political Activity
   
31.095   Applicability of subchapter
   
31.096   Outside employment; political activity
   
31.097   Disclosure of confidential information
   
31.098   Gifts and favors
   
31.099   Penalty for violation
Officers, Employees and Departments
   
31.110   Town Manager
   
31.111   Department heads and organizations
   
31.112   Purchasing
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.001 EMPLOYEES SUBJECT TO CHAPTER.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be applicable to all employees except
as provided below:
   (A)   Elected officials, the Town Manager and the Town Attorney shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Employees not covered by the classification plan of this chapter shall
be exempt from subchapters, “Authorization, Classification and Salary Plans”;
“Appointment, Dismissal, Demotion and Suspension”; and “Conditions of
Employment” of this chapter (except §§
31.051 and
31.053 through
31.055).
   (C)   Part-time officials appointed by the Board of Commissioners, and
employees of advisory or special boards and commissioners who work an irregular
schedule, shall be exempt from all provisions of this chapter except §
31.055(B).
(1988 Code, § 16-1)
§ 31.002 GUIDING PRINCIPLE.
   The following rules and regulations shall govern the appointment,
classification, salary, promotion, demotion, dismissal and conditions of
employment of the employees of the town. All appointments and promotions of
town employees subject to the authority exercised by the Town Manager shall be
made on the basis of merit, fitness and demonstrated ability.
(1988 Code, § 16-2)
Statutory reference:
   Personnel rules authorized, see G.S. §§ 160A-162, 160A-164
§ 31.003 PERSONNEL DIRECTOR.
   The Town Manager shall serve as Personnel Director and shall:
   (A)   Establish and maintain a roster of all employees, in which there shall
be set forth as to each employee the class title of the position held, the
salary or pay status and any other necessary data;
   (B)   Assign and direct the work of any and all assistants provided for by
the Board;
   (C)   Advise and consult with the department heads in the development of
training programs;
   (D)   Make annual reports and special reports as he or she deems advisable
regarding personnel administration and recommendations for improvement therein
to the Board; and
   (E)   Perform other duties as may be required by statute and ordinance.
(1988 Code, § 16-3)
§ 31.004 RESPONSIBILITY OF TOWN MANAGER.
   (A)   The Town Manager shall be responsible for the administration of this
chapter which shall apply to all persons employed by the town except those
specifically exempted. The Manager shall prepare and maintain the position
classification plan, pay plan and the evaluation program and perform other
duties in connection with a modern personnel program as the Board of
Commissioners may direct. The Manager shall maintain a complete system of
personnel files and records. Performance reports and disciplinary related
records shall be considered privileged information and shall not be used for
public purposes. The Manager shall periodically publish a synopsis of the
provisions of this chapter in the form of a personnel handbook which shall be
given to each town employee. Specific procedures and interpretations of the
provisions of this chapter may be made by the Manager as required in the
administering of this chapter.
(1988 Code, § 16-4)
   (B)   (1)   The Town Manager is hereby authorized, pursuant to G.S. § 160A-
226(c), to dispose of any surplus property owned by the Town of Fairmont,
whenever he or she determines, in his or her discretion, that:
         (a)   The item or group of items has a fair market value of less that
$500;
         (b)   The property is no longer necessary for the conduct of public
business; and
         (c)   Sound property management principles and financial
considerations indicate that the interests of the town would be best served by
disposing of the property.
      (2)   The Town Manager may dispose of any surplus personal property by
any means which he or she judges reasonably calculated to yield the highest
attainable sale price in money or other consideration, including but not
limited to the methods of sale provided in G.S. § 160A-12. The sale may be
public or private, and with or without notice and minimum waiting period.
      (3)   The surplus property shall be sold to the party who tenders the
highest offer, or exchanged for any property or services useful to the town if
greater value may be obtained in that manner, and the Town Manager is hereby
authorized to execute and deliver any applicable title documents. If no offers
are received within a reasonable time, the Town Manager may retain the
property, obtain any reasonably available salvage value or cause it to be
disposed of as waste material. No surplus property may be donated to any
individual or organization except by resolution of the Board of Commissioners.
      (4)   The Town Manager shall, on or before June 15, report in writing to
the Board of Commissioners on any property disposed under these provisions for
each fiscal year. The written report shall generally describe the property sold
or exchanged, to whom it was sold or with whom exchanged, and the amount of
money or other consideration received for each sale or exchange since the last
report was submitted.
(Ord. passed 7-11-2000)
§ 31.005 EMPLOYEE MANUAL ADOPTED.
   The current personnel policy of the town is meant only to serve as a guide
for the administration of personnel matters, has not been adopted as an
ordinance, and is not a part of this code.
AUTHORIZATION, CLASSIFICATION AND SALARY PLANS
§ 31.020 AUTHORIZATION PLAN TO BE ESTABLISHED.
   The Board shall establish an official position authorization plan by
departments for the town. This authorization plan shall include all permanently
authorized personnel positions except those exempted in §
31.001 and shall be kept on file in the town Personnel Department.
(1988 Code, § 16-21)
§ 31.021 ALLOCATIONS OF POSITIONS.
   The Manager shall allocate each authorization included in the position
authorization plan to its appropriate class in the position classification
plan.
(1988 Code, § 16-22)
§ 31.022 MAINTENANCE OF AUTHORIZATION PLAN.
   The Manager shall be responsible for the administration and maintenance of
the position authorization plan. Department heads shall be responsible for
bringing to the attention of the Manager and for justifying the need for new
positions. The Manager shall study the request and he or she may request the
Board to authorize a new position. Subsequent to Board authorizations, the
Manager shall either allocate the position to the appropriate class within the
existing position classification plan or recommend that the Board amend the
position classification plan to establish a new class to which the new position
may be allocated.
(1988 Code, § 16-23)
§ 31.023 ORGANIZATION OF POSITIONS.
   The positions included in the approved position authorization plan shall be
organized in a way as to provide the most efficient and effective delivery of
services to the town’s citizens.
(1988 Code, § 16-24)
§ 31.024 AMENDMENT OF AUTHORIZATION PLAN.
   The total number of departmental positions shall be added to and deleted
from the position authorization plan upon recommendation of the Manager with
approval of the Board.
(1988 Code, § 16-25)
§ 31.025 CLASSIFICATION PLAN TO BE ESTABLISHED.
   The Board shall establish an official position classification plan covering
all positions included in the position authorization plan. The position
classification plan shall be kept on file in the Town Personnel Department.
(1988 Code, § 16-26)
§ 31.026 MAINTENANCE OF CLASSIFICATION PLAN.
   (A)   The Manager shall be responsible for the administration and
maintenance of the position classification plan. Department heads shall be
responsible for bringing to the attention of the Manager material changes in
the nature of duties, responsibilities, working conditions and other factors
affecting the classification of any existing or proposed position.
   (B)   When the Manager finds that a substantial change has occurred in the
nature or level of duties and responsibilities of an existing position, then he
or she shall:
      (1)   Direct that the existing class specification be revised;
      (2)   Reallocate the position to the appropriate class within the
existing classification plan; or
      (3)   Recommend that the Board amend the position classification plan to
establish a new class to which the position may be allocated.
(1988 Code, § 16-27)
§ 31.027 AMENDMENT OF CLASSIFICATION PLAN.
   Classes of positions shall be added to and deleted from the position
classification plan upon the recommendation of the Manager with the approval of
the Board.
(1988 Code, § 16-28)
§ 31.028 SALARY SCHEDULE TO BE ESTABLISHED.
   The Board shall establish an official salary schedule which in conjunction
with the position classification plan shall be the basis of the salary plan for
the town. The salary plan shall cover all permanent classes of positions
included in the official classification and authorization plans. A job
description or class specification for each position shall be prepared and it,
along with the salary schedule, shall be kept on file in the Town Personnel
Department.
(1988 Code, § 16-29)
§ 31.029 MAINTENANCE OF SALARY PLAN.
   Each year prior to the preparation of the annual budget, the Manager shall
determine the general level of salaries paid and fringe benefits provided
comparable county, municipal and state employees, and any change in the cost of
living in the area during the fiscal year. The Manager shall conduct continuing
studies of the internal relationships between classes in order to reduce or
eliminate inequities between classes of positions within the town. Based on the
studies and recommendations and the general financial condition of the town,
the Manager shall recommend to the Board increases, reductions or amendments of
the salary plan as he or she deems necessary to maintain the fairness and
adequacy of the plan.
(1988 Code, § 16-30)
§ 31.030 TRANSITION TO NEW SALARY PLAN.
   The following principles shall govern the transition to a new salary plan:
   (A)   No employee shall receive a salary reduction as a result of the
transition to a new salary plan.
   (B)   All employees being paid at a rate lower than the minimum rate
established for their respective classes shall have their salaries raised to
the new minimum for their classes.
   (C)   All employees being paid at a rate above the maximum rate established
for their respective classes shall remain at their present rate.
§ 31.031 ENTRANCE AT MINIMUM SALARY.
   Each new employee shall be appointed at a minimum salary which has been
established for the classification in which he or she is employed except:
   (A)   If the new employee does not meet the minimum requirements of the
position and qualified applicants for the position are not available, the
Manager may designate the employee as a trainee to be appointed at a salary
below the minimum;
   (B)   When the Manager shall determine that there has been a demonstrated
inability to recruit at a minimum salary or that an applicant possesses
exceptional qualifications, he or she may authorize the employment of an
applicant at a step in the salary range higher than the normal entry level.
(1988 Code, § 16-32)
§ 31.032 SALARY OF TRAINEE.
   An applicant hired or employee promoted to a position in a higher class who
does not meet all the established requirements of the position may be appointed
at a training salary as much as 2 steps below the minimum salary. An employee
in a trainee status shall continue to receive a reduced salary until the
department head or the Manager shall determine that the trainee is qualified to
assume the full responsibilities of the position.
(1988 Code, § 16-35)
§ 31.033 SALARY OF DEPARTMENT HEADS.
   Those employees classified as department heads shall be paid the weekly,
biweekly or monthly salary specified by the salary plan regardless of the
number of hours worked in excess of 40 hours per week. The Chief of the Police
Department shall have a regular workweek of 40 hours per week and shall be
compensated at the hourly rate specified by the salary plan for each of those
regular hours. It is recognized that all department heads will work many hours
in excess of their respective regular workweek in accomplishing the many varied
tasks assigned them; therefore, department heads may, with approval of the
Manager, take compensatory time off from time to time being restricted only by
the requirement to accomplish their assigned work in a timely and acceptable
manner.
(1988 Code, § 16-34)
§ 31.034 EARNED SALARY INCREMENTS.
   (A)   The pay ranges are intended to permit administrative flexibility in
recognizing individual differences between positions allocated to the same
class and to promote employee incentive by rewarding employees for good and
meritorious service. Each department head shall recommend, with justification,
those employees who are performing in a superior manner and who should warrant
consideration for step increases. However, no more than 50% of the employees
within a department may be recommended for salary increments at the beginning
of the fiscal year. Recommendations will be made by the department head in
written form. Ordinarily, salary increments will be limited to 1 established
pay range step. An employee whose sustained performance is outstanding may be
granted an earned salary increment twice during a fiscal year if:
      (1)   The department head recommends the increments and indicates in
writing the special circumstances warranting the increments;
      (2)   The Manager approves; and
      (3)   The department’s budget can absorb the increased expense.
   (B)   Any increases shall be in addition to cost of living increases as
determined appropriate by the governing board which generally shall be on a
fixed percentage basis for all permanent employees of the town.
(1988 Code, § 16-35)
§ 31.035 SALARY; RECLASSIFIED AND DEMOTED EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The salary of an employee reclassified from 1 class to another having
a higher overlapping pay range shall be adjusted to the minimum of the new
range or to 1 step above his or her old salary, whichever is higher. The
reclassification of a position to a class having a lower pay range shall not
result in a reduction of the salary of the reclassified employee.
(1988 Code, § 16-36)
   (B)   An employee demoted to a position in a different class with a lower
minimum salary may be reduced in pay 1 step or to the maximum of the pay range,
whichever is lower, for the class to which he or she is demoted. Successive
demotions may be imposed should action be deemed appropriate and prudent.
(1988 Code, § 16-37)
§ 31.036 PAY PERIODS; EFFECTIVE DATE OF SALARY ADJUSTMENTS.
   (A)   The Manager shall designate those employees to be paid monthly,
semimonthly and weekly. If pay day falls on a Saturday, Sunday or a holiday,
the employees shall be paid on the last working day prior thereto.
(1988 Code, § 16-38)
   (B)   Salary adjustments approved during any month shall become effective at
the beginning of the next pay period or at a later date as may be provided. No
retroactive adjustments will be awarded.
(1988 Code, § 16-39)
§ 31.037 PART-TIME EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Salary. The pay plan established by this chapter is for full-time
service. The compensation of any employee appointed for less than full-time
service shall be proportionally adjusted and established on an hourly basis.
   (B)   Employment. Temporary employees shall be hired by the Manager and
shall receive compensation for their service as provided above. Payment for
service shall be made upon the presentation of proper documentation by the
supervising department head.
(1988 Code, § 16-40)
APPOINTMENT, DISMISSAL, DEMOTION AND SUSPENSION
§ 31.050 APPLICABILITY TO SUBCHAPTER.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall be applicable to all employees
except those exempted in §
31.001.
(1988 Code, § 16-61)
§ 31.051 STATEMENT OF POLICY.
   It shall be the policy of the municipal government to foster, maintain and
promote equal employment opportunities. The town will select employees on the
basis of individual ability and qualifications for a given position. Equal
treatment shall be accorded each employee concerning compensation, promotion,
advancement and training without regard for sex, race, age, color, religion or
place of national origin.
(1988 Code, § 16-62)
§ 31.052 EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES TO BE PUBLICIZED; RECRUITING.
   (A)   The Manager shall publicize opportunities for employment with the town
including the salary ranges and employment qualifications for positions to be
filled.
(1988 Code, § 16-63)
   (B)   Each department head shall be responsible for assisting the Manager in
recruiting employees as are authorized for his or her department by the
authorization and classification plans and by the budget.
(1988 Code, § 16-64)
§ 31.053 APPLICATION FORM; RE-APPLICATION.
   Each application for a town position shall be made in writing on a form
provided by the Administration Department. Applications which are more than 3
years old may be removed from the files and destroyed. Re-application for
employment may be made at any time.
(1988 Code, § 16-65)
§ 31.054 CONTENTS OF APPLICATION.
   Each employment application shall denote the following: the data received;
the interviewer if an interview was conducted; any job recommendation on the
basis of qualifications and desire; and whether a test is to be given or has
been given.
(1988 Code, § 16-66)
§ 31.055 TESTING; QUALIFICATION STANDARDS.
   (A)   The town reserves the right to conduct testing of applicants for any
position regardless of whether the applicants will start at the entry or the
promotion levels. Any tests will measure the skills required for performance of
the job. Test results shall remain a matter of privileged information.
(1988 Code, § 16-67)
   (B)   Employees shall meet the employment standards established by the
position classification plan and other reasonable minimum standards as to
character, aptitudes, ability to meet the public and physical conditions as may
be established by department heads, the Manager or the Board. Applicants may be
required to submit to appropriate competitive written examinations prior to
employment. No town employee shall be required to belong to a particular
political party or be of a particular sex, race or religion as a condition of
employment.
(1988 Code, § 16-68)
§ 31.056 RECOMMENDATION; DETERMINATION OF CLASSIFICATION AND STARTING SALARY.
   Before any commitment is made to an applicant for employment, the department
head shall forward the applicant’s complete application form to the Manager
with a recommendation as to the position to be filled and the salary to be
paid. After investigating the duties and responsibilities of the position and
the qualifications and experience of the applicant, the Manager shall determine
the classification and the starting salary to be paid if the applicant is
selected for employment.
(1988 Code, § 16-69)
§ 31.057 APPOINTMENTS; PROBATIONARY PERIOD; BENEFITS.
   (A)   Appointments to any employment position shall be made by the Manager.
(1988 Code, § 16-70)
   (B)   (1)   Before completion of the probationary period by an employee, the
department head shall indicate in writing to the Manager that he or she has
discussed the new employee’s progress, accomplishments, strengths, failures and
weaknesses with the employee and make 1 of the following recommendations:
         (a)   The new employee is performing satisfactory work for which the
employee should be retained and be given a merit increase;
         (b)   The probationary period should be extended for up to 3
additional months; or
         (c)   The employee should be discharged.
      (2)   If retained, the employee shall be designated a permanent employee.
An employee may be dismissed during the probationary period at any time if the
department head believes that the employee is not capable of accomplishing his
or her assigned duties. A performance report will be submitted on an employee
progressing from probationary to permanent status.
(1988 Code, § 16-71)
   (C)   Employees serving a probationary period following initial employment
in a permanent position shall receive all benefits provided in accordance with
this chapter.
(1988 Code, § 16-72)
§ 31.058 PERFORMANCE REPORTS; GENERAL AND FOR PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The immediate supervisor will render an annual performance report on
each town employee under his or her jurisdiction. Reports shall be submitted to
the Manager by December 15 of each year. The supervisor of the reporting
officer will endorse each report submitted by the reporting officer. In the
case of reports submitted by the Manager, the Mayor will endorse the reports.
All reports will be retained in the employee’s personnel file.
(1988 Code, § 16-73)
   (B)   Performance reports for probationary employees shall conform to
division (A) above except that a report shall be completed every 3 months
during the probation period and immediately prior to a recommendation for
promotion to permanent status.
(1988 Code, § 16-74)
§ 31.059 PROMOTION.
   Department heads and supervisors of town employees shall anticipate
personnel turnover and shall make appropriate plans for replacement. Present
employees should be trained for greater responsibility and, if qualified,
should be considered for in-house promotion to fill vacancies.
(1988 Code, § 16-75)
§ 31.060 GENERAL RULES OF CONDUCT; DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS.
   (A)   The Manager shall prepare general rules of conduct for town employees
and appropriate disciplinary actions to be followed if the rules are violated.
However, neither the rules of conduct nor the appropriate disciplinary actions
shall be limiting or considered all inclusive, nor shall they bestow a legal
property right of employment to the employee, but shall only serve as examples
for administering the provisions of this chapter. Publication in the employee
handbook and/or posting on departmental bulletin boards shall constitute
employee notification of rules and rule changes.
   (B)   An employee may be demoted if he or she should demonstrate incapacity
or incapability in his or her current assignment. Department heads shall
provide written justification for any recommended demotion to the Manager who
has the only authority to demote a permanent employee.
(1988 Code, § 16-76)
§ 31.061 REDUCTION IN FORCE.
   If a reduction in force becomes necessary, consideration will be given to
the quality of each town employee’s past performance and the needs of the town
in determining those employees to be released.
(1988 Code, § 16-77)
CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT
§ 31.075 APPLICABILITY OF SUBCHAPTER.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall be applicable to all town employees
except those specifically exempted such as officials, special category
employees, temporary employees and those on a professional service basis. The
benefits provided by this subchapter shall be for full-time service. The
benefits for any employees appointed for less than full-time service in a
position included in the authorization and classification plans shall be
reduced by that fraction which the employee works less than full time.
(1988 Code, § 16-101)
§ 31.076 WORK PERFORMED ON JOB BASIS.
   There are jobs listed in the classification plan which are performed on a
job or quota basis and not strictly upon the number of hours that the worker
utilizes in doing the work. Pay for the work accomplished in these
classifications is for the accomplishment of the tasks assigned rather than the
hours worked. The pay received however is based upon an hourly rate which is
calculated on a 40-hour workweek. As an example, a worker who is performing on
a job basis works 35 hours and receives $100.00 for his or her labor; he or she
is paid at the rate of $2.50 an hour and the total remuneration is considered
to be for 40 hours’ work. Management reserves the right to require any employee
to perform, on the job, for 40 hours during the workweek, regardless of the
time which is required to accomplish the regularly assigned task.
(1988 Code, § 16-102)
§ 31.077 VACATION AND SICK LEAVE.
   (A)   Vacation leave records will be maintained in the personnel office.
Saturdays, Sundays and holidays will not be considered days of leave within the
vacation period except when Saturday and/or Sunday would be a regular workday
for the employee if he or she were not on vacation leave.
(1988 Code, § 16-105)
   (B)   (1)   Physician’s certificate. The department head may require a
physician’s certificate as to the nature of the illness and as to the
employee’s physical capacity to resume his or her duties for each occasion on
which an employee is granted sick leave. The employee may be required to
undergo a medical examination if action is deemed necessary to protect the
health of other employees. The department head shall be responsible for the
enforcement of this section to the end that employees shall not be on duty when
their presence may endanger their health or the well being of other employees,
and abuses of sick leave privileges will not be condoned or tolerated.
      (2)   Workers’ compensation leave. The foregoing provisions as to sick
leave shall not apply to employees injured by an accident arising out of and in
the course of employment, except in cases of injury causing disability of 7
days or less for which no compensation is payable under the North Carolina
Workers’ Compensation Act. Any compensation which shall be made by the insurer
shall be deducted from the normal wage or salary which the town shall pay.
      (3)   Extension and accumulation. Sick leave benefits may be extended by
action of the Manager. When sick leave credits have been exhausted including
any extensions, the employee may elect to use his or her vacation leave for
convalescence purposes. Accumulation of unused sick leave shall be unlimited.
(1988 Code, § 16-106)
§ 31.078 EDUCATION BONUS.
   (A)   Any employee who earns an associate, baccalaureate, masters or
doctorate degree from an accredited and generally recognized school, college or
university shall receive, in addition to his or her regular salary, a 5%
education bonus for each degree earned, if the earned degree is a greater
degree than the minimum educational requirement for the employee’s position as
specified in the class specifications.
   (B)   This bonus is not applicable to high school diplomas, whether or not
required by a particular class specification.
(1988 Code, § 16-105)
§ 31.079 LEAVE WITHOUT PAY.
   A town employee may be granted a leave of absence without pay for a period
not to exceed 1 year by the Manager upon the recommendation of the supervising
department head for reasons of personal or family considerations, special work
or related reasons. During leave, the individual may not engage in any
employment which is not specifically authorized by the town.
(1988 Code, § 16-106)
§ 31.080 CLOTHING ALLOWANCE.
   Employees required by the Manager, with the approval of the Board, to wear
uniforms while on duty, shall be furnished uniforms by the town.
(1988 Code, § 16-107)
CONFLICT OF INTEREST AND POLITICAL ACTIVITY  
§ 31.095 APPLICABILITY OF SUBCHAPTER.
   All provisions of this subchapter shall be applicable to all town permanent,
temporary and part-time employees and certain provisions shall be applicable to
elected officials. Section 31.096 shall not be applicable to part-time
officials and special employees or appointees of the Town Board.
(1988 Code, § 16-151)
§ 31.096 OUTSIDE EMPLOYMENT; POLITICAL ACTIVITY.
   (A)   The work of the town shall have precedence over the other occupational
interests of employees. All outside employment for salary, wages or commissions
and all self-employment must be approved by the Manager.
(1988 Code, § 16-152)
   (B)   All employees of the town have a civil responsibility to support good
government by every available means and in every appropriate manner. Each
employee may join or affiliate himself or herself with civic organizations of a
partisan or political nature, attend political meetings, advocate and support
the principles and policies of civic, social, fraternal and political
organizations in accordance with the constitution and the laws of the state and
the constitution and laws of the United States of America. However, an employee
of the town shall not:
      (1)   Engage in any political activity while on duty;
      (2)   Be required as a duty of his or her office or as a requisite of
tenureship of office to contribute to, solicit for or act as custodian of funds
for political or partisan purposes; or
      (3)   Be coerced into contributions by any town employee or other persons
for funds or favors for a political or partisan nature.
(1988 Code, § 16-153)
§ 31.097 DISCLOSURE OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   No official or employee, without the approval of the Manager or by court
order, shall disclose confidential information covering the property,
government or affairs of the town.
(1988 Code, § 16-154)
§ 31.098 GIFTS AND FAVORS.
   No official or employee shall accept any gift, service, loan, thing, money
or promise, from any person which to his or her knowledge is interested
directly or indirectly in any manner whatsoever in business dealings within the
town jurisdiction; nor shall an official or employee accept a gift, favor or
thing of value that may tend to influence him or her in the discharge of his or
her duties, or grant in the discharge of his or her duties any improper favor,
service or thing of value.
(1988 Code, § 16-155)
§ 31.099 PENALTY FOR VIOLATION.
   Any violation of this subchapter shall be deemed improper conduct and shall
subject the official or employee to disciplinary action by the Manager or other
appropriate authority.
(1988 Code, § 16-156)
OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES AND DEPARTMENTS
§ 31.110 TOWN MANAGER.
   The Town Manager shall:
   (A)   Be authorized to inspect at any reasonable time all books and records
pertaining to town affairs and kept by any officer or employee of the town;
   (B)   Settle any dispute as to the respective duties or powers of any
appointed officers of the town; and
   (C)   Have the power to delegate to any appointed officer any duty which is
to be performed when no specific officer has been directed to perform that
duty.
(1988 Code, § 2-76)
§ 31.111 DEPARTMENT HEADS AND ORGANIZATIONS.
   The departmental operating organization of the town shall be divided into
the following departments and heads thereof:
   (A)   Department of Finance: Director of Finance;
   (B)   Department of Public Safety (referred to elsewhere as the “Police
Department” or “Fire Department”): Director of Public Safety (referred to
elsewhere herein as the “Chief of Police” or “Fire Chief”);
   (C)   Tax Department: Tax Collector;
   (D)   Department of Public Works: Director of Public Works; and
   (E)   Department of Planning, Zoning and Code Enforcement: Director of
Planning, Zoning and Code Enforcement.
(1988 Code, § 2-101)
§ 31.112 PURCHASING.
   The Town Manager shall serve as purchasing agent and shall:
   (A)   Make all purchases of material, equipment and supplies authorized by
the Board at the most favorable price for the town and shall see that the
material, equipment and supplies delivered are correct in number or amount and
comply with the standards and specifications agreed to at the time of purchase;
   (B)   Establish sets of standards and specifications to control purchases by
the town;
   (C)   Prepare and publish specifications and notices to bidders;
   (D)   Advise the Board as to anticipated needs for purchases and make
purchases in advance of needs as authorized by the Board;
   (E)   Store material, equipment and supplies in advance of actual need;
   (F)   Keep records of all purchases made by him or her and of the
destination or ultimate use of material, equipment and supplies; and
   (G)   Cause an inventory to be kept of all municipal property in his or her
custody and of all municipal property in the custody of the other officers and
employees of the town.
(1988 Code, § 2-102)
Statutory references:
   Local government finance, see G.S. Ch. 159
   Special assessments, see G.S. §§ 160A-216 et seq.
   Taxation, see G.S.§§ 160A-206 et seq.
CHAPTER 32:
ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Planning Board
   
32.01   Established; members
   
32.02   Organization and elections
   
32.03   Meetings and records
   
32.04   General powers and responsibilities
   
32.05   Supplemental powers and responsibilities
   
32.06   Appropriations
   
32.07   Advisory council and special committees
PLANNING BOARD
§ 32.01 ESTABLISHED; MEMBERS.
   (A)   There is established a Planning Board.
(1988 Code, § 17-26)
   (B)   (1)   (a)   The Planning Board shall consist of 9 members appointed by
the Board of Commissioners for terms of 3 years, with eligibility for
reappointment.
         (b)   Extraterritorial representation shall consist of 3 residents
from the 1-mile limit, appointed as directed by G.S. § 160A-362.
         (c)   One month prior to the expiration of appointed terms, notice
shall be given to the Town Clerk by the Secretary of the Planning Board.
         (d)   Vacancies occurring for reasons other than expiration of terms
shall be filled as they occur for the period of the unexpired term, with
immediate notice of vacancies given to the Town Clerk by the Secretary of the
Planning Board.
         (e)   The members of the Planning Board shall serve without
compensation.
      (2)   The members of the Planning Board may, after a public hearing, be
removed by the Board of Commissioners for inefficiency, neglect of duty or
malfeasance in office.
      (3)   If any member shall have a personal interest of any kind in a
matter then before the Planning Board, that member should disclose his or her
interest and be disqualified from voting upon the matter, and the Secretary
shall so record in the minutes that no vote was cast by that member.
(1988 Code, § 17-27)
§ 32.02 ORGANIZATION AND ELECTIONS.
   The Planning Board shall elect a chairperson and create and fill the offices
as it may determine. The term of the chairperson and other officers shall be 1
year, with eligibility for re-election. Nomination of officers shall be made
from the floor and the elections shall follow immediately thereafter. A
candidate receiving a majority vote of the entire membership of the Planning
Board shall be declared elected. Should any vacancy occur among the officers of
the Planning Board, the vacant office shall be filled in accordance with this
section and, the officer shall serve the unexpired term of the office in which
the vacancy occurred.
(1988 Code, § 17-28)
§ 32.03 MEETINGS AND RECORDS.
   (A)   The Planning Board shall hold at least 1 meeting monthly unless
cancelled or rescheduled by the Planning Board at a prior meeting. The
chairperson of the Planning Board shall have the authority to call a special
meeting when requested to do so in writing by a majority of the members of the
Planning Board, or at his or her discretion. At any meeting of the Planning
Board, a quorum shall consist of 5 members of the Planning Board. No official
action shall be taken in the absence of a quorum. All meetings of which
official action is taken shall be open to the general public.
(1988 Code, § 17-29)
   (B)   The Planning Board shall adopt bylaws for transaction of its business
and shall keep a record of its members’ attendance and of its resolutions,
discussions, findings and recommendations, which record shall be a public
record.
(1988 Code, § 17-30)
§ 32.04 GENERAL POWERS AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the Planning Board in general to:
      (1)   Determine objectives to be sought in the development of the area
studied;
      (2)   Prepare and adopt plans for achieving these objectives;
      (3)   Develop and recommend policies, ordinances, administrative
procedures and other means for carrying out plans in a coordinated and
efficient manner;
      (4)   Make studies of the town and surrounding areas;
      (5)   Advise the Board of Commissioners concerning the use and amendment
of means for carrying out plans;
      (6)   Exercise any functions in the administration and enforcement of
various means for carrying out plans that the Town Board may direct; and
      (7)   Perform any other related duties that the Town Board may direct.
   (B)   All town officials shall, upon request, furnish to the Planning Board
available records of information as it may require in the performance of its
official responsibilities. The Planning Board or its agents may, in the
performance of its official responsibilities, enter upon lands and make
examinations or surveys and maintain necessary monuments thereon.
(1988 Code, § 17-31)
§ 32.05 SUPPLEMENTAL POWERS AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Hearings. In addition to public hearings required by law, the Planning
Board may at its discretion hold public hearings when it decides that the
hearings will be in the public interest.
   (B)   Publicity and education. The Planning Board shall have power to
promote public interest in and an understanding of its recommendations, and to
that end it may publish and distribute copies of its recommendations and may
employ other means of publicity and education as it may determine.
   (C)   Attendance at conferences. Members or employees of the Planning Board,
when duly authorized by the Planning Board, may attend planning conferences or
meetings of planning institutes or hearings upon pending planning legislation,
and the Planning Board may by formal and affirmative vote pay, within the
Planning Board’s budget, the reasonable traveling expenses incidental to
attendance.
   (D)   Annual report. The Planning Board shall, in May of each year, submit
in writing to the Board of Commissioners a written report of its activities, an
analysis of the expenditures to date for the current fiscal year, and for
review and approval its requested budget of funds needed for operation during
the ensuing fiscal year.
(1988 Code, § 17-32)
§ 32.06 APPROPRIATIONS.
   The Board of Commissioners may appropriate to the Planning Board an amount
as it may deem necessary to carry out the purpose of its creation and for the
improvement of the town.
(1988 Code, § 17-33)
§ 32.07 ADVISORY COUNCIL AND SPECIAL COMMITTEES.
   (A)   The Planning Board may seek the establishment of an unofficial
advisory council and may cooperate with this council to the end that its
investigations and plans may receive fullest consideration, but the Planning
Board may not delegate to the advisory council any of its official
prerogatives.
   (B)   The Planning Board is authorized to appoint committees and employees
and to authorize expenditures as it may see fit, subject to limitations of
funds provided for the Planning Board by the Board of Commissioners in the
town’s annual budget.
(1988 Code, § 17-34)
CHAPTER 33:
POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
Generally
   
33.01   Officers to enforce trespassing regulations
   
33.02   Policies and procedures manual
   
33.03   Organization; Manager control
   
33.04   Appointment, duties of Chief of Police
   
33.05   Department policies; assignment of duties
   
33.06   Uniforms
Auxiliary Police Division
   
33.20   Established
   
33.21   Chief of Police to control; appointments and removals
   
33.22   Duties
   
33.23   Law enforcement powers
   
33.24   Identification
   
33.25   Carrying and custody of firearms
   
33.26   Workers compensation insurance
GENERALLY
§ 33.01 OFFICERS TO ENFORCE TRESPASSING REGULATIONS.
   The present and future members of the Police Department, including auxiliary
police officers, are hereby authorized to act as agents for property owners and
tenants to enforce regulations against trespassing on private property located
within the corporate limits of the town upon specific request by property
owners or tenants, in accordance with the terms of the agency agreement
attached to the ordinance from which this section is derived. A copy of the
agency agreement is on file in the office of the Town Clerk.
(1988 Code, § 18-1)
§ 33.02 POLICIES AND PROCEDURES MANUAL.
   The police manual entitled “Policies and Procedures Manual, Town of Fairmont
Police Department” is adopted. In the event of a conflict between the manual
and this subchapter, this subchapter controls.
(1988 Code, § 18-25)
Statutory reference:
   Law enforcement, see G.S.§§ 160A-281 et seq.
§ 33.03 ORGANIZATION; MANAGER CONTROL.
   (A)   The Police Department of the town shall consist of the Chief of Police
and as many other police officers as the Board shall from time to time provide.
(1988 Code, § 18-26)
   (B)   The Manager shall have the general control of the Police Department,
and may at any time, for cause, suspend from duty any member of the police
force.
(1988 Code, § 18-27)
Statutory reference:
   Qualifications of police, see G.S. § 17C-10
§ 33.04 APPOINTMENT, DUTIES OF CHIEF OF POLICE.
   The Chief of Police shall be appointed and serve at the discretion of the
Manager. The Chief shall have control over the Police Department under the
supervision of the Manager. The Chief shall keep the Manager informed of the
Department’s activities and make reports that the Manager may from time to time
require, and he or she shall perform other duties as may be required of him or
her by the Manager.
(1988 Code, § 18-28)
§ 33.05 DEPARTMENT POLICIES; ASSIGNMENT OF DUTIES.
   (A)   For all matters pertaining to the government of the Police Department
not provided for by law or by this code, the Chief of Police shall recommend to
the Manager, for the approval of the Board, Police Department policies. The
Chief of Police shall promulgate and enforce policies within the Police
Department.
(1988 Code, § 18-29)
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall assign the duties of police officers and
shall see that they faithfully perform their duties.
(1988 Code, § 18-30)
§ 33.06 UNIFORMS.
   All police officers shall wear uniforms as shall be required by the town and
shall keep uniforms in a neat and clean condition and shall surrender all
uniforms and equipment upon leaving the police service of the town if uniforms
and equipment were furnished by the town.
(1988 Code, § 18-31)
AUXILIARY POLICE DIVISION
§ 33.20 ESTABLISHED.
   There may be established an Auxiliary Police Department to be known as the
Auxiliary Police Division of the Police Department. The Auxiliary Police
Division shall be a volunteer organization, composed of as many members as may
from time to time be determined by the Board.
(1988 Code, § 18-51)
§ 33.21 CHIEF OF POLICE TO CONTROL; APPOINTMENTS AND REMOVALS.
   (A)   The Auxiliary Police Division shall be under the direct control of the
Chief of Police, acting under the general supervision of the Manager. All
appointments and removals of members of the Auxiliary Police Division shall be
made in the same manner and under the same policies and procedures as may from
time to time be established for appointment and removal of regular police
officers.
   (B)   The Auxiliary Police Division shall have no commanding officer, nor
any other officers. All members shall bear the rank of patrol officer. Each
member of the Auxiliary Police Division shall take the oath of office of a
regular police officer. The Chief of Police shall provide for adequate training
of members of the Auxiliary Police Division and of candidates for membership.
(1988 Code, § 18-52)
Statutory reference:
   Auxiliary Police Division, see G.S. § 160A-282
§ 33.22 DUTIES.
   (A)   The duties of the Auxiliary Police Division, subject at all times to
the direction, supervision and control of the Chief of Police, shall be to
assist the regular members of the Police Department in the enforcement of law
and the maintenance of peace and order when called to active duty by the Chief
of Police. The Chief shall by order establish rules and regulations to govern
the Auxiliary Police Division, to fix the specific duties of its members and to
provide for the maintenance of discipline. Members of the Auxiliary Police
Division shall obey the instructions of regular police officers in carrying out
their duties.
   (B)   The Chief may prescribe other duties than those mentioned in this
section to be performed by the Auxiliary Police Division, with approval of the
Manager.
(1988 Code, § 18-53)
§ 33.23 LAW ENFORCEMENT POWERS.
   No member of the Auxiliary Police Division shall enforce, nor attempt to
enforce any law except when called to active duty, and except when accompanied
by 1 or more regular police officers.
(1988 Code, § 18-54)
§ 33.24 IDENTIFICATION.
   An identification card and other insignia or evidence of identity as the
Chief may prescribe shall be issued to each member of the Auxiliary Police
Division, who must carry the card and other identification at all times while
on duty, and who must surrender them upon the termination of his or her
membership.
(1988 Code, § 18-55)
§ 33.25 CARRYING AND CUSTODY OF FIREARMS.
   No member of the Auxiliary Police Division shall, while on duty, carry any
firearm except upon the express order of the Chief of Police, and all official
firearms shall be kept in custody of the Police Department except when issued
to a member of the auxiliary division for use on active duty while accompanied
by and under the supervision of 1 or more regular police officers.
(1988 Code, § 18-56)
§ 33.26 WORKERS COMPENSATION INSURANCE.
   While undergoing official training and while performing duties on behalf of
the city, auxiliary law enforcement personnel shall be entitled to benefits
under the North Carolina Worker’s Compensation Act, being G.S. Chapter 97, and
to any fringe benefits for which the volunteer personnel qualify.
CHAPTER 34:
CIVIL EMERGENCIES; PREPAREDNESS
Section
   
34.01   Definitions
   
34.02   Proclamation
   
34.03   Authorization of Mayor to end
   
34.04   Town Manager and declared disaster
§ 34.01 DEFINITIONS.
   A state of emergency shall be deemed to exist whenever, during times of
great public crisis, disaster, rioting, catastrophe or similar public
emergency, municipal public safety authorities are unable for any reason to
maintain public order or afford adequate protection for lives or property.
(1988 Code, § 5-16)
§ 34.02 PROCLAMATION.
   (A)   Authorization of Mayor to issue. In the event of an existing or
threatened state of emergency endangering the lives, safety, health and welfare
of the people within the town, or threatening damage to or destruction of
property, the Mayor is hereby authorized and empowered to issue a public
proclamation declaring to all persons the existence of a state of emergency,
and, in order to more effectively protect the lives and property of people
within the town, to place in effect any or all of the restrictions authorized
in this section.
   (B)   Application of restrictions; persons exempted. The Mayor is hereby
authorized and empowered to limit by the proclamation the application of all or
any part of the restrictions to any area specifically designated or described
within the corporate limits of the town and to specific hours of the day or
night and to exempt from all or any part of the restrictions law enforcement
officers, firefighters and other public employees, doctors, nurses, employees
of hospitals and other medical facilities; on-duty military personnel, whether
state or federal; on-duty employees of public utilities, public transportation
companies and newspaper, magazine, radio broadcasting and television
broadcasting corporations operated for profit; and other classes of persons as
may be essential to the preservation of public order and immediately necessary
to serve the safety, health and welfare needs of the people within the town.
   (C)   Restrictions enumerated. During the existence of a proclaimed state of
emergency, the Mayor may impose by proclamation any or all of the following
restrictions:
      (1)   Prohibit or regulate the possession off one’s own premises of
explosives, firearms, ammunition or dangerous weapons of any kind, and prohibit
the purchase, sale, transfer or other disposition thereof;
      (2)   Prohibit or regulate the buying or selling of beer, wine or
intoxicating beverages of any kind, and their possession or consumption off
one’s own premises;
      (3)   Prohibit or regulate any demonstration, parade, march, vigil or
participation therein from taking place on any of the public ways or upon any
public property;
      (4)   Prohibit or regulate the sale of gasoline, kerosene, naphtha or any
other explosive or inflammable fluids or substances;
      (5)   Prohibit or regulate travel upon any public street, alley or
roadway or upon any other public property, except by those in search of medical
assistance, food or other commodity or service necessary to sustain the well-
being of themselves or their families or some member thereof; and/or
      (6)   Prohibit or regulate the participation in or carrying on of any
business activity, and prohibit or regulate the keeping open of places of
business, places of entertainment and any other places of public assembly.
   (D)   Extension, alteration, repeal. Any proclamation may be extended,
altered or repealed in any particular during the continued or threatened
existence of a state of emergency by the issuance of a subsequent proclamation.
   (E)   Violation of restrictions. During the existence of a proclaimed state
of emergency, it shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision of
any restriction imposed by any proclamation authorized by this chapter.
(1988 Code, § 5-17) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory references:
   Municipal emergency management, see G.S. § 166A-7
   North Carolina Emergency Management Act, see G.S. §§ 166A-1 et seq.
§ 34.03 AUTHORIZATION OF MAYOR TO END.
   The Mayor shall proclaim the end of a state of emergency or all or any part
of the restrictions imposed as soon as circumstances warrant or when directed
to do so by the Board.
(1988 Code, § 5-18)
§ 34.04 TOWN MANAGER AND DECLARED DISASTER.
   (A)   For the purposes of this amendment, DECLARED DISASTER shall mean
declarations provided for in the Stafford Act: An Emergency Declaration or a
Major Disaster Declaration, being U.S.C. §§ 5121 et seq., which authorizes the
President of the United States of America to provide federal disaster
assistance.
   (B)   For the purposes of this amendment, EMERGENCY DECLARATION shall mean,
any occasion or instance when the President determines federal assistance is
needed usually as a supplement to state and local efforts in providing
emergency services.
   (C)   For the purposes of this amendment, MAJOR DISASTER DECLARATION shall
mean any natural catastrophe, including hurricanes, tornadoes, floods,
earthquakes, wildfires, ice storms, snowstorms or explosions that the president
believes has caused damage of severity that it is beyond the combined
capabilities of state and local governments to respond.
   (D)   The Town Manager shall be paid overtime pay at the rate specified by
the salary plan for each hour worked in excess of a regular workweek of 40
hours, when excess is in conjunction with or response to a declared disaster.
(Ord. passed 8-15-2000)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER AND SEWERS
      
51.   WATER AND SEWER EXTENSIONS
      
52.   SOLID WASTE
      
53.   WATER SHORTAGE MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 50:
WATER AND SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Confidential information
   
50.03   Administrative remedies
   
50.04   Civil penalties
   
50.05   Other available remedies
   
50.06   Annual publication of significant noncompliance
   
50.07   Affirmative defenses to discharge violations
Utility Rates, Billings and Collection
   
50.20   Utility rates
   
50.21   Billing
   
50.22   Collection
   
50.23   Meter accuracy and test rates
   
50.24   Liens for sewer service fees
Municipal Water System
   
50.35   General provisions
   
50.36   Water system use requirements
   
50.37   Water connection
Collection and Wastewater System
   
50.50   General provisions
   
50.51   Definitions and abbreviations
   
50.52   General sewer use requirements
   
50.53   Fees
   
50.54   Wastewater discharge permit; application and issuance
   
50.55   Reporting requirements
   
50.56   Compliance monitoring
   
50.57   Confidential information
   
50.58   Enforcement
   
50.59   Annual publication of significant noncompliance
   
50.60   Affirmative defenses to discharge violations
Fats, Oils, Greases, Sand and Gas Control
   
50.70   Scope, purpose and policy
   
50.71   Definitions
   
50.72   Pretreatment of wastewater
   
50.73   Enforcement
   
50.74   Record keeping for all permit holders
Cross Connection Controls
   
50.80   Unregulated cross connections prohibited; backflow prevention program
established
   
50.81   Definitions
   
50.82   Elimination of cross connections
   
50.83   Installation, testing and maintenance of backflow prevention assemblies
   
50.84   Facilities requiring protection
   
50.85   Responsibility of customer
   
50.86   Unapproved source of water supply
   
50.87   Enforcement
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   UTILITY.  The town’s water supply service, sewage disposal service and
sanitation (solid waste collection and disposal) service, or any combination of
those services.
(Ord. passed 3-12-2002)
§ 50.02 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, questionnaires,
permit applications, permits and monitoring programs and from inspections and
sampling activities shall be available to the public or other governmental
agency without restriction unless the user specifically requests and is able to
demonstrate to the satisfaction of the POTW Director that the release of the
information would divulge information, processes or methods of production
entitled to protection as trade secrets of the user. Any request must be
asserted at the time of submission of the information or data.
   (B)   When requested by the person furnishing a report, the portions of a
report which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made
available for inspection by the public, but shall be made available upon
written request to governmental agencies for uses related to this chapter, the
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit, non-discharge
permit and/or the pretreatment programs; provided, however, that portions of a
report shall be available for use by the state or any state agency in judicial
review or enforcement proceedings involving the person furnishing the report.
Wastewater constituents and characteristics and other “effluent data” as
defined by 40 C.F.R. § 2.302 will not be recognized as confidential information
and will be available to the public without restriction.
   (C)   All records relating to compliance with pretreatment standards shall
be made available to officials of the approval authority and EPA upon request.
(Ord. passed 3-12-2002)
§ 50.03 ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDIES. 
   (A)   Notification of violation. Whenever the POTW Director finds that any
industrial user has violated or is violating this chapter, wastewater permit or
any prohibition, limitation or requirements contained therein or any other
pretreatment requirement the POTW Director may serve upon a person a written
notice stating the nature of the violation. Notice shall be by U.S. mail first
class postage prepaid addressed to the user’s permit address. Within 30 days
from the date of this notice, an explanation for the violation and a plan for
the satisfactory correction thereof shall be submitted to the town by the user.
Submission of this plan does not relieve the discharger of liability for any
violations occurring before or after the notice of violation.
   (B)   Consent orders. The POTW Director is hereby empowered to enter into
consent orders, assurances of voluntary compliance or other similar documents
establishing an agreement with the person responsible for the noncompliance.
Orders will include specific action to be taken by the discharger to correct
the noncompliance within a time period also specified by the order. Consent
orders shall have the same force and effect as an administrative order issued
pursuant to division (D) below.
   (C)   Show cause hearing. The POTW Director may order any industrial user
who causes or is responsible for an unauthorized discharge, has violated this
chapter or is in noncompliance with a wastewater discharge permit to show cause
why a proposed enforcement action should not be taken. In the event the POTW
Director determines that a show cause order should be issued, a notice shall be
served on the user specifying the time and place for the hearing, the proposed
enforcement action, the reasons for the action, and a request that the user
show cause why this proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The notice
of the hearing shall be served personally or by registered or certified mail
(return receipt requested) at least 10 days before the hearing. Service may be
made on any agent or officer of a corporation. The POTW Director shall review
the evidence presented at the hearing and determine whether the proposed
enforcement action is appropriate. A show cause hearing under this section is
not a prerequisite to the assessment of a civil penalty under §
50.04 nor is any action or inaction taken by the POTW Director under this
section subject to an administrative appeal under §
50.54(H).
   (D)   Administrative orders. When the POTW Director finds that an industrial
user has violated or continues to violate this chapter, permits or orders
issued hereunder or any other pretreatment requirement the POTW Director may
issue an order to cease and desist all violations and direct those persons in
noncompliance to do any of the following:
      (1)   Immediately comply with all requirements;
      (2)   Comply in accordance with a compliance time schedule set forth in
the order;
      (3)   Take appropriate remedial or preventive action in the event of a
continuing or threatened violation; and/or
      (4)   Disconnect unless adequate treatment facilities, devices or other
related appurtenances are installed and properly operated within a specified
time period.
   (E)   Emergency suspensions. The POTW Director may suspend the wastewater
treatment service and/or wastewater permit when suspension is necessary in
order to stop an actual or threatened discharge which presents or may present
an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons or
the environment, interferes with the POTW or causes the POTW to violate any
condition of its NPDES or non-discharge permit. Any user notified of a
suspension of the wastewater treatment service and/or the wastewater permit
shall immediately stop or eliminate the contribution. A hearing will be held
within 15 days of the notice of suspension to determine whether the suspension
may be lifted or the user’s waste discharge permit terminated. In the event of
a failure to comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the POTW Director
shall take steps as deemed necessary including immediate severance of the sewer
connection to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW system or endangerment to
any individuals. The POTW Director shall reinstate the wastewater permit and
the wastewater treatment service upon proof of the elimination of the
noncompliant discharge. The industrial user shall submit a detailed written
statement describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures
taken to prevent any future occurrence to the POTW Director prior to the date
of the above-described hearing.
   (F)   Termination of permit.
      (1)   Any user who violates the following conditions of this chapter or
applicable state and federal regulations, is subject to having its permit
terminated:
         (a)   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of his or her discharge;
         (b)   Failure to report significant changes in operations, or
wastewater constituents and characteristics;
         (c)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for the
purpose of inspection or monitoring; or
         (d)   Violation of conditions of the permit.
      (2)   Noncompliant industrial users will be notified of the proposed
termination of their wastewater permit and will be offered an opportunity to
show cause under §
50.03 of this chapter why the proposed action should not be taken.
(Ord. passed 3-12-2002)
§ 50.04 CIVIL PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any user who is found to have failed to comply with any provision of
this chapter, or the orders, rules, regulations and permits issued hereunder,
may be fined up to $25,000 per day per violation.
   (B)   In determining the amount of the civil penalty, the POTW Director
shall consider the following:
      (1)   The degree and extent of the harm to the natural resources, to the
public health or to public or private property resulting from the violation;
      (2)   The duration and gravity of the violation;
      (3)   The effect on ground or surface water quantity or quality or on air
quality;
      (4)   The cost of rectifying the damage;
      (5)   The amount of money saved by noncompliance;
      (6)   Whether the violation was committed willfully or intentionally;
      (7)   The prior record of the violator in complying or failing to comply
with the pretreatment program; and
      (8)   The costs of enforcement to the town.
   (C)   Appeals of civil penalties assessed in accordance with this section
shall be as provided in §
50.54.
(Ord. passed 3-12-2002)
§ 50.05 OTHER AVAILABLE REMEDIES.
   (A)   Remedies, in addition to those previously mentioned in this chapter,
are available to the POTW Director who may use any single 1 or combination
against a noncompliant user. Additional available remedies include, but are not
limited to:
      (1)   Criminal violations. The District Attorney for Robeson County may,
at the request of the town, prosecute noncompliant users who violate the
provisions of G.S. § 143-215.6B.
      (2)   Injunctive relief. Whenever a user is in violation of the
provisions of this chapter or an order or permit issued hereunder, the POTW
Director, through the Town Attorney, may petition the Superior Court of Justice
for the issuance of a restraining order or a preliminary and permanent
injunction which restrains or compels the activities in question.
      (3)   Water supply severance. Whenever an industrial user is in violation
of the provisions of this chapter or an order or permit issued hereunder, water
service to the industrial user may be severed and service will only recommence
at the user’s expense, after it has satisfactorily demonstrated ability to
comply.
      (4)   Public nuisances. Any violation of the prohibitions or effluent
limitations of this chapter or of a permit or order issued hereunder, is hereby
declared a public nuisance and shall be corrected or abated as directed by the
POTW Director. Any person(s) creating a public nuisance shall be subject to the
provisions of the town’s regulations governing those nuisances, including
reimbursing the POTW for any costs incurred in removing, abating or remedying
the nuisance.
   (B)   The remedies provided for in this chapter are not exclusive. The POTW
Director may take any, all or any combination of these actions against a
noncompliant user. Enforcement of pretreatment violations will generally be in
accordance with town’s enforcement response plan. However, the POTW Director
may take other action against any user when the circumstances warrant. Further,
the POTW Director is empowered to take more than 1 enforcement action against
any noncompliant user.
(Ord. passed 3-12-2002)
§ 50.06 ANNUAL PUBLICATION OF SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE.
   At least annually, the POTW Director shall publish in the largest daily
newspaper circulated in the service area, a list of those industrial users
which were found to be in significant noncompliance, also referred to as
reportable noncompliance in 15A NCAC 2H.0903(b)(10), with applicable
pretreatment standards and requirements, during the previous 12 months.
(Ord. passed 3-12-2002)
§ 50.07 AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES TO DISCHARGE VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Upset. 
      (1)   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action
brought for noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards if the
requirements of division (A)(2) below are met.
      (2)   A user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset
shall demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs or
other relevant evidence that:
         (a)   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause(s) of the
upset;
         (b)   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workmanlike manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures; and
         (c)   The user has submitted the following information to the POTW
Director within 24 hours of becoming aware of the upset. If this information is
provided orally, a written submission must be provided within 5 days:
            1.   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of
noncompliance;
            2.   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times
or, if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue; and
            3.   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.
      (3)   In any enforcement proceeding, the user seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
      (4)   Users will have the opportunity for a judicial determination on any
claim of upset only in an enforcement action brought for noncompliance with
categorical pretreatment standards.
      (5)   Users shall control production of all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with categorical pretreatment standards upon
reduction, loss or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost or fails.
   (B)   Prohibited discharge standards defense. A user shall have an
affirmative defense to an enforcement action brought against it for
noncompliance with the general prohibitions in §
50.52(H) or the specific prohibitions in §
50.52(H)(2)(b), (c), (e) through (g), (I) through (w) if it can prove that it
did not know or have reason to know, that its discharge, alone or in
conjunction with discharges from other sources, would cause pass through or
interference and that either:
      (1)   A local limit exists for each pollutant discharged and the user was
in compliance with each limit directly prior to, and during, the pass through
or interference; or
      (2)   No local limit exists, but the discharge did not change
substantially in nature or constituents from the user’s prior discharge when
the town was regularly in compliance with its NPDES permit, and in the case of
interference, was in compliance with applicable sludge use or disposal
requirements.
   (C)   Bypass.
      (1)   A user may allow any bypass to occur which does not cause
pretreatment standards or requirements to be violated, but only if it also is
for essential maintenance to assure efficient operation. These bypasses are not
subject to the provision of divisions (C)(2) and (C)(3) of this section.
      (2)   (a)   If a user knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it shall
submit prior notice to the POTW Director, at least 10 days before the date of
the bypass, if possible.
         (b)   A user shall submit oral notice to the POTW Director of an
unanticipated bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment standards within 24
from the time it becomes aware of the bypass. A written submission shall also
be provided within 5 days of this time the user becomes aware of the bypass.
The written submission shall contain a description of the bypass and its cause;
the duration of the bypass, including exact dates and times, and, if the bypass
has not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to continue; and
steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate and prevent reoccurrence of the
bypass. The POTW Director may waive the written report on a case-by-case basis
if the oral report has been received within 24 hours.
      (3)   Bypass is prohibited, and the POTW Director may take an enforcement
action against a user for a bypass, unless:
         (a)   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury
or severe property damage;
         (b)   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the
use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate back-up equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
         (c)   The user submitted notices as required under division (C)(2) of
this section.
      (4)   The POTW Director may approve an anticipated bypass, after
considering its adverse effects, if the POTW Director determines that it will
meet the 3 conditions listed in division (C)(3) of this section.
(Ord. passed 3-12-2002)
UTILITY RATES, BILLINGS AND COLLECTION
§ 50.20 UTILITY RATES.
   (A)   Water rates, deposits, connection and reconnection charges shall be
determined from time to time by the Board and shall be kept on file in the
office of the Clerk.
   (B)   A sewer charge of a percentage of the monthly water consumption, fixed
by the Board, shall be made to cover the cost of maintaining the POTW.
   (C)   Any person who can show proof that the monthly water meter reading is
not indicative of the quantity of waste being discharged to the town sewer
system may present this proof to the Board at a regularly scheduled meeting.
If, after examination of the evidence, the Board is satisfied as to its
validity, suitable adjustment may be made in computing the sewer charge and/or
surcharge. The burden of proof shall rest on the person receiving the bill.
   (D)   As to those applicants for utility services who have had delinquent
accounts in the past, the deposit amount shall be twice the amount that would
otherwise be required.
(Ord. passed 3-12-2002; Am. Ord. 18-179, passed 2-20-2018)
§ 50.21 BILLING.
   (A)   Person responsible for payment.
      (1)   Utility charges, rents, fees, rates and penalties connected
therewith shall be the legal obligation of the property owner only when:
         (a)   The owner is also the tenant;
         (b)   The property or premises is leased or rented to more than 1
tenant and services rendered to more than 1 tenant are measured by the same
meter.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (A)(1) above, water, sewer and/or
sanitation charges, rents, fees, rates and penalties shall be the legal
obligation of the person contracting for services.
   (B)   Multiple meter users.
      (1)   Two or more commercial or industrial units or residential dwelling
units, including but not limited to multifamily houses, apartments, duplexes
and mobile homes, receiving water through the same water meter shall pay, if
separate meters are not installed, the minimum utility bill for water, sewer
and sanitation service, as applicable, for each unit being served through the
meter. Any water usage exceeding the total minimum usage for the number of
units served by 1 meter shall be charged in accordance with approved water and
sewer rate schedules.
      (2)   Once established, the number of utility minimums to be paid for any
water meter shall not be reduced until the property owner notifies the Director
of Finance in writing for the reduction.
      (3)   The property owner is hereby responsible for immediately notifying
the Director of Finance of any increase in the number of units being served by
any water meter.
      (4)   The town water meter reader shall report each month the number of
mobile homes connected to or in position to be connected to the town water
system or to a private system which obtains its water from the town. The number
reported by the meter reader if greater than the number established in this
section shall be the number of minimums charged to the applicable meter.
      (5)   The town cannot determine whether or not a dwelling, commercial or
industrial unit has been vacant for some or all of any utility billing period.
Therefore, the number of minimum charged for each billing period will be equal
to the number of active or potential commercial, industrial or dwelling units
served by the water meter in accordance with this section.
   (C)   Penalties for late payment and nonpayment.
      (1)   Due date. Utility bills mailed on or about the first workday of any
month shall be past due and delinquent if not paid by or on the tenth day of
the month. All customers or user accounts past due and delinquent shall be
placed on a list which shall be continually modified to reflect late payments.
Any utility account paid after the tenth day of the month shall have added to
the month’s total due a late payment fee, in the amount established from time
to time by the Board, to cover the administrative costs of processing the late
payment.
      (2)   Disconnection for late payment.
         (a)   It is the policy of the town to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The town’s form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain clearly visible and easily readable
provisions to the effect that:
            1.   All bills are due and payable on or before the tenth day of
each month;
            2.   If any bill is not paid by or before the tenth, a notice of
nonpayment, disclosing the town’s intent to disconnect service, will be mailed;
and
            3.   Any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill
shall have a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in
person and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may
present orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the town
official in charge of utility billing, who shall make a final determination of
the customer’s complaint.
      (3)   Late payment and cut-on fees.
         (a)   Any bill paid after the tenth day of the month shall cause a
late payment penalty to be assessed.
         (b)   No service shall be restored after the proper disconnection
under the previous section until all bills for service and late payment fees
then due have been paid and the following cut-on fee has been paid:
            1.   Thirty-five dollars if:
               a.   The request for service is made before 3:30 p.m. on a
workday for town employees (in which case service will be restored for that
day); or
               b.   The party requesting service is willing to wait for service
for as long as the end of the next workday for town employees;
            2.   Fifty dollar fee if the request is for service to be restored
in the day of the request and the request is made after 3:30 p.m. on a workday
for town employees; or
            3.   Seventy-five dollar fee if the request is for service to be
restored on a non-workday for town employees (a town holiday or a Saturday or
Sunday).
      (4)   Extensions of due date. The Board may establish policies and
procedures for granting short term, temporary extensions of the utility bill
due date for users to pay the current month’s utility bill because of temporary
unexpected circumstances.
      (5)   Removal and reinstallation of meters. If any utility user or
customer, after having his or her water meter cut off by the town cuts-on, has
his or her meter cut-on or allows his or her meter to be cut-on, the water
meter shall be immediately removed. A removed meter shall not be reinstalled at
the location or address at which the meter was removed until all due utility
bills, late payment fees, cut-on fees and meter reinstallation fees are paid in
full by the customer or property owner. The meter installation fee shall be an
amount established from time to time by the Board.
      (6)   Severing sewer connections. Failure to pay utility bills in
accordance with this subchapter may result in the disconnection of the
individual sewer collection line or building sewer. If disconnected or severed,
the line or sewer will not be reconnected until the total bill due, fees and
penalties are paid in full. In addition, the cost of reconnection including
material and labor will be paid in full by the user. Disconnection or severance
of lines shall automatically make the user in violation hereof.
   (D)   Protesting unusually high bills.
      (1)   A citizen protesting an unusually high water and sewer bill may
claim a hardship if the charges are significantly higher than their normal
average bill for that season, upon providing evidence that major repairs have
been made and the system is up to standard.
      (2)   The sewer bill may be adjusted to the citizen’s seasonally average
charge for that season. Seasonal average is to be computed on at least 3
months’ charges. A citizen protesting an unusually high water and sewer bill
may claim a hardship when that charge is significantly higher than their
seasonal average and if the meter is inoperative or defective, the bill shall
be adjusted to the normal average for that season.
(Ord. passed 3-12-2002; Am. Ord. 16-167, passed 6-21-2016)
§ 50.22 COLLECTION.
   (A)   No employee of the town except those employees assigned to the Finance
Department shall accept any money, check or other negotiable instrument as
payment of any utility bill or utility fee.
   (B)   All fees shall be submitted as directed on the utility bill.
   (C)   Application of partial payments. Partial payments shall be applied to
the oldest debt first, and thereafter, shall be applied in the order that the
debt was incurred. Partial payment for a consolidated billing account will be
applied in the following order as applicable: wastewater usage not associated
with water usage; wastewater associated with water meter; then water usage as
metered.
   (D)   Metering and billing practices for multiple structures on property. A
property owner may request service to multiple structures on a single property.
The property owner may request separate billing statements for each structure
for record keeping purposes, however, the sum of these individual statements
will be considered a single consolidated account for payment purposes. A
payment made against any charges of the consolidated account will follow the
city’s partial payment order.
(Ord. passed 3-12-2002; Am. Ord. 18-179, passed 2-20-2018)
§ 50.23 METER ACCURACY AND TEST RATES.
   The town shall test or cause to be tested and make a thorough examination of
water meters and all fixtures where so desired by the customer under the
following conditions:
   (A)   Should the test of meter and inspection prove an excessive bill to be
caused by negligence of the town or inaccuracy of the meter, then the expense
of the investigation shall be borne by the town.
   (B)   Should the test and inspection prove to be the fault of the consumer
or any person not connected with or in the employ of the town, then the actual
cost of the investigation is to be borne by the customer making the protest and
asking for the inspection. The actual cost shall be fixed by the Board.
(Ord. passed 3-12-2002)
§ 50.24 LIENS FOR SEWER SERVICE FEES.
   (A)   Any fee imposed under this chapter may be billed with property taxes,
may be payable in the same manner as property taxes, and, in the case of
nonpayment, may be collected in any manner by which delinquent personal or real
property taxes can be collected.
      (1)   A fee charged by the town for sewer services and remaining unpaid
for a period of 90 days shall become a lien on the real property owned by the
person contracting with the town for the service.
      (2)   Any lien placed on real property as described in division (A)(1)
shall be valid from the time of filing in the office of the Clerk of Superior
Court of the county in which the service was provided and shall include a
statement containing the name and address of the person against whom the lien
is claimed, the name of the town claiming the lien, the specific service that
was provided, the amount of the unpaid charge for that service, and the date
and place of furnishing that service.
      (3)   The county tax office, once notified of the town's lien, shall
include the lien amount on any tax bills printed subsequent to the
notification.
      (4)   A lien on real property as described in divisions (A)(1) and (A)(2)
is not effective against an interest in real property conveyed after the fees
become delinquent if the interest is recorded in the office of the register of
deeds prior to the filing of the lien for delinquent water or sewer services.
      (5)   No lien under this section shall be valid unless filed in
accordance with this section after 90 days of the date of the failure to pay
for the service or availability fees, and within 180 days of the date of the
failure to pay for the service or fees.
      (6)   The lien may be discharged as provided in G.S. § 44-48.
   (B)   A notice of the lien on the real property must be mailed by first
class mail at the time the lien is filed to the property owner according to the
tax records of Robeson County. Pursuant to the notification of a lien filed,
the owner(s) of the property may appeal the lien as follows.
      (1)   Administrative review.
         (a)   A request to appeal the application of the lien must be received
within 21 days of the date of filing.
         (b)   The request shall be filed on the appropriate appeal form
available from the town and shall include:
            1.   A description of the real property including the tax
identification number and physical address of the property;
            2.   The name, address, and telephone number of the property owner
making the appeal;
            3.   A copy of the lien; and
            4.   A statement of the grounds for appeal.
         (c)   The appeal form shall be hand delivered or mailed via certified
mail to the Town Clerk. No appeals sent by fax, email, or regular mail will be
accepted.
         (d)   Once received, an appeal shall be reviewed by the Town Manager.
         (e)   The property owner(s) will be advised of the decision of the
Manager by certified mail through an administrative review disposition notice.
         (f)   The town will not accept the following as grounds for appeal:
            1.   Lack of knowledge of the town's sewer billing process; and/or
            2.   Claim of failure to receive a billing for sewer services.
      (2)   Adjudication hearing.
         (a)   A request for an adjudication hearing before the Utilities Lien
Appeal Board must be received within 21 days from the date of the
administrative review disposition notice.
         (b)   In order to file the request for an adjudication hearing with
the town, the property owner is required to pay the outstanding balance of
sewer charges due as a deposit.
         (c)   Should the decision of the Utilities Lien Appeal Board be in
favor of the property owner, said fees shall be refunded.
         (d)   The property owner shall be notified of the date and time of the
adjudication hearing.
         (e)   The property owner's personal appearance at the hearing is
mandatory.
         (f)   During the hearing, the property owner is provided an
opportunity to state the circumstances of the appeal and present any supporting
evidence.
         (g)   The property owner shall be informed of the Utilities Lien
Appeal Board's decision within 72 hours of the hearing via certified mail.
         (h)   Should the adjudication hearing be in favor of the property
owner(s), the county tax office shall be notified by the town of a decision to
cancel the lien.
   (C)   A Utilities Lien Appeal Board shall be maintained by the town for the
purpose of deciding the appeals made under this section. The Utilities Lien
Appeal Board shall be made up of one member of the Board of Commissioners,
selected by the Board of Commissioners; one member of the Police Department,
selected by the Police Chief; the Assistant Fire Chief or the Administrative
Fire Chief, selected by the Fire Chief; and one member of the Public Works
Department, selected by the Public Works Director. These persons may be
selected for service at any time, on a case-by-case basis.
(Ord. 18-178, passed 2-20-2018)
MUNICIPAL WATER SYSTEM
§ 50.35 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   The water system of the town shall be under the control of the Board and the
duty of prescribing and enforcing full compliance with all rules and
regulations governing all connections with the water system shall be vested in
the Board or its authorized agent. The water system of the town shall be under
the supervision of the Department of Public Works.
(Ord. passed 3-12-2002)
§ 50.36 WATER SYSTEM USE REQUIREMENTS. 
   (A)   Use of town water. No person shall take or carry away water from any
fire hydrant, public fountain, plug, street washer or other public place,
except for firefighting purposes, without prior approval of the Town Manager or
his or her designee. Any person receiving water in any manner as described
above shall receive the water through a water meter provided by the town and
shall pay for the water received in accordance with the water rates in effect
at the time.
   (B)   Private water supplies.
      (1)   Prohibited use. It shall be unlawful for any person to furnish,
supply or provide any water from a private well or pumps in or to any dwelling
house, boardinghouse, inn, hotel, café or other commercial establishment, or
any room of the same when the dwelling house or any room therein, is rented or
offered for rent to the public, or when the boardinghouse, inn, hotel, café or
other commercial establishment is open to, or used by, the public.
      (2)   Permitted use. Private wells, ponds or other water sources shall be
allowed for irrigation of lawns, yards, gardens and the like. However, no
private water system shall be in any way connected to any water or sewer system
constituting a part of the town water or sewer system, nor to any private
systems connected in any way to the town systems.
      (3)   Providing water to others. No owner, occupant or agent having
access to or control of a private water system shall sell, give, lease, rent or
in any other manner furnish, supply or provide any water from a private source
to any other person for the purpose of, or when used for, human consumption.
   (C)   Access to property. The Director of Public Works or his or her
assistant shall at all reasonable hours have free access to all premises,
public or private, for the purpose of examining hydrants, fixtures or
connections or for reading or repairing water meters on which town water
pressure is maintained.
   (D)   Performance of work. All work on the water system and all connections
or disconnections thereto shall be performed by the authorized employees of the
town or its authorized contractors. All work shall be performed in accordance
with the Plumbing Code of the state and the town and amendments thereto that
the Board may from time to time adopt.
   (E)   Unauthorized tampering prohibited. 
      (1)   No person shall touch, tamper with or in any manner manipulate or
turn the cut-offs on the waterlines, mains or appurtenances forming a part of
the water system of the town, nor shall any person tamper with or harm in any
manner whatsoever any water line, main or any appurtenance thereto. No person
other than authorized town employees shall throw or deposit any material or
substance into any waterline, main or appurtenance thereto. It shall be
unlawful for any person other than a person authorized by town officials to cut
off or cut on the town supply of water.
      (2)   Penalty. The penalty for meter tampering shall be $200.
(Ord. passed 3-12-2002; Am. Ord. 16-167, passed 6-21-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.37 WATER CONNECTION.
   (A)   Connection requirement. All owners of improved property located within
the corporate limits and upon or within a reasonable distance of any waterline
owned and operated by the town shall connect their premises with the town water
system.
   (B)   Water permit. No person shall be connected with the water system of
the town until they shall have made application for permission to be so
connected in writing to the Clerk. This application shall not be approved until
the plans and specifications for the construction, reconstruction, alteration,
repair, maintenance or modification of the house, building or structure have
been approved by the Building Inspector and a building permit has been issued.
When a building permit is not required, the application shall not be issued
until approved by the Director of Public Works or the town Plumbing Inspector.
   (C)   Separate connection and meter required for each unit. Each residential
dwelling unit whether of single or multiple occupancy, commercial establishment
or unit and industrial activity or unit that receives water from the town
system shall have installed a separate water connection and water meter.
   (D)   Inspection. The Director of Public Works or Plumbing Inspector shall
not approve the application as specified in division (B) above until he or she
has entered upon the property to be served by the requested connection and has
made sure by physical inspection that the connection will not contaminate the
town’s water system or any part thereof, that the property has an adequate
sewerage disposal system which will not create a nuisance or health hazard to
any person, and that the property owner or occupant is aware of any
improvements in the water or sewer system of the house, building or structure
that should be made before connecting the town water system. Upon the exercise
of reasonable effort and diligence by the Director of Public Works or Plumbing
Inspector in performing those duties required of him or her under this section,
neither the Director of Public Works, the Plumbing Inspector nor the town shall
have or assume any liability for any inconvenience, damage or other occurrence
after connection is made to the town’s water system.
   (E)   Specifications. The town shall extend any individual water service
connection pipe from the applicable water main or line to a water meter
enclosed in an acceptable meter box or container located within the public
right-of-way but near the boundary of the right-of-way. The property owner or
his or her authorized and licensed plumber shall construct, extend, maintain,
repair or modify the water service connection pipe from the out flow end of the
meter across private property and into the dwelling unit, building or structure
in accordance with town specifications, requirements, codes and designs
therefor. Existing water meters located on private property shall be removed
from the private property and reinstalled on the public right-of-way as
opportunity permits.
(Ord. passed 3-12-2002)
COLLECTION AND WASTEWATER SYSTEM
§ 50.50 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Purpose and policy. This subchapter sets forth uniform requirements
for direct and indirect contributors into the wastewater collection and
treatment system for the Town of Fairmont, hereafter referred to as the town,
and enables the town to comply with all applicable state and federal laws,
including the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.) and the General
Pretreatment Regulations (40 C.F.R. Part 403). The objectives of this chapter
are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants and wastewater discharges
into the municipal wastewater system which will interfere with the operation of
the system or contaminate the resulting sludge;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants and wastewater discharges
into the municipal wastewater system which will pass through the system,
inadequately treated, into any waters of the state or otherwise be incompatible
with the system;
      (3)   To promote reuse and recycling of industrial wastewater and sludges
from the municipal system;
      (4)   To protect both municipal personnel who may be affected by sewage,
sludge, and effluent in the course of their employment as well as protecting
the general public;
      (5)   To provide for equitable distribution of the cost of operation,
maintenance and improvement of the municipal wastewater system; and
      (6)   To ensure that the municipality complies with its NPDES or non-
discharge permit conditions, sludge use and disposal requirements and any other
federal or state laws to which the municipal wastewater system is subject.
   (B)   This subchapter provides for the regulation of direct and indirect
contributors to the municipal wastewater system, through the issuance of
permits to certain non-domestic users and through enforcement of general
requirements for the other users, authorizes monitoring and enforcement
activities, requires user reporting and provides for the setting of fees for
the equitable distribution of costs resulting from the program established
herein.
   (C)   This subchapter shall apply to all users of the municipal wastewater
system, as authorized by G.S. §§ 160A-312 and/or 153A-275. The town shall
designate an administrator of the publicly owned treatment works or POTW and
pretreatment program hereafter referred to as the POTW Director. Except as
otherwise provided herein, the POTW Director shall administer, implement, and
enforce the provisions of this subchapter. Any powers granted to or imposed
upon the POTW Director may be delegated by the POTW Director to other town
personnel. By discharging wastewater into the municipal wastewater system,
industrial users located inside or outside the town limits agree to comply with
the terms and conditions established in this subchapter, as well as any
permits, enforcement actions, or orders issued hereunder. This includes all
industrial users discharging in the wastewater collection system owned by any
satellite POTW.
(Ord. passed 3-12-2002; Am. Ord. 10-130, passed 4-20-2010; Am. Ord. 12-150,
passed 12-18-2012)
§ 50.51 DEFINITIONS AND ABBREVIATIONS.
   (A)   Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the following
terms and phrases, as used in this chapter, shall have the meanings hereinafter
designated.
      ACT or “THE ACT”.  The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as
the Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. § 1251 et seq.
      APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The Director of the Division of Water Quality of the
North Carolina Department of Environment and Natural Resources or his or her
designee.
      AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE INDUSTRIAL USER.
         (a)   If the industrial user is a corporation, AUTHORIZED
REPRESENTATIVE shall mean:
            1.   The president, secretary, or a vice-president of the
corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who
performs similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation; or
            2.   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production, or
operation facilities, provided, the manager is authorized to make management
decisions which govern the operation of the regulated facility including having
the explicit or implicit duty of making major capital investment
recommendations, and initiate and direct comprehensive measures to assure long-
term environmental compliance with environmental laws and regulations; can
ensure that the necessary systems are established or actions taken to gather
complete and accurate information for control mechanism requirements; and where
authority to sign documents has been assigned or delegated to the manager in
accordance with corporate procedures.
         (b)   If the industrial user is a partnership or sole proprietorship,
an AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE shall mean a general partner or the proprietor,
respectively.
         (c)   If the industrial user is a federal, state or local government
facility, an AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE shall mean a director or highest
official appointed or designated to oversee the operation and performance of
the activities of the government facility, or their designee.
         (d)   The individuals described in divisions (a) through (c) above may
designate another AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE if the authorization is in writing,
the authorization specifies the individual or position responsible for the
overall operation of the facility from which the discharge originates or having
overall responsibility for environmental matters for the company, and the
written authorization is submitted to the town.
         (e)   If the designation of an AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE is no longer
accurate because a different individual or position has responsibility for the
overall operation of the facility, or overall responsibility for environmental
matters for the company, a new authorization satisfying the requirements of
this section must be submitted to the POTW Director prior to or together with
any reports to be signed by an authorized representative.
      BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures
for 5 days at 20°C, usually expressed as a concentration (e.g. mg/l).
      BUILDING SEWER. A sewer conveying wastewater from the premises of a user
to the POTW.
      BYPASS. The intentional diversion of waste streams from any portion of a
user’s treatment facility.
      CATEGORICAL STANDARDS. National Categorical Pretreatment Standards or
Pretreatment Standard.
      CONTROL AUTHORITY. Refers to the town if the town’s pretreatment program
approval has not been withdrawn.
      ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY, or EPA. The U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency, or where appropriate the term may also be used as a
designation for the Administrator or other duly authorized official of the
agency.
      GRAB SAMPLE. A sample which is taken from a waste stream on a one-time
basis without regard to the flow in the waste stream and over a period of time
not to exceed 15 minutes.
      HOLDING TANK WASTE. Any waste from holding tanks, including but not
limited to such holding tanks as vessels, chemical toilets, campers, trailers,
septic tanks, and vacuum-pump tank trucks.
      INDIRECT DISCHARGE Or DISCHARGE. The discharge or the introduction from
any nondomestic source regulated under § 307(b), (c), or (d) of the Act, (33
U.S.C. § 1317), into the POTW (including holding tank waste discharged into the
system).
      INDUSTRIAL USER or USER. Any person which is a source of indirect
discharge.
      INTERFERENCE. The inhibition, or disruption of the POTW collection
system, treatment processes, operations, or its sludge process, use, or
disposal, which causes or contributes to a violation of any requirement of the
Control Authority’s (and/or POTW’s, if different from the Control Authority)
NPDES, collection system or Non-discharge permit or prevents sewage sludge use
or disposal in compliance with specified applicable state and federal statutes,
regulations, or permits. The term includes prevention of sewage sludge use or
disposal by the POTW in accordance with § 405 of the Act, (33 U.S.C. § 1345) or
any criteria, guidelines, or regulations developed pursuant to the Solid Waste
Disposal Act (SWDA)(42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.), the Clean Air Act (33 U.S.C. §§
1251 et seq.), the Toxic Substances Control Act (42 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq.),
the Marine Protection Research and Sanctuary Act (MPRSA) (33 U.S.C. §§ 1401 et
seq.) or more stringent state criteria (including those contained in any state
sludge management plan prepared pursuant to Title IV of SWDA) applicable to the
method of disposal or use employed by the POTW.
      MEDICAL WASTE. Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood
products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes, and dialysis
wastes.
      NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD or CATEGORICAL STANDARD. Any
regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by EPA in
accordance with § 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317) which applies to
a specific category of industrial users, and which appears in 40 C.F.R. Chapter
1, Subchapter N, Parts 405-471.
      NATIONAL POLLUTION DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM, or NPDES, PERMIT. A
permit issued pursuant to § 402 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1342), or pursuant to
G.S. § 143-215.1 by the state under delegation from EPA.
      NATIONAL PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD or PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE
STANDARD. Absolute prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances;
these prohibitions appear in § 50.52(C) and are developed under the authority
of § 307(b) of the Act and 40 C.F.R. § 403.5.
      NEW SOURCE.
         (a)   Any building, structure, facility, or installation from which
there may be a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced
after the publication of proposed categorical pretreatment standards under §
307(c) of the Act which will be applicable to such source if such standards are
thereafter promulgated in accordance with § 307(c), provided that:
            1.   The building, structure, facility, or installation is
constructed at a site at which no other source is located;
            2.   The building, structure, facility, or installation totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source; or
            3.   The production or wastewater generating processes of the
building, structure, facility, or installation are substantially independent of
an existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source, should
be considered.
         (b)   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located
results in a modification rather than a new source if the construction does not
create a new building, structure, facility, or installation meeting the
criteria of (a)(2) or (3) above but otherwise alters, replaces, or adds to
existing process or production equipment.
         (c)   For purposes of this definition, construction of a NEW SOURCE
has commenced if the owner or operator has:
            1.   Begun, or caused to begin, as part of a continuous on-site
construction program:
               a.   Any placement, assembly, or installation of facilities or
equipment; or
               b.   Significant site preparation work including clearing,
excavation, or removal of existing buildings, structures or facilities which is
necessary for the placement, assembly, or installation of new source facilities
or equipment; or
            2.   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase
of facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation
within a reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be
terminated or modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility,
engineering, and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation
under this definition.
      NONCONTACT COOLING WATER. Water used for cooling which does not come into
direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product, or
finished product.
      NON-DISCHARGE PERMIT. A permit issued by the state pursuant to G.S. §
143-215.1(d) for a waste which is not discharged directly to surface waters of
the state or for a wastewater treatment works which does not discharge directly
to surface waters of the state.
      PASS THROUGH. A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the state
in quantities or concentrations which, alone or with discharges from other
sources, causes a violation, including an increase in the magnitude or duration
of a violation, of the Control Authority’s (and/or POTW’s, if different from
the Control Authority) NPDES, collection system, or non-discharge permit or a
downstream water quality standard even if not included in the permit.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity or any other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agents or
assigns. This definition includes all federal, state, and local government
entities.
      pH. A measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a substance, expressed as
standard units, and calculated as the logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of
the concentration of hydrogen ions expressed in grams per liter of solution.
      POLLUTANT. Any “waste” as defined in G.S. § 143-213(18) and dredged
spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage, garbage, sewage sludge,
munitions, medical wastes, chemical wastes, biological materials, radioactive
materials, heat, wrecked or discarded equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt and
industrial, municipal, and agricultural waste and certain characteristics of
wastewater (e.g., pH, temperature, TSS, turbidity, color, metals, BOD, COD,
toxicity, and odor).
      POTW. The town’s publicly owned treatment works, more commonly known as
the town’s sewage treatment plant.
      POTW DIRECTOR. The Town of Fairmont Director of Public Utilities.
      POTW TREATMENT PLANT. That portion of the POTW designed to provide
treatment to wastewater.
      PRETREATMENT or TREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the
elimination of pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant
properties in wastewater prior to or in lieu of discharging or otherwise
introducing such pollution into a POTW collection system and/or treatment
plant. The reduction or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical or
biological processes, or process changes or other means, except by diluting the
concentration of the pollutants unless allowed by an applicable pretreatment
standard.
      PRETREATMENT PROGRAM. The program for the control of pollutants
introduced into the POTW from non-domestic sources which was developed by the
town in compliance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.8 and approved by the approval
authority as authorized by G.S. § 143-215.3(a)(14) in accordance with 40 C.F.R.
§ 403.11.
      PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement
related to pretreatment, other than a pretreatment standard.
      PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. Prohibited discharge standards, categorical
standards, or local limit which applies to an industrial user.
      PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW) or MUNICIPAL WASTEWATER SYSTEM. A
treatment works as defined by § 212 of the Act, (33 U.S.C. § 1292) which is
owned in this instance by the town. This definition includes any devices or
systems used in the collection, storage, treatment, recycling, and reclamation
of municipal sewage or industrial wastes of a liquid nature. It also includes
sewers, pipes, and other conveyances only if they convey wastewater to the POTW
treatment plant. For the purposes of this chapter, POTW shall also include any
sewers that convey wastewaters to the POTW from persons outside the town who
are, by contract or agreement with the town, or in any other way, users of the
POTW of the town.
      SATELLITE POTW. A city, town or other entity for which the Town of
Fairmont has agreed to receive and treat wastewater.
      SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE. Substantial physical damage to property, damage
to the user’s treatment facilities which causes them to become inoperable, or
substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably be
expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE does not
mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
      SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER or SIU. An industrial user that discharges
wastewater into a publicly owned treatment works and that:
         (a)   Discharges an average of 25,000 gallons per day or more of
process wastewater to the POTW (excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling and
boiler blowdown wastewaters);
         (b)   Contributes process wastewater which makes up 5% or more of the
NPDES or non-discharge permitted flow limit or 5% of more of the maximum
allowable headworks loading of the POTW treatment plant for any POTW pollutant
of concern;
         (c)   Is subject to categorical pretreatment standards under 40 C.F.R.
Part 403.6 and 40 C.F.R. chapter I, Subchapter N, Parts 405-471;
         (d)   Is designated as such by the Control Authority, the Division Of
Water Quality or the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) on the basis
that the industrial user has a reasonable potential, either singly or in
combination with other contributing industrial users, for adversely affecting
the POTW’s operation, or for violating any pretreatment standard or
requirement, or for contributing to violations of the POTW’s effluent
limitations and conditions in its NPDES or non-discharge permit, or for
contributing to violations of the POTW’s receiving stream standard, or for
limiting the POTW’s sludge disposal options;
         (e)   Subject to division approval under 15A NCAC 02H .0907(b), the
Control Authority may determine that an industrial user meeting the criteria in
divisions (a) and (b) above has no reasonable potential for adversely affecting
the POTW’s operation or for violating any pretreatment standards or
requirement, or for contributing to violations of the POTW’s effluent
limitations and conditions in its NPDES or non-discharge permit, or for
contributing to violations of the POTW’s receiving stream standard, or for
limiting the POTW’s sludge disposal options, and thus is not a SIGNIFICANT
INDUSTRIAL USER;
         (f)   Subject to division approval under 15A NCAC 02H .0907(b), the
Control Authority may determine that an industrial user meeting the criteria in
division (b) of this definition meets the requirements of 40 C.F.R. Part 403.3
(v)(2) and thus is a non-significant categorical industrial user; or
         (g)   Subject to division approval under 15A NCAC 02H .0907(b), the
Control Authority may determine that an industrial user meeting the criteria in
division (b) of this definition meets the requirements of 40 C.F.R. Part 403.12
(e)(3) and thus is a middle tier significant industrial user. Sampling and
inspection requirements may be cut in half as per 40 C.F.R. Parts 403.8 (f)(2)
(v)(C).and 403.12 (e)(3).
      SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE (SNC). Occurs when: (a) significant industrial
user meets any one or more of the following criteria; or (b) any industrial
user meets the criteria in divisions (c), (d), or (h) of this definition.
         (a)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here
as those in which 66% or more of all the measurements taken for the same
pollutant parameter (not including flow) during a 6 month period exceed (by any
magnitude) a numeric pretreatment standard or requirement including
instantaneous limits, as defined by 40 C.F.R. Part 403.3(l).
         (b)   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as
those in which 33% or more of all the measurements taken for the same pollutant
parameter during a 6-month period equal or exceed the product of the numeric
pretreatment standard or requirement including instantaneous limits, as defined
by 40 C.F.R. Part 403.3(l) multiplied by the applicable TRC; (TRC = 1.4 for
BOD, TSS, fats, oil and grease, 1.2 for all other pollutants (except flow and
pH).
         (c)   Any other violation of a pretreatment standard or requirement as
defined by 40 C.F.R. Part 403.3(l) (daily maximum, long-term average,
instantaneous limit, or narrative standard) that the Control Authority and/or
POTW determines has caused, alone or in combination with other discharges,
interference or pass through (including endangering the health of POTW
personnel or the general public).
         (d)   Any discharge of a pollutant or wastewater that has caused
imminent endangerment to human health, welfare or to the environment or has
resulted in either the Control Authority’s or the POTW’s, if different from the
Control Authority, exercise of its emergency authority under 40 C.F.R. Part
403.8(f)(1)(vi)(B) and this chapter to halt or prevent such a discharge.
         (e)   Violations of compliance schedule milestones, contained in a
pretreatment permit or enforcement order, for starting construction, completing
construction, and attaining final compliance by 90 days or more after the
schedule date.
         (f)   Failure to provide reports for compliance schedule, self-
monitoring data, baseline monitoring reports, 90-day compliance reports, and
periodic compliance reports within 30 days from the due date.
         (g)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance.
         (h)   Any other violation or group of violations that the control
authority and/or POTW determines will adversely affect the operation or
implementation of the local pretreatment program.
      SLUG LOAD or DISCHARGE. Any discharge at a flow rate or concentration
which has a reasonable potential to cause interference or pass-through, or in
any other way violates the POTW’s regulations, local limits, or industrial user
permit conditions. This can include but is not limited to spills and other
accidental discharges; discharges of a non-routine, episodic nature; a non-
customary batch discharge; or any other discharges that can cause a violation
of the prohibited discharge standards in §
50.52(C).
      STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC). A classification pursuant to
the Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the Executive Office of
the President, Office of Management and Budget, 1987.
      STORM WATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom.
      SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter that floats on the surface
of, or is suspended in, water, wastewater or other liquids, and which is
removable by laboratory filtering.
      UPSET. An exceptional incident in which there is unintentional and
temporary noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards because of
factors beyond the reasonable control of the user. An upset does not include
noncompliance to the extent caused by operational error, improperly designed
treatment facilities, inadequate treatment facilities lack of preventive
maintenance, or careless or improper operation.
      WASTEWATER. The liquid and water-carried industrial or domestic wastes
from dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities, mobile sources,
treatment facilities and institutions, together with any groundwater, surface
water, and storm water that may be present, whether treated or untreated, which
are contributed into or permitted to enter the POTW.
      WASTEWATER PERMIT. As set forth in §
50.54(B).
      WATERS OF THE STATE. All streams, rivers, brooks, swamps, sounds, tidal
estuaries, bays, creeks, lakes, waterways, reservoirs and all other bodies or
accumulations of water, surface or underground, natural or artificial, public
or private, which are contained within, flow through, or border upon the State
or any portion thereof.
   (B)   This subchapter is gender neutral and the masculine gender shall
include the feminine and vice-versa.
   (C)   SHALL is mandatory; MAY is permissive or discretionary.
   (D)   The use of the singular shall be construed to include the plural and
the plural shall include the singular as indicated by the context of its use.
   (E)   The following abbreviations when used in this chapter, shall have the
designated meanings:
      (1)   BOD   Biochemical oxygen demand.
      (2)   CFR   Code of Federal Regulations.
      (3)   COD   Chemical oxygen demand.
      (4)   EPA   Environmental Protection Agency.
      (5)   gpd   Gallons per day.
      (6)   G.S.   North Carolina General Statutes.
      (7)   l   Liter.
      (8)   mg   Milligrams.
      (9)   mg/l   Milligrams per liter.
      (10)   NPDES   National Pollution Discharge Elimination System.
      (11)   O & M   Operation and maintenance.
      (12)   POTW   Publicly-owned treatment works.
      (13)   RCRA   Resource Conservation and Recovery Act.
      (14)   SIC   Standard industrial classification.
      (15)   SWDA   Solid Waste Disposal Act.
      (16)   TSS   Total suspended solids.
      (17)   U.S.C.   United States Code.
(Ord. passed 3-12-2002; Am. Ord. 10-130, passed 4-20-2010; Am. Ord. 12-150,
passed 12-18-2012; Am. Ord. 13-151, passed 2-19-2013)
§ 50.52 GENERAL SEWER USE REQUIREMENTS. 
   (A)   Use of public sewers required.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to
be deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
town or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town any human or animal
excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
town or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town any wastewater or other
polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with this subchapter and with regulations of the Division of Water
Quality.
      (3)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct
or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of wastewater.
      (4)   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes, situated within the town
and abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is now
located or may in the future be located a public sanitary sewer of the town, is
hereby required at the owner’s expense to install suitable toilet facilities
therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer
in accordance with the provisions of this ordinance, within 90 days after date
of official notice to do so, provided that the public sewer is within 150 feet
of the property line or the owner or tenant will be assessed a monthly access
fee equal to the minimum monthly sewer charge.
   (B)   Use of private sewage disposal systems.
      (1)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available, the building sewer
shall be connected to a private wastewater disposal system complying with
applicable state stands. Before commencement o construction of a private water
disposal system, the owner shall first obtain a written approval of the state
acting through the county health department. The type, capacities, location,
and layout of a private wastewater disposal system shall comply with all
recommendations of the department of public health and Division of Water
Quality. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any
natural outlet. The owner shall operate and maintain the private wastewater
disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times; at no expense to the
town.
      (2)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property
served by a private wastewater disposal system a direct connection shall be
made to the public sewer within 60 days. Under unusual and/or special
circumstances the town may extend the time of compliance or waive the
requirement.
   (C)   Protection from damages.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to damage, tamper with or
otherwise do harm to the mains, pipes, manholes, apparatus or other parts of
the sanitary sewer system, or to place or cause to be placed any object of any
nature whatsoever into the system that blocks or obstructs or impedes the
normal flow in the sewer system.
      (2)   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently
breaks, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any equipment or
materials, belonging to the town, used for the purpose of making tests or
examinations and left upon the premises of a person discharging wastes into the
sewers.
   (D)   Connection specifications and restrictions.
      (1)   All connections to the sanitary sewer system shall be made by
authorized employees of the town in accordance with specifications for such
connection that may be adopted by the town. If authorized by the Board of
Commissioners, connections may be made by plumbers licensed to perform plumbing
work in the town. All construction shall be in conformity with the state
plumbing and building codes, as amended. Any sewer connection made by an
authorized licensed plumber shall be inspected by the approving authority after
such work has been completed and prior to the time such connection is covered.
      (2)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, foundation
drains, areaway drains, or other sources of infiltration/inflow to a building
sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or indirectly to a
public sanitary sewer.
   (E)   Separate connections required. Each separate dwelling, structure,
business or other building shall have a separate connection to the system;
provided, however, that apartments or other multi-use or occupancy buildings
may have 1 confined connection within the discretion of the town.
   (F)   Connections outside town. Any person owning or controlling premises
beyond the corporate limits of the town and desiring to install a plumbing
system for the purpose of discharging domestic and/or industrial waste into the
sanitary sewers of the town may do so by complying with the requirements of the
town shall be the responsibility of the property owner and shall be done under
the general supervision of the public works director of the town.
   (G)   Maintenance and repair of connections. Whenever any service to any
building or premise becomes clogged, broken, out of order, or in any condition
detrimental to the use of the sewer service, the owner, agent or occupant
having charge of such building or premises shall be held responsible for the
immediate renewal or repair of the sewer service necessary to maintain an
uninterrupted sanitary disposal system. Renewal or repair of sewer service from
the main to the property line shall be made at the expense of the town by
authorized personnel only; renewal or repair of sewer service from the property
line to the source of discharge shall be the responsibility of the property
owner.
   (H)   Prohibited discharge standards.
      (1)   General prohibitions. No user shall contribute or cause to be
contributed into the POTW, directly or indirectly, any pollutant or wastewater
which causes interference or pass through. These general prohibitions apply to
all users of a POTW whether or not the user is a significant industrial user or
subject to any national, state, or local pretreatment standards or
requirements.
      (2)   Specific prohibitions. No user shall contribute or cause to be
contributed into the POTW the following pollutants, substances, or wastewater.
         (a)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, waste streams with a closed cup flashpoint of
less than 140°F (60°C) using the test methods specified in 40 C.F.R. § 261.21.
         (b)   Solid or viscous substances in amounts which will cause
obstruction of the flow in the POTW resulting in interference but in no case
solids greater than 1/2 inch in any dimension.
         (c)   Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil, or products of
mineral oil origin, in amounts that will cause interference or pass through.
         (d)   Any wastewater having a pH less than 5.0 or more than 9.5 or
wastewater having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage to the
POTW or equipment.
         (e)   Any wastewater containing pollutants, including oxygen-demanding
pollutants, (BOD and the like) in sufficient quantity, (flow or concentration)
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to cause interference
with the POTW.
         (f)   Any wastewater having a temperature greater than 150°F (66°C),
or which will inhibit biological activity in the POTW treatment plant resulting
in Interference, but in no case wastewater which causes the temperature at the
introduction into the treatment plant to exceed 104°F (40°C).
         (g)   Any pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases,
vapors or fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker
health and safety problems.
         (h)   Any trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points
designated by the POTW Director in accordance with division (P) of this
section.
         (i)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, or solids or other
wastewater which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are
sufficient to create a public nuisance or hazard to life or are sufficient to
prevent entry into the sewers for maintenance and repair.
         (j)   1.   Any substance which may cause the POTW’s effluent or any
other product of the POTW such as residues, sludges, or scums, to be unsuitable
for reclamation and reuse or to interfere with the reclamation process.
            2.   In no case, shall a substance discharged to the POTW cause the
POTW to be in noncompliance with sludge use or disposal regulations or permits
issued under § 405 of the Act; the Solid Waste Disposal Act, the Clean Air Act,
the Toxic Substances Control Act, or state criteria applicable to the sludge
management method being used.
         (k)   Any wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by
the treatment process, including, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions, which consequently imparts sufficient color to the treatment
plant’s effluent to render the waters injurious to public health or secondary
recreation or to aquatic life and wildlife or to adversely affect the
palatability of fish or aesthetic quality or impair the receiving waters for
any designated uses or which causes a violation of the town’s state or federal
wastewater permits.
         (l)   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes
except as specifically approved by the POTW Director in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulations.
         (m)   Storm water, surface water, ground water, artesian well water,
roof runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, deionized
water, noncontact cooling water and unpolluted industrial wastewater, unless
specifically authorized by the POTW Director.
         (n)   Fats, oils, or greases of animal or vegetable origin in
concentrations greater than 100 mg/l unless authorized by the POTW Director.
         (o)   Any sludges, screenings or other residues from the pretreatment
of industrial wastes.
         (p)   Any medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the
POTW Director in a wastewater discharge permit.
         (q)   Any material containing ammonia, ammonia salts, or other
chelating agents which will produce metallic complexes that interfere with the
municipal wastewater system.
         (r)   Any material that would be identified as hazardous waste
according to 40 C.F.R. Part 261 if not disposed of in a sewer except as may be
specifically authorized by the POTW Director.
         (s)   Any wastewater causing the treatment plant effluent to violate
state water quality standards for toxic substances as described in 15A NCAC 2B
.0200.
         (t)   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources,
the treatment plant’s effluent to fail a toxicity test.
         (u)   Recognizable portions of the human or animal anatomy.
         (v)   Any wastes containing detergents, surface active agents, or
other substances which may cause excessive foaming in the municipal wastewater
system.
         (w)   Any wastes causing two successive readings on an explosion
hazard meter, at the point of discharge into the system (or at any point in the
system), to be more than 5%, nor any single reading over 10%, of the lower
explosive limit (LEL) of the meter.
      (3)   Pollutants, substances, wastewater, or other wastes prohibited by
this section shall not be processed or stored in such a manner that they could
be discharged to the municipal wastewater system.
All floor drains located in process or materials storage areas must discharge
to the industrial user’s pretreatment facility before connecting with the
system.
      (4)   When the POTW Director determines that a user(s) is contributing to
the POTW, any of the above enumerated substances in such amounts which may
cause or contribute to interference of POTW operation or pass through, the POTW
Director shall:
         (a)   Advise the user(s) of the potential impact of the contribution
on the POTW in accordance with §
50.58(A); and
         (b)   Take appropriate actions in accordance with § 50.54 for such
user to protect the POTW from interference or pass through.
   (I)   National categorical pretreatment standards. Users subject to
categorical pretreatment standards are required to comply with applicable
standards as set out in 40 C.F.R. Chapter 1, Subchapter N, Parts 405-471 and
incorporated herein.
      (1)   Where a categorical pretreatment standard is expressed only in
terms of either the mass or the concentration of a pollutant in wastewater, the
POTW Director may impose equivalent concentration or mass limits in accordance
with 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(c).
      (2)   When wastewater subject to a categorical pretreatment standard is
mixed with wastewater not regulated by the same standard, the POTW Director
shall impose an alternate limit using the combined wastestream formula in 40
C.F.R. § 403.6(e).
      (3)   A user may obtain a variance from a categorical pretreatment
standard if the user can prove, pursuant to the procedural and substantive
provisions in 40 C.F.R. § 403.13, that factors relating to its discharge are
fundamentally different from the factors considered by EPA when developing the
categorical pretreatment standard.
      (4)   A user may obtain a net gross adjustment to a categorical standard
in accordance with 40 C.F.R. 403.15.
   (J)   Local limits. 
      (1)   An industrial waste survey is required prior to a user discharging
wastewater containing in excess of the following average discharge limits.
BOD      250 mg/l
TSS      250 mg/l
NH3      25 mg/l
Arsenic  0.003 mg/l
Cadmium  0.003 mg/l
Chromium 0.05 mg/l (total chromium)
Copper   0.061 mg/l
Cyanide  0.015 mg/l
Lead     0.049 mg/l
Mercury  0.0003 mg/l
Nickel   0.021 mg/l
Silver   0.005 mg/l
Zinc     0.175 mg/l
 
      (2)   Industrial waste survey information will be used to develop user-
specific local limits when necessary to ensure that the POTW’s maximum
allowable headworks loading are not exceeded for particular pollutants of
concern. User-specific local limits for appropriate pollutants of concern shall
be included in wastewater permits. The POTW Director may impose mass based
limits in addition to, or in place of concentration based limits.
   (K)   State requirements. State requirements and limitations on discharges
shall apply in any case where they are more stringent than federal requirements
and limitations or those in this chapter.
   (L)   Right of revision. The town reserves the right to establish
limitations and requirements which are more stringent than those required by
either state or federal regulation if deemed necessary to comply with the
objectives presented in §
50.50(A) or the general and specific prohibitions in division (H) of this
section, as is allowed by 40 C.F.R. § 403.4.
   (M)   Dilution. No user shall ever increase the use of process water or, in
any way, attempt to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for
adequate treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in the
National categorical pretreatment standards, unless expressly authorized by an
applicable pretreatment standard, or any other pollutant-specific limitation
developed by the town or state.
   (N)   Pretreatment of wastewater.
      (1)   Pretreatment facilities. Users shall provide wastewater treatment
as necessary to comply with this chapter and wastewater permits issued under §
50.54(B) and shall achieve compliance with all national categorical
pretreatment standards, local limits, and the prohibitions set out in division
(H) of this section within the time limitations as specified by EPA, the State,
or the POTW Director, whichever is more stringent. Any facilities necessary for
compliance shall be provided, operated, and maintained at the user’s expense.
Detailed plans showing the pretreatment facilities and operating procedures
shall be submitted to the town for review, and shall be approved by the POTW
Director before construction of the facility. The review of such plans and
operating procedures shall in no way relieve the user from the responsibility
of modifying the facility as necessary to produce an effluent acceptable to the
Town under the provisions of this subchapter. Any subsequent changes in the
pretreatment facilities or method of operation shall be reported to and be
approved by the POTW Director prior to the user’s initiation of the changes.
      (2)   Additional pretreatment measures.
         (a)   Whenever deemed necessary, the POTW Director may require users
to restrict their discharge during peak flow periods, designate that certain
wastewater be discharged only into specific sewers, relocate and/or consolidate
points of discharge, separate sewage wastestreams from industrial wastestreams,
and such other conditions as may be necessary to protect the POTW and determine
the user’s compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
         (b)   The POTW Director may require any person discharging into the
POTW to install and maintain, on their property and at their expense, a
suitable storage and flow-control facility to ensure equalization of flow. A
wastewater discharge permit may be issued solely for flow equalization.
         (c)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in
the opinion of the POTW Director, they are necessary for the proper handling of
wastewater containing excessive amounts of grease and oil, or sand; except that
such interceptors shall not be required for residential users. All interception
units shall be of type and capacity approved by the POTW Director and shall be
so located to be easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. Such
interceptors shall be inspected, cleaned, and repaired regularly, as needed, by
the user at their expense.
         (d)   Users with the potential to discharge flammable substances may
be required to install and maintain an approved combustible gas detection
meter.
   (O)   Accidental discharge/slug control plans.
      (1)   The POTW Director shall evaluate whether each significant
industrial user needs a plan or other action to control and prevent slug
discharges and accidental discharges as defined in §
50.51(A). All SIUs must be evaluated within one year of being designated an
SIU. The POTW Director may require any user to develop, submit for approval,
and implement such a plan or other specific action. Alternatively, the POTW
Director may develop such a plan for any user.
      (2)   All SIUs are required to notify the POTW Director immediately of
any changes at its facility affecting the potential for spills and other
accidental discharge, discharge of a non-routine, episodic nature, a non-
customary batch discharge, or a slug load. Also see §
50.55(E) and (F).
      (3)   An accidental discharge/slug control plan shall address, at a
minimum, the following:
         (a)   Description of discharge practices, including non-routine batch
discharges;
         (b)   Description of stored chemicals;
         (c)   Procedures for immediately notifying the POTW Director of any
accidental or slug discharge, as required by §
50.56; and
         (d)   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants, including solvents, and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response.
   (P)   Hauled wastewater.
      (1)   Septic tank waste may be introduced into the POTW only at locations
designated by the POTW Director, and at such times as are established by the
POTW Director. Such waste shall not violate division (B) of this section or any
other requirements established by the town. The POTW Director may require
septic tank waste haulers to obtain wastewater discharge permits.
      (2)   The POTW Director shall require haulers of industrial waste to
obtain wastewater discharge permits. The POTW Director may require generators
of hauled industrial waste to obtain wastewater discharge permits. The POTW
Director also may prohibit the disposal of hauled industrial waste if he adopts
a uniform rule for determining which wastes are prohibited. The discharge of
hauled industrial waste is subject to all other requirements of this chapter.
      (3)   Industrial waste haulers may discharge loads only at locations
designated by the POTW Director. No load may be discharged without prior
consent of the POTW Director. The POTW Director may collect samples of each
hauled load to ensure compliance with applicable standards. The POTW Director
may require the industrial waste hauler to provide a waste analysis of any load
prior to discharge.
      (4)   Industrial waste haulers must provide a waste-tracking form for
every load. This form shall include, at a minimum, the name and address of the
industrial waste hauler, permit number, truck identification, names and
addresses of sources of waste, and volume and characteristics of waste. The
form shall identify the type of industry, known or suspected waste
constituents, and whether any wastes are RCRA hazardous wastes.
(Ord. passed 3-12-2002; Am. Ord. 10-130, passed 4-20-2010; Am. Ord. 12-150,
passed 12-18-2012) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.53 FEES.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this subchapter to provide for the
recovery of costs from users of the wastewater disposal system of the town for
the implementation of the program established herein. The applicable charges or
fees shall be set forth in a schedule of sewer use charges and fees proposed by
the POTW Director and approved by the Town Board. A copy of these charges and
fees will be made available from the POTW Director.
   (B)   User charges. A user charge shall be levied on all users including,
but not limited to, persons, firms, corporations or governmental entities that
discharge, cause or permit the discharge of sewage into the POTW.
      (1)   The user charge shall reflect, at least, the cost of debt service,
operation and maintenance (including replacement) of the POTW.
      (2)   Each user shall pay its proportionate cost based on volume of flow.
      (3)   The Manager of the Town shall review annually the sewage
contributions of users, the total costs of debt service, operation and
maintenance of the POTW and will make recommendations to the Council or Board
serving the town for adjustments in the schedule of charges and fees as
necessary.
      (4)   Charges for flow to the POTW not directly attributable to the users
shall be distributed among all users of the POTW based upon the volume of flow
of the users.
   (C)   Surcharges. Surcharges based upon the volume of flow and the character
and concentration of the constituents of the wastewater shall be calculated as
follows:
      (1)   The volume of flow used in determining the total discharge of
wastewater for payment of user charges and surcharges shall be based on the
following:
         (a)   Metered water consumption as shown in the records of meter
readings maintained by the town; or
         (b)   If required by the town or at the individual dischargers option,
other flow monitoring devices which measure the actual volume of wastewater
discharged to the sewer. Such devices shall be accessible and safely located,
and the measuring system shall be installed in accordance with plans approved
by the town. The metering system shall be installed and maintained at the users
expense according to arrangements that may be made with the town.
         (c)   Where any user procures all or part of his water supply from
sources other than the town, the user shall install and maintain at his own
expense a flow measuring device of a type approved by the town.
      (2)   The character and concentration of the constituents of the
wastewater used in determining surcharges shall be determined by samples
collected and analyzed by the town. Samples shall be collected in such a manner
as to be representative of the actual discharge and shall be analyzed using
procedures set forth in 40 C.F.R. Part 136.
      (3)   The determination of the character and concentration of the
constituents of the wastewater discharge by the POTW Director or his duly
appointed representatives shall be binding as a basis for charges.
   (D)   Pretreatment program administration charges. The schedule of charges
and fees adopted by the town may include charges and fees for:
      (1)   Reimbursement of costs of setting up and operating the pretreatment
program;
      (2)   Monitoring, inspections and surveillance procedures;
      (3)   Reviewing slug control plans, including accidental and/or slug load
discharge procedures and construction plans and specifications;
      (4)   Permitting; and
      (5)   Other fees as the town may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements of the pretreatment program.
(Ord. passed 3-12-2002; Am. Ord. 10-130, passed 4-20-2010; Am. Ord. 12-150,
passed 12-18-2012)
§ 50.54 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT; APPLICATION AND ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Wastewater dischargers. It shall be unlawful for any person to connect
or discharge to the POTW without first obtaining the permission of the town.
When requested by the POTW Director, a user must submit information on the
nature and characteristics of its wastewater within 30 days of the request. The
POTW Director is authorized to prepare a form for this purpose and may
periodically require users to update this information.
   (B)   Wastewater permits. All significant industrial users shall obtain a
significant industrial user permit prior to the commencement of discharge to
the POTW. Existing industrial users who are determined by the POTW Director to
be significant industrial users shall obtain a significant industrial user
permit within 180 days of receiving notification of the POTW Director’s
determination. Industrial users who do not fit the significant industrial user
criteria may at the discretion of the POTW Director be required to obtain a
wastewater discharge permit for non-significant industrial users.
      (1)   Significant industrial user determination. All persons proposing to
discharge non-domestic wastewater, or proposing to change the volume or
characteristics of an existing discharge of non-domestic wastewater shall
request from the POTW Director a significant industrial user determination. If
the POTW Director determines or suspects that the proposed discharge fits the
significant industrial user criteria he will require that a significant
industrial user permit application be filed.
      (2)   Significant industrial user permit application. Users required to
obtain a significant industrial user permit shall complete and file with the
town, an application in the form prescribed by the POTW Director, and
accompanied by an application fee in the amount prescribed in the schedule of
charges and fees. Significant industrial users shall apply for a significant
industrial user permit within 90 days after notification of the POTW Director’s
determination in division (B)(1) of this section. The application shall include
at a minimum:
         (a)   Name of industrial user;
         (b)   Address of industrial user;
         (c)   Standard industrial classification (SIC) code(s) or expected
classification and industrial user category;
         (d)   Wastewater flow;
         (e)   Types and concentrations (or mass) of pollutants contained in
the discharge;
         (f)   Major products manufactured or services supplied;
         (g)   Description of existing on-site pretreatment facilities and
practices;
         (h)   Locations of discharge points;
         (i)   Raw materials used or stored at the site;
         (j)   Flow diagram or sewer map for the industrial user;
         (k)   Number of employees;
         (l)   Operation and production schedules; and
         (m)   Description of current and projected waste reduction activities
in accordance with G.S. § 143-215.1(g).
      (3)   Application signatories and certification. All wastewater discharge
permit applications and user reports must be signed by the current authorized
representative of the user on file with the town as defined in §
50.51(A) and contain the following certification statement:
         “I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments
were prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system
designed to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the
information submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage
the system, or those persons directly responsible for gathering the
information, the information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and
belief, true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant
penalties for submitting false information, including the possibility of fine
and imprisonment for knowing violations.”
      (4)   Application review and evaluation. The POTW Director will evaluate
the data furnished by the user and may require additional information.
         (a)   The POTW Director is authorized to accept applications for the
town and shall refer all applications to the POTW staff for review and
evaluation.
         (b)   Within 30 days of receipt the POTW Director shall acknowledge
and accept the complete application; or if not complete, shall return the
application to the applicant with a statement of what additional information is
required.
      (5)   Tentative determination and draft permit.
         (a)   The POTW staff shall conduct a review of the application and an
on-site inspection of the significant industrial user, including any
pretreatment facilities, and shall prepare a written evaluation and tentative
determination to issue or deny the significant industrial user permit.
         (b)   If the staff’s tentative determination in division (B)(5)(a) of
this section is to issue the permit, the following additional determinations
shall be made in writing:
            1.   Proposed discharge limitations for those pollutants proposed
to be limited;
            2.   A proposed schedule of compliance, including interim dates and
requirements, for meeting the proposed limitations; and
            3.   A brief description of any other proposed special conditions
which will have significant impact upon the discharge described in the
application.
         (c)   The staff shall organize the determinations made pursuant to
divisions (B)(5)(a) and (b) of this section and the general permit conditions
of the town into a significant industrial user permit.
      (6)   Permit supporting documentation. The Control Authority staff shall
prepare the following documents for all significant industrial user permits.
         (a)   An allocation table (AT) listing permit information for all
significant industrial users,
including but not limited to permit limits, permit effective and expiration
dates, and a comparison of total permitted flows and loads with Division
approved maximum allowable loadings of the POTW, including flow, on forms or in
a format approved by the Division. The AT shall be updated as permits are
issued or renewed, and as permits are modified where the permitted limits or
other AT information is revised.
         (b)   The basis, or rationale, for the pretreatment limitations,
including the following:
            1.   Documentation of categorical determination, including
documentation of any calculations used in applying categorical pretreatment
standards; and
            2.   Documentation of the rationale of any parameters for which
monitoring has been waived under 40 CFR Part 403.12(e)(2).
      (7)   Final action on significant industrial user permit applications.
         (a)   The POTW Director shall take final action on all applications
not later than 90 days following receipt of a complete application.
         (b)   The POTW Director is authorized to:
            1.   Issue a significant industrial user permit containing such
conditions as are necessary to effectuate the purposes of this subchapter and
G.S. § 143-215.1;
            2.   Issue a significant industrial user permit containing time
schedules for achieving compliance with applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements;
            3.   Modify any permit upon not less than 60 days notice and
pursuant to division (B)(9) of this section;
            4.   Revoke any permit pursuant to §
50.58(A);
            5.   Suspend a permit pursuant to §
50.58(A);
            6.   Deny a permit application when in the opinion of the POTW
Director such discharge may cause or contribute to pass-through or interference
of the wastewater treatment plant or where necessary to effectuate the purposes
of G.S. § 143-215.1.
      (8)   Hearings. The local government may conduct hearings in accordance
with its regular hearing procedure.
         (a)   Initial adjudicatory hearing. An applicant whose permit is
denied, or is granted subject to conditions he deems unacceptable, a permittee/
user assessed a civil penalty under §
50.58 (B), or one issued an administrative order under §
50.58 (A) shall have the right to an adjudicatory hearing before a hearing
officer designated by the POTW Director upon making written demand, identifying
the specific issues to be contested, to the POTW Director within 30 days
following receipt of the significant industrial user permit, civil penalty
assessment, or administrative order. Unless such written demand is made within
the time specified herein, the action shall be final and binding. The hearing
officer shall make a final decision on the contested permit, penalty, or order
within 45 days of the receipt of the written demand for a hearing. The POTW
Director shall transmit a copy of the hearing officer’s decision by registered
or certified mail.
            1.   New permits. Upon appeal, including judicial review in the
General Courts of Justice, of the terms or conditions of a newly issued permit,
the terms and conditions of the entire permit are stayed and the permit is not
in effect until either the conclusion of judicial review or until the parties
reach a mutual resolution.
            2.   Renewed permits. Upon appeal, including judicial review in the
General Courts of Justice, of the terms or conditions of a renewed permit, the
terms and conditions of the existing permit remain in effect until either the
conclusion of judicial review or until the parties reach a mutual resolution.
            3.   Terminated permits. Upon appeal, including judicial review in
the General Courts of Justice, of a terminated permit, no permit is in effect
until either the conclusion of judicial review or until the parties reach a
mutual resolution.
         (b)   Final appeal hearing. Any decision of a hearing officer made as
a result of an adjudicatory hearing held under division (B)(8)(a) of this
section may be appealed, to the council or board serving the town upon filing a
written demand within 10 days of receipt of notice of the decision. Hearings
held under this division shall be conducted in accordance with local hearing
procedures. Failure to make written demand within the time specified herein
shall bar further appeal. The Town Board shall make a final decision on the
appeal within 90 days of the date the appeal was filed and shall transmit a
written copy of its decision by registered or certified mail.
         (c)   Official record. When a final decision is issued under division
(B)(8)(b) of this section, the council or board serving the town shall prepare
an official record of the case that includes:
            1.   All notices, motions, and other like pleadings;
            2.   A copy of all documentary evidence introduced;
            3.   A certified transcript of all testimony taken, if testimony is
transcribed. If testimony is taken and not transcribed, then a narrative
summary of any testimony taken; and
            4.   A copy of the final decision of the council or board serving
the town.
         (d)   Judicial review. Any person against whom a final order or
decision of the council or board serving the town is entered, pursuant to the
hearing conducted under division (B)(8)(b) of this section, may seek judicial
review of the order or decision by filing a written petition within 30 days
after receipt of notice by registered or certified mail of the order or
decision, but not thereafter, with the Superior Court of Robeson County along
with a copy to the town. Within 30 days after receipt of the copy of the
petition of judicial review, the Town Board shall transmit to the reviewing
court the original or a certified copy of the official record.
      (9)   Permit modification.
         (a)   Modifications of permits shall be subject to the same procedural
requirements as the issuance of permits except as listed below. Any changes or
new conditions in the permit shall include a reasonable time schedule for
compliance.
            1.   Changes in the ownership of the discharge when no other change
in the permit is indicated.
            2.   A single modification of any compliance schedule not in excess
of 4 months.
            3.   Modification of compliance schedules (construction schedules)
in permits for new sources where the new source will not begin to discharge
until control facilities are operational.
         (b)   Within 9 months of the promulgation of a national categorical
pretreatment standard, the wastewater discharge permit of users subject to such
standards shall be revised to require compliance with such standard within the
time frame prescribed by such standard. Where a user, subject to a National
categorical pretreatment standard, has not previously submitted an application
for a wastewater discharge permit as required by division (B)(2) of this
section, the user shall apply for a wastewater discharge permit within 180 days
after the promulgation of the applicable national categorical pretreatment
standard.
         (c)   A request for a modification by the permittee shall constitute a
waiver of the 60-day notice required by G.S. § 143-215.1(b) for modifications.
      (10)   Permit conditions.
         (a)   The POTW Director shall have the authority to grant a permit
with such conditions attached as he believes necessary to achieve the purpose
of this subchapter and G.S. § 143-215.1. Wastewater permits shall contain, but
are not limited to, the following:
            1.   A statement of duration (in no case more than 5 years);
            2.   A statement of non-transferability;
            3.   Applicable effluent limits based on categorical standards or
local limits or both;
            4.   Applicable monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification, and
record keeping requirements. These requirements shall include an identification
of pollutants to be monitored, sampling location, sampling frequency, and
sample type based on federal, state and local law;
            5.   Requirements for notifying the POTW in the event of an
accidental discharge or slug load as defined in §
50.51(A);
            6.   Requirements to implement a plan or other controls for
prevention of accidental discharges and/or slug loads as defined in §
50.51(A), if determined by the POTW Director to be necessary for the user;
            7.   Requirements for immediately notifying the POTW of any changes
at its facility affecting the potential for spills and other accidental
discharges, or slug load as defined in §
50.51(A). Also see §
50.55(E) and(F); and
            8.   A statement of applicable civil and/or criminal penalties for
violation of pretreatment standards and requirements and any applicable
compliance schedule.
         (b)   In addition, permits may contain, but are not limited to, the
following:
            1.   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge, and/or
requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
            2.   Limits on the instantaneous, daily and/or monthly average and/
or maximum concentration, mass, or other measure of identified wastewater
pollutants or properties;
            3.   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology
or construction of appropriate containment devices and the like, designed to
reduce, eliminate, or prevent the introduction of pollutants into the treatment
works;
            4.   Development and implementation of waste minimization plans to
reduce the amount of pollutants discharged to the municipal wastewater system;
            5.   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
management of the wastewater discharged to the system;
            6.   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection
and sampling facilities and equipment;
            7.   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include
sampling locations, frequency of sampling, number, types, and standards for
tests, and reporting schedules;
            8.   Requirements for immediate reporting of any instance of
noncompliance and for automatic re-sampling and reporting within 30 days where
self-monitoring indicates a violation(s);
            9.   Compliance schedules for meeting pretreatment standards and
requirements;
            10.   Requirements for submission of periodic self-monitoring or
special notification reports;
            11.   Requirements for maintaining and retaining plans and records
relating to wastewater discharges as specified in §
50.55(M) and affording the POTW Director, or his or her representatives, access
thereto;
            12.   Requirements for prior notification and approval by the POTW
Director of any new introduction of wastewater pollutants or of any significant
change in the volume or character of the wastewater prior to introduction in
the system;
            13.   Requirements for the prior notification and approval by the
POTW Director of any change in the manufacturing and/or pretreatment process
used by the permittee;
            14.   A statement that compliance with the permit does not relieve
the permittee of responsibility for compliance with all applicable federal and
state pretreatment standards, including those which become effective during the
terms of the permit; and
            15.   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the POTW Director
to ensure compliance with this chapter, and State and Federal laws, rules, and
regulations.
      (11)   Permit duration. Permits shall be issued for a specified time
period, not to exceed 5 years. A permit may be issued for a period less than a
year or may be stated to expire on a specific date.
      (12)   Permit transfer. Wastewater permits are issued to a specific user
for a specific operation. A wastewater discharge permit shall not be reassigned
or transferred or sold to a new owner, new user, different premises, or a new
or changed operation.
      (13)   Permit Reissuance. A significant industrial user shall apply for
permit reissuance by submitting a complete permit application in accordance
with division (B) of this section a minimum of 180 days prior to the expiration
of the existing permit.
(Ord. passed 3-12-2002; Am. Ord. 10-130, passed 4-20-2010; Am. Ord. 12-150,
passed 12-18-2012)
§ 50.55 REPORTING REQUIREMENTS. 
   (A)   Baseline monitoring reports.
      (1)   Within either 180 days after the effective date of a categorical
pretreatment standard, or the final administrative decision on a category
determination under 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(a)(4), whichever is later, existing
categorical users currently discharging to or scheduled to discharge to the
POTW shall submit to the POTW Director a report which contains the information
listed in division (A)(2) of this section. At least 90 days prior to
commencement of their discharge, new sources, and sources that become
categorical users subsequent to the promulgation of an applicable categorical
standard, shall submit to the POTW Director a report which contains the
information listed in division (A)(2) of this section. A new source shall
report the method of pretreatment it intends to use to meet applicable
categorical standards. A new source also shall give estimates of its
anticipated flow and quantity of pollutants to be discharged.
      (2)   Users described above shall submit the information set forth below.
         (a)   Identifying information. The name and address of the facility,
including the name of the operator and owner.
         (b)   Environmental permits. A list of any environmental control
permits held by or for the facility.
         (c)   Description of operations. A brief description of the nature,
average rate of production, and standard industrial classifications of the
operation(s) carried out by such user. This description should include a
schematic process diagram which indicates points of discharge to the POTW from
the regulated processes.
         (d)   Flow measurement. Information showing the measured average daily
and maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated process
streams and other streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined waste
stream formula set out in 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(e).
         (e)   Measurement of pollutants.
            1.   The categorical pretreatment standards applicable to each
regulated process.
            2.   The results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature
and concentration, and/or mass, where required by the standard or by the POTW
Director, of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each regulated process.
Instantaneous, daily maximum, and long-term average concentrations, or mass,
where required, shall be reported. The sample shall be representative of daily
operations and shall be analyzed in accordance with procedures set out in
division (J) of this section.
            3.   Sampling must be performed in accordance with procedures set
out in division (K) of this section and 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(b) and (g),
including 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(g)(4).
         (f)   Certification. A statement, reviewed by the user’s current
authorized representative as defined in §
50.51(A) and certified by a qualified professional, indicating whether
pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis, and, if not,
whether additional operation and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional
pretreatment is required to meet the pretreatment standards and requirements.
         (g)   Compliance schedule. If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will
be required to meet the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which
the user will provide such additional pretreatment and/or O&M. The completion
date in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance date established
for the applicable pretreatment standard. A compliance schedule pursuant to
this section must meet the requirements set out in division (B) of this
section.
         (h)   Signature and certification. All baseline monitoring reports
must be signed and certified in accordance with §
50.54(B)(3).
   (B)   Compliance schedule progress reports. The following conditions shall
apply to the compliance schedule required by division (A)(2)(g) of this
section:
      (1)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction
and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable pretreatment standards (such events include, but are not limited to,
hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans, executing contracts
for major components, commencing and completing construction, and beginning and
conducting routine operation);
      (2)   No increment referred to above shall exceed 9 months;
      (3)   The user shall submit a progress report to the POTW Director no
later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and the final date of
compliance including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress, the reason for any delay, and, if appropriate, the steps
being taken by the user to return to the established schedule; and
      (4)   In no event shall more than 9 months elapse between such progress
reports to the POTW Director.
   (C)   Reports on compliance with categorical pretreatment standard,
deadline. Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with
applicable categorical pretreatment standards, or in the case of a new source
following commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any
user subject to such pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to
the POTW Director a report containing the information described in divisions
(A)(2)(d) through (f) of this section. For users subject to equivalent mass or
concentration limits established in accordance with the procedures in 40 C.F.R.
§ 403.6(c), this report shall contain a reasonable measure of the user’s long-
term production rate. For all other users subject to categorical pretreatment
standards expressed in terms of allowable pollutant discharge per unit of
production (or other measure of operation), this report shall include the
user’s actual production during the appropriate sampling period. All compliance
reports must be signed and certified in accordance with §
50.54(B)(3).
   (D)   Periodic compliance reports. Municipalities may sample and analyze
user discharges in lieu of requiring the users to conduct sampling and
analysis.
      (1)   All significant industrial users shall, at a frequency determined
by the POTW Director but in no case less than once every six months, submit a
report indicating the nature and concentration of pollutants in the discharge
which are limited by pretreatment standards and the applicable flows for the
reporting period. Sampling and analysis must be performed in accordance with
procedures set out in divisions (J) and (K) of this section. All periodic
compliance reports must be signed and certified in accordance with §
50.54(B)(3).
      (2)   If a user subject to the reporting requirement in this section
monitors any pollutant more frequently than required by the POTW Director,
using the procedures prescribed in divisions (J) and (K) of this section, the
results of this monitoring shall be included in the report.
   (E)   Reports of changed conditions. Each user must notify the POTW Director
of any planned significant changes to the user’s operations or system which
might alter the nature, quality, or volume of its wastewater at least 30 days
before the change. The permittee shall not begin the changes until receiving
written approval from the Control Authority. See division (F)(4) of this
section for other reporting requirements.
      (1)   The POTW Director may require the user to submit such information
as may be deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition, including the
submission of a wastewater discharge permit application under §
50.54(B).
      (2)   The POTW Director may issue a wastewater discharge permit under §
50.54(B) or modify an existing wastewater discharge permit under §
50.54(B) in response to changed conditions or anticipated changed conditions.
      (3)   For purposes of this requirement, significant changes include, but
are not limited to, flow or pollutant increases of 20% or greater, and the
discharge of any previously unreported pollutants, increases or decreases to
production; increases in discharge of previously reported pollutants; discharge
of pollutants not previously reported to the Control Authority and/or
municipality; new or changed product lines; new or changed manufacturing
processes and/or chemicals; or new or changed customers.
   (F)   Reports of potential problems.
      (1)   In the case of any discharge, including, but not limited to,
accidental discharges, discharges of a non-routine, episodic nature, a non-
customary batch discharge, or a slug load as defined in §
50.51(A), that may cause potential problems for the POTW, the user shall
immediately telephone and notify the POTW Director of the incident. This
notification shall include the location of the discharge, type of waste,
concentration and volume, if known, and corrective actions taken by the user.
      (2)   Within 5 days following such discharge, the user shall, unless
waived by the POTW Director, submit a detailed written report describing the
cause(s) of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent
similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the user of any
expense, loss, damage, or other liability which may be incurred as a result of
damage to the POTW, natural resources, or any other damage to person or
property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of any fines, penalties,
or other liability which may be imposed pursuant to this chapter.
      (3)   A notice shall be permanently posted on the user’s bulletin board
or other prominent place advising employees whom to call in the event of a
discharge described in division (F)(1) of this section. Employers shall ensure
that all employees, who may cause such a discharge to occur, are advised of the
emergency notification procedure.
      (4)   All SIUs are required to notify the POTW immediately of any changes
at its facility affecting the potential for spills and other accidental
discharge, discharge of a non-routine, episodic nature, a non-customary batch
discharge, or a slug load as defined in §
50.51(A).
   (G)   Reports from unpermitted users. 
      (1)   All users not required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit
shall provide appropriate reports to the POTW Director as the POTW Director may
require.
      (2)   All users classified as non-significant categorical industrial
users under §
50.51(A) shall provide appropriate reports to the POTW Director as the POTW
Director may require. At a minimum, this shall include the annual certification
of continuing to meet the non-significant categorical industrial user criteria
as required under 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(q).
   (H)   Notice of violation/repeat sampling and reporting.
      (1) If sampling performed by a user indicates a violation, the user must
notify the POTW Director within 24 hours of becoming aware of the violation.
The user shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the results of
the repeat analysis to the POTW Director within 30 days after becoming aware of
the violation. If allowed by the POTW Director, the user is not required to
resample:
         (a)   If the POTW monitors at the user’s facility at least once a
month; or
         (b)   If the POTW samples between the user’s initial sampling and when
the user receives the results of this sampling.
      (2)   If the POTW has performed the sampling and analysis in lieu of the
industrial user and the POTW sampling of the user indicates a violation, the
POTW shall repeat the sampling and obtain the results of the repeat analysis
within 30 days after becoming aware of the violations, unless one of the
following occurs:
         (a)   The POTW monitors at the user’s facility at least once a month;
         (b)   The POTW samples the user between their initial sampling and
when the POTW receives the results of this initial sampling; or
         (c)   The POTW Director requires the user to perform sampling and
submit the results to the POTW Director within the 30 day deadline of the POTW
becoming aware of the violation.
   (I)   Notification of the discharge of hazardous waste. The town prohibits
the discharge of any hazardous wastes without notification to and approval by
the POTW Director.
      (1)   Any user who commences the discharge of hazardous waste shall
notify the POTW, the EPA Regional Waste Management Division Director, and State
hazardous waste authorities, in writing, of any discharge into the POTW of a
substance which, if otherwise disposed of, would be a hazardous waste under 40
C.F.R. Part 261. Such notification must include the name of the hazardous waste
as set forth in 40 C.F.R. Part 261, the EPA hazardous waste number, and the
type of discharge (continuous, batch, or other). If the user discharges more
than 100 kilograms of such waste per calendar month to the POTW, the
notification also shall contain the following information to the extent such
information is known and readily available to the user: an identification of
the hazardous constituents contained in the wastes, an estimation of the mass
and concentration of such constituents in the wastestream discharge during the
calendar month, and an estimation of the mass and concentration of such
constituents in the wastestream expected to be discharged during the following
12 months. All notifications must take place no later than 180 days before the
discharge commences. The user shall not begin the discharge until receiving
written approval from the town. Any notification under this paragraph need be
submitted only once for each hazardous waste discharge. However, notifications
of changed conditions must be submitted under division (E) of this section. The
notification requirement in this section does not apply to pollutants already
reported by users subject to categorical pretreatment standards under the self-
monitoring requirements of divisions (A), (C), and (D) of this section.
      (2)   Dischargers are exempt from the requirements of division (I)(1) of
this section, during a calendar month in which they discharge no more than 15
kilograms of hazardous wastes, unless the wastes are acute hazardous wastes as
specific in 40 C.F.R. §§ 261.30(d) and 361.33(e). Discharge of more than 15
kilograms of non-acute hazardous wastes in a calendar month, or of any quantity
of acute hazardous wastes as specified in 40 C.F.R. §§ 261.30(d) and 261.33(e),
requires a one-time notification. Subsequent months during which the user
discharges more than such quantities of any hazardous waste do not require
additional notification.
      (3)   In the case of any new regulation under § 3001 of RCRA identifying
additional characteristics of hazardous waste or listing any additional
substance as a hazardous waste, the user must notify the POTW Director, the EPA
Regional Waste Management Waste Division Director, and state hazardous waste
authorities of the discharge of such substance within 90 days of the effective
date of such regulations.
      (4)   In the case of any notification made under this section, the user
shall certify that it has a program in place to reduce the volume and toxicity
of hazardous wastes generated to the degree it has determined to be
economically practical.
      (5)   This provision does not create a right to discharge any substance
not otherwise permitted to be discharged by this chapter, a permit issued
thereunder, or any applicable federal or state law.
   (J)   Analytical requirements. All pollutant analyses, including sampling
techniques, to be submitted as part of a wastewater discharge permit
application or report shall be performed by a laboratory certified by the state
to perform the wastewater analyses in accordance with the techniques prescribed
in 40 C.F.R. Part 136, unless otherwise specified in an applicable categorical
pretreatment standard or unless otherwise performed in accordance with
procedures approved by EPA or town. If 40 C.F.R. Part 136 does not contain
sampling or analytical techniques for the pollutant in question, sampling and
analyses must be performed in accordance with procedures approved by EPA and
town. Analyses must be performed by a state certified lab for each parameter
analyzed, if such certification exists for that parameter.
   (K)   Grab and composite sample collection.
      (1)   All wastewater samples must be representative of the user’s
discharge. Wastewater monitoring and flow measurement facilities shall be
properly operated, kept clean, and maintained in good working order at all
times. The failure of a user to keep its monitoring facility in good working
order shall not be grounds for the user to claim that sample results are
unrepresentative of its discharge.
      (2)   Grab samples must be used for pH, cyanide, total phenols, oil and
grease, sulfide, volatile organic compounds, and any other pollutants as
required by 40 C.F.R. § 136. The POTW shall determine the number of grabs
necessary to be representative of the user’s discharge. See 40 C.F.R. § 403.12
(g)(5) for additional grab sample number requirements for a baseline monitoring
report (BMR) and 90 day compliance reports. Additionally, the POTW Director may
allow collection of multiple grabs during a 24 hour period which are composited
prior to analysis as allowed under 40 C.F.R. § 136.
      (3)   Composite samples. All wastewater composite samples shall be
collected with a minimum of hourly aliquots or grabs for each hour that there
is a discharge. All wastewater composite samples shall be collected using flow
proportional composite collection techniques, unless time-proportional
composite sampling or grab sampling is authorized by the POTW Director. When
authorizing time-proportional composites or grabs, the samples must be
representative and the decision to allow the alternative sampling must be
documented.
   (L)   Timing. Written reports will be deemed to have been submitted on the
date postmarked. For reports which are not mailed, postage prepaid, into a mail
facility serviced by the United States Postal Service, the date of receipt of
the report shall govern.
   (M)   Record keeping. Users subject to the reporting requirements of this
chapter shall retain, and make available for inspection and copying, all
records of information obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required
by this chapter and any additional records of information obtained pursuant to
monitoring activities undertaken by the user independent of such requirements.
Records shall include the date, exact place, method, and time of sampling, and
the name of the person(s) taking the samples; the dates analyses were
performed; who performed the analyses; the analytical techniques or methods
used; and the results of such analyses. These records shall remain available
for a period of at least 3 years. This period shall be automatically extended
for the duration of any litigation concerning the user or the town, or where
the user has been specifically notified of a longer retention period by the
POTW Director.
   (N)   Electronic reporting. The POTW Director may develop procedures for
receipt of electronic reports for any reporting requirements of this
subchapter. Such procedures shall comply with 40 C.F.R. Part 3. These
procedures shall be enforceable under §
50.58.
   (O)   Special reporting requirements for use in satellite POTWs. In the case
of industrial user located in a satellite POTW organization’s jurisdiction, all
information required to be reported to the industrial user’s pretreatment
program control authority by this subchapter shall also be reported to the POTW
treatment plant organization.
(Ord. passed 3-12-2002; Am. Ord. 10-130, passed 4-20-2010; Am. Ord. 12-150,
passed 12-18-2012)
§ 50.56 COMPLIANCE MONITORING.
   (A)   Monitoring facilities. 
      (1)   The town requires the user to provide and operate at the user’s own
expense, monitoring facilities to allow inspection, sampling, and flow
measurement of the building sewer and/or internal drainage systems. The
monitoring facility should normally be situated on the user’s premises, but the
town may, when such a location would be impractical or cause undue hardship on
the user, allow the facility to be constructed in the public street or sidewalk
area and located so that it will not be obstructed by landscaping or parked
vehicles.
      (2)   There shall be ample room in or near such sampling manhole or
facility to allow accurate sampling and preparation of samples for analysis.
The facility, sampling, and measuring equipment shall be maintained at all
times in a safe and proper operating condition at the expense of the user.
      (3)   Whether constructed on public or private property, the sampling and
monitoring facilities shall be provided in accordance with the requirements of
the town and all applicable local construction standards and specifications.
Construction shall be completed within 90 days following written notification
by the town.
   (B)   Inspection and sampling. The town will inspect the facilities of any
user to ascertain whether the purpose of this subchapter is being met and all
requirements are being complied with. Persons or occupants of premises where
wastewater is created or discharged shall allow the town, approval authority
and EPA or their representative ready access at all reasonable times to all
parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, records
examination and copying or in the performance of any of their duties. The town,
approval authority and EPA shall have the right to set up on the user’s
property such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling, inspection,
compliance monitoring and/or metering operations. Where a user has security
measures in force which would require proper identification and clearance
before entry into their premises, the user shall make necessary arrangements
with their security guards so that upon presentation of suitable
identification, personnel from the town, approval authority and EPA will be
permitted to enter, without delay, for the purposes of performing their
specific responsibilities. Denial of the POTW’s, approval authority’s, or EPA’s
access to the user’s premises shall be a violation of this chapter.
Unreasonable delays may constitute denial of access.
   (C)   Search warrants. If the POTW, approval authority, or EPA has been
refused access to a building, structure, or property, or any part thereof, and
is able to demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a violation
of this chapter, or that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a
routine inspection and sampling program of the town designed to verify
compliance with this chapter or any permit or order issued hereunder, or to
protect the overall public health, safety and welfare of the community, then
the POTW , approval authority, or EPA may seek issuance of a search warrant
from the court having jurisdiction within the town.
(Ord. passed 3-12-2002; Am. Ord. 10-130, passed 4-20-2010; Am. Ord. 12-150,
passed 12-18-2012)
§ 50.57 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information and data provided by an industrial user to the POTW
Director pursuant to this subchapter identifying the nature and frequency of a
discharge, shall be available to the public without restriction. All other
information which may be so submitted by an industrial user to the POTW
Director in connection with any required reports shall also be available to the
public unless the industrial user or other interested person specifically
identifies the information as confidential upon submission and is able to
demonstrate to the satisfaction of the POTW Director that the disclosure of
such information or a particular part thereof to the general public would
divulge methods or processes entitled to protection as trade secrets.
   (B)   Information provided by an industrial user to the POTW Director that
is determined to be entitled to confidential treatment shall be made available
upon written request to the Division of Water Quality or any state agency for
uses related to the pretreatment program, the national pollutant discharge
elimination system (NPDES) permit, collection system permit, stormwater permit,
and/or non-discharge permit, and for uses related to judicial review or
enforcement proceedings involving the person furnishing the report.
   (C)   Information and data received by the Division or other state agency
under division (B) of this section shall be subject to the processes set forth
in G.S. § 143-215.3C.
(Ord. 10-130, passed 4-20-2010; Am. Ord. 12-150, passed 12-18-2012)
§ 50.58 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Administrative remedies.
      (1)   Notification of violation. Whenever the POTW Director finds that
any industrial user has violated or is violating this subchapter, wastewater
permit, or any prohibition, limitation or requirements contained therein or any
other pretreatment requirement the POTW Director may serve upon such a person a
written notice stating the nature of the violation. Within 30 days from the
date of this notice, an explanation for the violation and a plan for the
satisfactory correction thereof shall be submitted to the town by the user.
Submission of this plan does not relieve the discharger of liability for any
violations occurring before or after receipt of the notice of violation.
      (2)   Consent orders. The POTW Director is hereby empowered to enter into
consent orders, assurances of voluntary compliance, or other similar documents
establishing an agreement with the person responsible for the noncompliance.
Such orders will include specific action to be taken by the discharger to
correct the noncompliance within a time period also specified by the order.
Consent orders shall have the same force and effect as an administrative order
issued pursuant to division (A)(4) of this section.
      (3)   Show cause hearing. 
         (a)   The POTW Director may order any industrial user who causes or is
responsible for an unauthorized discharge, has violated this chapter or is in
noncompliance with a wastewater discharge permit to show cause why a proposed
enforcement action should not be taken. In the event the POTW Director
determines that a show cause order should be issued, a notice shall be served
on the user specifying the time and place for the hearing, the proposed
enforcement action, the reasons for such action, and a request that the user
show cause why this proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The notice
of the hearing shall be served personally or by registered or certified mail
(return receipt requested) at least 10 days before the hearing. Service may be
made on any agent or officer of a corporation.
         (b)   The POTW Director shall review the evidence presented at the
hearing and determine whether the proposed enforcement action is appropriate.
         (c)   A show cause hearing under this section is not a prerequisite to
the assessment of a civil penalty under division (B) of this section nor is any
action or inaction taken by the POTW Director under this section subject to an
administrative appeal under §
50.54(B)(8).
      (4)   Administrative orders. When the POTW Director finds that an
industrial user has violated or continues to violate this subchapter, permits
or orders issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment requirement the POTW
Director may issue an order to cease and desist all such violations and direct
those persons in noncompliance to do any of the following:
         (a)   Immediately comply with all requirements;
         (b)   Comply in accordance with a compliance time schedule set forth
in the order;
         (c)   Take appropriate remedial or preventive action in the event of a
continuing or threatened violation; or
         (d)   Disconnect unless adequate treatment facilities, devices or
other related appurtenances are installed and properly operated within a
specified time period.
      (5)   Emergency suspensions. 
         (a)   The POTW Director may suspend the wastewater treatment service
and/or wastewater permit when such suspension is necessary in order to stop an
actual or threatened discharge which presents or may present an imminent or
substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons or the
environment, interferes with the POTW or causes the POTW to violate any
condition of its NPDES or Non-discharge permit.
         (b)   Any user notified of a suspension of the wastewater treatment
service and/or the wastewater permit shall immediately stop or eliminate the
contribution. A hearing will be held within 15 days of the notice of suspension
to determine whether the suspension may be lifted or the user’s waste discharge
permit terminated. In the event of a failure to comply voluntarily with the
suspension order, the POTW Director shall take such steps as deemed necessary
including immediate severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize
damage to the POTW system or endangerment to any individuals. The POTW Director
shall reinstate the wastewater permit and the wastewater treatment service upon
proof of the elimination of the noncompliant discharge. The industrial user
shall submit a detailed written statement describing the causes of the harmful
contribution and the measures taken to prevent any future occurrence to the
POTW Director prior to the date of the above-described hearing.
      (6)   Termination of permit or permission to discharge. The POTW Director
may revoke a wastewater discharge permit or permission to discharge for good
cause, including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
         (a)   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of his discharge;
         (b)   Failure to report significant changes in operations, or
wastewater constituents and characteristics;
         (c)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for the
purpose of inspection or monitoring; or
         (d)   Violation of conditions of the permit or permission to
discharge, conditions of this subchapter, or any applicable state and federal
regulations.
      (7)   Noncompliant industrial users will be notified of the proposed
termination of their wastewater permit and will be offered an opportunity to
show cause under division (A) of this section why the proposed action should
not be taken.
   (B)   Civil penalties.
      (1)   Any user who is found to have failed to comply with any provision
of this chapter, or the orders, rules, regulations and permits issued
hereunder, may be assessed a civil penalty up to $25,000 per day per violation.
Penalties of up to $25,000 per day per violation may be assessed against a
violator:
         (a)   For any class of violation, only if a civil penalty has been
imposed against the violator with in the five years preceding the violation; or
         (b)   In the case of failure to file, submit, or make available, as
the case may be, any documents, data, or reports required by this chapter, or
the orders, rules, regulations and permits issued hereunder, only if the POTW
Director determines that the violation was intentional and a civil penalty has
been imposed against the violator within the five years preceding the
violation.
      (2)   In determining the amount of the civil penalty, the POTW Director
shall consider the following:
         (a)   The degree and extent of the harm to the natural resources, to
the public health, or to
   public or private property resulting from the violation;
         (b)   The duration and gravity of the violation;
         (c)   The effect on ground or surface water quantity or quality or on
air quality;
         (d)   The cost of rectifying the damage;
         (e)   The amount of money saved by noncompliance;
         (f)   Whether the violation was committed willfully or intentionally;
         (g)   The prior record of the violator in complying or failing to
comply with the pretreatment program; and
         (h)   The costs of enforcement to the town.
      (3)   Appeals of civil penalties assessed in accordance with this section
shall be as provided in §
50.54(B)(8).
   (C)   Other available remedies. Remedies, in addition to those previously
mentioned in this chapter, are available to the POTW Director who may use any
single one or combination against a noncompliant user. Additional available
remedies include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Criminal violations. The district attorney for the applicable
judicial district may, at the request of the town, prosecute noncompliant users
who violate the provisions of G.S. § 143-215.6B. Note: Under North Carolina
law, it is a crime to negligently violate any term, condition, or requirement
of a pretreatment permit, or negligently fail to apply for a pretreatment
permit, issued by local governments (G.S. § 143-215.6B(f)), to knowingly and
willfully violate any term, condition, or requirement of a pretreatment permit,
or knowingly and willfully fail to apply for a pretreatment permit, issued by
local governments (G.S. § 143-215.6B(g)), to knowingly violate any term,
condition, or requirement of a pretreatment permit issued by local governments,
or knowingly fail to apply for a pretreatment permit, knowing at the time that
a person is placed in imminent danger of death or serious bodily injury, (G.S.
§ 143-215.6B(h)), and to falsify information required under Article 21 of
Chapter 143 of the General Statutes (G.S. § 143-215.6B(i)).
      (2)   Injunctive relief. Whenever a user is in violation of the
provisions of this subchapter or an order or permit issued hereunder, the POTW
Director, through the City Attorney, may petition the Superior Court of Justice
for the issuance of a restraining order and/or a preliminary and permanent
injunction which restrain or compel the activities in question.
      (3)   Water supply severance. Whenever an industrial user is in violation
of the provisions of this subchapter or an order or permit issued hereunder,
water service to the industrial user may be severed and service will only
recommence, at the user’s expense, after it has satisfactorily demonstrated
ability to comply.
      (4)   Public nuisances. Any violation of the prohibitions or effluent
limitations of this subchapter or of a permit or order issued hereunder, is
hereby declared a public nuisance and shall be corrected or abated as directed
by the POTW Director. Any person(s) creating a public nuisance shall be subject
to the provisions of the appropriate chapters of the town governing such
nuisances, including reimbursing the POTW for any costs incurred in removing,
abating or remedying the nuisance.
   (D)   Remedies nonexclusive. The remedies provided for in this chapter are
not exclusive. The POTW Director may take any, all, or any combination of these
actions against a noncompliant user. Enforcement of pretreatment violations
will generally be in accordance with the Town’s enforcement response plan.
However, the POTW Director may take other action against any user when the
circumstances warrant. Further, the POTW Director is empowered to take more
than one enforcement action against any noncompliant user.
(Ord. 10-130, passed 4-20-2010; Am. Ord. 12-150, passed 12-18-2012)
§ 50.59 ANNUAL PUBLICATION OF SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE.
   At least annually, the POTW Director shall publish in a newspaper of general
circulation that provides meaningful public notice within the jurisdiction(s)
served by the POTW, a list of those industrial users which were found to be in
significant noncompliance, also referred to as reportable noncompliance, in 15A
NCAC 02H .0903(b)(10), with applicable pretreatment standards and requirements,
during the previous 12 months.
(Ord. 10-130, passed 4-20-2010; Am. Ord. 12-150, passed 12-18-2012)
§ 50.60 AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES TO DISCHARGE VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Upset.
      (1)   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action
brought for noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards if the
requirements of division (A)(2) of this section are met.
      (2)   A user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset
shall demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs, or
other relevant evidence that:
         (a)   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause(s) of the
upset;
         (b)   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workman-like manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures; and
         (c)   The user has submitted the following information to the POTW
Director within 24 hours of becoming aware of the upset if this information is
provided orally, a written submission must be provided within 5 days:
            1.   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of
noncompliance;
            2.   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times
or, if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue; and
            3.   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate, and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.
      (3)   In any enforcement proceeding, the user seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
      (4)   Users will have the opportunity for a judicial determination on any
claim of upset only in an enforcement action brought for noncompliance with
categorical pretreatment standards.
      (5)   Users shall control production of all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with categorical pretreatment standards upon
reduction, loss, or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost, or fails.
   (B)   Prohibited discharge standards defense. A user shall have an
affirmative defense to an enforcement action brought against it for
noncompliance with the general prohibitions in §
50.52(H)(1) or the specific prohibitions in §
50.52(H)(2)(b), (c), (e) through (g) and (i) through (w) if it can prove that
it did not know, or have reason to know, that its discharge, alone or in
conjunction with discharges from other sources, would cause pass through or
interference and that either:
      (1)   A local limit exists for each pollutant discharged and the user was
in compliance with each limit directly prior to, and during, the pass through
or interference; or
      (2)   No local limit exists, but the discharge did not change
substantially in nature or constituents from the user’s prior discharge when
the city was regularly in compliance with its NPDES permit, and in the case of
interference, was in compliance with applicable sludge use or disposal
requirements.
   (C)   Bypass.
      (1)   A user may allow any bypass to occur which does not cause
pretreatment standards or requirements to be violated, but only if it also is
for essential maintenance to assure efficient operation. These bypasses are not
subject to the provision of divisions (C)(2) and (3) of this section.
      (2)   Reporting required.
         (a)   If a user knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it shall
submit prior notice to the POTW Director, at least 10 days before the date of
the bypass, if possible.
         (b)   A user shall submit oral notice to the POTW Director of an
unanticipated bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment standards within 24
hours from the time it becomes aware of the bypass. A written submission shall
also be provided within 5 days of this time the user becomes aware of the
bypass. The written submission shall contain a description of the bypass and
its cause; the duration of the bypass, including exact dates and times, and, if
the bypass has not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to
continue; and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and prevent
reoccurrence of the bypass. The POTW Director may waive the written report on a
case-by-case basis if the oral report has been received within 24 hours.
      (3)   POTW Director responses.
         (a)   Bypass is prohibited, and the POTW Director may take an
enforcement action against a user for a bypass, unless:
            1.   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal
injury, or severe property damage;
            2.   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the
use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes, or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate back-up equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
            3.   The user submitted notices as required under division (C)(2)
of this section.
         (b)   The POTW Director may approve an anticipated bypass, after
considering its adverse effects, if the POTW Director determines that it will
meet the three conditions listed in division (C)(3)(a) of this section.
(Ord. 10-130, passed 4-20-2010; Am. Ord. 12-150, passed 12-18-2012)
FATS, OILS, GREASES, SAND AND GAS CONTROL
§ 50.70 SCOPE, PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   This subchapter sets forth uniform requirements for direct and
indirect contributors into the wastewater collection and treatment system for
the town and enables the town to comply with all applicable state and federal
laws, including the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq., and the
general pretreatment regulations, being 40 C.F.R. part 403. It is intended to
aid in the prevention of sanitary sewer blockages and obstructions from
contributions and accumulation of fats, oils, and greases into the sewer system
from industrial or commercial establishments, particularly food preparation and
serving facilities.
   (B)   The objectives of this subchapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
wastewater system which will interfere with the operation of the system or
contaminate the resulting sludge;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
wastewater system which will pass through the system, inadequately treated,
into any waters of the state or otherwise be incompatible with the system;
      (3)   To ensure the capability for reuse and recycling of industrial
wastewater and sludge from the municipal system;
      (4)   To protect both municipal personnel who may be affected by sewage,
sludge, and effluent in the course of their employment as well as protecting
the general public;
      (5)   To provide for equitable distribution of the cost of operation,
maintenance and improvement of the municipal wastewater system;
      (6)   To ensure that the municipality complies with its NPDES or
nondischarge permit conditions, sludge use, disposal requirements and other
federal or state laws to which the municipal wastewater system is subject; and
      (7)   To aid in the prevention of sanitary sewer blockages and
obstructions from contributions end accumulations of fats, oils, and greases
into the wastewater system from industrial or commercial establishments,
particularly food preparation and serving facilities.
   (C)   This subchapter provides for the regulation of direct and indirect
contributors to the municipal wastewater system, through the issuance of
permits to certain nondomestic users and through enforcement of general
requirements for the other users, authorizes monitoring and enforcement
activities, requires user reporting and provides for the setting of fees for
the equitable distribution of costs resulting from the program established
herein.
   (D)   This subchapter shall apply to all users of the municipal wastewater
system as authorized by G.S. 160A-312. Except as otherwise provided herein, the
Public Works Director shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions
of this subchapter. Any powers granted to or imposed upon the Public Works
Director may be delegated by the Public Works Director to other town personnel.
By discharging wastewater into the municipal wastewater system, industrial
users located outside the town limits agree to comply with the terms and
conditions established in this subchapter, as well as any permits, enforcement
actions, or orders issued hereunder.
(Ord. 06-101, passed 4-18-2006)
§ 50.71 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FATS, OILS, GREASE. Organic polar compounds derived from animal and/or
system sources that contain multiple carbon chain triglyceride molecules.
GREASE is defined to include the accumulation of oils, fats, cellulose, starch,
proteins, wax, or grease, whether emulsified or not, in the sewer system of the
town. These are substances that may solidify or become viscous at temperatures
between 32°F and 150°F (0° - 65° C). These substances are detectable and
measurable using analytical test procedures established in 40 C.F.R. 136, as
may be amended from time to time. All are sometimes referred to herein as
GREASE or GREASES.
   FOOD SERVICE, COOKING OR FOOD GENERATING ESTABLISHMENTS. Includes any
commercial facility discharging kitchen or food preparation wastewater
including restaurants, motels. hotels, cafeterias, catering, hospitals,
extended care facilities, schools, bars, daycare facilities where meals for
more than 6 children are prepared, delicatessen, meat cutting-preparation,
bakeries, commercial food preparation facilities, meat processing facilities,
and the like, any establishments that may be capable of accumulating and
discharging grease in to the wastewater system, and any other facility which,
in the opinion of the Public Works Director, would require a grease trap
installation by virtue of its operation. Those establishments engaged in
activities of preparing, serving, or otherwise making available for consumption
foodstuffs and that use 1 or more of the following preparation activities:
cooking by frying (all methods); baking (all methods); grilling; sauteing;
rotisserie cooking; broiling (all methods); boiling; blanching; roasting;
toasting; or poaching. Also included are infrared heating, searing, barbecuing,
and any other food preparation that produces a hot, non-drinkable food product
in or on a receptacle that requires washing.
   GREASE INTERCEPTOR or GREASE TRAP. An approved device for separating and
retaining waterborne greases and grease complexes from a food service
establishment prior to the wastewater exiting the trap and entering the
sanitary sewer collection and treatment system. These devices also serve to
collect settable solids, generated by arid from food preparation activities,
prior to the water exiting the trap and entering the sanitary sewer collection
and treatment system. Grease traps and interceptors are sometimes referred to
herein as GREASE INTERCEPTORS. These traps or interceptors may be of the
“outdoor” or underground type normally of a 1,000 gallon capacity or more, or
the “under-the-counter” package: units which are typically less than 100 gallon
capacity. For the purpose of this definition, the words TRAP and INTERCEPTOR
are used interchangeably.
   INTERFERENCE. A discharge which alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources inhibits and/or disrupts the wastewater treatment
system in its treatment processes and/or disrupts the wastewater treatment
system, its treatment processes and/or operations, and/or its sludge processes.
use and/or disposal. Interference shall include, but is not limited to, a
discharge which alone or in conjunction with a discharge or discharges from
other sources causes, in whole or in part, a violation(s) of 1 or more of the
town’s NPDES permits and/or non-compliance with any or the following statutory/
regulatory provisions or permits issued thereunder, or any more stringent state
or local regulation(s): § 405 of the Act (33 U.S.C. 1345), or any criteria,
guideline or regulations developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act
(SEDA), being 42 U.S.C.§§ 6901 et seq., the Clean Air Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§
1251 et seq., the Toxic Substances Control Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et
seq.,the Marine Protection Research and Sanctuary Act (MPRSA), being 33 U.S.C.
§§ 1401 et seq. or more stringent state criteria (including those contained in
any state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to Title IV of the Solid
Waste Disposal Act applicable to the method of disposal or use employed by the
wastewater treatment system.
   MINIMUM DESIGN CAPABILITY. The design features of a grease interceptor and
its ability or volume required to effectively intercept and retain greases from
grease-laden wastewaters discharged to the public sanitary sewer.
   NON-COOKING ESTABLISHMENTS. Those establishments primarily engaged in the
preparation of precooked foodstuffs that do not include any form of cooking.
These include, but are not limited to, food processing, cold dairy and frozen
foodstuffs preparation and serving establishments.
   OIL/WATER SEPARATOR. An automatic or manual device designed to separate and
retain oils and other light density volatile liquids from normal waste for
proper disposal, rendering or recycling, and also permits normal sewage and
liquid wastes to discharge into the disposal terminal by gravity.
   OWNER. Owner shall mean individual, person, firm, company, association,
society, corporation, or group upon whose property the building or structure
serving as a food service, cooking or food generating establishment is located
or will be constructed.
   PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR. The Public Works Director, or his or her designee.
   USER, GENERATOR or CONTRIBUTOR. Any person, including those located outside
the jurisdictional limits of the town, who contributes, causes or permits the
contribution or discharge of wastewater into the publicly owned wastewater
treatment system, including persons who contribute such wastewater from mobile
sources, such as those who discharge hauled wastewater.
(Ord. 06-101, passed 4-18-2006)
§ 50.72 PRETREATMENT OF WASTEWATER.
   (A)   Whenever deemed necessary, the Public Works Director may require users
to restrict their discharge during peak flow periods, designate that certain
wastewater be discharged only into specific sewers, relocate and/or consolidate
points of discharge, separate sewage wastestreams from industrial wastestreams,
and any other conditions as may he or she necessary to protect the wastewater
treatment system and determine the user’s compliance with the requirements of
this subchapter.
   (B)   The Public Works Director may require any person discharging into the
wastewater treatment system to install and maintain, on their property and at
their expense, a suitable storage and flow-control facility to ensure
equalization of flow. A wastewater discharge permit may be issued solely for
flow equalization.
   (C)   Sand interceptors shall be provided when in the opinion of the Public
Works Director, they are necessary for the proper handling of wastewater
containing excessive amounts of sand; except that those interceptors shall not
be required for residential users. All interception units shall be of the type
and capacity approved by the Public Works Director, and shall be so located to
be easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. These interceptors shall be
inspected, cleaned, and repaired regularly, as needed, by the user at their
expense.
   (D)   Users with the potential to discharge flammable substances may be
required to install and maintain an approved combustible gas detection meter.
In the event gas is detected, user must take appropriate steps to eliminate the
presence of gas in the system,
   (E)   Grease interceptors shall be installed by all grease generating
establishments as required by the Public Works Director. Grease interceptors
shall be installed at the grease generating establishment’s expense. No grease
generating establishment shall allow wastewater discharge concentration from
subject grease interceptor to exceed 200 milligrams per liter, as identified by
method EPA Method 1664. All grease interceptors shall be of a type, design, and
capacity approved by the Public Works Director, his or her designee, and shall
be readily and easily accessible for user cleaning and town inspection. All
grease interceptors shall be serviced and emptied of accumulated waste content
as required in order to maintain minimum design capability or effective volume
of the grease interceptor, but not less often than every 30 days or at a
different intervals as authorized by the Public Works Director. Users who are
required to pass water through a grease interceptor shall:
      (1)   Provide for a minimum hydraulic retention time of 24 minutes at
actual peak flow or 12 minutes at the calculated theoretical peak flow rate as
predicted by the Uniform Plumbing Code fixture criteria, between the influent
and effluent baffles with 20% of the total volume of the grease interceptor
being allowed for sludge to settle and accumulate, identified hereafter as a
“sludge pocket.”
      (2)   Remove any accumulated grease cap and sludge pocket as required,
but at intervals of not longer than 30 days, or at a different interval as
authorized by Public Works Director, or the Public Works Director’s designee,
at the users expense. Grease interceptors shall be kept free of inorganic solid
materials such as grit, rocks, gravel, sand, eating utensils, cigarettes,
shells, towels, rags, and the like, which could settle into this pocket and
thereby reduce the effective volume of the grease interceptor.
      (3)   Accept the following conditions: if any skimmed or pumped wastes or
other materials removed from grease interceptor are treated in any fashion
onsite and reintroduced back into the grease interceptor as an activity of and
after the onsite treatment, the grease generating establishment shall be
responsible for the attainment of established grease numerical limit consistent
with and contained in division (E) above on all discharges of wastewater from
the grease interceptor into the town’s sanitary sewer collection and treatment
system.
      (4)   Operate the grease interceptor in a manner so as to maintain the
device so that attainment of the grease limit is consistently achieved.
“Consistent” shall mean any wastewater sample taken from the grease interceptor
shall be subject to terms of numerical limit attainment described in division
(E) above. If an establishment desires, because of documented space
constraints, an alternate to an out-of-building grease interceptor, the request
for an alternative location shall contain the following information:
         (a)   Location of town sewer main and easement in relation to
available exterior space outside building; or
         (b)   Existing plumbing at or in a site that uses common plumbing for
all services it that site.
      (5)   Understand and agree that the use of biological additives as a
grease degradation agent is conditionally permissible, upon prior written
approval by the Director. Any establishment using this method of grease
abatement shall maintain the trap or interceptor in a manner that attainment of
the grease wastewater discharge limit, as measured from the trap’s outlet, is
consistently achieved.
      (6)   Understand and agree that the use of automatic grease removal
systems is conditionally permissible, upon prior written approval by the Public
Works Director, the Inspection Superintendent of the Town of Fairmont, and the
Robeson County Department of Health. Any establishment using this equipment
shall operate the system in such a manner that attainment of the grease
wastewater discharge limit, as measured from the unit’s outlet, is consistently
achieved.
      (7)   Understand and agree that the Public Works Director reserves the
right to make determinations of grease interceptor adequacy and need, based on
review of all relevant information regarding grease interceptor performance,
facility site and building plan review and to require repairs to or
modification or replacement of the traps.
      (8)   Upon the prior written approval of the Public Work Director, non-
cooking establishments may be exempted from the requirements of this subchapter
after an inspection of the subject premises and submission of adequate
supporting documentation, as deemed necessary in the sole and absolute
discretion of the Public Works Director. At a minimum, the supporting
documentation shall include: blue prints at the subject premises; and a full
and detailed list of all potential sources of grease at the subject premises.
      (9)   Grease traps and interceptors may also be required in other
facilities, as deemed necessary by the town’s Public Works Director.
      (10)   In the event an overflow, spill, leak, or other event causes an
environmental impact that may be attributed in part or in whole to a particular
user, the town will seek enforcement action under the sewer use ordinance, and/
or the pretreatment enforcement plan. For purposes of this section an overflow,
spill, leak or other event shall be deemed to have all environmental impact
when:
         (a)   The overflow or other event reaches an amount of wastewater
equal to or in excess of 1,000 gallons; or
         (b)   Any amount of wastewater reaches any body or surface water.
      (11)   (a)   Users shall supply:
            1.   An adequate sampling point down stream of grease trap or
interceptor, prior to mixing with other sanitary flows; and
            2.   An accessible entry into each chamber of the grease trap or
interceptor.
         (b)   The minimum requirement for the sampling point shall be a 4-inch
vertical clean out.
      (12)   Access manholes, with a minimum diameter of 24 inches, shall be
provided over each chamber and sanitary tee. The access manholes shall extend
at least to finished grade and be designed and maintained to prevent water
inflow or infiltration. The manholes shall also have readily removable covers
to facilitate inspection, grease removal, and wastewater sampling activities.
All manhole construction shall conform to the Town of Fairmont’s
specifications.
      (13)   Users shall empty and service grease traps and interceptors to
comply with the performances criteria in §
50.72 as often as necessary, but in any event no longer than every 30 days.
Under-the-counter types of grease traps and interceptors shall be cleaned at
least daily, and shall comply with the performance criteria of §
50.72. There shall be no reintroduction of wastewater back into the grease trap
or interceptor unless and until the wastewater has been proven to contain 200
mg/l or less of grease. Under no circumstances shall the sludge or scum layer
be reintroduced or discharged into the town’s wastewater collection system or
POTW.
   (F)   The user shall maintain a written record of trap maintenance for 3
years. All records will be available for inspection by town officials or the
Public Works Director, at all times.
   (G)   No non-grease laden sources are allowed to be connected to sewer lines
intended for grease interceptor service.
   (H)   Users shall design and build the grease interceptors for new
construction and new food service establishments in existing buildings to the
construction standards for new facilities or new food service establishments in
existing buildings found In the North Carolina State Building Code, for
Plumbing.
(Ord. passed 06-101, 4-18-2006)
§ 50.73 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   No later than 1 year after adoption of this subchapter, all users
shall install grease traps or interceptors designed to limit the introduction,
contribution and discharge of greases into the town’s wastewater collection
system. Grease traps and interceptors with appropriate sampling or inspection
points shall be installed at the user’s expense whenever any user operates a
commercial establishment, industrial establishment, or a cooking establishment,
or when required by the Director of Public Works. Grease traps and interceptors
of the “outdoor” or underground type must be a capacity of 1,000 gallons or
more and “under-the-counter” package units must have a minimum capacity of not
less than 100 gallons as required to effect a grease concentration maximum of
200 mg/l.
   (B)   Except as provided herein, for a period of 1 year following adoption
of this subchapter, although installation of grease interceptors will be
required to be installed, no enforcement actions will be taken under this
subchapter for failure to achieve limits on grease discharges from grease
interceptors. If during this 1 year period an obstruction of a town sewer main
(s) occurs that causes a sewer overflow to the extent that any impact on the
environment is realized and that overflow or failure of the sanitary sewer
collection system to convey sewage can be attributed in part or in whole to an
accumulation of grease in the town’s sewer main(s), the town will take
appropriate enforcement actions as stipulated herein against the generator or
contributor of that grease.
   (C)   If an obstruction of a town sewer main(s) occurs that causes a sewer
overflow to the extent that an impact on the environment is realized and that
the overflow or failure of the sanitary sewer collection system to convey
sewage can be attributed in part or in whole to an accumulation of grease in
the town’s sewer main(s), the town will take appropriate enforcement actions,
as stipulated in the this section, against the generator or contributor of that
grease.
(Ord. 06-101, passed 4-18-2006)
§ 50.74 RECORD KEEPING FOR ALL PERMIT HOLDERS.
   All holders of a pre-treatment permit for fats, oils or greases shall submit
the record of maintenance of the grease interceptors/traps to the Pre-treatment
Coordinator as required by the permit. Failure to comply with the reporting
requirements is a violation of this subchapter which may result in, but is not
limited to, increased inspections and fines.
(Ord. passed 06-101, 4-18-2006)
Penalty, see § 50.99
CROSS CONNECTION CONTROLS
§ 50.80 UNREGULATED CROSS CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED; BACKFLOW PREVENTION PROGRAM
ESTABLISHED.
   No cross connection shall be made between the public water system of the
town and any other source of water, private water system or plumbing located on
private property except in conformity with the requirements of this subchapter
and the currently adopted Plumbing Code of the town. The Board of Commissioners
of the town hereby creates a "backflow prevention program" to protect the
potable water supply of the town. Appropriate backflow protection methods are
adopted in this subchapter. The goal of this subchapter is to minimize the
possibility of contamination by confining within the customer's private water
system those contaminants or pollutants, which could, under adverse conditions,
backflow through uncontrolled cross connections into the public water system.
No service connection shall be made to the public water system except in
conformity with this subchapter.
(Ord. 09-120, passed 7-21-2009) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.81 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR GAP SEPARATION. The unobstructed vertical distance through the
atmosphere between the lowest point opening from any pipe or faucet supplying
water to a tank, plumbing fixture or other device and the flood level rim of
the receptacle. An "approved air-gap separation" shall be at least double the
diameter of the supply pipe. In no case shall the air gap separation be less
than 2 inches.
   APPROVED. As herein used in reference to a water supply shall mean a water
supply that has been approved by the North Carolina Department of Environment,
Health, and Natural Resource (Division of Health Service), or as used in
reference to air gap separation, a pressure vacuum breaker, a double check
valve assembly, a double check detector assembly, a reduced pressure principle,
backflow prevention assemblies or methods shall mean approval of Public Works
Director.
   BACKFLOW. Any flow of water, liquid, gas or other substance, or any
combination thereof, into the distribution piping of a potable water supply
from any source or sources.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY. An approved assembly or method used to prevent
backflow from occurring in the potable water supply.
   BACK-PRESSURE BACKFLOW. Backflow caused by a pump, elevated tank, boiler or
other means that could create pressure within the consumer's water system
greater than the supply pressure of the public water system.
   CERTIFIED TESTER. A person trained and certified in the installation and
testing of backflow prevention assemblies. Testers shall provide a current
certificate from an approved school before being allowed to test assemblies.
   CROSS CONNECTION. Any physical connection between a potable water supply
system and any other piping system, sewer fixture, container or device, whereby
water or other liquids, mixtures or substances may flow into or enter the
potable water supply system and any potable water supply outlet which is
submerged or is designed or intended to be submerged in non-potable water or in
any source of contamination or an air gap, providing a space between the
potable water pipe outlet and the flood level rim of a receiving vessel of less
than twice the diameter of the potable water pipe or less than 2 inches.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY. An assembly composed of 2 independently acting,
approved check valves, including tightly closing shut-off valves attached at
each end of the assembly and fitted with properly located test cocks.
   DOUBLE CHECK-DETECTOR ASSEMBLY. A specially designed assembly composed of a
line-size approved double check valve assembly with a specific bypass water
meter and a meter-sized approved double check valve assembly. The meter shall
register in U.S. gallons accurately for only very low rates of flow and shall
show a registration for all rates of flow. This assembly shall only be used to
protect against contamination from non-health hazard facilities.
   HEALTH HAZARD FACILITIES. Include, but are not limited to: Any private water
system used or designed for use with a booster pump or which may become
pressurized for any reason to the extent that back pressure may occur; any
private water system which contains water which has been or is being re-
circulated; a building with 5 or more stories above ground level; brewery; car
wash facilities; bottling plant; chemical plant; dentist's office; dry cleaning
plant; fertilizer plant; film laboratory; fire sprinkler or standpipe system
with chemical additives; hospital, clinic, medical building; irrigation system
with chemical additives; laboratory; commercial laundry (except self-service
laundry); concrete/asphalt plants; metal processing plant; morgue or mortuary;
nursing home; pharmaceutical plant; power plant; swimming pool; sewage
treatment plant; tire manufacturer; veterinary hospital or clinic; restaurants;
battery manufacturers; exterminators; lawn care companies; dairies; canneries;
and dye works.
   INDUSTRIAL USER. A customer that is classified as a manufacturing industry
by the North American Industrial Classification Standard (NAICS), published by
the U.S. Government Census Bureau. More than 50% of the customer's utility
usage must be for its manufacturing purposes.
   NON-HEALTH HAZARD FACILITIES. Include, but are not limited to: Fire
sprinkler systems without booster pump facilities or chemical additives;
connections to tanks, lines and vessels that handle nontoxic substances; lawn
sprinkler systems without chemical injection or booster pumps; all industrial
and most commercial facilities not identified as high hazard facilities.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL.
      (1)   Office buildings, stores, shops, restaurants, service stations, and
other similar non-residential establishments;
      (2)   Hospitals, nursing homes, and institutional care facilities;
      (3)   Schools, dormitories, churches, and other non-residential
institutions;
      (4)   Utility service(s) used in a multi-family residential structure
(other than the individual residential units), laundry facilities, recreational
facilities, and the like.
   POTABLE WATER. Water from any source, which has been approved for human
consumption by the appropriate agency of the state.
   PRIVATE WATER SYSTEM. A system of pipes or other associated facilities that
is not part of the town's public water system and is used to move or receive
water, regardless of the source of water in such system.
   PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM. A system for the provision to the public of water for
human consumption through pipes or other constructed conveyances which serves
15 or more service connections or which regularly serves 25 or more
individuals. This term includes any collection, treatment, storage or
distribution facility under control of the operator of the system and used
primarily in connection with the system and any collection or pretreatment
storage facility not under the control of the operator of the system that is
used primarily in connection with the system.
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE ASSEMBLY. An assembly containing within its
structure a minimum of 2 independently acting, approved check valves, together
with an automatically operating pressure differential relief valve located
between the check valves. The first check valve reduces the supply pressure a
predetermined amount so that during normal flow and at cessation of normal
flow, the pressure between the checks shall be less than the supply pressure.
In case of leakage of either check valve, the pressure differential relief
valve, by discharge to the atmosphere, shall operate to maintain the pressure
between the checks less than the supply pressure. The assembly must include
properly located test cocks and tightly closing shut-off valves at each end of
the assembly.
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE-DETECTOR ASSEMBLY. An assembly composed of an
approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assembly with a bypass
water meter and a meter-sized approved reduced pressure principle assembly. The
meter shall register accurately for very low flow rates and shall register in
U.S. gallons at all flow rates.
   RESIDENTIAL. An individual residence, defined as a single dwelling unit
which provides permanent or independent facilities complete for living,
sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation. An individual residence may be a
house, condominium, modular home, mobile home, or individually metered
apartment.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. A piped connection from a water main for the purpose of
conveying water to a building or onto any premises for human use.
   WATER SUPPLY (APPROVED). Any public potable water supply, which has been
investigated and approved by the appropriate agency of the state. The system
must be operating under a valid health permit.
(Ord. 09-120, passed 7-21-2009)
Statutory reference:
   Distribution systems, see 15A N.C. Admin. Code 18C.0406
   Public water system, see G.S. § 130A-313(10)
   Service connection, see 15A N.C. Admin. Code 18C.0102(15)
§ 50.82 ELIMINATION OF CROSS CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   When cross connections are found to exist, the owner, his or her
agent, occupant, or tenant will be notified in writing to disconnect the cross
connection within the time limit established by the Public Works Director.
Degree of protection required and maximum time allowed for compliance will be
based upon the potential degree of hazard to the public water supply system as
follows:
      (1)   Cross connection with private wells or other auxiliary water
supplies -immediate disconnection.
      (2)   All facilities which pose a health hazard to the potable water
system must have a containment assembly in the form of a reduced pressure
principle backflow prevention assembly within 60 days.
      (3)   All industrial and non-residential facilities not identified as a
health hazard shall be considered non-health hazard facilities. All non-health
hazard facilities must install, as a minimum containment assembly, a double
check valve assembly within 90 days unless otherwise approved by the Public
Works Director or his or her authorized designee.
      (4)   If, in the judgment of the Public Works Director, an imminent
health hazard exists, water service to the building or premises where a cross
connection exits may be terminated unless an air gap is immediately provided,
or the cross connection is immediately eliminated.
      (5)   All lawn irrigation systems must have a double check valve assembly
as a minimum containment facility.
      (6)   Based upon recommendation from the Public Works Director, the
consumer is responsible for installing sufficient internal isolation backflow
prevention assemblies and/or methods (such as air gap, pressure vacuum
breakers, reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assembly, double check
vale assembly).
      (7)   Water mains served by the town but not maintained by the town
should be considered cross connections, with degree of hazard to be determined
by the Public Works Director. Degree of protection shall be based upon the
degree of hazard, as determined by the Public Works Director.
      (8)   In the event that a town cross connection control inspector does
not have sufficient access to every portion of a private water system (such as
classified research and development facilities; federal government property) to
allow a complete evaluation of the degree of hazard associated with such
private water systems, an approved reduced pressure principle assembly shall be
required as a minimum of protection.
      (9)   Customers shall not modify their private water system in a manner
that would affect the degree of hazard of such system until the town has been
provided with information showing that the appropriate backflow prevention
assembly is installed. If such modification or change is determined by the
Public Works Director to require the installation of a different backflow
prevention assembly, the required backflow prevention assembly must be
installed in accordance with provision of this subchapter prior to making the
proposed modification or change.
   (B)   No person shall fill special use tanks or tankers containing
pesticides, fertilizers, other toxic chemicals or their residues from the
public water system except at a location equipped with an air gap or an
approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assembly properly
installed on the public water supply.
(Ord. 09-120, passed 7-21-2009) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.83 INSTALLATION, TESTING AND MAINTENANCE OF BACKFLOW PREVENTION
ASSEMBLIES.
   (A)   All backflow prevention assemblies shall be installed in accordance
with the manufacturer's instructions. Only backflow preventers approved by the
Public Works Director, American Society of Sanitary Engineers (ASSE) or the
American Water Works Association (AWWA), or USC shall be used.
   (B)   All backflow prevention assemblies required by this section must be
installed and maintained on the customer's premises as part of the customer's
water system.
   (C)   Ownership, testing, and maintenance of the backflow prevention section
assembly will be the responsibility of the customer. Each assembly required in
this subchapter must be functioning properly at all times.
   (D)   A certified tester shall conduct testing of backflow prevention
assemblies at the customer's expense. Tests shall be conducted upon
installation and annually thereafter with a record of all testing and repairs
retained by the customer. Each customer must send a copy of the certified
record for each test or repair to the town within 30 days after the completion
of each test or repair. Such records must be maintained on forms provided by
the town.
   (E)   Each backflow prevention assembly required under this section must be
accessible to the town.
   (F)   When it is not possible to interrupt water service, the customer shall
provide for the parallel installation of an approved backflow prevention
assembly. A bypass around a backflow preventer when the assembly is in need of
testing, repair or replacement is not allowed.
   (G)   Double check valve assemblies must be installed in drainable pits
whenever below-ground installation is necessary.
   (H)   Reduced pressure principle assemblies must be installed in a
horizontal position and in a location in which no portion of the assembly can
become submerged in any substance under any circumstances (pit and/or below
grade installations are prohibited).
   (I)   Any time that repairs to backflow assemblies are deemed necessary,
whether through annual testing or routine inspection by the owner or by the
town, these repairs must be completed within a time specified below in
accordance with the degree of hazard. Repairs must be made to health-hazard
facilities in 14 days. Repairs must be made to non-health-hazard facilities in
21 days. Failure to comply can result in termination of a customer's water
service.
   (J)   If the town determines that a backflow prevention assembly is required
to be installed on a customer's private water system, the customer will be
notified in writing of the approved backflow prevention assembly which is
required. On existing systems, the customer will have the following time
periods within which to install the specified backflow prevention assembly:
      (1)   Health hazard facility - 60 days;
      (2)   Non-health hazard facility - 90 days.
   (K)   All new construction plans and specifications shall be made available
to the town for approval and to determine the degree of hazard.
   (L)   The customer shall notify the town when the nature of the use of
property changes so as to change the hazard classification of the property.
(Ord. 09-120, passed 7-21-2009) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.84 FACILITIES REQUIRING PROTECTION.
   (A)   Approved backflow prevention assemblies shall be installed on the
service line to any premises that the Public Works Director has identified as
having a potential for backflow.
   (B)   The following types of facilities or services have been identified by
the town as having a potential for backflow of non-potable water into the
public water supply system. Therefore, an approved backflow prevention assembly
will be required on all such services according to the degree of hazard
present. Other types of facilities or services not listed below may also be
required to install approved backflow prevention assemblies if determined
necessary by the Public Works Director. As a minimum requirement, all non-
residential services will be required to install a double check valve assembly,
unless otherwise listed in this section. The installation of an approved
backflow prevention assembly or method other than those specified by this
subchapter can be allowed only by the approval of the Public Works Director or
his or her authorized representative.
 
ABBREVIATION MEANING
DCVA         Double check valve assembly
RP           Reduced pressure principle assembly
DCDA         Double check detector assembly
AG           Air gap
PVB          Pressure vacuum breaker
 
      (1)   Aircraft and missile plants: RP.
      (2)   Automotive services stations, dealerships, and the like:
         (a)   No health hazard: DCVA;
         (b)   Health hazard: RP.
      (3)   Automotive plants: RP.
      (4)   Auxiliary water systems:
         (a)   Approved public/private water supply: DCVA;
         (b)   Unapproved public/private water supply: AG;
         (c)   Used water and industrial fluids: RP Bakeries.
      (5)   Bakeries:
         (a)   No health hazard: DCVA;
         (b)   Health hazard: RP.
      (6)   Beauty shops/barber shops:
         (a)   No health hazard: DCVA;
         (b)   Health hazard: RP.
      (7)   Beverage bottling plants: RP.
      (8)   Breweries: RP.
      (9)   Miscellaneous buildings - Hotels, apartment houses, public and
private buildings, or other structures having unprotected cross connections:
         (a)   (Under 5 stories) no health hazard: DCVA;
         (b)   (Under 5 stories) health hazard: RP;
         (c)   (Over 5 stories) all: RP.
      (10)   Canneries, packing houses, and rendering plants: RP.
      (11)   Chemical plants - Manufacturing, processing, compounding or
treatment: RP.
      (12)   Chemically contaminated water systems: RP.
      (13)   Commercial carwash facilities: RP.
      (14)   Commercial greenhouses: RP.
      (15)   Commercial sales establishments (department stores, malls, and the
like):
         (a)   No health hazard: DCVA;
         (b)   Health hazard: RP.
      (16)   Concrete/asphalt plants: RP.
      (17)   Dairies and cold storage plants: RP.
      (18)   Dye works: RP.
      (19)   Film laboratories: RP.
      (20)   Fire systems:
         (a)   Systems 3/4 inch to 2 inches:
            1.   No health hazard: DCDA;
            2.   Health hazard: (booster pumps, foam, antifreeze solution, and
the like): RP.
         (b)   Systems 1-1/2 inches to 10 inches or larger:
            1.   No health hazard: DCDA;
            2.   Health hazard: (booster pumps, foam, antifreeze solution, and
the like): RPDA;
      (21)   Hospitals, medical buildings, sanitariums, morgues, mortuaries,
autopsy facilities, nursing and convalescent homes, medical clinics, and
veterinary hospitals: RP.
      (22)   Industrial facilities:
         (a)   No health hazard: DCVA;
         (b)   Health hazard: RP.
      (23)   Laundries:
         (a)   No health hazard: DCVA;
         (b)   Health hazard: (such as dry cleaners): RP.
      (24)   Lawn irrigation systems: DCVA.
      (25)   Metal manufacturing, cleaning, processing, and fabricating plants:
RP.
      (26)   Mobile home parks:
         (a)   No health hazard: DCVA;
         (b)   Health hazard: RP.
      (27)   Oil and gas production, storage or transmission properties: RP.
      (28)   Paper and paper products plants: RP.
      (29)   Pest control (exterminating and fumigating): RP.
      (30)   Plating plants: RP.
      (31)   Power plants: RP.
      (32)   Radioactive materials or substances plants or facilities handling:
RP.
      (33)   Restaurants:
         (a)   No health hazard: DCVA;
         (b)   Health hazard: RP.
      (34)   Restricted, classified, or other closed facilities: RP.
      (35)   Rubber plants (natural or synthetic): RP.
      (36)   Sand and gravel plants: RP.
      (37)   Schools and colleges: RP.
      (38)   Sewage and storm drain facilities: RP.
      (39)   Swimming pools: RP.
      (40)   Waterfront facilities and industries: RP.
   (C)   All assemblies and installations shall be subject to inspection and
approval by the Public Works Director.
(Ord. 09-120, passed 7-21-2009) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.85 RESPONSIBILITY OF CUSTOMER.
   (A)   The customer shall be responsible for the elimination of or protection
against all cross connections on his or her premises.
   (B)   The customer shall maintain any backflow prevention assembly within
his or her premises in good operating condition. The customer shall correct any
malfunction of the backflow preventer which is revealed by periodic testing.
   (C)   The customer shall be responsible for payment of all fees for annual
testing, retesting in the case that the assembly fails to operate correctly,
and repairs.
   (D)   A customer must immediately notify the town if the customer has reason
to believe that backflow has occurred from the customer's private water system.
(Ord. 09-120, passed 7-21-2009) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.86 UNAPPROVED SOURCE OF WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   No person shall connect or cause to be connected any supply of water
not approved by the town and the state to the public water supply system.
   (B)   Where a service connection or other connection to a town water line is
made, and the property owner continues to have a well or other source of water,
it shall be unlawful for the plumbing servicing any building upon such property
to be so connected that any water outlet within the building may be served with
water from any source other than the town connection, and it shall also be
unlawful to have plumbing cross-connected or so installed that water from the
town water system or the private water system may in any way become
intermingled.
(Ord. 09-120, passed 7-21-2009) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.87 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Requests for extension of time shall be made in writing to the Public
Works Director or his or her authorized representative. All other appeals shall
be made in accordance with the following procedures:
      (1)   Adjudicatory hearings. A customer assessed a civil penalty under
this section shall have the right to an adjudicatory hearing before a hearing
officer designated by the Public Works Director upon making written demand,
identifying the specific issues to be contested, to the Public Works Director,
within 30 days following notice of final decision to assess a civil penalty.
Unless such demand is made within the time specified in this section, the
decision on the civil penalty assessment shall be final and binding.
      (2)   Appeal hearings. Any decision of the Public Works Director made as
a result of an adjudicatory hearing held under division (1) of this section may
be appealed by any party to the Board of Commissioners upon filing a written
demand within 10 days of receipt of notice of the decision. Failure to make
written demand within the time specified in this section shall bar further
appeal. The Board of Commissioners shall make a decision on the appeal within
90 days of the date the appeal was filed and shall transmit a written copy of
its decision by registered or certified mail.
      (3)   Official record. When a final decision is issued under this
section, the Board of Commissioners shall prepare an official record of the
case that includes:
         (a)   All notices, motions, and other like pleadings;
         (b)   A copy of all documentary evidence introduced;
         (c)   A certified transcript of all testimony taken, if testimony is
transcribed. If testimony is taken and not transcribed, then a narrative
summary of any testimony taken;
         (d)   A copy of the final decision of the Board of Commissioners.
      (4)   Judicial review. Any customer against whom a final decision of the
Board of Commissioners is entered, pursuant to the hearing procedure under this
section, may appeal the order or decision by filing a written petition for
judicial review within 30 days after receipt of notice by certified mail of the
order or decision to the general court of justice of Robeson County or the
county where the order or decision is effective, along with a copy to the Board
of Commissioners. Within 30 days after receipt of the copy of the petition of
judicial review, the Board of Commissioners shall transmit to the reviewing
court the original or a certified copy of the official record, as outlined in
this section.
(Ord. 09-120, passed 7-21-2009)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter for
which no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Fats, oils, greases, sand and gas control.
      (1)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provisions of §§
50.70 et seq. shall be subject to the loss of public water until the wastewater
been proven to contain 200 mg/l or less of grease; less than full compliance
for more than 30 days after written notice of violation shall result in loss of
public water until the user is fully compliant. If the user remains in
violation a any provision of §§
50.70 et seq. in excess of 30 days after written notice of violation, a civil
penalty of $l00 per day plus costs required to correct the contamination shall
be levied. If not corrected within 45 days from the receipt of the notice of
violation, the privilege license of the user will be automatically revoked.
Operation after revocation of the privilege license shall constitute a criminal
offense punishable by a fine of $100 per day.
         (a)   A notification of violation and loss of public water use shall
be issued by the Town Manager.
         (b)   A citation for the civil penalty shall be issued by the Fairmont
Police Department.
         (c)   Each citation for a civil penalty must be paid within a 30 day
period.
         (d)   Each and every day that the violation of any provision of this
subchapter continues shall be a separate and distinct offense.
      (2)   A violator shall be responsible for reimbursement to the Town of
Fairmont of all expenses
the town incurs due to the violation. These expenses include, but are not
limited to, equipment, material, and labor costs for site remediation and cost
recovery of a sanitary sewer overflow and all legal costs associated with the
enforcement of §§
50.70 et seq.
      (3)   The violator shall also be responsible for all costs associated
with a public or private penalty against the town due to any violation of §§
50.70 et seq.
   (C)   Cross connection controls.
      (1)   A written notice of violation shall be given to any person who is
determined to be in violation of any provision of §§
50.80 et seq.
      (2)   Such notice shall set forth the violation and the time period
within which the violation must be corrected. The violation must be corrected
within a reasonable time, as specified in the notice, not to exceed 30 days
from receipt of the notice. If the town determines that the violation is
occurring on a customer's private water system and that such violation has
created or contributed to the existence of an imminent hazard, the customer may
be required to correct the violation immediately.
      (3)   Water service may be terminated to a customer if the customer fails
to correct a violation or to pay any civil penalty or expense assessed under
this division. Termination of water service will be without prejudice to the
town's ability to assert any other remedy available to the town against the
customer or any other person responsible for the violation.
      (4)   The violation of any provision of this division shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty. Each subsequent day that a violation listed in
this division continues shall constitute a separate and distinct offense
according to the following schedule:
         (a)   Unprotected cross connection involving a private water system
which is a health hazard, per day...$1,000, or the amount written in the annual
town budget ordinance.
         (b)   Falsifying records that are required to be submitted by this
section - certified tester may be removed from the approved certified tester
list...$500, or the amount written in the annual town budget ordinance.
         (c)   Failing to test backflow prevention assemblies as
required...$200, or the amount written in the annual town budget ordinance.
         (d)   Failing to maintain backflow prevention assemblies as
required...$200, or the amount written in the annual town budget ordinance.
         (e)   Any other violation of the provision of this division...$200, or
the amount written in the town budget ordinance.
      (5)   The town may increase any civil penalty assessed under this
division by $100 or 50% of a maximum civil penalty associated with the
violation, whichever is greater, for a second violation of the same provision
within a 2-year period. Water service may be terminated after a third violation
of the same provision within a 2-year period.
      (6)   Any person violating any provision of this division shall pay to
the town all expenses incurred by the town in repairing any damage to the
public water system caused in whole or in part by such violation and any
expense incurred by the town in investigating such violation. All such expenses
are deemed to be a part of the civil penalty assessed with the violation.
(Ord. 06-101, passed 4-18-2006; Am. Ord. 09-120, passed 7-21-2009)
CHAPTER 51:
WATER AND SEWER EXTENSIONS
Section
Generally
   
51.01   Definitions
Inside Town Limits
   
51.15   Scope
   
51.16   Laying of pipeline; by property owner and by town
   
51.17   Cost of repaving paid by town
Outside Town Limits
   
51.30   Scope
   
51.31   Authority and indemnification of town
   
51.32   Application for connection
   
51.33   Prior approval of subdivision and map required
   
51.34   Approval of fixtures and equipment
   
51.35   Map of fixtures, equipment approved by town
   
51.36   Sewer lines and connections required
   
51.37   Recommendations by approving authority
   
51.38   Action by Board
   
51.39   Deed of dedication and contract required
   
51.40   Laying of utility lines
   
51.41   Easements and rights-of-way
   
51.42   Connection of private lines with town lines
   
51.43   Connections to be made under town supervision
   
51.44   Effect of unauthorized connections
   
51.45   Discontinuing or reducing service
   
51.46   Agreement with other governmental jurisdictions
GENERALLY
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVING AUTHORITY. A person as may be designated by the Board.
   DEDICATOR. The person owning or constructing any private utility system
being dedicated to the town.
   UTILITY SYSTEM and UTILITY LINES. Include water pipelines and sewer
pipelines, either or both as determined by the context, and shall include all
pipes, valves, valve boxes, hydrants and other fixtures, equipment and systems,
or both. The utility lines dedicated to the town pursuant to this chapter shall
include only main distribution lines, valves, hydrants and other apparatus,
fixtures and equipment forming a part of the lines laid in streets, roads,
highways and alleys or across private property, and shall not include lateral
lines leading from mains to building connections, and shall not include the
water or sewer lines within any residence or other privately owned building.
(1988 Code, § 22-181)
INSIDE TOWN LIMITS
§ 51.15 SCOPE.
   This subchapter applies to water or sewer extensions within the corporate
limits of the town.
(1988 Code, § 22-191)
§ 51.16 LAYING OF PIPELINE; BY PROPERTY OWNER AND BY TOWN.
   (A)   When water or sewer connections shall be desired for any property
situated upon a street or alley where no water or sewer pipe has been laid, and
the town shall be unwilling or unable to extend its water or sewer mains to the
property, the owner of the property may make application to the approving
authority for permission to lay a line of pipe from the town’s water or sewer
mains to the property. The permit issued to a person shall be in writing,
signed by the applicant, and shall be subject to the following conditions,
which shall be expressed therein:
      (1)   The person to whom the permit shall be granted shall bear all the
expense of laying the pipeline and of connecting the same with the water or
sewerage system of the town.
      (2)   The pipeline shall be laid in accordance with the specifications
furnished by the approving authority and the work shall be done under the
supervision and control of the authority.
      (3)   The town shall be saved harmless from all loss, cost, damage or
expense by reason of any injury to any person or property as a result of laying
the pipeline. The pipeline, when completed, shall become the property of the
town and be subject to its control.
(1988 Code, § 22-192)
   (B)   When water or sewer connections shall be desired for any property upon
which a residence or business building or an apartment building exists or is
under construction, if the property is situated upon a street where adjacent to
the property no water or sewer mains have been laid, the town may construct and
extend its water or sewer mains or both from the nearest existing mains to a
point suitable for the desired connection, subject to the existence of funds
appropriated by the Board for that purpose, to the ability to construct the
applicable line from a sound engineering viewpoint and to an adequate cost-
benefit ratio being anticipated from the extension.
(1988 Code, § 22-193)
§ 51.17 COST OF REPAVING PAID BY TOWN.
   Where it becomes necessary to cut the street paving to lay and construct a
water or sewer main, the town will pay the entire cost of the repaving of the
street for the main lines.
(1988 Code, § 22-194)
OUTSIDE TOWN LIMITS
§ 51.30 SCOPE.
   This subchapter applies to water or sewer extensions outside the corporate
limits of the town.
(1988 Code, § 22-206)
§ 51.31 AUTHORITY AND INDEMNIFICATION OF TOWN.
   (A)   (1)   All connections by consumers with the utility lines constructed
and dedicated pursuant to this subchapter and all services through those lines
and apparatus shall be in accordance with the laws, ordinances, rules and
regulations of and applicable to the town, as now in force or as may be
enacted, adopted and amended from time to time.
      (2)   The town shall have complete supervision and control over the
lines, taps, connections and all other parts of the utility lines and system so
constructed for the purpose of making any and all necessary inspections, and
turning the water on and off and for other purposes.
      (3)   The charges, rents and fees charged by the town for connections,
inspections and services to consumers through utility lines shall be upon the
same basis and schedules as those charged other consumers of like status
residing outside of the corporate limits of the town from time to time, and the
town shall collect all rents, fees and charges from consumers connected with
the utility lines, for its sole use and benefit without compensation to the
dedicators.
(1988 Code, § 22-207)
   (B)   The dedicators shall have and assume all risk in the laying,
installation and construction of the utility lines and system constructed
pursuant to this division, and the dedicators shall agree that the town shall
not be responsible or liable for, and that the dedicators will indemnify and
save harmless the town against any and all injuries and damages to persons or
property by reason of or in any way growing out of the construction,
installation and laying of utility lines. The dedicators shall furnish the town
with an adequate and satisfactory bond and/or public liability insurance
policy, or a certificate or other evidence from the insurance company that
insurance is in force, fully protecting the town as provided by this section.
The bond and/or insurance policy shall be executed by an insurance company
authorized to do business in the state.
(1988 Code, § 22-208)
§ 51.32 APPLICATION FOR CONNECTION.
   Any person owning or proposing to construct any private utility line or
system outside the corporate limits of the town and desiring to have the line
connected with the public utility lines and systems of the town for the purpose
of making water or sewer service available to consumers, shall make written
application to the Board for permission to make connections. Applications will
be received and acted upon by the Board only in accordance with and pursuant to
the terms and provisions of this section. The application must be accompanied
by a map made by a registered engineer or registered land surveyor authorized
to practice in the state, which map shall show accurately the property to be
served with water or sewer service, and if within any real estate development
or subdivision, the lots and the layout of streets therein.
(1988 Code, § 22-209)
§ 51.33 PRIOR APPROVAL OF SUBDIVISION AND MAP REQUIRED.
   When the private utility lines or systems are to be laid and constructed
within any residential development or subdivision, the subdivision and the map
thereof showing the property lines and subdivision of lots and the layout of
streets must have been duly approved by the approving authority before the
Board will approve any application for permission to make connections with the
water and/or sewer systems of the town.
(1988 Code, § 22-210)
§ 51.34 APPROVAL OF FIXTURES AND EQUIPMENT.
   No application for connection to the town’s utility system will be
considered by the Board under the provisions of this section until the
approving authority of the town shall have approved the sizes, location,
character and quality of all pipes, valves, valve boxes, hydrants and other
fixtures, equipment and apparatus to be laid and constructed and to be
connected with the utility systems of the town.
(1988 Code, § 22-211)
§ 51.35 MAP OF FIXTURES, EQUIPMENT APPROVED BY TOWN.
   The dedicators shall furnish the town with an accurate map showing in detail
the location of all mains, pipelines, laterals, stubs, valves, valve boxes,
hydrants and other fixtures, apparatus and equipment forming a part of the
utility lines constructed and dedicated pursuant to this subchapter, and
showing the depth of all pipes and apparatus below the ground level, which map
shall be subject to the approval of the approving authority or other proper
official of the town designated by the Board. After the map is so approved
there shall be no changes to the map made without the written consent of the
approving authority of the town or other officials of the town authorized to
make consent.
(1988 Code, § 22-212)
§ 51.36 SEWER LINES AND CONNECTIONS REQUIRED.
   No private waterline, lines or system within any residential development or
subdivision outside the corporate limits shall be connected with the water
system of the town, nor will the town accept any dedication of the same and
agree to furnish water service to consumers within any residential development
or subdivision, unless, at the same time, there is connected with the town
sewerage system and dedicated within the residential development or subdivision
sufficient to make available adequate sewerage services for each of the
residential lots within the subdivision, provided the development or
subdivision is, and a sewerage system therein would be, physically accessible,
from a sound engineering standpoint, to an existing sewer main or sewer outfall
line of the town as determined by the Board. However, if there is no currently
existing sewer main or sewer outfall line to which the development or
subdivision is, and a sewerage system therein would be, physically
inaccessible, from a sound engineering standpoint as determined by the Board,
then the Board may in its discretion grant permission for a water system
installed within the development or subdivision to be connected to and with the
town’s water system and dedicated to the town, if the dedicators at the same
time install and dedicate to the town an adequate system of sewer pipes and
lines exclusively within the development or subdivision with lateral or
subpipes to the property lines to make possible eventual sewerage service for
all lots in the development or subdivision as required by the Board of
Commissioners, without immediately running and constructing any sewerage line
beyond the development or subdivision and without immediately connecting the
sewerage system installed within the development or subdivision with the
sewerage system of the town. The intent and purpose of this provision is to
have a sewerage system installed within the development or subdivision which
would be available for future connection with the town’s sewerage system if any
accessible sewer line or sewer outfall should in the future be constructed.
(1988 Code, § 22-213)
§ 51.37 RECOMMENDATIONS BY APPROVING AUTHORITY.
   When application is made by the owner or promoters of any addition,
subdivision or development outside the town limits for connection with the
town’s water and/or sewer system, the application, with plans, maps and all
other papers and documents relating thereto, shall be referred to the approving
authority. The approving authority shall have authority to recommend the
approval or disapproval of the application and to indicate reasonable
conditions and requirements for approval, and to recommend any measures that
may be requisite or necessary to protect the interest of the town or to prevent
improper connections being made with its water or sewer systems.
(1988 Code, § 22-214)
§ 51.38 ACTION BY BOARD.
   After action has been taken by the approving authority pursuant to §
51.37 and recommendations have been made to the Board, the Board shall consider
and act upon the question of approving or disapproving the application, and the
action of the Board shall be final; provided, however, that the Board may
indicate to the owners or promoters of any addition, subdivision or development
the requirements which must be met as a prerequisite for approving the
application. In prescribing prerequisite requirements for approval of the
application for utility connections, the Board shall, in approving the
subdivision or development, determine the width of streets, the adequacy of
drainage, the type of paving, the size and type of pipes and other equipment,
the location of streets, particularly with respect to their coordination with
the street plan of the town and other matters with respect to the development
or subdivision as the Board in its discretion may deem proper.
(1988 Code, § 22-215)
§ 51.39 DEED OF DEDICATION AND CONTRACT REQUIRED.
   Upon the approval of an application for connection to the town’s utility
system by the Board and before any person shall connect in any manner any
privately owned utility line or system with the public utility lines or systems
of the town, the person shall properly execute a written deed of dedication and
contract in a form approved by the Town Attorney, by which, in consideration of
making the connection and the benefits to be derived therefrom, the person
shall dedicate, give, grant and convey the privately owned utility line or
system to the town, and automatically upon its completion, inspection and
connection with the system of the town, the same shall become the sole and
absolute property of the town and a part of the public utility system of the
town without any cost or expense to the town and without any obligation
whatsoever on the part of the town to compensate or reimburse the dedicators or
their successors or assigns in any amount. The dedication to the town of any
privately owned utility lines and the connection of any lines with the public
utility lines of the town shall be upon and in accordance with the terms and
conditions of this subchapter.
(1988 Code, § 22-216)
§ 51.40 LAYING OF UTILITY LINES.
   After the Board shall have approved the application for the connection of
any proposed privately owned utility line or system with the public utility
lines or systems of the town, the applicant at his or her own cost and expense
and without unnecessary delay shall furnish, construct and lay the utility
lines as approved by the Board without cost or expense to the town. Utility
lines shall be laid and constructed according to the standards and
specifications, and shall be of the character, size, quality and durability as
prescribed by the town through and by its proper officials and employees, and
shall be subject to the approval of the town through its proper officers or
employees.
(1988 Code, § 22-217)
§ 51.41 EASEMENTS AND RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   If the private utility lines intended for connection to the town’s utility
system are to be constructed and laid in and along any public highway or the
right-of-way thereof, or in and across lands now owned and possessed by the
dedicators, the dedicators, without cost or expense to the town, shall procure
the necessary and proper written easement or right-of-way contracts or deeds
from the proper officials and agencies having control of public highways and
from the owners of lands, granting the right and authority to construct, lay,
maintain, inspect and repair utility lines, with appropriate rights of ingress
and egress over private lands, when necessary. The town will join in the
execution of contracts and deeds, when required, subject to approval of the
legal instruments by the Town Attorney.
(1988 Code, § 22-218)
§ 51.42 CONNECTION OF PRIVATE LINES WITH TOWN LINES.
   Upon the completion of the construction and laying of the private utility
lines as authorized by the Board for connection to the town’s utility system,
and upon inspection and approval thereof by the town, the dedicators shall be
permitted to connect private utility lines with the utility lines and system of
the town upon the terms and conditions prescribed by this subchapter and the
deed of dedication and contract executed by the dedicators.
(1988 Code, § 22-219)
§ 51.43 CONNECTIONS TO BE MADE UNDER TOWN SUPERVISION.
   No connection of any private utility line shall be made with the public
utility lines or system of the town or any part thereof except by employees or
agents of the town under the supervision of the Director of Public Works or
persons as may be designated by the Manager to supervise the connection.
(1988 Code, § 22-220)
§ 51.44 EFFECT OF UNAUTHORIZED CONNECTIONS.
   Should any person connect any privately owned water or sewer line or system
with any town water or sewer line without first dedicating, giving, granting
and conveying same to the town, the act of connecting water or sewer line to
the water or sewer line of the town shall be deemed a dedication, gift, grant
and conveyance of water or sewer line to the town and in the event, all of the
terms and conditions of this subchapter shall be applicable to any lines so
connected without authority.
(1988 Code, § 22-221)
§ 51.45 DISCONTINUING OR REDUCING SERVICE.
   The town shall have the right to cut off the water and to discontinue the
furnishing of water and/or sewer services through the utility lines constructed
and dedicated pursuant to this subchapter at any time without notice, whenever
it shall appear to the town in the sole and absolute discretion of the Board
that to continue to furnish water and/or sewer services to the consumers along
any of the lines would render the town unable to properly furnish an adequate
water supply or adequate sewer service for the use of its consumers and
citizens living within the corporate limits of the town, but in the event, the
town shall give the dedicators and the consumers an ample notice of the
intention to discontinue the water supply or sewer service, or both, as the
circumstances of the situation render practicable. The town specifically does
not, and shall not, agree or undertake or be required to furnish to the
dedicators, or to any consumer along any of the utility lines constructed and
dedicated pursuant to this subchapter, any stated or particular pressure of
water, and the town specifically does not and shall not agree to furnish fire
protection, nor shall there be any responsibility. The town shall not be liable
to the dedicators or to any consumer or to any person for any failure to supply
water for the character or quality of the water supplied or for any failure or
inadequacy of sewer service.
(1988 Code, § 22-222)
§ 51.46 AGREEMENT WITH OTHER GOVERNMENTAL JURISDICTIONS.
   In lieu of the provisions of this subchapter, the town may enter into a
formal agreement with another governmental jurisdiction in which the
conditions, guidelines, procedures, requirements and criteria may be specified
for the connection to and operation of any other governmental jurisdiction’s
utility system or part thereof as part of the town utility system.
(1988 Code, § 22-223)
CHAPTER 52:
SOLID WASTE
Section
In General
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Littering generally prohibited
   
52.03   Littering from vehicles prohibited
   
52.04   Refuse required to be deposited in approved containers
   
52.05   Damaging, displacing and interfering with containers
   
52.06   Accumulation of garbage and refuse prohibited
   
52.07   Burning or burying garbage and refuse prohibited
   
52.08   Transportation of garbage and refuse by private citizens
   
52.09   Use of landfill
   
52.10   Collection and disposal of building material scraps
Municipal Collection and Disposal System
   
52.20   Responsibility for administration, supervision and enforcement
   
52.21   Containers required; specifications
   
52.22   Number of containers required
   
52.23   Location of residential containers
   
52.24   Nonresidential containers
   
52.25   Preparation of garbage and refuse for pickup
   
52.26   Nonresidential collection
   
52.27   Adjustment of nonresidential service
   
52.28   Tree limbs, cuttings, shrubbery, leaves and grass clippings
   
52.29   Materials not to be placed in containers
   
52.30   Removal of dead animals
   
52.31   Sanitation fee established
   
52.32   Multifamily residence
 
   
52.99   Penalty
IN GENERAL
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING MATERIAL SCRAPS. Scrap building material from the construction,
reconstruction, remodeling or repair of a building, walkway, driveway, sign or
other structure including but not limited to excavated earth, tree stumps,
rocks, gravel, bricks, plaster, concrete, lumber or any other similar material
used in construction or the containers or wrappings therefor.
   GARBAGE. All putrescible wastes, including animal and vegetable matter,
animal offal and carcasses and recognizable industrial by-products, but
excluding sewage and human wastes.
   REFUSE. All nonputrescible wastes.
   SOLID WASTE. Garbage, refuse, rubbish, trash and other discarded solid
materials, including solid waste materials resulting from homes, businesses,
industrial, commercial and agricultural operations, and from community
activities, but does not include solids or dissolved materials in domestic
sewage or other significant pollutants in water resources, such as silt,
dissolved or suspended solids in industrial wastewater effluents, dissolved
materials in irrigation return flows or other common water pollutants.
   TREE TRIMMINGS. Tree limbs, leaves, shrubbery, weeds, plants or grass.
(1988 Code, § 19-1)
Statutory references:
   Municipal authority to regulate and provide for solid waste disposal and the
like, see G.S. § 160A-317
   Solid waste management, see G.S. §§ 130A-290 et seq.
§ 52.02 LITTERING GENERALLY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or place any melons or
the rinds thereof, grapes, grape skins, orange or banana peels, decayed fruit
or vegetables on the streets or public square, or any paper or other litter on
the streets or public square or back lots unless the same is immediately placed
in closed receptacles, placed and of a design as approved by the Director of
Public Works so that they may be removed with as little inconvenience as
possible.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully break any glass
bottle or other article made of glass on a street or sidewalk of the town.
      (2)   Further, it shall be unlawful for any person accidentally breaking
any glass object upon a street or sidewalk of the town to fail to immediately
remove broken glass from a street or sidewalk.
(1988 Code, § 19-2) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.03 LITTERING FROM VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person while a driver or a passenger in a
vehicle to throw or deposit litter upon any street or other public place within
the town, or upon any private property.
(1988 Code, § 19-3) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.04 REFUSE REQUIRED TO BE DEPOSITED IN APPROVED CONTAINERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, place or deposit any garbage
or refuse of any kind on any public or private property except in approved
containers or as otherwise provided in this chapter.
(1988 Code, § 19-4) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.05 DAMAGING, DISPLACING AND INTERFERING WITH CONTAINERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to damage, displace or otherwise
interfere with garbage containers or their contents except the owner or upon
permission or at the request of the owner.
(1988 Code, § 19-5) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.06 ACCUMULATION OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE PROHIBITED.
   All garbage and refuse shall be collected and placed in containers as
required by this chapter, and it shall be unlawful for any person to permit
garbage or refuse to accumulate or remain on any premises longer than is
reasonably necessary to remove and deposit same in approved containers as
required in this chapter.
(1988 Code, § 19-6) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.07 BURNING OR BURYING GARBAGE AND REFUSE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to burn or set fire to or bury any garbage or refuse
for the purpose of disposal. (1988 Code, § 19-7) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.08 TRANSPORTATION OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE BY PRIVATE CITIZENS.
   No person shall engage in the business of collecting, handling or
transporting over or along any of the streets, alleys or other public ways in
the town any garbage or refuse without first having obtained a permit therefor
from the Board.
(1988 Code, § 19-8)
§ 52.09 USE OF LANDFILL.
   (A)   Contractors, commercially-hired laborers and similar persons who
desire to use the town’s landfill shall pay a nominal fee in the amount
established by the Town Manager. Those persons shall not be allowed on the
landfill until the fee is paid.
   (B)   Contractors, commercially-hired laborers and similar persons shall not
be allowed on the landfill unless they possess a current privilege license.
(1988 Code, § 19-9)
§ 52.10 COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL OF BUILDING MATERIAL SCRAPS.
   Building material scraps shall not be collected by nor disposed of by the
town, since the removal and disposal of the material is the responsibility of
the property owner and his or her contractor, builder or agent. If building
material scraps are not removed from any property within the corporate limits
of the town for a period of more than 2 weeks, the accumulation of the scraps
shall constitute a nuisance. This nuisance shall be treated in the same manner
as any other violation of §
91.04.
MUNICIPAL COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL SYSTEM
§ 52.20 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION, SUPERVISION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Responsibility for administration of solid waste removal shall lie
with the Public Works Department and may be delegated to a private contractor
(hereinafter referred to as “the contractor”) pursuant to G.S. § 160A-20.1.
   (B)   The supervision of solid waste removal and the enforcement of the
provisions of this chapter shall be the responsibility of the Public Works
Director.
   (C)   The Public Works Director shall have the authority to make regulations
concerning the days of collection, type and location of waste containers, and
any other matters pertaining to the collection, conveyance and disposal as he
or she shall find necessary, and to change and modify the regulations after
notice to the public provided that the regulations are not contrary to this
chapter or any contract with the contractor.
   (D)   Any person aggrieved by a regulation of the Public Works Director
shall have the right of appeal to the Town Board.
§ 52.21 CONTAINERS REQUIRED; SPECIFICATIONS.
   The occupant of every building or premises, unless specified otherwise in
this chapter, where garbage and refuse does or may exist shall provide
containers made of substantial galvanized iron, plastic, rubber or other
nonrusting material in which shall be deposited all garbage and refuse existing
at a building or premises. Each container shall be provided with handles or
bails and with a tight-fitting cover made of the same material as the
container. All containers shall be watertight and they shall be of a size that
can be conveniently handled by the collectors, and no container shall be more
than 30 gallons in capacity and measure not over 22 inches in diameter nor 30
inches in height. The occupant shall keep all containers in a reasonably clean
manner. Containers which fail to have a cover or which become rusted or broken
and therefore are unable to contain garbage and refuse in a satisfactory manner
shall not be used.
(1988 Code, § 19-31)
Statutory reference:
   Collection and disposal by municipalities, see G.S. §§ 160A-311 et seq.
§ 52.22 NUMBER OF CONTAINERS REQUIRED.
   A sufficient number of containers shall be provided by any residential or
nonresidential property owner, occupant or agent, to hold all garbage and
refuse generated between scheduled pick-ups of the Department of Public Works.
It is the expressed intent of the Board that the garbage and refuse generator
shall not allow any garbage and refuse material to spill out of the container
onto the ground nor shall the material be stored inside the premises or
building to be brought out when the garbage crew arrives.
(1988 Code, § 19-32)
§ 52.23 LOCATION OF RESIDENTIAL CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Containers may be kept in any readily accessible place within the
occupant’s residential lot that is visible to any reasonably diligent person.
It shall be unlawful for any person to locate his or her garbage containers on
property that is not occupied by him or her or in a manner as to constitute a
nuisance to a neighbor. Containers are to be located in a reasonable manner to
enable the collector to place his or her pushcart in the immediate area of the
containers so that the containers will not have to be carried before dumping
into the pushcart.
   (B)   The town shall not assume any liability for damage incurred or for
failure to pick up garbage or refuse when containers are located within an
enclosed building or structure, within a fenced yard occupied by a dog or other
animal which might endanger the life and safety of a collector, or within a
flower or vegetable garden in a manner that even with due care by the collector
damage to plants in the garden could result.
(1988 Code, § 19-33)
§ 52.24 NONRESIDENTIAL CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Each business required to procure a container. Every business,
company, office, industry or other nonresidential generator of garbage or
refuse shall obtain access to a container approved by the Town Manager or his
or her designee. This requirement shall apply regardless of whether the
nonresidential generator is a seasonal, part-time or temporary activity or
operation.
   (B)   Joint use of a container. In accordance with established procedures, 2
or more nonresidential entities may, on a form furnished by the town, agree to
jointly use a single container. The town will bill each user. The town will in
no manner assume any role, responsibility or liability in the agreement between
users.
   (C)   Unauthorized use of a joint container. No person or business entity
shall use any container unless the user is a sole user or a joint user of the
container as shown by the applicable joint user agreement. The Clerk shall
maintain a file of joint user agreements and update the file as modified joint
user agreements are submitted by the prime users. Unauthorized use of a
container as specified in this section shall constitute a misdemeanor,
punishable upon conviction by a fine not exceeding $50 or imprisonment not
exceeding 30 days, as provided by G.S. § 14-4.
(1988 Code, § 19-34)
§ 52.25 PREPARATION OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE FOR PICKUP.
   All garbage and refuse shall have the liquid drained therefrom and shall be
wrapped in paper or other like material before it is placed in the container
for collection.
(1988 Code, § 19-37)
§ 52.26 NONRESIDENTIAL COLLECTION.
   (A)   The Board hereby establishes the policy that all nonresidential
garbage and refuse collections shall be accomplished by means of a mechanized
system utilizing specially designed and constructed containers which are dumped
by mechanical power into garbage trucks designed to accommodate containers.
   (B)   Specific exemptions may be granted on the basis of each individual
request for exemption. The nonresidential occupant or owner shall bear the
entire burden for justifying his or her request. The justification must clearly
show that the policy exemption will increase collection efficiency and/or
result in financial savings to the Department of Public Works.
   (C)   Town employees shall not pick up garbage or trash on the ground, or
wait for the user to put trash into the container or collect from parking lot
or other similar containers unless specifically authorized to do so by the Town
Manager. Nonresidential users requesting extra service shall pay an extra fee
for the service as determined by the Board.
(1988 Code, § 19-36)
§ 52.27 ADJUSTMENT OF NONRESIDENTIAL SERVICE.
   (A)   Effective date of adjustments. All changes or adjustments affecting
garbage and refuse service delivery or rents or fees charged in connection with
the nonresidential sanitation activity shall be made effective on the first day
of the next utility billing period.
   (B)   Nonresidential dump order form. The town shall provide a
nonresidential dump order form on which the sole or prime container user shall
specify the number of containers and the number of days per week, not to exceed
once per day, his or her containers are to be scheduled for dumping and any
changes thereto. The town shall attempt to comply with the desires of the
container user but shall base the monthly nonresidential sanitation fee on the
actual number of dumps made during the billing period.
   (C)   Container partially filled. Neither the rate per dump nor the monthly
nonresidential sanitation fee shall be adjusted because of user claims that the
container was not full when dumped.
(1988 Code, § 19-37)
§ 52.28 TREE LIMBS, CUTTINGS, SHRUBBERY, LEAVES AND GRASS CLIPPINGS.
   (A)   Tree limbs, cuttings, shrubbery and the like, of more than 1/2 load
will be hauled at a time as trucks are available, provided that limbs,
cuttings, shrubbery and the like, are cut in lengths not to exceed 48 inches
long and 6 inches in diameter. Lengths of limbs or cuttings that are larger in
diameter than 6 inches shall be cut in convenient lengths so that they may be
handled easily by 1 person and placed on the front corner of the owner’s or
tenant’s property nearest the street or public alley. Lawn trimmings and leaves
shall be placed in the gutter. Leaves and grass clippings should be piled
separately from limbs and other larger materials. Materials listed in this
section shall be collected and removed by the Department of Public Works only
where an individual citizen within the town is individually doing improvement
work, without employing an independent builder, contractor or laborers, to
properties located within the town. A fee in the amount established by
ordinance shall be paid to the town for collection of these materials.
   (B)   Tree limbs in excess of the length or diameter set forth in division
(A) above and stumps will be hauled at times as trucks are available. A fee in
the amount established by ordinance shall be paid to the town for the
collection of these materials.
(1988 Code, § 19-38)
§ 52.29 MATERIALS NOT TO BE PLACED IN CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Building material scraps, metal or other heavy objects or bulk
materials shall not be placed in garbage or refuse containers but shall be
prepared for collection in accordance with §§
52.10 and
52.27.
   (B)   The town shall not collect ashes or cinders.
(1988 Code, § 19-40)
§ 52.30 REMOVAL OF DEAD ANIMALS.
   Dead animals killed upon any public property or right-of-way will be removed
by the town upon notice to the Clerk of the existence of dead animals.
(1988 Code, § 19-41)
§ 52.31 SANITATION FEE ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The Board shall establish and include within the annual budget
ordinance a residential sanitation fee. This fee shall cover the collection and
disposal of all residential solid waste excluding building material scraps.
   (B)   The Board shall establish and include within the annual budget
ordinance a nonresidential sanitation fee. The fee shall be stated as an amount
per dump of a nonresidential container.
   (C)   Any residential or nonresidential property owner, occupant or agent
residing or located within the town shall pay the appropriate sanitation fee
for sanitation services received. Failure to pay the fee constitutes a
misdemeanor.
   (D)   No paid sanitation fee shall be refunded in whole or in part.
   (E)   Sanitation fees shall be billed, due and payable as a part of the
monthly town utility bill in accordance with
Chapter 50.
(1988 Code, § 19-51)
§ 52.32 MULTIFAMILY RESIDENCE.
   A residential sanitation fee shall be paid by the owner of any multifamily
residence or multi-dwelling unit for each household, occupied or vacant, in
existence on the property.
(1988 Code, § 19-52)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   The intentional killing of animals or the dumping or placing of dead
animals on public property or public rights-of-way shall constitute a
misdemeanor, punishable upon conviction by a fine not exceeding $50 or
imprisonment not exceeding 30 days, as provided by G.S. § 14-4.
(1988 Code, § 19-41)
CHAPTER 53: WATER SHORTAGE MANAGEMENT
Section
   
53.01   Determination of need
   
53.02   Purpose
   
53.03   Water emergency
   
53.04   Notification
   
53.05   Water use restriction levels
   
53.06   Triggers
   
53.07   Termination of water shortage emergency
   
53.08   Variance protocols
   
53.09   Effectiveness
   
53.10   Revision
 
   
53.99   Enforcement and penalty
§ 53.01 DETERMINATION OF NEED.
   The Fairmont Board of Commissioners hereby declares it in the public
interest to manage water usage during conditions of water shortage within the
region.
(Ord. 10-138, passed 8-17-2010)
§ 53.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the declaration of official
phases of water supply shortage situations, and the subsequent implementation
of voluntary and mandatory water conservation measures within the town in the
event a water emergency is declared.
(Ord. 10-138, passed 8-17-2010)
§ 53.03 WATER EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Declaration of emergency.
      (1)   Subject to review by the Board of Commissioners at any regular or
special meeting of the Board, a water emergency may be declared to exist by the
Town Manager, or his or her designee, when any condition or situation exists
that may threaten the availability and/or safety of either treated or potable
water from the water supply, treatment, and distribution system operated and
maintained by the town.
      (2)   A water emergency shall be declared to exist by the Town Manager or
his or her designee when production, treatment, transmission and storage
facilities are incapable of meeting all daily water demands or when projections
of available water show that the available supply of water will not meet the
daily water demands.
      (3)   Such conditions shall include but not be limited to distribution
line failure, well or pump failure, drought conditions, or any declaration of
water emergency by an appropriate Robeson County, State of North Carolina, or
federal authority which affects the town.
   (B)   (1)   The declaration of the existence of a water emergency by the
Town Manager or his or her designee shall specify the level of the severity of
the emergency and be in the form of a signed Manager’s Directive that shall be
provided to the Mayor and Board of Commissioners in the most expeditious manner
available; and upon such distribution, the Manager or his or her designee shall
then notify the public via a press announcement of said water emergency.
      (2)   Any regulatory provisions authorized by this chapter will become
effective 24 hours after the issuance of the public press announcement.
   (C)   The severity of the water emergency shall be classified and expressed
by the Town Manager or his or her designee in terms of the level of staged
water use restrictions imposed on the town’s water customers.
(Ord. 10-138, passed 8-17-2010)
§ 53.04 NOTIFICATION.
   The following notification methods will be used to inform water system
employees and customers of a water shortage declaration: employee e-mail
announcements, notices at municipal buildings, and notices in water bills.
Required water shortage response measures will be communicated through The
Robesonian, the town’s website at http://www.fairmontnc.com, and PSA
announcements on local radio and cable stations. Communication of a declaration
of emergency water restrictions or water rationing will be attempted for all
customers by telephone.
(Ord. 10-138, passed 8-17-2010)
§ 53.05 WATER USE RESTRICTION LEVELS.
   Five levels of water shortage response are outlined in the table below. The
five levels of water shortage response are: voluntary reductions, mandatory
reductions I and II, emergency reductions and water rationing. A detailed
description of each response level and corresponding water reduction measures
follow below.
 
Stage Response                Description
                              Water users are encouraged to reduce their water
1     Voluntary reductions    use and improve water use efficiency; however, no
                              penalties apply for noncompliance. Water supply
                              conditions indicate a potential for shortage.
                              Water users must abide required water use
                              reduction and efficiency measures; penalties
2     Mandatory reductions I  apply for noncompliance. Water supply conditions
                              are significantly lower than the seasonal norm
                              and water shortage conditions are expected to
                              persist.
3     Mandatory reductions II Same as in Stage 2.
                              Water supply conditions are substantially
4     Emergency reductions    diminished and pose an imminent threat to human
                              health or environmental integrity.
                              Water supply is substantially diminished and
5     Water rationing         remaining supplies must be allocated to preserve
                              human health and environmental integrity.
 
   (A)   In Stage 1, Voluntary Reductions, all water users will be asked to
reduce their normal water use by 5%. Customer education and outreach programs
will encourage water conservation and efficiency measures including: irrigating
landscapes a maximum of one inch per week; preventing water waste, runoff and
watering impervious surfaces; watering plants deeply to encourage root growth;
washing only full loads in clothes and dishwashers; using spring-loaded nozzles
on garden hoses; and identifying and repairing all water leaks.
   (B)   In Stage 2, Mandatory Reductions I, all customers are expected to
reduce their water use by 10% in comparison to their previous month’s water
bill. In addition to continuing to encourage all voluntary reduction actions,
the following restrictions apply: irrigation is limited to a half inch per week
between 8:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.; outdoor use of drinking water for washing
impervious surfaces is prohibited; and all testing and training purposes
requiring drinking water (e.g. fire protection) will be limited.
   (C)   In Stage 3, Mandatory Reductions II, customers must continue actions
from all previous stages and further reduce water use by 20% compared to their
previous month’s water bill. All non-essential uses of drinking water are
banned and garden and landscape irrigation must be reduced to the minimum
amount necessary for survival. Additionally, in Stage 3, a drought surcharge of
1.5 times the normal water rate applies.
   (D)   In Stage 4, Emergency Reductions, customers must continue all actions
from previous stages and further reduce their water use by 25% compared to
their previous month’s water bill. A ban on all use of drinking water except to
protect public health and safety is implemented and drought surcharges increase
to 2 times the normal water rate.
   (E)   The goal of Stage 5, Water Rationing, is to provide drinking water to
protect public health (e.g. residences, residential health care facilities and
correctional facilities). In Stage 5, all customers are only permitted to use
water at the minimum required for public health protection. Firefighting is the
only allowable outdoor water use and pickup locations for distributing potable
water will be announced according to Fairmont’s Emergency Response Plan.
Drought surcharges increase to 5 times the normal water rate.
(Ord. 10-138, passed 8-17-2010)
§ 53.06 TRIGGERS.
   Fairmont’s water source is groundwater. The following measurements of well
pumping times and well levels in relationship to pump intake levels trigger
entry into corresponding water restriction stages.
 
Stage Well Operating Conditions
      Pumping Time >10 hrs:
1     20% reduction in seasonal normal distance from static water level and
      pump intake, and 20% increase pumping time for same output
      Pumping Time >12 hrs:
2     40% reduction in distance from static water level and pump intake, and
      40% increase pumping time for same output
      Pumping Time >14 hrs:
3     60% reduction in distance from static water level and pump intake, and
      60% increase pumping time for same output
4     Pumping Time >20 hrs:
      80% reduction in distance from static water level and pump intake
5     Water level at pump intake elevation
 
(Ord. 10-138, passed 8-17-2010)
§ 53.07 TERMINATION OF WATER SHORTAGE EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Termination of any level of declared water emergency shall be ordered
by the Town Manager or his or her designee when he or she, in direct
consultation with the Director of Public Works, or his or her designee,
determines that the water supply available for use by the town water system is
no longer so low as to constitute a water emergency under the terms of this
chapter.
   (B)   All penalties incurred by any consumer of water from the town’s water
system shall remain in effect until paid, regardless of any termination of an
emergency. Upon termination of an emergency, discontinued users may have their
service restored upon payment of the regular fees charged to customers who have
their water service disconnected.
(Ord. 10-138, passed 8-17-2010)
§ 53.08 VARIANCE PROTOCOLS.
   Applications for water use variance requests are available from the Town
Hall. All applications must be submitted to the Town Hall for review by the
Town Public Works Director or his or her designee. A decision to approve or
deny individual variance requests will be determined within two weeks of
submittal after careful consideration of the following criteria: impact on
water demand, expected duration, alternative source options, social and
economic importance, purpose (i.e. necessary use of drinking water) and the
prevention of structural damage.
(Ord. 10-138, passed 8-17-2010)
§ 53.09 EFFECTIVENESS.
   The effectiveness of the Fairmont water shortage response plan will be
determined by comparing the stated water conservation goals with observed water
use reduction data. Other factors to be considered include frequency of plan
activation, any problem periods without activation, total number of violation
citations, desired reductions attained and evaluation of demand reductions
compared to the previous year’s seasonal data
(Ord. 10-138, passed 8-17-2010)
§ 53.10 REVISION.
   The water shortage response plan will be reviewed and revised as needed to
adapt to new circumstances affecting water supply and demand, following
implementation of emergency restrictions, and at a minimum of every 5 years in
conjunction with the updating of the town’s local water supply plan. Further, a
water shortage response planning work group selected by the Board of
Commissioners will review procedures following each emergency or rationing
stage to recommend any necessary improvements to the plan to Fairmont’s Town
Commissioners. The Town of Fairmont Public Works Director is responsible for
initiating all subsequent revisions.
(Ord. 10-138, passed 8-17-2010)
§ 53.99 ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTY.
   (A)   The provisions of the water shortage response plan will be enforced by
Town of Fairmont personnel and local law enforcement. Violators may be reported
to the Town Manager. Citations are assessed according to the following schedule
depending on the number of prior violations and current level of water
shortage.
 
Water Shortage Level  First Violation Second Violation   Third Violation
Voluntary reductions  N/A             N/A                N/A
Mandatory reductions  Warning         $250               Discontinuation of
(Stages 2 and 3)                                         service
Emergency reductions  $250            Discontinuation of Discontinuation of
                                      service            service
Water rationing       $500            Discontinuation of Discontinuation of
                                      service            service
 
   (B)   Discontinuation of services shall last for the earlier of the water
shortage emergency or 30 days. Drought surcharge rates are effective in Stages
3, 4 and 5.
(Ord. 10-138, passed 8-17-2010)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
      
72.   VEHICLE OPERATION GENERALLY
      
73.   STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
      
74.   PEDESTRIANS AND BICYCLES
      
75.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
76.   PARKING SCHEDULES
      
77.   GOLF CARTS
CHAPTER 70:
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Public employees to obey traffic regulations
   
70.03   Pushcarts; riding animals
   
70.04   Licensing of motor vehicles
   
70.05   Coasters, roller skates and the like
   
70.06   Clinging to vehicles
   
70.07   Authority of Police and Fire Department officials
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A thoroughfare through the middle of a block.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE .  A vehicle of the Fire Department, a police
vehicle, an ambulance or an emergency vehicle of a municipal department or
public service corporation as designated or authorized by the Chief of Police.
   BICYCLE .  Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may
ride, having 2 tandem wheels either of which is over 20 inches in diameter.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE .  Every vehicle designed, maintained or used primarily
for the transportation of property.
   CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY. Every highway, street or roadway in respect to
which owners or occupants of abutting property or lands and other persons have
no legal right of access to or from the same, except at points only and in a
manner as may be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over
the highway, street or roadway.
   CROSSWALK. That part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
highway measured from the curbs, or in the absence of curbs from the edges of
the traversable roadway. Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or
elsewhere distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other
markings on the surface.
   CURB LOADING ZONE .  A space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive
use of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
   DRIVER .  The operator of a vehicle.
   FREIGHT CURB LOADING ZONE .  A space adjacent to a curb for the exclusive
use of vehicles during the loading or unloading of freight or passengers.
   INTERSECTION. The area embraced within the prolongation of the lateral curb
lines or, if none, then the lateral edge of roadway lines of 2 or more highways
which join one another at any angle whether or not 1 highway crosses the other.
Where a highway includes 2 roadways 30 feet or more apart, then every crossing
of each roadway of a divided highway by an intersecting highway shall be
regarded as a separate intersection. If the intersecting highway also includes
2 roadways 30 feet or more apart, then every crossing of 2 roadways of the
highways shall be regarded as a separate intersection.
   LANED ROADWAY .  A roadway which is divided into 2 or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic.
   MOPED. A vehicle having 2 or 3 wheels and operable pedals and equipped with
a motor which does not exceed 50 cubic centimeters piston displacement and
cannot propel the vehicle at a speed greater than 20 mph on a level surface.
   MOTORCYCLE. Every vehicle having a saddle for the use of the rider and
designed to travel on not more than 3 wheels in contact with the ground,
including motor scooters and motor-driven bicycles but excluding tractors and
utility vehicles equipped with an additional form of device designed to
transport property, 3-wheeled vehicles while being used by law enforcement
agencies and mopeds.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle
designed to run upon the highways which is pulled by a self-propelled vehicle.
The term MOTOR VEHICLE does not include “moped.”
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, markings and devices
not inconsistent with this chapter placed or erected by authority of a public
body or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating, warning or
guiding traffic.
   PARK. When prohibited, means the standing of a vehicle whether occupied or
not, other than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
loading or unloading.
   PASSENGER CURB LOADING ZONE. A place adjacent to a curb reserved for the
exclusive use of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers.
   PEDESTRIANS. Any person afoot.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer of the Police Department or any officer
authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to make arrests for violations of
traffic regulations.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. Every road or driveway not open to the use of the
public as a matter of right for the purpose of vehicular traffic. The terms
HIGHWAY or STREET or a combination of the 2 terms shall be used synonymously.
   RAILROAD. A carrier of persons or property upon cars operated upon
stationary rails.
   RAILROAD TRAIN. A steam engine, electric or other motor, with or without
cars coupled thereto, operated upon rails.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway.
   ROADWAY. That portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the shoulder. If a highway includes 2 or more
separate roadways the term ROADWAYS shall refer to any roadway separately but
not to all roadways collectively.
   SAFETY ZONE. A traffic island or other space officially set aside within a
roadway for the exclusive use of pedestrians and which is so plainly marked or
indicated by proper signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set apart
as a SAFETY ZONE.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   STOP. When required, means complete cessation of movement.
   STOP, STOPPING or STANDING. When prohibited, means any stopping or standing
of a vehicle whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict
with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or
traffic-control sign or signal.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between property or right-of-way lines
of every way or place of whatever nature, when any part thereof is open to the
use of the public as a matter of right for the purposes of vehicular traffic.
The terms HIGHWAY and STREET and a combination of the 2 terms shall be used
synonymously.
   THROUGH HIGHWAY. Every street or highway or portion thereof at the entrances
to which vehicular traffic from intersecting streets or highways is required by
law to stop before entering or crossing the same when stop signs are erected as
provided in this chapter.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles and other
conveyances either singly or together while using any street for purposes of
travel.
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL. Any device, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and to
proceed.
   TRAFFIC DIVISION. The Traffic Division of the Police Department of the town,
or if a traffic division is not established, then the term shall be deemed to
refer to the Police Department of the town.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, excepting devices moved by human power
or used exclusively upon fixed rails or tracks; provided, that for the purpose
of this chapter bicycles shall be deemed vehicles and every rider of a bicycle
upon a highway shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter applicable to
the driver of a vehicle except those which by their nature can have no
application.
(1988 Code, § 14-1)
Statutory references:
   General authority to regulate traffic, see G.S. §§ 20-169, 160A-300 et seq.
   Motor vehicles and traffic generally, see G.S. Ch. 20
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 20-4.01
§ 70.02 PUBLIC EMPLOYEES TO OBEY TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the driver of any vehicle
owned by or used in the service of the United States government, this state,
county or town, and it shall be unlawful for any driver to violate any of the
provisions of this chapter, except as otherwise permitted in this chapter or by
state statute.
(1988 Code, § 14-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 20-168
§ 70.03 PUSHCARTS; RIDING ANIMALS.
   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding an animal upon a roadway and
every person driving any animal-drawn vehicle shall be subject to the
provisions of this chapter applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except
those provisions of this chapter which by their very nature can have no
application.
(1988 Code, § 14-3)
Statutory reference:
   Application of traffic laws to animals and animal-drawn vehicles, see G.S. §
20-171
§ 70.04 LICENSING OF MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Issuance. The Clerk shall serve as registrar of motor vehicles for the
purposes of this chapter. The registrar of motor vehicles shall issue town
motor vehicle license decals in his or her office each year, beginning the
first business day in January.
   (B)   Fee. An annual license fee in the amount established by the Board of
Commissioners is hereby imposed on each and every motor vehicle in the town.
The fee shall be payable at the town office with the town tax bill.
   (C)   Decal or plate. Upon the payment of the fee, the Clerk shall issue a
license decal or metal license plate bearing the word “Fairmont,” the year and
a number. The decal or metal license plate shall be displayed by the owner
thereof on the vehicle in the following appropriate manner: in the lower right-
hand corner of the windshield not more than 1 inch from the bottom and not more
than 1 inch from the right edge; or on the front of the automobile properly and
securely attached to the license plate bracket provided by the automobile
manufacturer or in some manner approved by the Chief of Police. The decal or
metal license plate shall be displayed on all vehicles in the town not later
than February 15 of each and every year. A different number shall be imprinted
upon all town motor vehicle license decals or metal plates issued each year.
Decals shall be kept in position until replaced by the following year’s decal.
(1988 Code, § 14-4)
Statutory reference:
   Vehicle licenses authorized, see G.S. §§ 20-97, 160A-213
§ 70.05 COASTERS, ROLLER SKATES AND THE LIKE.
   No person upon roller skates, or riding in or by means of any skateboard,
coaster, toy vehicle or similar device, shall go upon any roadway except while
crossing a street on a crosswalk and when so crossing the person shall be
granted all the rights and shall be subject to all the duties applicable to
pedestrians. This section shall not apply upon any street while set aside as a
play street as authorized by ordinance.
(1988 Code, § 14-5)
§ 70.06 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   Any person riding upon any bicycle, motorcycle, coaster, sled, roller skates
or any toy vehicle shall not attach the bicycle, motorcycle, coaster, sled,
roller skates or toy vehicle or himself or herself to any public conveyance or
moving vehicle upon any roadway.
(1988 Code, § 14-6)
§ 70.07 AUTHORITY OF POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the officers of the Police Department, or
officers as are assigned by the Chief of Police, to enforce all street traffic
laws and all of the state vehicle laws applicable to street traffic.
   (B)   Officers of the Police Department or officers as are assigned by the
Chief of Police are hereby authorized to direct all traffic by voice, hand or
signal in conformance with traffic laws, provided, that in the event of a fire
or other emergency or to expedite traffic or to safeguard pedestrians, officers
of the Police Department may direct traffic as conditions may require
notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws.
   (C)   Members of the Fire Department, when at the scene of a fire, may
direct or assist the police in directing traffic thereat or in the immediate
vicinity.
   (D)   Town rescue personnel, while engaged in their official duties, may
direct or assist the police in directing traffic.
(1988 Code, § 14-21)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to direct traffic, see G.S. § 20-114.1
CHAPTER 71:
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
Section
   
71.01   Authority to install and maintain
   
71.02   Specifications generally
   
71.03   Obedience to official traffic-control devices
   
71.04   Signs required for enforcement of certain sections
   
71.05   Prohibited signs, signals and markings
   
71.06   Interference with official traffic-control devices
   
71.07   Through streets designated
   
71.08   Authority to sign 1-way streets and alleys
   
71.09   Authority to erect stop signs
   
71.10   Specifications for stop signs
§ 71.01 AUTHORITY TO INSTALL AND MAINTAIN.
   The town shall place and maintain traffic-control signs, signals and devices
when and as required under the traffic ordinances to make effective the
provisions of ordinances and may place and maintain additional traffic-control
devices to regulate traffic under the traffic ordinances of the town or under
state law, or to guide or warn traffic.
(1988 Code, § 14-51)
§ 71.02 SPECIFICATIONS GENERALLY.
   All traffic-control signs, signals and devices shall conform to state
regulations. All signs and signals required by this chapter for a particular
purpose shall so far as practicable be uniform as to type and location. All
traffic-control devices so erected and not inconsistent with the provisions of
state law or this chapter shall be official traffic-control devices.
(1988 Code, § 14-52)
§ 71.03 OBEDIENCE TO OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the directions of any official traffic-
control device applicable thereto and placed in accordance with the traffic
ordinances of the town, unless otherwise directed by a police officer, subject
to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle.
(1988 Code, § 14-53)
§ 71.04 SIGNS REQUIRED FOR ENFORCEMENT OF CERTAIN SECTIONS.
   No provision of this chapter for which signs are required shall be enforced
against an alleged violator if at the time and place of the alleged violation
an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen
by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular section does not state
that signs are required, that section shall be effective even though no signs
are erected or in place.
(1988 Code, § 14-54)
Statutory reference:
   Traffic-control signs and the like, see G.S. §§ 20-158 et seq.
§ 71.05 PROHIBITED SIGNS, SIGNALS AND MARKINGS.
   (A)   No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of any
highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which purports to be
or is in imitation of or resembles an official traffic-control device or
railroad sign or signal or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic, or
which hides from view or interferes with the effectiveness of any official
traffic-control device or any railroad sign or signal.
   (B)   No person shall place or maintain nor shall any public authority
permit upon any highway any traffic sign or signal bearing thereon any
commercial advertising.
   (C)   This section shall not be deemed to prohibit the erection upon private
property adjacent to highways of signs giving useful directional information
and of a type that cannot be mistaken for official signs.
   (D)   Every prohibited sign, signal or marking is hereby declared to be a
public nuisance and the authority having jurisdiction over the highway is
hereby empowered to remove the same or cause it to be removed without notice.
(1988 Code, § 14-55)
§ 71.06 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   No person shall without lawful authority attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down or remove any official traffic-control device or any
railroad sign or signal or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon or any
other part thereof.
(1988 Code, § 14-56) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.07 THROUGH STREETS DESIGNATED.
   Those streets and parts of streets described in
Chapter 75, Sch. II are declared to be through streets for the purpose of this
chapter.
(1988 Code, § 14-57)
§ 71.08 AUTHORITY TO SIGN 1-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   Whenever any ordinance designates any 1-way street or alley there shall be
signs giving notice thereof, and no regulation shall be effective unless signs
are in place. Signs indicating the direction of lawful traffic movement shall
be placed at every intersection where movement of traffic in the opposite
direction is prohibited.
(1988 Code, § 14-58)
§ 71.09 AUTHORITY TO ERECT STOP SIGNS.
   Whenever any ordinance designates and describes a through street, there
shall be a stop sign on each and every street intersecting that through street
or intersecting that portion thereof described and designated by any ordinance
unless traffic at any intersection is controlled at all times by traffic-
control signals; provided, however, that at the intersection of 2 through
streets or at the intersection of a through street and a heavy traffic street
not so designated, stop signs shall be erected at the approaches of both of the
streets.
(1988 Code, § 14-59)
§ 71.10 SPECIFICATIONS FOR STOP SIGNS.
   Every sign erected pursuant to this chapter shall bear the word STOP in
letters not less than 8 inches in height and the sign shall at nighttime be
rendered luminous by steady or flashing internal illumination, or by a fixed
floodlight projected on the face of the sign, or by efficient reflecting
elements on the face of the sign. Every stop sign shall be located as near as
practicable to the nearest line of the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection or, if none, at the nearest line of the roadway.
(1988 Code, § 15-60)
CHAPTER 72:
VEHICLE OPERATION GENERALLY
Section
   
72.01   Speed limits
   
72.02   Limitations on turning around
   
72.03   Driving on play streets
   
72.04   Obedience to no-turn signs
   
72.05   Processions
   
72.06   Limitations on backing
   
72.07   Authorized emergency vehicles
   
72.08   Gasoline and oil trucks
§ 72.01 SPEED LIMITS.
   It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle in excess of the speeds indicated
in
Chapter 75, Sch. II on the streets listed in that schedule.
(1988 Code, § 14-76) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Speed limits, G.S. §§ 20-141 et seq.
§ 72.02 LIMITATIONS ON TURNING AROUND.
   The driver of any vehicle shall not turn the vehicle so as to proceed in the
opposite direction upon any street in a business district and shall not upon
any other street so turn a vehicle unless the movement can be made in safety
and without interfering with other traffic. In this section, the term BUSINESS
DISTRICT means Main Street from Church Street to the railroad tracks.
(1988 Code, § 14-77) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.03 DRIVING ON PLAY STREETS.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating any street or part thereof
as a play street, no person shall drive a vehicle upon that street or portion
thereof except drivers of vehicles having business or whose residences are
within the closed area, and then any driver shall exercise the greatest care in
driving upon any like street or portion thereof.
(1988 Code, § 14-78) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.04 OBEDIENCE TO NO-TURN SIGNS.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left or U-
turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of that
sign.
(1988 Code, § 14-79) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.05 PROCESSIONS.
   (A)   No driver of a vehicle shall drive between the vehicles of a funeral
or other authorized procession while they are in motion and when those vehicles
are conspicuously designated as required in this chapter. This provision shall
not apply at intersections where traffic is controlled by traffic-control
signals or police officers.
(1988 Code, § 14-80)
   (B)   Each driver in a funeral or other procession shall drive as near to
the right-hand edge of the roadway as practical and shall follow the vehicle
ahead as closely as is practical and safe.
(1988 Code, § 14-81)
   (C)   A funeral procession composed of a series of vehicles shall be
identified by the display upon the outside of each vehicle of a pennant or
other identifying insignia or by another method as may be determined and
designated by the Traffic Division.
(1988 Code, § 14-81) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.06 LIMITATIONS ON BACKING.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same into any intersection or
over a crosswalk, and shall not in any event or at any place back a vehicle
unless the movement can be made in safety and he or she shall have given ample
warning to those who may be behind by hand and horn or other signal.
(1988 Code, § 14-83)
§ 72.07 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter regulating the operation, parking and
standing of vehicles shall apply to authorized emergency vehicles, as defined
in this chapter, except that a driver when operating a vehicle in any
emergency, except when otherwise directed by a police officer, may:
      (1)   Park or stand, notwithstanding the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Exceed the prima facie speed limits so long as he or she does not
endanger life or property; or
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specified directions so long as he or she does not endanger life or property.
   (B)   The foregoing exemptions shall not, however, protect the driver of any
vehicle from the consequences of his or her reckless disregard of the safety of
others.
(1988 Code, § 14-86)
§ 72.08 GASOLINE AND OIL TRUCKS.
   (A)   Number allowed within block at same time. It is declared unlawful for
any person to drive a gasoline or oil truck as described in this section within
any block in the town while another gasoline or oil truck is within that block,
provided that this provision shall not prevent 2 trucks meeting each other
within a block and going in opposite directions provided the trucks allow a
reasonable distance between them while so meeting.
   (B)   Parking. It is declared unlawful for any person to park a gasoline or
oil truck within the corporate limits of the town; provided that nothing in
this section shall prevent a truck from loading or unloading within the
corporate limits of the town at a regularly established place of business.
   (C)   Speed limit. It is declared unlawful for the driver of any gasoline or
oil truck to operate the same within the corporate limits of the town at a
speed in excess of 20 mph.
(1988 Code, § 14-85) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 73:
STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
Section
Generally
   
73.01   Application of chapter
   
73.02   Regulations not exclusive
   
73.03   Parking signs required
   
73.04   Lights on parked vehicles
   
73.05   Prohibited in certain places
   
73.06   Near hazardous or congested places
   
73.07   Standing or parking on 1-way roads
   
73.08   Standing or parking close to curb
   
73.09   Standing or parking for certain purposes prohibited
   
73.10   Angle parking
   
73.11   Parking in alleys
   
73.12   Parking adjacent to schools
   
73.13   Parking so as to obstruct traffic prohibited
   
73.14   Parking prohibited at all times on certain streets
   
73.15   Parking time limited on certain streets
   
73.16   Parking oversize vehicles on public streets
   
73.17   Parking citation fees
Loading Zones, Cab Stands and the Like
   
73.30   Loading and unloading zones
   
73.31   Buses and taxicabs
   
73.32   Use of bus and taxicab stands restricted
   
73.33   Unloading commodities on streets
 
   
73.99   Penalty
GENERALLY
§ 73.01 APPLICATION OF CHAPTER.
   The provisions of this subchapter prohibiting the standing or parking of a
vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times specified in this chapter or
as indicated on official signs except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or official traffic-control device.
(1988 Code, § 14-101)
§ 73.02 REGULATIONS NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The provisions of this chapter imposing a time limit on parking shall not
relieve any person from the duty to observe other and more restrictive
provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping, standing or parking of
vehicles in specified places or at specified times.
(1988 Code, § 14-102)
Statutory reference:
   Stopping, standing and parking generally, see G.S. §§ 20-161 et seq.
§ 73.03 PARKING SIGNS REQUIRED.
   Whenever by this chapter or any other ordinance any parking time limit is
imposed or parking is prohibited on designated streets there shall be
appropriate signs giving notice thereof and no regulations shall be effective
unless signs are erected and in place at the time of any alleged offense.
(1988 Code, § 14-103)
§ 73.04 LIGHTS ON PARKED VEHICLES.
   Whenever a vehicle is lawfully parked at nighttime upon any street within a
business or residence district no lights need be displayed upon the parked
vehicle when there is sufficient light to reveal any person within 200 feet
upon the street.
(1988 Code, § 14-104)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to so provide, see G.S. § 20-134
§ 73.05 PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN PLACES.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law or the directions
of a police officer or traffic-control device, in any of the following places:
   (A)   On a sidewalk;
   (B)   In front of a public driveway;
   (C)   Within an intersection;
   (D)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
   (E)   On a crosswalk;
   (F)   Within 30 feet of the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign or
traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
   (G)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless signs
or markings indicate a different length;
   (H)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
   (I)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and on the
side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75 feet of
the entrance when properly signposted;
   (J)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
   (K)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street;
   (L)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or within a
highway tunnel; or
   (M)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
(1988 Code, § 14-105)
§ 73.06 NEAR HAZARDOUS OR CONGESTED PLACES.
   When official signs are erected at hazardous or congested places no person
shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in any designated place.
(1988 Code, § 14-106)
§ 73.07 STANDING OR PARKING ON 1-WAY ROADS.
   If a highway includes 2 or more separate roadways and traffic is restricted
to 1 direction upon any roadway, no person shall stand or park a vehicle upon
the left-hand side of a 1-way roadway unless signs are erected to permit
standing or parking.
(1988 Code, § 14-107)
§ 73.08 STANDING OR PARKING CLOSE TO CURB.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a roadway other than parallel
with the edge of the roadway headed in the direction of lawful traffic movement
and with the right-hand wheels of the vehicle within 18 inches of the curb or
edge of the roadway except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
(1988 Code, § 14-108) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.09 STANDING OR PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle upon any street for the principal
purposes of:
   (A)   Displaying it for sale;
   (B)   Washing, greasing or repairing a vehicle, except repairs necessitated
by an emergency;
   (C)   Storage thereof by garages, dealers or other persons when storage is
not incident to the bona fide use and operation of an automobile or other
vehicles; or
   (D)   Storage of any detached trailer or van when the towing unit has been
disconnected, or for the purpose of transferring merchandise or freight from 1
vehicle to another.
(1988 Code, § 14-109) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.10 ANGLE PARKING.
   (A)   The Board shall determine upon what streets angle parking shall be
permitted and shall mark or sign those streets.
   (B)   Angle parking shall not be indicated or permitted at any place where
passing traffic would thereby be caused or required to drive upon the left side
of the street.
   (C)   Upon those streets which have been signed or marked for angle parking,
no person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at the angle to the curb or
edge of the roadway indicated by signs or markings.
(1988 Code, § 14-110)
§ 73.11 PARKING IN ALLEYS.
   No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in a manner or under
conditions as to leave available less than 10 feet of the width of the roadway
for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person shall stop, stand or
park a vehicle within an alley, in a position as to block the driveway entrance
to any abutting property.
(1988 Code, § 14-111)
§ 73.12 PARKING ADJACENT TO SCHOOLS.
   When official signs are erected indicating no parking upon either side of a
street adjacent to any school property as authorized in this chapter, no person
shall park a vehicle in any like designated place.
(1988 Code, § 14-112)
§ 73.13 PARKING SO AS TO OBSTRUCT TRAFFIC PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park any vehicle upon a street in a manner or under
conditions as to leave available less than 10 feet of the width of the roadway
for free movement of vehicular traffic.
(1988 Code, § 14-113)
§ 73.14 PARKING PROHIBITED AT ALL TIMES ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   When signs are placed, erected or installed, giving notice thereof, or the
curbing has been painted yellow in lieu of signs, no person shall park a
vehicle at any time except on Sundays upon any of the streets described in
Chapter 75, Sch. IV.
(1988 Code, § 14-114)
§ 73.15 PARKING TIME LIMITED ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   When signs are erected in each block giving notice thereof, no person shall
park a vehicle for longer than the times specified within the district or upon
any of the streets described in
Chapter 75, Sch. IV.
(1988 Code, § 14-115)
§ 73.16 PARKING OVERSIZE VEHICLES ON PUBLIC STREETS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful to park a commercial, industrial or
construction truck or vehicle on any town-maintained streets within the Town of
Fairmont except for the sole purpose of loading or unloading commodities at a
destination upon those streets.
      (2)   This section shall not be applicable to a vehicle temporarily
rendered inoperable by mechanical difficulty for a time necessary to effect
necessary repairs, but in no event to exceed 3 hours.
   (B)   A COMMERCIAL, INDUSTRIAL OR CONSTRUCTION TRUCK OR VEHICLE as used
herein is defined as any self-propelled motor vehicle which has a gross weight
in excess of 10,000 pounds, 3 or more axles or which has a length in excess of
270 inches overall or a width in excess of 96 inches. For purposes of
clarification, but without limitation, this definition includes a truck,
tractor, trailer, semi-trailer, dump truck, tanker truck, bus, large panel van
and construction equipment.
(Ord. passed 10-8-2002) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.17 PARKING CITATION FEES.
   (A)    The following are citation fees for parking violations:
Citation Fee
Citation                      Fee
Parking at fire hydrant       $25
Parking left side of curb     $10
Parking on sidewalk           $10
Parking out of line           $10
Parking in alley              $10
Parking in private drive      $10
Improper parking              $10
Parking too near intersection $10
Double parking                $10
Overtime parking              $10
Parking in restricted area    $10
Handicapped parking           $100
Parking in fire lane          $25
Other violation               $10
 
   (B)   If any person shall violate any provision regulating the operation or
parking of vehicles, he or she shall be responsible for an infraction and shall
be required to pay a penalty of not more than $50.
(Ord. passed 1-17-2006)
Statutory reference:
   Violation of local ordinances misdemeanor, see G.S. § 14-4(b)
LOADING ZONES, CAB STANDS AND THE LIKE
§ 73.30 LOADING AND UNLOADING ZONES.
   Whenever vehicle loading and unloading zones are designated and described by
this chapter and when signs are placed, erected or installed, giving notice
thereof, it shall be unlawful for any person to stop, stand or park any vehicle
for any purpose or period of time except in accordance with the requirements of
this subchapter and as described herein.
(1988 Code, § 14-126) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.31 BUSES AND TAXICABS.
   (A)   The operator of a bus shall not stand or park the vehicle upon any
street at any place other than at a bus stand.
   (B)   The operator of a bus shall not stop the vehicle upon any street at
any place for the purpose of loading or unloading passengers or their baggage
other than at a bus stop, bus stand or passenger loading zone except in case of
an emergency.
   (C)   The operator of a bus shall enter a bus stop, bus stand or passenger
loading zone on a public street in a manner that the bus when stopped to load
or unload passengers or baggage shall be in a position with the right front
wheel of the vehicle not farther than 18 inches from the curb and the bus
approximately parallel to the curb, so as not to unduly impede the movement of
other vehicle traffic.
   (D)   The operator of a taxicab shall not stand or park the vehicle upon any
street at any place other than in a taxicab stand. This provision shall not
prevent the operator of a taxicab from temporarily stopping in accordance with
other stopping or parking regulations at any place for the purpose of and while
actually engaged in the expeditious loading or unloading of passengers.
(1988 Code, § 14-127)
§ 73.32 USE OF BUS AND TAXICAB STANDS RESTRICTED.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle other than a bus in a bus
stop, or other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand, when any stop has been
officially designated and appropriately signed, except that the driver of a
passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of and while
actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers when stopping does not
interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter or about to enter the zone.
(1988 Code, § 14-128) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.33 UNLOADING COMMODITIES ON STREETS.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, it shall be unlawful for any
person operating a delivery vehicle of any kind to make a stop on any of the
paved streets or alleys of the town for the purpose of unloading any commodity.
All vehicles shall unload at the rear of stores or places of business which
they propose to serve and at places other than on paved streets or alleys,
except that unloading may be made from a paved street to a business house or
establishment which has no accessible rear entrance.
(1988 Code, § 14-129) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Violation of §
73.16 shall result in a $50 fine. The Police Department shall place a notice on
the vehicle notifying the owner or operator of the vehicle that the vehicle has
been parked in violation of the provisions of §
73.16.
(Ord. passed 10-8-2002)
CHAPTER 74:
PEDESTRIANS AND BICYCLES
Section
Pedestrians
   
74.01   Drivers of vehicles to exercise due care
   
74.02   Use of crosswalks
   
74.03   Crossing at right angles
Bicycles
   
74.15   Applicability
   
74.16   Responsibility of parents and guardians
   
74.17   Traffic laws apply to persons riding bicycles
   
74.18   Obedience to traffic-control devices
   
74.19   Riding astride seat
   
74.20   Number of persons permitted
   
74.21   Riding on roadways and bicycle paths
   
74.22   Speed
   
74.23   Emerging from alley or driveway
   
74.24   Carrying articles
   
74.25   Parking
   
74.26   Riding on sidewalks
   
74.27   Audible signal devices
   
74.28   Brakes
PEDESTRIANS
§ 74.01 DRIVERS OF VEHICLES TO EXERCISE DUE CARE.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of this subchapter every driver of a vehicle
shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any
roadway, shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary and shall
exercise proper precaution upon observing any child or any confused or
incapacitated person upon a roadway.
(1988 Code, § 14-151)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 20-174(e)
§ 74.02 USE OF CROSSWALKS.
   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks.
(1988 Code, § 14-152)
§ 74.03 CROSSING AT RIGHT ANGLES.
   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway at any place other than by a route at
right angles to the curb or by the shortest route to the opposite curb except
in a crosswalk.
(1988 Code, § 14-153)
Statutory reference:
   Pedestrians, see G.S. §§ 20-172 et seq., 20-175.1 et seq.
BICYCLES
§ 74.15 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply whenever a bicycle is operated
upon any street or upon any public path set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles, subject to those exceptions stated in this subchapter.
(1988 Code, § 14-176)
§ 74.16 RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENTS AND GUARDIANS.
   The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not authorize or
knowingly permit any child or ward to violate any of the provisions of this
subchapter.
(1988 Code, § 14-177)
§ 74.17 TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY TO PERSONS RIDING BICYCLES.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by the laws of this state declaring rules of the road applicable to
vehicles or by this chapter applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except as to
special regulations in this subchapter and except as to those provisions of
laws and ordinances which by their nature can have no application.
(1988 Code, § 14-178)
§ 74.18 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of official
traffic-control signals, signs and other control devices applicable to
vehicles, unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (B)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left
or U-turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle shall disobey the
direction of any like sign, except where the person dismounts from the bicycle
to make any like turn, in which event the person shall then obey the
regulations applicable to pedestrians.
(1988 Code, § 14-179)
Statutory references:
   Bicycles, see G.S. §§ 20-171.1 et seq.
   Lights on bicycles, see G.S. § 20-129
§ 74.19 RIDING ASTRIDE SEAT.
   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a permanent
and regular seat attached thereto.
(1988 Code, § 14-180) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.20 NUMBER OF PERSONS PERMITTED.
   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at 1 time than the number for
which it is designed and equipped.
(1988 Code, § 14-181) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.21 RIDING ON ROADWAYS AND BICYCLE PATHS.
   (A)   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near to
the right-hand side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when
passing a standing vehicle or 1 proceeding in the same direction.
   (B)   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than 2
abreast except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles.
   (C)   Whenever a usable path for bicycles has been provided adjacent to a
roadway bicycle riders shall use the path and shall not use the roadway.
(1988 Code, § 14-182)
§ 74.22 SPEED.
   No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing.
(1988 Code, § 14-183) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.23 EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR DRIVEWAY.
   The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall
upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area extending across any alleyway
yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians approaching on the sidewalk or
sidewalk area and upon entering the roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all
vehicles approaching on the roadway.
(1988 Code, § 14-184)
§ 74.24 CARRYING ARTICLES.
   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle or article
which prevents the rider from keeping at least 1 hand upon the handlebars.
(1988 Code, § 14-185) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.25 PARKING.
   No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon the roadway
against the curb or upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle or
against a building or at the curb, in a manner as to afford the least
obstruction to pedestrian traffic.
(1988 Code, § 14-186) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.26 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall ride a bicycle on the sidewalks of the town. The Chief of
Police is authorized to erect signs on any roadway prohibiting the riding of
bicycles thereon by any person and when signs are in place no person shall
disobey the signs.
(1988 Code, § 14-187) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.27 AUDIBLE SIGNAL DEVICES.
   No person shall operate a bicycle unless it is equipped with a bell or other
device capable of giving a signal audible for a distance of at least 100 feet,
except that a bicycle shall not be equipped with nor shall any persons use upon
a bicycle any siren or whistle.
(1988 Code, § 14-188) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.28 BRAKES.
   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will enable the operator
to make the braked wheel skid on dry, level, clean pavement.
(1988 Code, § 14-189)
CHAPTER 75:
TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Speed limits
   
II.   Through streets
   
III.   No U-turns
   
IV.   One-way traffic adjacent to middle school
   
V.   School zone established; 25 mph 30 minutes before school opens and 30
minutes after school closes
   
VI.   Tractor-trailer trucks
   
VII.   Truck lanes
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
Street                      Location                           Speed Limit
Gertrude Street             Between Walnut and Brown Streets   20 mph
Griffin Street              -                                  20 mph
Main Street (NC 41) and New From Red Cross Street to Walnut    20 mph
Street (NC41)               Street
Martin Luther King Drive    From Main Street to Cole Street    25 mph
McMillian Drive             -                                  20 mph
NC 130                      From SR 2298 to SR 2238            45 mph
                            From SR 2298 to SR 2238, to a
                            point 0.19 miles north of SR 2298.
                            (Fairmont High School - school
NC 130                      speed zone in effect from 30       35 mph
                            minutes before until 30 minutes
                            after school begins and ends on
                            school days only)
Webster Street              -                                  20 mph
Golf Course Road/NC Hwy 130 From Walnut Street to Old Stage    35 mph
Bypass                      Road
 
(1988 Code, § 14-2001) (Ord. passed 12-4-1999; Am. Ord. passed 3-21-2006; Am.
Ord. 07-109, passed 5-15-2007)
SCHEDULE II. THROUGH STREETS
 
Street      Location
Main Street -
 
(1988 Code, § 14-2002)
SCHEDULE III. NO U-TURNS.
 
Street          Location
Center Street   Between Main and Walnut Streets
Iona Street     Between Main and Trinity Streets
Main Street     Between the Atlantic Coast Line Railroad and Cottage Street
Thompson Street Between Main and Trinity Streets
 
(1988 Code, § 14-2003)
SCHEDULE IV. ONE-WAY TRAFFIC ADJACENT TO MIDDLE SCHOOL.
 
Street         Direction of Traffic Location              Time of Restriction
                                                          7:45 a.m. to 8:45
                                                          a.m. and 3:15 p.m. to
Bowers Street  West                 Entire Block          4:15 p.m. on days
                                                          when school is in
                                                          operation
                                                          7:45 a.m. to 8:45
                                    From Bowers Street to a.m. and 3:15 p.m. to
Ivey Street    South                Iona Street           4:15 p.m. on days
                                                          when school is in
                                                          operation
                                                          7:45 a.m. to 8:45
                                    From Iona Street to   a.m. and 3:15 p.m. to
Pittman Street North                Bowers Street         4:15 p.m. on days
                                                          when school is in
                                                          operation
 
(1988 Code, § 14-2011)
SCHEDULE V. SCHOOL ZONE ESTABLISHED; 25 MPH 30 MINUTES BEFORE SCHOOL OPENS AND
30 MINUTES AFTER SCHOOL CLOSES.
 
Street                   Location
Iona Street              From 500 feet east of Trinity Street to 500 feet west
                         of Pittman Street
Iona Street              Between Trinity and Pittman Streets
Linden Avenue            From Martin Luther King Drive south to the A.C.L.
                         Railroad
Martin Luther King Drive From Linden Avenue west to that portion of Martin
                         Luther King Drive formerly named Cole Street
                         From a point 500 feet west of SR 2442 (Pittman St.)
NC 130 Business          eastward to a point approximately 1,000 feet east of
                         SR 2442 (Pittman St.)
Trinity Street           Extending from Iona Street northwardly to the
                         northeastern corner of the school property
 
(1988 Code, §§ 14-2001, 14-2012)
SCHEDULE VI. TRACTOR-TRAILER TRUCKS.
 
Street        Location                          Restriction
              From South Main Street to Pittman Tractor trailer trucks (hauling
Church Street Street                            vehicles - semi-trailers) are
                                                prohibited from entering
 
(Ord. passed 4-13-1999)
SCHEDULE VII. TRUCK LANES.
   It is declared unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle truck and/
or trailer having a capacity for transportation of 2,000 gallons or more of
gasoline or other petroleum products over any street within the town except
those streets which have heretofore been designated as “truck lanes” and which
truck lanes have been clearly marked with appropriate signs, and are as
follows; provided, however, that trucks may travel upon other streets of the
town if necessary to make deliveries of gasoline or other petroleum products to
places of business in the town; however, the travel of any like truck over Main
Street between Thompson and Iona Streets and the travel of any like truck over
Center Street between Main and Walnut Streets is hereby expressly prohibited
and made unlawful.
 
Street         Location
Cottage Street From the eastern corporate limits to Main Street
Iona Street    From Main Street west to the western corporate limits
Main Street    From the southern corporate limits north to Iona Street
Walnut Street  From Cottage Street to Main Street
 
(1988 Code, § 14-85)
CHAPTER 76:
PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Parking restrictions
   
II.   Fairmont Middle School loading and unloading zone
SCHEDULE I. PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
Street Location Restriction
Street          Location                        Restriction
                                                Parking limited to 2 hours
Center Street   From Main Street east to Walnut between hours of 9:00 a.m. and
                Street                          5:00 p.m. on any day except
                                                Sundays and public holidays
Iona Street     From the alley to Main Street   Parking prohibited
Iona Street     North side, first 2 spaces from Parking prohibited
                Trinity Street
Iona Street     South side between Main Street  Parking prohibited
                and Mitchell Street
Iona Street     South side between Trinity      Parking prohibited
                Street and Pittman Street
Iona Street     South side, between Mitchell    Parking prohibited except
                Street and Trinity Street       during funerals
                                                Parking limited to 2 hours
                From Railroad Street and Byrd   between hours of 9:00 a.m. and
Main Street     Street south to the             5:00 p.m. on any day except
                intersection of Red Cross       Sundays and public holidays.
                Street                          Overnight parking is strictly
                                                prohibited
McDaniel Street From Morro Street, east to the  Parking prohibited
                town landfill
                From Main Street west to the    Parking limited to 2 hours
Thompson Street end of Branch Bank and Trust    between hours of 9:00 a.m. and
                (BB&T) property, except as      5:00 p.m. on any day except
                otherwise provided              Sundays and public holidays
Thompson Street Between the north alley east    Parking prohibited
                and west entrances
Thompson Street South side, adjacent to         Parking is limited to 15
                Fairmont Department Store       minutes
Thompson Street North side, from Main Street to Parking prohibited
                the second bank entrance
Trinity Street  West side from Iona Street      Parking prohibited
                north to Railroad Street
                Property adjacent to and owned
Walnut Street   by any church, except while     Parking prohibited
                attending services in the
                church
Walnut Street   East side, between Cottage and  Parking prohibited except on
                Center Streets                  Sundays
 
(1988 Code, §§ 14-2005, 14-2006, 14-2007, 14-2008, 14-2009) (Am. Ord. 17-172,
passed 6-20-2017)
SCHEDULE II. FAIRMONT MIDDLE SCHOOL LOADING AND UNLOADING ZONE.
 
Street      Location
Iona Street North side, 20 feet west and 20 feet east of sidewalk cut located
            approximately midway between Trinity Street and Pittman Street.
 
(1988 Code, § 14-2010)
CHAPTER 77: GOLF CARTS
Section
   
77.01   Policy statement
   
77.02   Rules and regulations
§ 77.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   This chapter is adopted in the interest of public safety. Golf carts,
hereinafter “cart(s)”, are not designed or manufactured to be used on public
streets and roads, hereinafter “street(s)”, and the Town of Fairmont in no way
advocates or endorses their operation on streets. The town by regulating such
operation is merely addressing safety issues. This chapter is not to be relied
upon as a determination that operation on streets is safe or advisable even if
done in accordance with this chapter. All persons operating carts must be
observant of, and attentive to the safety of themselves and others, including
their passengers, other motorists, bicyclists, and pedestrians. All persons
that operate or ride carts on streets inside the town do so at their own risk.
The town shall have no liability under any theory of liability, for permitting
carts to be operated on streets under legislative authority granted by the
State of North Carolina, and pursuant to such legislative authority, such cart
operation shall be in accordance with this chapter.
(Ord. 12-148, passed 9-18-2012)
§ 77.02 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   Carts shall only be operated on streets within the municipal limits of the
town in accordance with the following rules and regulations.
   (A)   Any person who operates a cart in the town assumes all liability
associated with operating the cart.
   (B)   Any person who operates a cart must be at least 16 years of age and
possess a valid driver’s license required by the State of North Carolina for
operation of a motor vehicle. Cart operators must carry their driver’s license
on their person at all times while operating a cart on the streets in the
corporate limits.
   (C)   (1)   Carts shall be driven on streets only from dawn to dusk, unless
the cart is equipped with 2 lighted lamps, one on each side of the front of the
cart, visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of at least
300 feet to the front of such cart, and a red lamp on the rear, exhibiting a
red light visible under like conditions from a distance of at least 200 feet to
the rear of such cart.
      (2)   In lieu of the red lamp, the cart may alternatively be equipped at
the rear with 2 red reflectors of a diameter of not less than 3 inches, which
are designed, located and maintained so that each reflector is visible for at
least 500 feet when approached by a motor vehicle displaying lawful undimmed
headlights.
   (D)   Carts operated after sunset must have mechanical turn signals. Hand
signals may be used during daylight hours in lieu of turn signals.
   (E)   Carts shall be equipped with a rear view mirror.
   (F)   Carts shall only be driven on streets in the town with a posted speed
limit of 35 miles per hour or less.
   (G)   Any person who operates a cart on the streets in the town shall adhere
to all applicable state laws concerning the possession and use of alcoholic
beverages and illegal drugs, and all applicable state traffic laws.
   (H)   No cart shall be operated in a careless or reckless manner.
   (I)   Carts shall be operated to the right side of the travel lane unless
making a left turn.
   (J)   The maximum occupancy of a cart traveling on streets shall be one
person per bucket seat or three people per bench seat. Child/infant restraints
are required to be used in the cart in the same manner as required for
passenger vehicles.
   (K)   Carts shall not be operated on any sidewalk in the town.
   (L)   Carts shall not be operated on or across any public or private
properties outside the street right of way without the permission of the
property owner.
   (M)   Carts shall only park in handicapped parking spaces if the driver or
at least one passenger has a valid handicap-parking placard and such placard is
properly displayed in the cart.
   (N)   No cart shall be operated at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent for the existing conditions and in no instance at a speed greater than
20 miles per hour.
   (O)   (1)   All owners of carts operated on streets within the town shall
complete and submit a cart registration form. The completed forms will be
maintained by the Fairmont Police Department. All carts operated on the streets
must have a valid permit sticker issued by the Police Department. A yearly
registration fee will be charged for this permit sticker to cover the costs of
implementing and maintaining this chapter. Permit stickers will be issued
annually, and are valid from July 1 of the year of issuance to June 30 of the
following year. The following fees shall apply:
         (a)   Inspection by Police Department      $25 Annually
            (includes permit sticker)
         (b)   Re-inspection by Police Department    $10
            (If a cart fails the initial inspection)
      (2)   The Chief of Police retains the right to refuse to issue and/or
revoke any permit sticker from any cart at any time for any reason that he
feels is appropriate to ensure the safety and well-being of the citizens of the
town or the motoring public.
   (P)   Golf cart owners who disagree with a decision by the Police Chief may
file with the Chief, Town Clerk or Town Manager a written appeal stating the
basis for an appeal to the town’s Board of Commissioners. Hearings held under
this division shall be conducted in accordance with local hearing procedure.
The Town’s Board of Commissioners shall make a final decision on the appeal
within 90 days of the date the appeal was filed and shall transmit a written
copy of its decision by first class mail.
   (Q)   Each owner shall have proof of cart ownership and must complete a
waiver of liability, releasing the town, its employees, and officials from all
liability that may arise as a result of operating a cart on streets inside the
town. A current waiver of liability must be on file with the Fairmont Police
Department to operate a cart on a town street.
   (R)   Lost or stolen permit stickers are the responsibility of the owner. A
Police report must be filed in the event of a lost or stolen permit sticker.
The Chief of Police shall have discretion in determining whether a permit
sticker may be re-issued in this instance. If no record can be found of a
previous application, or the receipt of a permit sticker, the Chief of Police
may direct the applicant to reapply, and also resubmit any and all fees
necessary, before a replacement permit sticker is issued.
   (S)   Any person who operates a cart on the streets shall have a golf cart
rider liability insurance coverage in an amount not less than that required by
state law for motor vehicles operated on public highways. Proof of such
insurance shall be in the possession of the operator of the cart while
operating the cart and a copy shall be provided to the Police Department at the
time of permitting.
   (T)   The above requirements do not apply to a cart crossing a street at a
golf course crossing designated by signs duly erected by the town or the North
Carolina Department of Transportation for such crossing when a cart is being
used for golf purposes when using the crossing.
   (U)   Any act constituting a violation of this chapter or failure to comply
with any of its requirements shall subject the offender, upon conviction, to a
fine not to exceed $50. Each day of violation shall constitute a separate
offense. If an offender fails to pay a fine within 10 days of a final judgment
or if there are more than 6 violations of this chapter within a permitting
period, the privileges and permit granted by this chapter shall be revoked by
the Fairmont Police Department.
   (V)   Carts used or owned by the town and operated for special events or
official business shall be exempt from permit fees but shall otherwise comply
with the above requirements.
(Ord. 12-148, passed 9-18-2012; Am. Ord. 12-149, passed 12-18-2012)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
91.   NUISANCES
      
92.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
      
93.   HEALTH AND SANITATION
      
94.   ANIMALS
      
95.   PARKS AND RECREATION
CHAPTER 90:
STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Generally
   
90.001   Planting and protection of trees and shrubs
   
90.002   Assemblies and crowds
   
90.003   Display of goods
   
90.004   Placing objects
   
90.005   Playing games
   
90.006   Maintenance of public areas
   
90.007   Garbage and trash receptacles
   
90.008   Duties of Department of Public Works
   
90.009   Street-damaging machinery prohibited
   
90.010   Sidewalk policy; maintenance
   
90.011   Loitering; drug-related activity
Driveways
   
90.025   Curbs and gutters
   
90.026   Permit required
   
90.027   Application; fee
   
90.028   Standards for issuance
Street Improvements
   
90.040   Definitions
   
90.041   Requirements for acceptance of new streets
   
90.042   Improvement requirements for existing streets
   
90.043   Opening and improving streets without petition
   
90.044   Construction according to specifications
   
90.045   Installation of utilities
   
90.046   Resurfacing improvements
   
90.047   Streetlights and developer’s costs
Excavations and Repairs
   
90.060   Supervision and control
   
90.061   Street repair
   
90.062   Requirements during excavations
   
90.063   Permit required
   
90.064   Application; fees
   
90.065   Municipal liability
Parades and Demonstrations
   
90.075   Definitions
   
90.076   Exceptions
   
90.077   Certain activities prohibited
   
90.078   Interference prohibited
   
90.079   Picketing
   
90.080   Permit required
   
90.081   Grounds for denial
   
90.082   Application; issuance
   
90.083   Revocation
 
   
90.999   Penalty
GENERALLY
§ 90.001 PLANTING AND PROTECTION OF TREES AND SHRUBS.
   Citizens may plant trees in front of their lots and around their lots on the
sidewalks under the supervision of the Director of Public Works, provided they
shall not plant any that are detrimental to the town. No trees or shrubs shall
be planted in the street rights-of-way or gutters. No person shall cut or
damage any tree upon the sidewalks of the town without the permission of the
Director of Public Works or shall dig up or injure any tree or shall tack or
post any advertisement upon the trees of the town.
(1988 Code, § 20-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.002 ASSEMBLIES AND CROWDS.
   All crowds or assemblages of persons that shall congregate on the streets or
sidewalks of the town, thereby obstructing streets or sidewalks to the
inconvenience of pedestrians and vehicle operators, shall be dispersed by the
police, and any person who refuses to obey the warning of the officer shall be
deemed to violate this section; provided that nothing in this section shall
prevent builders from obstructing the streets for a reasonable length of time
with material while work is in progress.
(1988 Code, § 20-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.003 DISPLAY OF GOODS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or set out for exhibition any
goods, wares or merchandise directly connected with the business transacted by
him or her, on the sidewalk in front of a place of business, store or building
owned, controlled or occupied by him or her without specific approval of the
Board; however, written request from a sponsoring agency or an individual
merchant to hold a 1-day sidewalk sale may be approved by the Town Manager.
Sponsoring agency requests will be for town-wide sidewalk sales only and
individual requests will be limited to 3 per year.
(1988 Code, § 20-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.004 PLACING OBJECTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to store, pile, deposit, erect, keep or
place, or cause, permit or suffer to be stored, piled, deposited, erected, kept
or placed upon any sidewalk in the town any wood, coal, boxes, barrels, stone,
brick, lumber, dirt, merchandise, shipping case, stand, stall, booth or
showcase or other obstruction of any kind, except as otherwise provided by law
or ordinance.
(1988 Code, § 20-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.005 PLAYING GAMES.
   No person shall play baseball, football or any other game of ball or shall
pitch or catch a ball on any street or sidewalk within the primary fire limits
of the town.
(1988 Code, § 20-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.006 MAINTENANCE OF PUBLIC AREAS.
   Every owner, lessee, tenant, occupant or person in charge of any commercial
establishment or premises which maintains any paved or unpaved areas for the
use of the public, either for parking or as access area and incident to the
carrying on of the principal business of any commercial establishment or
premises and which parking or access areas abut or lie within 10 feet of any
public street or other public way, shall keep and maintain areas clean and free
from trash, litter, rubbish and any materials liable to be blown, deposited or
cast upon a street or other public way.
(1988 Code, § 20-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.007 GARBAGE AND TRASH RECEPTACLES.
   Suitable receptacles shall be provided in all parking or access areas within
the meaning of §
90.006. Receptacles shall be plainly marked and constructed to prevent
scattering of any trash, litter, rubbish or other materials deposited therein.
(1988 Code, § 20-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.008 DUTIES OF DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS.
   The Department of Public Works shall keep the streets, sidewalks and public
square in a neat and clean condition and shall cause all obstructions to be
removed therefrom.
(1988 Code, § 20-8)
§ 90.009 STREET-DAMAGING MACHINERY PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drag, or run or cause to be dragged
or run any harrow or other implement, engine, machine or tool upon any asphalt,
bithulitic, warrenite or other type of permanently paved street of the town
which shall be liable, in any way to injure or cut the surface thereof. It
shall also be unlawful to injure any dirt street in the same manner.
(1988 Code, § 20-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.010 SIDEWALK POLICY; MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Sidewalk policy. The Town of Fairmont’s policy on sidewalks is based
upon G.S. § 160A-217 and is considered an improvement for both the owner and
the town.
   (B)   Sidewalks:
      (1)   Should be part of the town-wide system only;
      (2)   Cannot adversely affect an adjacent property;
      (3)   Land should be dedicated as an easement, if not part of an already
dedicated right-of-way;
      (4)   Costs should be based upon a 50/50 basis and shall be considered by
the Board on the availability of funds;
      (5)   All work is subject to approval by the town Public Works Director;
and
      (6)   Petitions to the Board should be made according to the guidelines
of G.S. § 160A-217 and approval of request(s) by the Town Board should follow
the same.
   (C)   Maintenance.
      (1)   The property owner shall petition to the Town Board on a 50/50
basis for costs incurred from the maintenance performed on sidewalks located on
property and that which is located on town-maintained streets.
      (2)   The town shall repair any damages done at 100% cost, for damages
incurred by any town employees and/or vehicles while carrying out town duties.
      (3)   The owner of the property shall be assessed at 100% of costs from
damages to the sidewalks which are located on the owner’s property and located
on town maintained streets. Those wishing to participate in this policy may do
so by petitioning the Board of Commissioners by submitting their request in
writing to the office of the Town Manager 4 days before the regular scheduled
Board meeting.
(1988 Code, § 20-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.011 LOITERING; DRUG-RELATED ACTIVITY.
   (A)   (1)   For the purpose of this section, PUBLIC PLACE means any street,
sidewalk, bridge, alley or alleyway, plaza, park, driveway, parking lot or
transportation facility, or the doorways and entrance ways to any building
which fronts on any of those places, or a motor vehicle in or on any of those
places or any property owned by the Town of Fairmont.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, a KNOWN UNLAWFUL DRUG USER,
POSSESSOR OR SELLER is a person who has, within the knowledge of the arresting
officer, been convicted in any court within this state of any violation
involving the use, possession or sale of any of the substances referred to in
the North Carolina Controlled Substances Act, G.S. § 90-5, or has been
convicted of any violation of any substantially similar laws of any political
subdivision of this state or of any other state or of federal law.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for a person to remain or wander about in a
public place in a manner and under circumstances manifesting the purpose to
engage in a violation of any subdivision of the North Carolina Controlled
Substances Act, G.S. § 90-5. Circumstances shall include:
         (a)   Repeatedly beckoning to, stopping or attempting to stop passers-
by, or repeatedly attempting to engage passers-by in conversation;
         (b)   Repeatedly stopping or attempting to stop motor vehicles;
         (c)   Repeatedly interfering with the free passage of other persons;
         (d)   The person is a known unlawful drug user, possessor or seller;
         (e)   The person behaves in a manner as to raise a reasonable
suspicion that he or she is about to engage in or is engaged in an unlawful
drug-related activity;
         (f)   The person repeatedly passes to or receives from passers-by,
whether on foot or in a vehicle, money or objects;
         (g)   The person takes flight upon the approach or appearance of a
police officer;
         (h)   The person is at a location frequented by persons who use,
possess or sell drugs; or
         (i)   Any vehicle involved is registered to a known unlawful drug
user, possessor or seller, or is known to be or have been involved in drug-
related activities.
      (4)   A violation of any provisions of this section shall subject the
offender to the penalties set forth in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(1988 Code, § 20-11)
   (B)   (1)   A person commits a violation if he or she loiters or prowls in a
place, at a time or in a manner not usual for law-abiding individuals under
circumstances that warrant alarm for the safety of persons or property in the
vicinity. Among the circumstances which may be considered in determining
whether alarm is warranted is the fact that the person takes flight upon
appearance of a police officer, refuses to identify himself or herself or any
object. Unless flight by the person or other circumstances makes it
impractical, a police officer shall, prior to any arrest for an offense under
this section, afford the person an opportunity to dispel any alarm which would
otherwise be warranted, by requesting the person to identify himself or herself
and to explain his or her presence or conduct. No person shall be convicted of
an offense under this section if the police officer did not comply with the
preceding sentence, or if it appears at trial that the explanation given by the
person was true and, if it had been believed by the police officer at the time,
would have dispelled the alarm. Any police officer may arrest any person
suspected of being a loiterer or prowler without a warrant if it reasonably
appears that the delay in arresting the suspect caused by obtaining a warrant
would result in the suspect’s escape.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person, after first being warned by a
police officer, or where a “no loitering” sign or signs have been posted, to
loiter, stand, sit or lie in or upon any public or quasi-public sidewalk,
street, curb, crosswalk, walkway area, mall or that portion of private property
utilized for public use, so as to hinder or obstruct unreasonably the free
passage of pedestrians or vehicles thereon. It shall be unlawful for any person
to block, obstruct or prevent free access to the entrance to any building open
to the public.
      (3)   For the purpose of this section, PUBLIC PLACE has the following
definition unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning: an area generally visible to public view, including streets,
sidewalks, bridges, alleys, plazas, parks, driveways, parking lots, automobiles
(whether moving or not) and buildings open to the general public, including
those which serve food or drink or provide entertainment and the doorways and
entrances to buildings or dwellings and the grounds enclosing them.
(Ord. passed 6-15-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory references:
   Enforcement of ordinances, see G.S. § 160A-175
   Similar provisions, see G.S. §§ 160A-174 and 14-4
DRIVEWAYS
§ 90.025 CURBS AND GUTTERS.
   All curbs and gutters to be installed on public streets of the town shall
include construction of that part of any driveway which is within the public
right-of-way of the street so as to provide a continuous driveway from the
street to the property line, unless the owner of the property or his or her
agent should request otherwise. The number, location, width and design of the
driveway shall be in accordance with normally accepted standards and practices
as determined by the Director of Public Works.
(1988 Code, § 20-21) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.026 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall begin to construct, reconstruct, repair, alter or grade any
driveway on the public streets, unless a written permit therefor has been
issued by the Clerk upon approval of the Manager or the Director of Public
Works.
(1988 Code, § 20-31) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.027 APPLICATION; FEE.
   (A)   All persons desiring a driveway permit shall make application
therefor, which application shall show:
      (1)   The name and address of the owner or agent in charge of the
property abutting the proposed work area;
      (2)   The name and address of the party doing the work;
      (3)   The location of the work area;
      (4)   Attached plans showing details of the proposed alteration;
      (5)   The estimated cost of the alteration; and
      (6)   Other information as the approving officer shall find reasonably
necessary to the determination of whether a permit should be issued.
   (B)   Application shall be accompanied by a fee which shall be established
by the Board.
(1988 Code, § 20-32) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.028 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   The Clerk shall issue a driveway permit when he or she finds that:
   (A)   The plans for the proposed operation have been approved by the Manager
or the Director of Public Works, to whom they shall be forwarded by the Clerk
within a reasonable time after receipt thereof;
   (B)   The work shall be done according to the standard specifications of the
town for public work of like character;
   (C)   The operation will not unreasonably interfere with vehicular and
pedestrian traffic, the demand and necessity for parking spaces, and the means
of egress to and from the property affected and adjacent properties; and
   (D)   The health, welfare and safety of the public will not be unreasonably
impaired.
(1988 Code, § 20-33)
STREET IMPROVEMENTS
§ 90.040 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC UTILITIES. Includes power, gas, light, telephone and telegraph
corporations, and others as may operate like public services, and also shall
include departments of the town providing any of the above services as well as
water distribution and sewage disposal.
   STREET IMPROVEMENTS. Includes any 1 or any combination of the following
terms: grading, regrading, paving, re-paving, macadamizing and re-macadamizing
of streets, alleys, sidewalks or other public places or ways, and the
construction, reconstruction and altering of curbing, guttering, storm sewers,
turnouts, water mains and water, gas or sewer connections therein.
(1988 Code, § 20-51)
§ 90.041 REQUIREMENTS FOR ACCEPTANCE OF NEW STREETS.
   (A)   Dedication for public use on recorded map. Streets shall be considered
for acceptance for maintenance by the town when the proper street width is
dedicated for public use and a map is recorded in the office of the Register of
Deeds of the county. The map and street shall meet the requirements established
by
Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Waiver of street design requirements. The design requirements for
streets as provided for by
Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances may be excepted by the Board to the
degree that exception shall be in the general best interest of the town. The
Board may not make any exception where only the special interest of any group
or individual is to be served nor in regard to any street which is covered as
part of a subdivision by
Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances. Subdivision streets shall be completely
under the provisions of
Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances.
(1988 Code, § 20-52)
§ 90.042 IMPROVEMENT REQUIREMENTS FOR EXISTING STREETS.
   Any improvements made by the town, its contractor or agent to existing
streets shall be in accordance with the requirements for new streets
established by
Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances. Specific design requirements in this
chapter may be excepted or modified by the Board to the degree that exception
or modification shall be in the general best interest of the town.
(1988 Code, § 20-53)
§ 90.043 OPENING AND IMPROVING STREETS WITHOUT PETITION.
   It shall be wholly discretionary with the Board whether any street
improvement work is necessary or desirable and shall be done or not. The Board
may at its sole discretion make any street improvement and pay the cost thereof
from revenues received by the town without the involvement of petition or
assessment.
(1988 Code, § 20-54)
§ 90.044 CONSTRUCTION ACCORDING TO SPECIFICATIONS.
   All street improvements shall be constructed in accordance with
specifications furnished by the Director of Public Works, and all work shall be
done under his or her supervision.
(1988 Code, § 20-55) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.045 INSTALLATION OF UTILITIES.
   At least 30 days before a contractor is notified that a street is ready for
him or her to proceed with his or her work the Director of Public Works shall
notify all public utilities that the street is being turned over to the
contractor for the execution of his or her contract. If those so notified are
not ready or cannot get ready within the 30 days, the Director of Public Works
shall be so notified in writing, whereupon he or she may, upon the approval of
the Manager and the Board, delay the sending of the notice to the contractor.
(1988 Code, § 20-58)
§ 90.046 RESURFACING IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   In all cases where a street is being re-paved, the Director of Public
Works shall be authorized to close the street or part of the street from the
time the work is started until a time as in his or her judgment the street is
suitable for ordinary traffic thereon. If there is any dispute as to the time
when pavement is sufficiently set or hardened or otherwise has become fit for
travel, the decision of the Director of Public Works shall be final. It shall
be the special duty of the Director of Public Works to see that the provisions
of this section are enforced, both as to the erection of barriers or enclosures
and as to travel on any street by vehicles, during the time prohibited. It
shall also be the duty of the Director of Public Works to serve the notice as
may be necessary to protect any person having a permanent line thereon, such as
bus lines, taxicab lines and the like.
   (B)   No person shall interfere with the closing or undertaking by operating
a car or otherwise traveling thereon before the enclosures have been removed
therefrom and the street opened for travel.
(1988 Code, § 20-57) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.047 STREETLIGHTS AND DEVELOPER’S COSTS.
   (A)   Streetlights shall be installed and maintained by the town in
accordance with policies and designs approved by the Board.
(1988 Code, § 20-58)
   (B)   Developers shall be assessed, when applicable, as abutting property
owners for the cost of street improvements done by the town.
(1988 Code, § 20-59)
EXCAVATIONS AND REPAIRS
§ 90.060 SUPERVISION AND CONTROL.
   All excavations and work in streets, sidewalks, alleys or public places of
the town shall be under the supervision and control of the Director of Public
Works, whose duty it shall be to inspect the same from time to time during the
progress thereof. Upon the completion thereof, he or she shall make a final
inspection and see that the street, sidewalk or public place is restored to a
condition as good in all respects as before the excavation or work was made or
done, and that all debris, materials, tools and equipment are removed
therefrom. Any person refusing or failing to comply with any provision of this
section shall be guilty of a violation thereof, and where failure or refusal is
continued after notice from the Director of Public Works, every day’s
continuance shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(1988 Code, § 20-76) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.061 STREET REPAIR.
   When any part of any street, sidewalk, alley or other public place of the
town shall be torn or dug up for any purpose, the person making the excavation
or opening shall have the duty of refilling the excavation or opening, and
refilling shall be done in accordance with the standards and specifications
issued by the Director of Public Works or his or her duly authorized
representative. Any person neglecting, refusing or failing to comply with any
provision of this section shall be guilty of a violation thereof; and where
neglect, refusal or failure is continued, after notice from the Director of
Public Works or his or her authorized representative, every day’s continuance
thereafter shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(1988 Code, § 20-77) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.062 REQUIREMENTS DURING EXCAVATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who obtains a permit under this
subchapter to do any excavation of any kind which may create or cause a
dangerous condition in or near any street, alley, sidewalk or public place of
the town without placing and maintaining proper guardrails 3 feet from the
ground and signal lights or other warnings at, in or around the excavation,
sufficient to warn the public of excavation, and to protect all persons using
reasonable care from injuries on account of the excavation. It shall be
unlawful to cut drains or ditches across the sidewalks or streets unless boxing
is used and the same is covered on a level with the sidewalk.
(1988 Code, § 20-78) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.063 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall make any excavation or opening or dig any ditch, trench,
tunnel or hole in, along, across or under any street, sidewalk or other public
place for the purpose of laying or placing therein any pipe, wires or poles or
for any other purpose unless a written permit therefor has been issued by the
Clerk, upon approval of the Manager or Director of Public Works; provided that
a permit shall not be required where work is performed under a contract with
the town but if work requires a sidewalk or street to be wholly or partially
obstructed, the person shall notify the Clerk, the Public Works Department and
the Police Department at least 2 hours before obstructing the sidewalk or
street, unless prevented by sudden emergency.
(1988 Code, § 20-91) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.064 APPLICATION; FEES.
   (A)   All persons desiring a permit to make an opening in any street or
sidewalk, as set forth in §
90.063, shall make written application therefor, which application shall show
the location of the proposed opening, the purpose therefor and the approximate
number of square yards of surface to be cut.
   (B)   Application shall be accompanied by a fee which shall be established
by the Board.
   (C)   All fees collected under the provisions of this section shall be paid
into the general fund.
(1988 Code, § 20-92) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.065 MUNICIPAL LIABILITY.
   Any person obtaining a permit as provided for in this subchapter agrees, as
a condition of the issuance of the permit, to indemnify and hold harmless the
town against any claims or expenses, including attorney’s fees for bodily
injury or property damage for accidents or occurrences arising out of the
person’s operations, excluding only the liability of the town for its sole
negligence except in connection with general supervision of work performed by
the person.
(1988 Code, § 20-93)
PARADES AND DEMONSTRATIONS
§ 90.075 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BLOCK. That portion of a street lying between street intersections; except,
however, the west side of Main Street between Iona and Thompson Streets shall
be deemed to be 2 blocks, with the centerline of Center Street dividing the 2
blocks.
   GROUP DEMONSTRATION. Any assembly together or concert of action between or
among 2 or more persons for the purpose of protesting any matter or making
known any position or promotion of persons, or of or on behalf of any
organization or class of persons, or for the purpose of attracting attention of
assembly.
   PARADE. Any assemblage of 2 or more persons participating in or operating
any vehicle in any march, ceremony, show, exhibition or procession of any kind
in or upon the public streets, sidewalks, alleys, parks or other public grounds
or places.
   PICKET LINE.  Any 2 or more persons formed together for the purpose of
making known any position or promotion of persons, or on behalf of any
organization or class of persons.
(1988 Code, § 20-111)
§ 90.076 EXCEPTIONS.
   This subchapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   Funeral processions; or
   (B)   Any governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
(1988 Code, § 20-112)
§ 90.077 CERTAIN ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED.
   The following acts or activities when performed or undertaken in conjunction
with or as a part of any parade, picket line or group demonstration are hereby
prohibited and declared unlawful:
   (A)   The carrying on or about the person any firearm, any weapon or article
including but not limited to blackjacks, nightsticks or flashlights which by
their use might constitute a deadly weapon; or
   (B)   The taking or keeping of any dog or other vicious animal, whether
leashed or unleashed.
(1988 Code, § 20-113) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Possession of weapon at parade, see G.S. § 14-277.2
§ 90.078 INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall hamper, obstruct, impede or interfere with any parade,
picket line or group demonstration being conducted under authority of a permit
duly issued by the Chief of Police.
(1988 Code, § 20-114) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.079 PICKETING.
   (A)   Peaceful picketing in the furtherance of a lawful purpose shall be
permitted in the town provided the same is done under the following conditions:
      (1)   Picketing may be conducted only on the sidewalks reserved for
pedestrian movement and may not be conducted on the portion of a street used
primarily for vehicular traffic.
      (2)   Not more than 10 pickets promoting the same objective shall be
permitted to use 1 of the 2 sidewalks within a block of the town at any 1 time.
      (3)   Pickets may carry written or printed placards or signs not
exceeding 2 feet in width and 2 feet in length promoting the objective for
which the picketing is done; provided the words used are not defamatory in
nature or would tend to produce violence.
      (4)   Pickets must march in single file and not abreast and may not march
closer together than 15 feet except in passing one another.
      (5)   If pickets promoting different objectives desire to use the same
sidewalk for picketing and use would result in the presence of more than 10
pickets thereon, the Chief of Police shall allot time to each group of pickets
for the use of the sidewalk on an equitable basis.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to physically interfere with
pickets in the use of the sidewalk or to address profane, indecent, abusive or
threatening language to or at pickets which would tend to provoke pickets or
others to a breach of the peace.
   (C)   The police officers of the town may, in the event of the assemblage of
persons in numbers as to tend to intimidate pickets pursuing their lawful
objective through numbers alone or through use of inflammatory words, direct
the dispersal of persons so assembled and may arrest any person who fails to
absent himself or herself from the place of assemblage when so directed by the
police.
   (D)   Whenever the free passage of any street or sidewalk in the town shall
be obstructed by a crowd, the persons composing the crowd shall disperse or
move on when directed to do so by a police officer. It shall be unlawful for
any person to refuse to so disperse or move on when so directed by a police
officer.
(1988 Code, § 20-115) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.080 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to organize, conduct or participate in
any parade, picket line or group demonstration in or upon any street, sidewalk,
alley or other public place within the town unless a permit therefor has been
issued by the town in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
(1988 Code, § 20-126) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.081 GROUNDS FOR DENIAL.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall issue a permit for the proposed parade,
picket line or group demonstration unless he or she finds that:
      (1)   The parades, picket lines or group demonstrations will commence
before 6:00 a.m. or terminate after 5:00 p.m.;
      (2)   The parades, picket lines or group demonstrations are to be held at
the same time and place as those designated in a permit issued pursuant to a
written application previously received by the Chief of Police or his or her
designee;
      (3)   The conduct of the parade, picket line or group demonstration will
substantially interrupt the safe and orderly movement of other traffic
contiguous to its route;
      (4)   The conduct of the parade, picket line or group demonstration will
require the diversion of so great a number of police officers of the town to
properly police the line of movement of the parade and of contiguous areas that
adequate police protection cannot be provided the remainder of the town;
      (5)   The conduct of the parade, picket line or group demonstration will
require the diversion of so great a number of ambulances that adequate
ambulance service to portions of the town not occupied by the parade and
contiguous areas will be prevented;
      (6)   The concentration of persons, animals and vehicles at assembly
points of the parade, picket line or group demonstration will substantially
interfere with adequate fire and police protection of or ambulance service to
areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
      (7)   The conduct of the parade, picket line or group demonstration is
reasonably likely to result in violence to persons or property causing serious
harm to the public; or
      (8)   The conduct of the parade, picket line or group demonstration will
interfere with the movement of firefighting equipment to an extent that
adequate fire protection cannot be provided to the town.
   (B)   Picket lines or picketing activities shall also be subject to the
provisions of §
90.079.
(1988 Code, § 20-127) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.082 APPLICATION; ISSUANCE.
   The Chief of Police or his or her designee shall issue permits as required
in the preceding section, and in the issuance thereof he or she shall:
   (A)   Require a written application for permit to be filed not less than 24
hours in advance of the parade, picket line or group demonstration which
application shall specify the time and place for the commencement of any picket
line and the time and place, route and duration of any parade or group
demonstration;
   (B)   Require that the application for a permit specify whether or not
minors below the age of 18 years will be permitted to participate; and
   (C)   Require that the application for a permit shall specify and the permit
shall designate the person in charge of the activity. That person shall be
required to accompany the parade, picket line or group demonstration and shall
carry the permit with him or her at that time. The permit shall not be valid in
the possession of any other person.
(1988 Code, § 20-128) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.083 REVOCATION.
   The Chief of Police shall revoke any permit granted for a parade, picket
line or group demonstration for any of the following causes:
   (A)   The violation by any participant of §
90.077; or
   (B)   The failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the permit.
(1988 Code, § 20-129)
§ 90.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, convicted of violating the provisions of §
90.011 shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined an
amount not to exceed $500 and/or imprisoned for a period not to exceed 30 days
as provided by G.S. § 14-4. Each day of violation shall be considered a
separate offense.
CHAPTER 91: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Declaration of public nuisance
   
91.02   Complaint, investigation of public nuisance
   
91.03   Chronic violator
   
91.04   Appeal from a warning/notice of violation
   
91.05   Abatement procedure
   
91.06   Abatement by town
   
91.07   Penalties
   
91.08   Procedure is alternative
Abandoned, Junked and Nuisance Vehicles
   
91.20   Definitions
   
91.21   Administration
   
91.22   Exceptions
   
91.23   Abandonment unlawful; removal authorized
   
91.24   Nuisance unlawful; removal authorized
   
91.25   Regulations; removal; concealment
   
91.26   Removal; pre-towing notice requirements
   
91.27   Exceptions to prior notice requirement
   
91.28   Removal of vehicles; post-towing notice requirements
   
91.29   Appeal from a warning/notice of violation
   
91.30   Probable cause hearing before sale or disposition
   
91.31   Redemption of vehicle during proceedings
   
91.32   Sale and disposition of unclaimed vehicle
   
91.33   Conditions on removal from private property
   
91.34   Protection against criminal or civil liability
   
91.35   Unlawful; removal of impounded vehicle
   
91.36   Penalties
   
91.37   Procedure is alternative
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 DECLARATION OF PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   The following enumerated and described conditions, or any combination
thereof, are hereby found, deemed, and declared to constitute a detriment, dang
er and hazard to the health, safety, morals, and general welfare of the
inhabitants of the town and are found, deemed, and declared to be public
nuisances wherever the conditions may exist and the creation, maintenance, or
failure to abate any nuisances is hereby declared unlawful:
   (A)   Any weeds or other vegetation having an overall height of more than 11
inches above the surrounding ground provided that the following shall not be
considered to be a part of this condition: trees and ornamental shrubs;
cultured plants; natural vegetation on undeveloped property that is not a
threat to the character of surrounding properties; and flowers and growing and
producing vegetable plants. It shall be the duty of every person occupying,
owning, or having control of property abutting on a street or highway that
utilizes a portion of the unused street or highway right-of-way as a yard or
any other use to maintain said right-of-way in the same character and manner as
the abutting use.
 
   (B)   Any accumulation of trash and/or garbage which is the result of the
absence or of overflowing or improperly closed trash or garbage containers,
that attracts or is likely to attract mice and rats, flies and mosquitoes or
other pests.
   (C)   An open or unsecured storage or collection place for chemicals, acids,
oils, gasoline, flammable, or combustible materials or flammable or combustible
liquids, poisonous materials or other similar harmful or dangerous substances,
gasses, or vapors.
   (D)   An open place of concentration of combustible items such as
mattresses, boxes, paper, automobile tires and tubes, garbage, trash, refuse,
brush, old clothes, rags, or any other combustible materials or objects of a
like nature;
   (E)   Any accumulation of garbage, rubbish, trash, or junk causing or
threatening to cause a fire hazard or causing or threatening to cause the
accumulation of stagnant water or causing or threatening to cause the
inhabitation therein of rats, mice, snakes, mosquitoes, or vermin prejudicial
to the public health.
   (F)   Any accumulation of animal or vegetable matter that is offensive by
virtue of odors or vapors or by the inhabitance therein of rats, mice, snakes,
or vermin of any kind which is or may be dangerous or prejudicial to the public
health.
   (G)   The open storage of any discarded icebox, furniture refrigerator,
stove, glass, building materials, building rubbish or similar items. The use of
carports, open porches, decks, open garages and other outdoor areas that are
visible from the street as a storage or collection place for boxes, appliances,
furniture (not typical outdoor or yard furniture), tools, equipment, junk,
garbage, old worn out broken or discarded machinery and equipment, cans,
containers, household goods or other similar condition that increase the
likelihood of a fire; may conceal dangerous conditions; may be a breeding place
or habitat for mice, rats or other pests; or, create an unattractive condition
or visually blighted property.
   (H)   Any building or other structure which has been burned, partially
burned, or otherwise partially destroyed and which is unsightly or hazardous to
the safety of any person, is a continuing fire hazard or which is structurally
unsound to the extent that the Board of Commissioners or their designee can
reasonably determine that there is a likelihood of personal or property injury
to any person or property entering the premises.
   (I)   A collection place for lumber, bricks, blocks, old and broken concrete
materials, nails, building hardware, roofing materials, scaffolding, masonry
materials, electrical supplies or materials, plumbing supplies or materials,
heating and air conditioning supplies or materials or any other type of old or
unusable building supplies (especially those with nails, staples or sharp
objects and edges) unless such conditions are temporary in nature and caused by
a current construction project in progress pursuant to a lawfully issued
building permit.
   (J)   The placement, storage or use of upholstered sofas, couches, chairs or
other indoor type furniture, appliances, seats removed from motor vehicles or
other furniture not intended for outdoor use by the manufacturer, use on any
open porch, carport, stoop, deck, veranda, terrace, patio, or other outdoor
area that is visible from nearby streets and sidewalks.
   (K)   A collection place, pool, or pond of stagnant or foul water or
persistent dampness caused by overflowing septic tanks, manmade dams, open
ditches, overflowing pipes, foundation trenches or other impoundments of any
kind.
   (L)   Barns or farm animal pens, pastures or enclosures for farm animals
which are not kept sanitary and clean or otherwise become a collection place
for animal waste and which because of the conditions associated therewith
attract rats, mice, flies or other pests or emit foul odors that can be
detected or noticed on adjacent properties or are otherwise not kept in a
sanitary condition.
   (M)   Dog lots, pens, pet enclosures of all kinds, outdoor areas where dogs
or other pets are chained or kept or areas where dogs and cats are permitted to
roam which become a collection place for dog, cat or pet waste and excrement
and which attract flies or other pests, emit foul odors which can be detected
or noticed on adjacent property or are not kept in a sanitary condition.
   (N)   A collection place for sewage and sewage drainage or the seepage from
septic tanks, broken or malfunctioning plumbing and sewer pipes or any other
seepage of dangerous, hazardous, or poisonous liquids.
   (O)   A collection place for tree limbs, dried brush, dead vegetation,
stumps or other decayed wood and materials or other similar rubbish.
   (P)   Any discharge into or polluting of any public well or cistern, stream,
creek, river or other body of water or the discharge of any dangerous substance
or any other material likely to harm the water or any vegetation, fish or
wildlife in or along the water or the storage of such harmful materials and
substances in a manner so that it is likely that such streams, creeks, rivers
or other bodies of water will become polluted or adversely affected in any
manner.
   (Q)   Any condition which blocks, hinders, or obstructs in any way the
natural flow of branches, streams, creeks, surface waters, ditches, or drains,
to the extent that the premises is not free from standing water.
   (R)   Any conditions or use of property, which results in the emission of
pollutants and particles into the atmosphere or causes noxious odors, vapors,
and stenches to be discharged into the air.
   (S)   Nuisance vehicle. A vehicle on public or private property that is
determined and declared to be a health or safety hazard, a public nuisance, and
unlawful, including a vehicle found to be:
      (1)   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes, other insects, rats, or
other pests; or
      (2)   A point of heavy growth of weeds or other noxious vegetation which
exceeds eight inches in height; or
      (3)   In a condition allowing the collection of pools or ponds of water;
or
      (4)   A concentration of quantities of gasoline, oil, or other flammable
or explosive materials as evidenced by odor; or
      (5)   An area of confinement which cannot be operated from the inside,
such as, but not limited to, trunks or hoods; or
      (6)   So situated or located that there is a danger of it falling or
turning over; or
      (7)   A collection of garbage, food waste, animal waste, or any other
rotten or putrescent matter of any kind; or
      (8)   One which has sharp parts thereof which are jagged or contain sharp
edges of metal or glass;
      (9)   Any other vehicle specifically declared a health and safety hazard
and a public nuisance by the Board of Commissioners.
   (T)   Any condition detrimental to the public health which violates the
rules and regulations of the County Health Departments.
(Ord. 23-225, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 91.02 COMPLAINT; INVESTIGATION OF PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   When any condition in violation of this subchapter is found to exist,
the Code Administrator or such persons as may be designated by the Town Board
of Commissioners shall give notice to the owner of the premises to abate or
remove such conditions. Such notice shall be in writing, shall include a
description of the premises sufficient for identification and shall set forth
the violation and state that, if the violation is not corrected prior to a
specified date, (no sooner than ten calendar days after the notice is mailed
and/or affixed to the property), the town may proceed to correct the same as
authorized by this subchapter. Service of such notice shall be by any one of
the following methods.
      (1)   By delivery to any owner personally or by leaving the notice at the
usual place of abode of the owner with a person who is over the age of 16 years
and a member of the family of the owner.
      (2)   By depositing the notice in the United States Post Office addressed
to the owner at his last known address with regular mail postage prepaid
thereon.
      (3)   By posting and keeping posted, for ten days, a copy of the notice,
in placard form, in a conspicuous place on the premises on which the violation
exists, when notice cannot be served by the methods in division (A)(1) or (A)
(2) above.
   (B)   Where the enforcement official of the town determines that the period
of time stated in the original warning citation is not sufficient for abatement
based upon the work required or consent agreement, the enforcement official may
amend the warning citation to provide for additional time.
(Ord. 23-225, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 91.03 CHRONIC VIOLATOR.
   The town may notify a chronic violator of the town's public nuisance
ordinance that, if the violator's property is found to be in violation of this
chapter, the town shall, without further notice in the calendar year in which
notice is given, take action to remedy the violation. The expense of such
action shall become a lien upon the property and shall be collected as unpaid
taxes. The notice shall be sent by registered or certified mail. When service
is attempted by registered or certified mail, a copy of the notice may also be
sent by regular mail. Service shall be deemed sufficient if the registered or
certified mail is unclaimed or refused, but the regular mail is not returned by
the post office within ten days after the mailing. If service by regular mail
is used, a copy of the notice shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the
premises affected. A chronic violator is a person who owns property whereupon,
in the previous calendar year, the town gave notice of violation at least three
times under any provision of the public nuisance ordinance.
(Ord. 23-225, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 91.04 APPEAL FROM A WARNING/NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   An appeal from a warning citation shall be taken within ten days from the
date of issue of said warning citation by filing with the Town Clerk and with
the Board of Adjustment, a notice of appeal which shall specify the grounds
upon which the appeal is based. The Board of Adjustment in considering appeals
of warning citations shall have power only in the manner of administrative
review and interpretation where it is alleged that the enforcement official has
made an error in the application of this subchapter, in the factual situation
as it relates to the application of an ordinance or both.
(Ord. 23-225, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 91.05 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   If the owner of any property fails to comply with a notice given pursuant to
this subchapter, within ten days after the service of such notice, he shall be
subject to prosecution for violation of this subchapter in accordance with law
and each day that such failure continues shall be a separate offense. In
addition, the Town Board of Commissioners may have the condition described in
the notice abated, removed, or otherwise corrected and all expenses incurred
thereby shall be chargeable to and paid by the owner of the property and shall
be collected as taxes and levies are collected. All such expenses shall
constitute a lien against the property on which the work was done.
(Ord. 23-225, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 91.06 ABATEMENT BY TOWN.
   (A)   If any person who has been ordered to abate a nuisance pursuant to
this chapter, fails, neglects or refuses to abate or remove the condition
constituting the nuisance within time allowed in the notice, the Town Manager
shall cause the condition to be removed or otherwise remedied by having
employees of the town or a private contractor designated by the Town Manager go
upon the premises and remove or otherwise abate the nuisance under the
supervision of the enforcement official designated by the Town Manager.
   (B)   Any person who has been ordered to abate a nuisance may within the
time allowed by this subchapter request the town in writing to remove the
condition, the cost of which shall be paid by the person making the request.
   (C)   The actual cost incurred by the town in removing or otherwise
remedying a public nuisance shall be charged to the owner of the lot or parcel
of land and it shall be the duty of the tax collector or other appropriate town
official to mail a statement of the charges to the owner or other person in
possession of the premises with instructions that the charges are due and
payable within 30 days from receipt of the statement.
   (D)   If charges for the removal or abatement of a public nuisance are not
paid within 30 days after the receipt of a statement of charges as provided for
in division (C) above, the charges shall become a lien on the land or premises
where the nuisance occurred and shall have the same priority and be collected
as unpaid ad valorem taxes, as provided in G.S. § 160A-193(a).
   (E)   If charges for the removal or abatement of a public nuisance are not
paid within 30 days after the receipt of a statement of charges as provided for
in division (C) above, the expense of the action is also a lien on any other
real property owned by the person in default within the town limits or within
one mile of the town limits, except for the person's primary residence. A lien
established pursuant to this division is inferior to all prior liens and shall
be collected as a money judgment. This division shall not apply if the person
in default can show that the nuisance was created solely by the actions of
another, as provided in G.S. § 160A-193(b).
(Ord. 23-225, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 91.07 PENALTIES.
   (A)   An act constituting a violation of the provisions of this subchapter
or a failure to comply with any of its requirements shall subject the offender
to a civil penalty of $50, which includes administrative fees. Each day any
single violation continues shall be a separate violation. A violation of this
subchapter shall not constitute a misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. § 14-4. If the
offender fails to correct this violation by the prescribed deadline after being
notified of said violation, the penalty may be recovered in a civil action in
the nature of a debt.
   (B)   In addition to the civil penalties set out above, any provision of
this subchapter may be enforced by an appropriate equitable remedy issuing from
a court of competent jurisdiction. In such case, the General Court of Justice
shall have jurisdiction to issue such orders as may be appropriate, and it
shall not be a defense to the application of the town for equitable relief that
there is an adequate remedy at law.
   (C)   In addition to the civil penalties set out above, the provisions of
this subchapter may be enforced by injunction and order of abatement by the
General Court of Justice. When a violation of these provisions occurs, the town
may apply to the appropriate division of the General Court of Justice for a
mandatory or prohibitory injunction and/or order of abatement commanding the
defendant to correct the unlawful condition upon or cease the unlawful use of
the property. The action shall be governed in all respects by the laws and
rules governing civil proceedings, including the Rules of Civil Procedure in
general and Rule 65, in particular.
   (D)   Upon failure of the violator to obey the notice of violation/warning
citation, a notice of civil citation may be issued by the enforcement official,
either served directly on the violator, his duly designated agent, or
registered agent if a corporation, either in person or posted in the United
States mail service by first class mail addressed to the last known address of
the violator as contained in the records of the County or obtained from the
violator at the time of issuance of the notice of violation/warning citation.
The violator shall be deemed to have been served upon the mailing of said
notice of civil citation. The notice of civil citation shall direct the
violator to appear in person at the town hall to pay the penalty within 15 days
of the date of the civil citation, or alternatively to pay the citation by
mail. The violation for which the penalty is issued must have been corrected by
the time the penalty is paid, otherwise further penalties shall accrue.
Penalties accrue from the date initially imposed in the notice of civil
citation and will continue without further notice, for each day the offense
continues, until the prohibited activity is corrected, ceased, or abated. The
town may institute a civil action in the North Carolina General Court of
Justice for the collection of the penalty, attorney fees, interest, court
costs, and other such relief as permitted by law.
(Ord. 23-225, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 91.08 PROCEDURE IS ALTERNATIVE.
   The procedure set forth in this subchapter shall be in addition to any other
remedies that may now or hereafter exist under law for the abatement of public
nuisances.
(Ord. 23-225, passed 3-21-2023)
ABANDONED, JUNKED AND NUISANCE VEHICLES
§ 91.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE. A motor vehicle that:
      (1)   Is left upon a public street or highway in violation of a law or
ordinance prohibiting parking;
      (2)   Is left on a public street or highway for longer than seven days;
or is determined by law enforcement to be a hazard to the motoring public;
      (3)   Is left on property owned or operated by the town for longer than
24 hours; or
      (4)   Is left on private property without the consent of the owner,
occupant or lessee thereof for longer than two hours.
   AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL. The supervisory employee of the Police Department or
the Code Administrator, respectively, designated to authorize the removal of
vehicles under this chapter.
   JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE.  Authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-303.2, a vehicle
that does not display a current license plate and that:
      (1)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked;
      (2)   Cannot be self-propelled or moved in the manner in which it was
originally intended to move; or
      (3)   Is more than five years old and appears to be worth less than $500.
   MOTOR VEHICLE or VEHICLE. All machines designed or intended to travel over
land or water by self-propulsion or while attached to any self-propelled
vehicle.
   NUISANCE VEHICLE. A vehicle on public or private property that is determined
and declared to be a health or safety hazard, a public nuisance and unlawful,
including a vehicle found to be any one or more of the following:
      (1)   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes, other insects, rats or
other pests;
      (2)   A point of heavy growth of weeds or other noxious vegetation over
eight inches in height;
      (3)   A point of collection of pools or ponds of water;
      (4)   A point of concentration of quantities of gasoline, oil or other
flammable or explosive materials as evidenced by odor;
      (5)   One which has areas of confinement which cannot be operated from
the inside, such as trunks, hoods and the like;
      (6)   So situated or located that there is a danger of it falling or
turning over;
      (7)   One which is a point of collection of garbage, food waste, animal
waste or other rotten matter of any kind;
      (8)   One which has sharp parts thereof which are jagged or contain sharp
edges of metal or glass; and/or
      (9)   Any other vehicle specifically declared a health and safety hazard
and public nuisance by the Town Council.
(Ord. 23-226, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 91.21 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Police Department and the Code Administrator shall be responsible
for the administration and enforcement of this chapter. The Police Department
shall be responsible for administering the removal and disposition of vehicles
determined to be abandoned on the public streets and highways within the town
and on property owned by the town. The Code Administrator shall be responsible
for administering the removal and disposition of abandoned, nuisance or junked
motor vehicles located on private property within the town. The town may
contract with private tow operators or towing businesses to remove, store, and
dispose of abandoned vehicles, nuisance vehicles and junked motor vehicles in
compliance with this chapter and applicable state laws.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to limit the legal
authority or powers of the officers of the Police Department and Fire
Department in enforcing other laws or in otherwise carrying out their duties.
(Ord. 23-226, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 91.22 EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall apply to any vehicle:
   (A)   Which is located in a bona fide automobile graveyard or junkyard, as
defined in G.S. § 136-143, in accordance with the Junkyard Control Act, G.S. §§
136-141 et seq.;
   (B)   Which is in an enclosed building;
   (C)   Which is on the premises of a business enterprise being operated in a
lawful place and manner if the vehicle is necessary to the operation of the
enterprise; and
   (D)   Which is in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a
lawful place and manner by the town.
(Ord. 23-226, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 91.23ABANDONMENT UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a vehicle to cause or allow the vehicle to be abandoned.
   (B)   Upon investigation, proper authorizing officials of the town may
determine that a vehicle is an abandoned vehicle and order the vehicle removed.
(Ord. 23-226, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 91.24 NUISANCE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee, or occupant of the
real property upon which the vehicle is located, to leave or allow the vehicle
to remain on the property after it has been declared a nuisance vehicle.
   (B)   Upon investigation, the town's Code Administrator may determine and
declare that a vehicle is a health or safety hazard and a nuisance vehicle, as
defined above, and order the vehicle removed.
(Ord. 23-226, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 91.25 REGULATIONS; REMOVAL; CONCEALMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
the possession of a junked motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee, or occupant
of the real property upon which a junked motor vehicle is located, to leave or
allow the vehicle to remain on the property after the vehicle has been ordered
removed.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to have more than one junked motor vehicle on the
premises of public or private property. A single permitted junked motor vehicle
must strictly comply with the location and concealment requirements of this
chapter.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, persons entitled to the possession
of a junked motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee, or occupant of the real
property upon which a junked motor vehicle is located, to fail to comply with
the locational requirements or concealment requirements of this chapter.
   (D)   Subject to the provisions of division (C) above, upon investigation,
the town's Code Administrator may order the removal of a junked motor vehicle
after finding in writing that the aesthetic benefits of removing the vehicle
outweigh the burdens imposed on the private property owner. The findings shall
be based on the balancing of the monetary loss of the apparent owner against
the corresponding gain to the public by promoting or enhancing community,
neighborhood, or area appearance. The following among other relevant factors
may be considered:
      (1)   Protection of property values;
      (2)   Promotion of tourism and other economic development opportunities;
      (3)   Indirect protecting of public health and safety;
      (4)   Preservation of the character and integrity of the community; and
      (5)   Promotion of the comfort, happiness, and emotional stability of
area residents.
   (E)   The permitted concealment or enclosure of a junked motor vehicle shall
be as follows:
      (1)   One junked motor vehicle, in its entirety, can be located in the
rear yard, as defined in the Zoning Ordinance, if the junked motor vehicle is
entirely concealed from public view from a public street and from abutting
premises by an acceptable covering.
      (2)   Any junked motor vehicle must be kept in a garage or building
structure that provides a complete enclosure so that the junked motor vehicle
cannot be seen from a public street or abutting property. A garage or building
structure means either a lawful, nonconforming use or a lawful structure
erected pursuant to the lawful issuance of a building permit, and which has
been constructed in accordance with all zoning and building code regulations.
   (F)   The town's Code Administrator has the authority to determine whether
any junked motor vehicle is adequately concealed as required by this provision.
The covering must remain in good repair and must not be allowed to deteriorate.
The covering or enclosure must be compatible with the preamble hereof and the
zoning ordinance.
(Ord. 23-226, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 91.26 REMOVAL; PRE-TOWING NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as set forth in §
91.27, an abandoned, nuisance or junked vehicle which is to be removed shall be
towed only after notice to the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of the vehicle. In the case of a nuisance vehicle or junked motor
vehicle, if the names and mailing addresses of the registered owner or person
entitled to possession of the vehicle or the owner, lessee, or occupant of the
real property upon which the vehicle is located can be ascertained with
reasonable diligence, the notice shall be given by first class mail. The person
who mails the notice shall retain a written record to show the names and
addresses to which mailed and the date mailed.
      (2)   If the names and addresses cannot be ascertained or if the vehicle
to be removed is an abandoned motor vehicle, notice shall be given by affixing
on the windshield or some other conspicuous place on the vehicle a notice
indicating that the vehicle will be removed by the town on a specified date no
sooner than seven days from the date the notice is affixed.
      (3)   The notice shall state that the vehicle will be removed by the town
on a specified date, no sooner than seven days after the notice is affixed or
mailed, unless the vehicle is moved by the owner or legal possessor prior to
that time.
   (B)   With respect to abandoned vehicles on private property, nuisance
vehicles and junked motor vehicles to which notice is required to be given, if
the registered owner or person entitled to possession does not remove the
vehicle, but chooses to appeal the determination that the vehicle is abandoned,
a nuisance vehicle or in the case of a junked motor vehicle that the aesthetic
benefits of removing the vehicle outweigh the burdens, the appeal shall be made
to the Board of Adjustment, in writing, heard at the next regularly scheduled
meeting, and further proceedings to remove the vehicle shall be stayed until
the appeal is heard and decided.
(Ord. 23-226, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 91.27 EXCEPTIONS TO PRIOR NOTICE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   The requirement that notice be given prior to the removal of an
abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle may, as determined by the
authorizing official, be omitted in those circumstances where there is a
special need for prompt action to eliminate traffic obstructions or to
otherwise maintain and protect the public safety and welfare. The findings
shall, in all cases, be entered by the authorizing official in the appropriate
daily records. Circumstances justifying the removal of vehicles without prior
notice include vehicles abandoned on the streets. For vehicles left on the
public streets and highways, the Town Council hereby determines that immediate
removal of such vehicles may be warranted when they are:
      (1)   Obstructing traffic;
      (2)   Parked in violation of an ordinance prohibiting or restricting
parking;
      (3)   Parked in a no stopping or standing zone;
      (4)   Parked in loading zones;
      (5)   Parked in bus zones; or
      (6)   Parked in violation of temporary parking restrictions imposed under
code sections.
   (B)   With respect to abandoned or nuisance vehicles left on town-owned
property other than the streets and highways and on private property, the
vehicles may be removed without giving prior notice only in those circumstances
where the authorizing official finds a special need for prompt action to
protect and maintain the public health, safety and welfare. By way of
illustration and not of limitation, the circumstances include vehicles blocking
or obstructing ingress or egress to businesses and residences, vehicles parked
in such a location or manner as to pose a traffic hazard and vehicles causing
damage to public or private property.
(Ord. 23-226, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 91.28 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES; POST-TOWING NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle which has been ordered
removed may, as directed by the town, be removed to a storage garage or area by
the tow truck operator or towing business contracting to perform such services
for the town. Whenever such a vehicle is removed, the authorizing town official
shall immediately notify the last known registered owner of the vehicle, the
notice to include the following:
      (1)   The description of the removed vehicle;
      (2)   The location where the vehicle is stored;
      (3)   The violation with which the owner is charged, if any;
      (4)   The procedure the owner must follow to redeem the vehicle; and
      (5)   The procedure the owner must follow to request a probable cause
hearing on the removal.
   (B)   The town shall attempt to give notice to the vehicle owner by
telephone; however, whether or not the owner is reached by telephone, written
notice, including the information set forth in divisions (A)(l) through (5)
above, shall also be mailed to the registered owner's last known address unless
this notice is waived, in writing, by the vehicle owner or his or her agent.
   (C)   If the vehicle is registered in the state, notice shall be given
within 24 hours from the removal of the vehicle. If the vehicle is not
registered in the state, notice shall be given to the registered owner within
72 hours from the removal of the vehicle.
   (D)   Whenever an abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle is removed and
the vehicle has no valid registration or registration plates, the authorizing
town official shall make reasonable efforts, including checking the vehicle
identification number, to determine the last known registered owner of the
vehicle and to notify him or her of the information set forth in divisions (A)
(l) through (5) above.
(Ord. 23-226, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 91.29 APPEAL FROM A WARNING/NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   An appeal from a warning citation shall be taken within ten days from the
date of issue of said warning citation by filing with the Town Clerk and with
the Board of Adjustment, a notice of appeal which shall specify the grounds
upon which the appeal is based. The Board of Adjustment in considering appeals
of warning citations shall have power only in the manner of administrative
review and interpretation where it is alleged that the enforcement official has
made an error in the application of this ordinance, in the factual situation as
it relates to the application of an ordinance or both.
(Ord. 23-226, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 91.30PROBABLE CAUSE HEARING BEFORE SALE OR DISPOSITION.
   After the removal of an abandoned vehicle, nuisance vehicle or junked motor
vehicle, the owner or any other person entitled to possession is entitled to a
hearing for the purpose of determining if probable cause existed for removing
the vehicle. A request for hearing must be filed in writing with the county
magistrate designated by the chief district court judge to receive the hearing
requests. The magistrate will set the hearing within 72 hours of receipt of the
request and the hearing will be conducted in accordance with the provisions of
G.S. § 20-219.11.
(Ord. 23-226, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 91.31 REDEMPTION OF VEHICLE DURING PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   At any stage in the proceedings, including before the probable cause
hearing, the owner may obtain possession of the removed vehicle by paying the
towing fee, including any storage charges, or by posting a bond for double the
amount of the fees and charges to the tow truck operator or towing business
having custody of the removed vehicle.
   (B)   Upon regaining possession of a vehicle, the owner or person entitled
to the possession of the vehicle shall not allow or engage in further
violations of this chapter.
(Ord. 23-226, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 91.32 SALE AND DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLE.
   Any abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle which is not claimed by the
owner or other party entitled to possession will be disposed of by the tow
truck operator or towing business having custody of the vehicle. Disposition of
such a vehicle shall be carried out in coordination with the town and in
accordance with G.S. § 44A-1 et seq.
(Ord. 23-226, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 91.33 CONDITIONS ON REMOVAL FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   As a general policy, the town will not remove a vehicle from private
property if the owner, occupant, or lessee of the property could have the
vehicle removed under applicable state law procedures. In no case will a
vehicle be removed by the town from private property without a written request
of the owner, occupant, or lessee, except in those cases where a vehicle is a
nuisance vehicle or is a junked motor vehicle which has been ordered removed by
the Town Code Administrator.
   (B)   The town may require any persons requesting the removal of an
abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle from private property to indemnify
the town against any loss, expenses or liability incurred because of the
removal, storage, or sale thereof.
(Ord. 23-226, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 91.34 PROTECTION AGAINST CRIMINAL OR CIVIL LIABILITY.
   (A)   No person shall be held to answer in any civil or criminal action to
any owner or other person legally entitled to the possession of any abandoned,
lost, or stolen motor vehicle, for disposing of the vehicle, as provided in
this chapter.
   (B)   Any person who removes a vehicle, pursuant to this chapter, shall not
be held liable for damages for removal of the vehicle to the owner, lienholder
or other person legally entitled to possession.
(Ord. 23-226, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 91.35UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any persons to remove or attempt to remove from any
storage facility designated by the town any vehicle which has been impounded
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter unless and until all towing and
impoundment fees which are due, or bond in lieu of the fees, have been paid.
(Ord. 23-226, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 91.36 GENERAL PENALTIES.
   (A)   An act constituting a violation of the provisions of this subchapter
or a failure to comply with any of its requirements shall subject the offender
to a civil penalty of $50, which includes administrative fees. Each day any
single violation continues shall be a separate violation. A violation of this
chapter shall not constitute a misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. § 14-4. If the
offender fails to correct this violation by the prescribed deadline after being
notified of said violation, the penalty may be recovered in a civil action in
the nature of a debt.
   (B)   In addition to the civil penalties set out above, any provision of
this subchapter may be enforced by an appropriate equitable remedy issuing from
a court of competent jurisdiction. In such case, the General Court of Justice
shall have jurisdiction to issue such orders as may be appropriate, and it
shall not be a defense to the application of the town for equitable relief that
there is an adequate remedy at law.
   (C)   In addition to the civil penalties set out above, the provisions of
this chapter may be enforced by injunction and order of abatement by the
General Court of Justice. When a violation of these provisions occurs, the town
may apply to the appropriate division of the General Court of Justice for a
mandatory or prohibitory injunction and/or order of abatement commanding the
defendant to correct the unlawful condition upon or cease the unlawful use of
the property. The action shall be governed in all respects by the laws and
rules governing civil proceedings, including the Rules of Civil Procedure in
general and Rule 65, in particular.
   (D)   Upon failure of the violator to obey the notice of violation/warning
citation, a notice of civil citation may be issued by the enforcement official,
either served directly on the violator, his duly designated agent, or
registered agent if a corporation, either in person or posted in the United
States mail service by first class mail addressed to the last known address of
the violator as contained in the records of the county or obtained from the
violator at the time of issuance of the notice of violation/warning citation.
The violator shall be deemed to have been served upon the mailing of said
notice of civil citation. The notice of civil citation shall direct the
violator to appear in person at the town hall to pay the penalty within 15 days
of the date of the civil citation, or alternatively to pay the citation by
mail. The violation for which the penalty is issued must have been corrected by
the time the penalty is paid, otherwise further penalties shall accrue.
Penalties accrue from the date initially imposed in the notice of civil
citation and will continue without further notice, for each day the offense
continues, until the prohibited activity is corrected, ceased, or abated. The
town may institute a civil action in the North Carolina General Court of
Justice for the collection of the penalty, attorney fees, interest, court
costs, and other such relief as permitted by law.
(Ord. 23-226, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 91.37 PROCEDURE IS ALTERNATIVE.
   The procedure set forth in this subchapter shall be in addition to any other
remedies that may now or hereafter exist under law for the abatement of public
nuisances.
(Ord. 23-226, passed 3-21-2023)
CHAPTER 92:
FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Interfering with fire alarm apparatus
   
92.02   Interfering with firefighters or fire apparatus
   
92.03   Riding on vehicles
Fire Department
   
92.15   Organization; membership
   
92.16   Duties of Chief; authority at fires
Fire Prevention Code
   
92.30   Code adopted; enforcement
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 INTERFERING WITH FIRE ALARM APPARATUS.
   No person shall interfere carelessly or willfully with the fire alarm system
or injure the poles, wires, boxes or other apparatus connected therewith.
(1988 Code, § 10-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.02 INTERFERING WITH FIREFIGHTERS OR FIRE APPARATUS.
   No person shall interfere with a firefighter in the discharge of his or her
duty or hinder him or her in the performance of his or her duty, nor shall any
person other than members of the Fire Department loiter about any fire station
or change, handle or meddle in any manner with any fire engine or any other
fire apparatus.
(1988 Code, § 10-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.03 RIDING ON VEHICLES.
   No person other than a bona fide member of the Fire Department shall mount
any fire engine, wagon or apparatus before it leaves the station while on its
way to or from a fire or at any other time unless by permission of the driver
or officer in command of the engine, wagon or other apparatus.
(1988 Code, § 10-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Municipal fire protection, see G.S. §§ 160A-291 et seq.
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 92.15 ORGANIZATION; MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Fire Department shall consist of the Chief of the Fire Department
and a sufficient number of firefighters, voluntary, part- or full-time, to
maintain and operate the Department. The Manager shall appoint the Chief and
approve the appointment to the Department of all members. The Department may
from time to time adopt its own rules and regulations governing the Department
subject to the approval of the Manager.
(1988 Code, § 10-16)
   (B)   (1)   The members of the Fire Department shall be not less than 18
years of age and shall be subject to the policies, procedures and requirements
as may from time to time be established by competent authority for members of
the Fire Department.
      (2)   The members of the Fire Department shall receive compensation as
the Board shall direct.
(1988 Code, § 10-17)
§ 92.16 DUTIES OF CHIEF; AUTHORITY AT FIRES.
   (A)   (1)   The Chief, subject to supervision by the Manager, shall:
         (a)   Have general control of the Department, the personnel, apparatus
and fire alarm systems;
         (b)   Command the Department and supervise the firefighting and
extinguishing of all fires and have the authority to keep away from the
vicinity of all fires any and all idle, disorderly or suspicious persons;
         (c)   Inspect or cause to be inspected all trucks and other equipment
of the Fire Department each and every week to ascertain that equipment is being
kept in proper condition; and
         (d)   Inspect or cause to be inspected all fire hydrants at least once
every 3 months and shall make a report of the inspection to the Manager.
      (2)   The Fire Chief shall make a monthly written report to the Manager
of all meetings of the Fire Department and the attendance of the members, all
fires occurring in the town and all out-of-town calls made by members of the
Department.
      (3)   The Fire Chief shall have all fire hydrants tested at least twice
each year and shall notify the Director of Public Works in writing of any
hydrants that are not in good working order.
      (4)   (a)   The Chief is to assume the functions of Fire Inspector.
         (b)   As such, he or she shall have authority to enter any and all
premises, at a reasonable time for purposes of inspection.
         (c)   Upon receipt of a complaint, he or she shall forthwith
investigate.
         (d)   He or she shall investigate the causes of fires and shall keep
records of his or her findings as to origin, location, owner, extent of damage
and injury.
         (e)   The findings must be reported to the state insurance
commissioner at regular intervals.
         (f)   He or she shall cause the removal of fire hazards by serving
proper orders to the owner or agent of premises in question.
         (g)   The orders shall state a reasonable time limit.
         (h)   Failure to comply with the order shall be considered a
misdemeanor.
(1988 Code, § 10-18)
   (B)   (1)   The officer in command shall have authority to summon aid.
      (2)   During the continuance of a fire, the Fire Chief, his or her
assistant or the Manager shall have authority to call upon any citizen to
render assistance in pulling down or demolishing any building or in removing
goods or furniture from a building on fire or in danger of fire, but not
without the consent of the Manager or of the officer of the Fire Department who
may be in charge.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful to congregate on the streets or alleys near a
fire in a manner which would interfere with the activities of the Fire
Department.
(1988 Code, § 10-19) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Duties of Fire Chief, see G.S. § 160A-292
   Fire department authorized, see G.S. § 160A-291
FIRE PREVENTION CODE
§ 92.30 CODE ADOPTED; ENFORCEMENT.
   The current Standard Fire Prevention Code is adopted herein by reference and
may be enforced by the Department of Code Enforcement.
(1988 Code,§§ 10-31, 10-32)
Statutory reference:
   Adoption by reference, see G.S. § 160A-76
CHAPTER 93:
HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
Generally
   
93.01   Unlawful to violate county health regulations
   
93.02   Unlawful to interfere with Health Officer
   
93.03   Burials
Smoking
   
93.15   Definitions
   
93.16   Purpose
   
93.17   Smoking prohibited in town buildings
   
93.18   Smoking regulated in town vehicles
   
93.19   Town property
   
93.20   Signs
   
93.21   Exemptions
   
93.22   Administration
   
93.23   Conflict of laws
 
   
93.99   Penalty
GENERALLY
§ 93.01 UNLAWFUL TO VIOLATE COUNTY HEALTH REGULATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any lawfully adopted rule or
regulation of the County Board of Health. The enforcement of this chapter shall
be under the supervision of the County Health Officer.
(1988 Code, § 11-1) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02 UNLAWFUL TO INTERFERE WITH HEALTH OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, obstruct or delay the Health
Officer or any of his or her assistants in the lawful discharge of their
duties.
(1988 Code, § 11-2) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 BURIALS.
   It shall be unlawful to bury a corpse or dead body of any human being within
the corporate limits of the town, except in a cemetery or burial site approved
and designated for the purpose by the Board.
(1988 Code, § 11-3) Penalty, see §
93.99
SMOKING
§ 93.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SMOKING. Inhaling, exhaling, burning or carrying any lighted pipe, lighted
cigar, lighted cigarette or other combustible tobacco product in any manner or
in any form.
   TOWN BUILDING. Any building owned by or leased by the Town of Fairmont. It
includes without limitation offices, restrooms, break areas, lobbies, work
areas and all interior walkways, stairwells, doorways, passageways and
entrances.
   TOWN VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle or motor-driven riding machinery owned by or
leased to the town including but not limited to cars, trucks, buses and vans.
(Ord. passed 10-8-2002)
§ 93.16 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to protect the health, safety and welfare
of municipal employees and is in the public interest to improve indoor air
quality, reduce fire hazards and minimize any health risks associated with
involuntary exposure to environmental tobacco smoke. Studies have shown that
breathing environmental tobacco smoke is a cause of disease, including lung
cancer, in healthy nonsmokers. At special risk are elderly people, individuals
with cardiovascular disease and individuals with impaired respiratory function,
including asthmatics and those with obstructive airway disease.
(Ord. passed 10-8-2002)
§ 93.17 SMOKING PROHIBITED IN TOWN BUILDINGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to smoke inside any building or facility
or portion thereof of a building or facility now or hereafter owned, leased,
operated, occupied, managed or controlled by the town, except as specifically
authorized by this subchapter. However, the Town Manager has the authority to
designate a smoking area, as he or she deems necessary.
(Ord. passed 10-8-2002) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.18 SMOKING REGULATED IN TOWN VEHICLES.
   (A)   Smoking is prohibited in town vehicles where the presence of a burning
tobacco product or the nature of the vehicle would make smoking a safety
hazard. Examples include a vehicle being operated in the vicinity of a
flammable substance or a vehicle requiring use of an operator’s 2 hands at all
times for proper operation.
   (B)   Smoking is not allowed within town vehicle “pool cars” that are shared
by departments.
   (C)   Smoking is allowed in other town vehicles if all occupants agree.
   (D)   Smoking is prohibited in all other town vehicles when those other
vehicles are being used to transport members of the public.
(Ord. passed 10-8-2002) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.19 TOWN PROPERTY.
   Smoking is permitted outside on land owned by or leased to the town and
outside of town buildings, except as restricted by written rule of the Town
Manager or by declaration by the Fire Marshal.
(Ord. passed 10-8-2002) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.20 SIGNS.
   Appropriate signage shall be conspicuously displayed in public areas of
town-owned or leased buildings indicating that smoking is prohibited as
follows:
   (A)   “No Smoking” or other signs relating to this smoking subchapter shall
have letters of not less than 1 inch in height or the international “no
smoking” symbol (consisting of a pictorial representation of a burning
cigarette enclosed in a red circle with a red bar across it) no smaller than 3
inches in diameter.
   (B)   Signs shall be conspicuously posted in town buildings in a position
clearly visible on entry into every building.
(Ord. passed 10-8-2002)
§ 93.21 EXEMPTIONS.
   This subchapter shall not apply to private dwelling units in town-owned or
leased public housing neighborhoods. A residential shelter is a town-owned
building.
(Ord. passed 10-8-2002)
§ 93.22 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Town Manager is responsible for administering this subchapter and is
authorized and directed to establish regulations for the administration of this
subchapter.
(Ord. passed 10-8-2002)
§ 93.23 CONFLICT OF LAWS.
   If any portion of this subchapter or the enforcement thereof shall be
preempted by any state or federal authority, preemption shall not operate to
invalidate the rest of this subchapter; and the same shall remain in full force
and effect.
(Ord. passed 10-8-2002)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Violation of §
93.15 et seq. shall subject the offender to a civil penalty in the amount of
$25 to be recovered by the Town of Fairmont. Violators shall be first issued a
written warning, then any subsequent violations must be paid within 48 hours of
the violation. Violation of §
93.15 et seq. shall not constitute a misdemeanor or infraction punishable under
G.S. § 14-4.
      (2)   Violation of §
93.15 et seq. by a town employee may result in a disciplinary action under the
town’s personnel policies.
(Ord. passed 10-8-2002)
CHAPTER 94:
ANIMALS
Section
Generally
   
94.01   Purpose and definitions
   
94.02   Agency authority and responsibility
Control
   
94.15   Non-domestic animals prohibited
   
94.16   Keeping of pigeons and bees
   
94.17   Exhibition of certain animals
   
94.18   Animals on sidewalks
   
94.19   Bird sanctuary
   
94.20   Licensing
   
94.21   Number of domestic animals kept
   
94.22   Cruelty to animals
   
94.23   Animals at large
   
94.24   Keeping of vicious and dangerous animals
   
94.25   Animals creating nuisance
   
94.26   Abuse prohibited
   
94.27   Dog and cat identification tag
   
94.28   Compliance with state rabies laws; vaccination
   
94.29   Bitten by animal; notice; confinement
   
94.30   Area-wide emergency quarantine
   
94.31   Unlawful killing or releasing of certain animals
   
94.32   Failure to surrender animal for confinement
   
94.33   Impoundment; notice; redemption
   
94.34   Destruction or adoption of unredeemed animal
   
94.35   Leash requirement
   
94.36   Wounded, diseased or unweaned animals
   
94.37   Restraint and disposition of animals
   
94.38   Keeping stray animals; requirements; failure to surrender
   
94.39   Authorized killing of vicious dogs
   
94.40   Enforcement; interference
 
   
94.99   Penalty
GENERALLY
§ 94.01 PURPOSE AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Pursuant to authority granted by the North Carolina General Assembly,
this chapter is enacted to regulate, restrict or prohibit, if necessary,
animals; to protect the public from unvaccinated, diseased, stray, roaming,
dangerous or wild animals; to make unlawful acts of animals that interfere with
the enjoyment of property or the peace and safety of the community; and to
carry out any other lawful duties authorized by state laws and applicable
ordinances.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ABATTOIR. Place for killing animals; a place where animals are
slaughtered for their meat and by-products. Also called a SLAUGHTERHOUSE.
      ANIMAL. Every living creature, domestic or non-domestic, but does not
include humans.
      ANIMAL SHELTER. Any premises designated by the County Health Director for
the purpose of impounding and caring for all animals.
      AT LARGE. Any animal shall be deemed to be at large when it is off the
property of its owner or keeper, not under physical restraint or when not under
the control of the owner or other person accompanying the animal by means of a
leash or line of some type not exceeding 6 feet or a reasonable length in the
case of an animal-drawn cart, wagon or similar object, nor within a private
vehicle with the consent of the operator thereof.
      CAT. A domestic feline of any age.
      COUNTY. Robeson County.
      DEPREDATE. Laying waste or plundering.
      DOMESTIC ANIMAL. An animal kept at home as a pet; an animal kept for
companionship, interest or amusement.
      DOG. A domestic canine of any age.
      EXPOSED TO RABIES .  An animal shall be deemed to have been exposed to
rabies if it has been bitten by or been in the presence of any animal known or
suspected to have been infected with rabies.
      IMPOUNDMENT. Any animal in custody of a person or animal shelter duly
authorized by the Robeson County Health Department.
      KEEPER. A person having custody of an animal or who keeps or harbors an
animal or who knowingly permits an animal to remain on or about any premises
occupied or controlled by the person.
      NUISANCE. An animal or group of animals shall be considered a nuisance if
it:
         (a)   Damages, soils or defiles private or public property;
         (b)   Interferes with, molests or attacks persons or other animals;
         (c)   Is repeatedly at large;
         (d)   Causes unsanitary, dangerous or offensive conditions including
fouling of the air by odors;
         (e)   Chases, snaps at, harasses or impedes pedestrians, bicyclists or
vehicles;
         (f)   By virtue of number or type is offensive or dangerous to the
public health, safety or welfare;
         (g)   Is diseased or dangerous to the public health; or
         (h)   Creates noise or any other undesirable action.
      OWNER. A person having the right of property in an animal, any person
owning, keeping, harboring or responsible for an animal and for the purpose of
this chapter the head of a household shall be deemed to be the owner in respect
to any animal owned, kept or harbored by any person residing in the household
and kept on the premises.
      RESTRAINT. Any animal shall be considered under restraint if it is within
the real property limits of its owner or secured by a leash or lead or
confined.
      STRAY. Any domestic animal not under restraint and found off the property
of its owner or keeper.
      SUSPECTED OF HAVING RABIES. An animal, which is unvaccinated against
rabies or has bitten a person.
      TOWN. Town of Fairmont.
      VETERINARY HOSPITAL. Any establishment maintained and operated by a
licensed veterinarian for surgery, diagnosis and treatment of diseases and
injuries of animals.
      VICIOUS ANIMAL. An animal that constitutes a physical threat to humans or
other domestic animals.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2003)
§ 94.02 AGENCY AUTHORITY AND RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Authority is hereby granted to the Code Enforcement Officer to
administer this chapter, to act as Animal Control Officer and to develop an
animal control program to carry out any lawful duties authorized by state laws
and applicable ordinances.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall:
      (1)   Have the responsibility along with the Department of Public Works
to enforce all laws of the state and all ordinances of the town pertaining to
animals and shall cooperate with all law enforcement officers within the town
and the county in fulfilling this duty;
      (2)   Enforce and carry out all laws of the state and all ordinances of
the town pertaining to rabies control;
      (3)   Be responsible for reporting all reported animal bites and the
condition of the animal causing the bite to the Robeson County Health
Department for the quarantine of any dog, cat or other animal involved and
suspected of having rabies;
      (4)   Be responsible for the seizure and impoundment, where deemed
necessary, of any dog or other animal in the town involved in a violation of
this chapter or any other town ordinance or state law;
      (5)   Investigate cruelty or abuse with regard to animals;
      (6)   Make canvasses of the town, including the homes in the town, as
necessary for the purpose of ascertaining compliance with this chapter or state
statute;
      (7)   Keep, or cause to be kept, accurate and detailed records of:
         (a)   Seizure, impoundment and disposition of all animals coming into
custody of the Animal Control Program;
         (b)   Bite cases, violations and complaints, and investigation of
them;
         (c)   All monies which were derived from fees, penalties or other
sources;
         (d)   Any other matters deemed necessary by the Town Manager; and
      (8)   Be empowered to issue notices of violation of this chapter in form
as the Code Enforcement Officer may prescribe.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2003)
CONTROL
§ 94.15 NON-DOMESTIC ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   This section shall apply to properties located within the corporate
limits of the town or in the extraterritorial jurisdiction within 100 feet of
the corporate limits of the town.
   (B)   No person shall possess or harbor any non-domestic animal which is
dangerous to persons or property, or which has the potential of being dangerous
to persons or property. This section shall not apply to bona fide circuses,
petting zoos, and other traveling commercial animal exhibitions of limited
duration.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain, keep, stable, or
house any livestock, horses, cows, fowl, sheep, goats, or other non-domestic
animals, including poultry, within the corporate limits of the town within 175
feet of any dwelling, school, church, restaurant, grocery store, drugstore, or
other retail establishment, or within 100 feet of a septic tank or private
water supply intended for human consumption. In addition, it shall also be
unlawful to keep or maintain such animals by means of tether, fence, or other
type enclosure within 100 feet of the property line of an adjoining lot unless
the adjoining lot is, and the lot or area housing the livestock are, under the
same ownership. The following conditions must also be met when housing non-
domestic livestock.
      (1)   Lot size. The lot, section of land, or parcel shall not be less
than 2 acres of undeveloped land. Land area can be met by combining lots as
long as the combined unimproved area is at least 2 acres in size.
      (2)   No livestock shall be maintained for commercial sale or processing
purposes in any residential zoning district of the town. All livestock shall be
maintained for personal use and consumption only.
      (3)   Structures for livestock. Best management practices shall be
applied in using and maintaining structures for livestock, including stables,
so as to eliminate or minimize nuisance and adverse impacts to the maximum
extent possible. All yards, premises, sheds, structures, coops, and the like,
occupied by livestock shall be deemed a nuisance if not cleaned regularly and
kept in a sanitary condition at all times.
      (4)   Livestock shall be limited to three regardless of species with the
exception of domestic chickens/fowl. Chickens/fowl shall be limited to 10. Any
combination of the permitted number of chickens/fowl and the permitted number
of other livestock shall require 1 additional acre of land.
   (D)   Hogs or swine are prohibited; exceptions. No hogs or swine are
permitted to be in any zone within the corporate limits, except in an
industrial district for manufacturing purposes and/or in connection with a fair
or other special event conducted on a temporary basis.
   (E)   This section shall not be construed to prohibit the maintaining,
keeping, or housing of any hogs or pigs for immediate slaughter by licensed
meat packer or abattoir.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2003; Am. Ord. 19-186, passed 1-15-2019) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.16 KEEPING OF PIGEONS AND BEES.
   (A)   No person shall keep any pigeons within the corporate limits of the
town unless the pigeons are kept confined and not permitted to leave the
premises of the owner.
   (B)   No person shall cultivate or hive bees within the corporate limits of
the town.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2003) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.17 EXHIBITION OF CERTAIN ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to exhibit a stud horse or jack on any
street, alley or other public place or on any private property within the town
that will expose the animal to the public view.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2003) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.18 ANIMALS ON SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall lead, ride or drive any horse or other large animal upon any
of the sidewalks of the town without a permit issued by the Board of
Commissioners. No person shall display or cause to be displayed on any sidewalk
in the town live poultry of any kind or any other fowl in coops, boxes, cages
or in any other manner without a permit issued by the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2003) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.19 BIRD SANCTUARY.
   (A)   The area embraced within the corporate limits of the town and all
lands owned or leased by the town outside the corporate limits are hereby
designated as a bird sanctuary.
   (B)   The bird clubs of the town may erect artistic signs giving notice of
the regulation provided in this section at places and of design as may be
approved by the Director of Public Works.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Bird sanctuaries, see G.S. § 160A-188
§ 94.20 LICENSING.
   The owner of any dog kept within the town shall pay a license tax in the
amount and at a time as may be annually levied and provided for by ordinances
of the Town Board.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2003) Penalty, see §
94.99
Statutory references:
   Animal taxes authorized, see G.S. § 160A-212
   Authority to regulate domestic animals, see G.S. § 160A-186
   Vaccination required, see G.S. § 160A-185
§ 94.21 NUMBER OF DOMESTIC ANIMALS KEPT.
   No owner shall keep more than 3 domestic animals within the town except
within a pet shop or animal shelter or the premises of a humane society.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2003) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.22 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to molest, torture, torment,
deprive of necessary sustenance, cruelly beat, needlessly mutilate or kill,
wound, injure, poison, abandon or subject to conditions detrimental to its
health or general welfare any animal, or to cause or procure that action. The
words TORTURE and TORMENT shall be held to include every act, omission or
neglect whereby unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or death is caused or
inflicted; but terms shall not be construed to prohibit the Robeson County
Health Department Animal Control Department or its agents or veterinarians from
destroying dangerous, unwanted or injured animals in a humane manner, nor to
prohibit the lawful use of animals in scientific research.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or keeper to fail to provide his or
her animal with proper shelter and protection from the weather, sufficient and
wholesome food and water to keep his or her animal in good health and comfort,
the opportunity for vigorous daily exercise, veterinary care when needed to
prevent suffering and humane care and treatment.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2003) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.23 ANIMALS AT LARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or person having care,
responsibility, or custody of any horse, mule, cow, goat, sheep, hog, dog, cat,
chicken, duck, goose, or any other animal to allow the animal to run at large
in the corporate limits of the town. Every animal found running at large within
the corporate limits of the town shall be taken by the Department of Public
Works or law enforcement, confined, and shall be impounded pursuant to §
94.33.
   (B)   Any person who violates division (A) shall be liable for damages in a
private lawsuit for any damages caused to any person whose property is damaged
while the animal is at large and shall be subject to the enhanced penalties of
§
94.99(B)(2).
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or person having care,
responsibility, or custody of any to allow or permit the animal to discharge
feces or urine upon the premises of any other person. However, if that person
shall remove the feces deposited by the animal within 5 minutes of its deposit,
or if the owner of the property has given permission allowing use of the
property for discharge feces or urine, then such activity shall not be a
violation of this section.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2003; Am. Ord. 17-171, passed 6-20-2017) Penalty, see §
94.99
Cross-reference:
   Animals creating nuisance, see §
94.25
§ 94.24 KEEPING OF VICIOUS AND DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall possess or harbor any non-domestic animal which is
dangerous to persons or property or which has the potential of being dangerous
to persons or property.
   (B)   No owner shall keep any vicious dog or other animal within the town.
It shall be unlawful for any person to appear on a public street or sidewalk in
the town with a vicious dog, whether or not the dog is on a leash, in a manner
calculated to inspire terror among citizens and/or visitors of the town.
   (C)   Any vicious/public nuisance animal without any recognizable
identification may be destroyed after the Robeson County Health Department
Animal Control Officer has been unsuccessful in his or her attempt to catch,
trap or tranquilize (within an enclosed area) the animal. Any dog or cat left
at the animal shelter may be impounded or euthanized at the discretion of the
Animal Control Officer.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2003) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.25 ANIMALS CREATING NUISANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for an owner or keeper to permit an animal to
create a nuisance, or to maintain a nuisance created by an animal. Compliance
shall be required as follows:
      (1)   When Code Enforcement Officer, law enforcement officer or person
duly authorized by the town observes a violation, the owner or keeper will be
provided written notification of the violation and be given 48 hours from time
of notification to abate the nuisance;
      (2)   Upon receipt of a written detailed and signed complaint being made
to the Code Enforcement Officer by any person that any other person is
maintaining a nuisance as defined in this chapter, the Code Enforcement Officer
or delegate shall cause the owner or keeper of the animal in question to be
notified that a complaint has been received, and shall cause the situation
complained of to be investigated and a report and findings thereon to be
reduced to writing; and
      (3)   If the written findings indicate that the complaint is justified,
the Code Enforcement Officer or person duly authorized by the town shall cause
the owner or keeper of the animal in question to be so notified in writing, and
ordered to abate the nuisance within 48 hours by whatever means may be
necessary. If the owner or keeper of the animal is unknown and cannot be
ascertained, the notice and order, along with a general description of the
animal, shall be posted for 48 hours at the town hall. If after 48 hours the
owner or keeper of the animal remains unknown, the animal may be impounded or
humanely destroyed.
   (B)   Every female dog or cat, while in heat, shall be confined in a
building or secure enclosure in a manner that she will not be in contact with
another dog or cat, and will not create a nuisance by attracting other animals;
provided, this section shall not be construed to prohibit the intentional
breeding of animals within an enclosed area on the premises of the owner of an
animal being bred.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep or have within the
town an animal that habitually or repeatedly makes noises that tend to annoy,
disturb or frighten its citizens.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for a person to fail or refuse to abate the
nuisance as required by this section.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2003) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.26 ABUSE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to entice or lure any animal out
of an enclosure or off the property of its owner or keeper, or to seize, molest
or tease any animal while the animal is held or controlled by its owner or
keeper or while the animal is on the property of its owner or keeper.
   (B)   No person, except a duly sworn and authorized law enforcement officer
performing his or her duties under the provisions of this chapter, shall shoot
any wild game or other animal, whether wild or tame, with any gun, firearm or
bow and arrow or willfully poison any animal within the town.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2003) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.27 DOG AND CAT IDENTIFICATION TAG.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any dog or cat owner to fail to provide his
or her dog or cat, which is 4 months of age or older with an identification tag
on which is inscribed the name of the dog or cat, and the owner’s name, address
and telephone number.
   (B)   It shall also be unlawful for any dog or cat owner to fail to provide
his or her dog or cat with a collar or harness to which a current
identification tag described under this section is securely attached. The
collar or harness with the attached identification tag must be worn at all
times, except during the times the animal is performing at shows, obedience
trials, tracking tests, field trials, schools or other events sanctioned and
supervised by a recognized organization, or is engaged in hunting or some other
activity in which a collar might endanger its safety.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2003) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.28 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE RABIES LAWS; VACCINATION.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any animal owner or other person to
fail to comply with the state laws relating to the control of rabies.
      (2)   It is the purpose of this chapter to supplement the state laws by
providing a procedure for the enforcement of state laws relating to rabies
control, in addition to the criminal penalties provided by state law.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for an owner or keeper to fail to provide
current vaccination against rabies (hydrophobia) for any dog or cat 4 months of
age or older. Should it be deemed necessary by the County Health Director or
the Board of Health that other pets be vaccinated in order to prevent a
threatened epidemic or to control an existing epidemic, it shall be unlawful
for an owner or keeper to fail to provide current vaccination against rabies
for that pet.
      (2)   A rabies vaccination shall be deemed current for a dog or cat if
the first 2 doses of vaccine are administered 12 months apart and each
subsequent booster dose of vaccine administered as per the vaccine
manufacturer’s recommended schedule.
   (C)   (1)   Proof of vaccination shall be required upon request by the Code
Enforcement Officer, law enforcement or Department of Public Works and shall be
in the form of a tag, stamped with a number and the year for which issued and a
rabies vaccination certificate.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any dog or cat owner or keeper to fail to
provide the dog or cat with a collar or harness to which a current rabies tag
issued under this section is securely attached. The collar or harness, with
attached tag, must be worn at all times.
      (3)   In addition to all other penalties as prescribed by law, a dog or
cat is subject to impoundment in accordance with the provisions of this chapter
if the dog or cat is found not to be wearing a currently valid rabies tag.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use for any animal a rabies
vaccination tag issued for an animal other than the one using the tag.
      (5)   All dogs or cats shipped or otherwise brought into the town, except
for exhibition purposes where the dogs or cats are confined and not permitted
to run at large, shall be securely confined and vaccinated within 1 week after
entry, and shall remain confined for 2 additional weeks after vaccination
unless accompanied by a certificate issued by a licensed veterinarian showing
that the dog or cat is apparently free from rabies and has not been exposed to
it and that the dog or cat has received a proper dose of rabies vaccine not
more than 6 months prior to the date of issuing the certificate.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2003) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.29 BITTEN BY ANIMAL; NOTICE; CONFINEMENT.
   (A)   (1)   When a person has been bitten by an animal having rabies or
suspected of having rabies, it shall be the duty of that person, or his or her
parent or guardian if the person is a minor, and the person owning the animal
or having the animal in his or her possession or under his or her control, to
notify the County Health Director or person duly authorized by the County
Health Director immediately and give their names and addresses and the owner or
person having the animal in his or her possession or under his or her control
shall immediately securely confine it for 10 days at the expense of the owner
in the place as may be designated by the County Health Director. It shall be
the duty of every physician, after his or her first professional attendance
upon a person bitten by any animal having rabies or suspected of having rabies,
to report to the County Health Director the name, age and sex of the person so
bitten, and precise location of the bite wound, within 24 hours after first
having knowledge that the person was bitten. If the owner of or a person who
has in his or her possession or under his or her control an animal having
rabies or suspected of having rabies refuses to confine the animal as required
by this chapter or by G.S. § 130A-196, the County Health Director at his or her
discretion may order seizure of the animal and its confinement for 10 days in a
place the County Health Director designates.
      (2)   Law enforcement agencies investigating animal bites shall report
the bites immediately to the County Health Director or person duly authorized
by the County Health Director and give the names and addresses of the persons
bitten and the owner of the animal.
      (3)   Animals confined pursuant to division (A) of this section shall not
be released from confinement within the town except by written permission from
the County Health Director.
      (4)   Animals confined pursuant to division (A) of this section shall be
confined at the expense of the owner or keeper.
      (5)   In the case of an animal whose owner or keeper is not known, the
animal shall be kept for the supervised confinement period required by this
chapter at the animal shelter or other place as designated by the County Health
Director.
      (6)   Badly wounded, diseased or suffering animals which are suspected of
having rabies shall be taken to the County Animal Control Facility for
disposition.
   (B)   Animals not vaccinated against rabies which are bitten by a known or
suspected rabid animal shall be taken immediately to the County Animal Control
Facility for disposition unless the owner or keeper agrees to strict isolation
of the animal at a veterinary hospital for a period of 6 months at the owner’s
or keeper’s expense. If the animal has a current rabies vaccination, the owner
or keeper shall show proof of re-vaccination.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2003) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.30 AREA-WIDE EMERGENCY QUARANTINE.
   When the County Health Director declares an area-wide quarantine for a
period as he or she deems necessary and invokes emergency quarantine, no dog or
cat may be taken or shipped from the town without written permission of the
County Health Director. During a quarantine, the County Health Director, law
enforcement officers, Department of Public Works or persons duly authorized by
the County Health Director may seize and impound any dog or cat found running
at large in the town.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2003)
§ 94.31 UNLAWFUL KILLING OR RELEASING OF CERTAIN ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to kill or release any animal under
observation for rabies, or any animal under observation for biting a human, or
to remove an animal from town officials without written permission from the
County Health Director.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2003) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.32 FAILURE TO SURRENDER ANIMAL FOR CONFINEMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to surrender any
animal for confinement as required in this chapter, when demand is made
therefor by the Code Enforcement Officer, Department of Public Works and law
enforcement or the County Health Director.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2003) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.33 IMPOUNDMENT; NOTICE; REDEMPTION.
   (A)   (1)   Any animal which appears to be lost, stray or unwanted, or not
wearing a currently valid dog identification tag and a currently valid rabies
vaccination tag, as required by state law or this chapter, or not under
restraint in violation of this chapter, may be seized, impounded, confined in a
humane manner and taken to the animal shelter.
      (2)   Impoundment of an animal shall not relieve the owner or keeper from
any penalty that may be imposed for violation of this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Upon impounding an animal, notice of impoundment shall be posted
at town hall for a minimum of 72 hours, beginning with the time the animal is
taken to the animal shelter, or until the animal is disposed of. Reasonable
effort shall be made to identify the owner or keeper and inform the owner or
keeper of the conditions whereby the animal may be redeemed.
      (2)   The notice shall be prominently displayed on a bulletin board of
town hall listing the time and place of the taking of the animal, together with
the time and date of posting the notice, shall be stated in the notice.
   (C)   Upon the impounding of any dog by the town, the Code Enforcement
Officer or other authorized person in charge thereof, shall make and keep a
record of the dog, showing the date confined, a brief description of the
animal, whether wearing vaccination and identification tags and if listed for
taxes, name and address of the owner if available from the tag or other means
and the nature, and date, of the final disposition made of the dog.
   (D)   If the owner of any dog impounded shall appear within 4 days after
being notified, a period to commence from the date notice is telephoned, mailed
or posted, he or she shall be entitled to the possession of his or her dog,
provided that he or she satisfies the pound-master that he or she has complied
with all of the requirements of this chapter as to the listing and payment of
all dog license taxes, current and delinquent, rabies vaccination and the
proper collaring and tagging of the dogs; and upon the further provision that
the owner pays the sum of $10 to cover the costs incurred by the town in
impounding and maintaining the dog. The compliance of the owner with the
provisions of this section relative to the redemption of an impounded dog shall
in no way relieve or discharge the owner from any criminal prosecution brought
against him or her for the violation of the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2003)
§ 94.34 DESTRUCTION OR ADOPTION OF UNREDEEMED ANIMAL.
   (A)   If an impounded animal is not redeemed by the owner or keeper within
the period prescribed, it may be destroyed in a humane manner or shall become
the property of the animal shelter and offered for adoption to a responsible
adult who is willing to comply with this chapter and with policies promulgated
by the County Board of Health.
   (B)   No animal which has been impounded by reason of it being a stray,
unclaimed by its owner or keeper, shall be allowed to be adopted from the
animal shelter during a period of emergency rabies quarantine invoked by
special authorization of the County Health Director.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2003)
§ 94.35 LEASH REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner to control his or her dog
(s).
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or having possession,
charge, care, custody or control of any dog to fail to keep the dog exclusively
upon his or her own premises, or on the private premises of another with prior
consent provided, however, a dog may leave the premises only if:
      (1)   A dog is under restraint by virtue of being in the custody of a
competent person and held by a leash, chain or other device of sufficient
strength to maintain control of the dog by that person;
      (2)   A dog is under direct control by virtue of being held within a
secure enclosure; or
      (3)   A person with a disability has the right to have a service dog
accompany that person in all places “to which the general public is invited,”
without a leash. This provision is written specifically to cover people who are
blind, deaf or mobility impaired, and only refers to dogs, not service animals
in general, provided:
         (a)   The dog must either be serving as, or be in training to be, a
guide, leader, listener or support dog.
         (b)   The owner must have proof that the dog has been or is being
trained as a service dog.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2004) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.36 WOUNDED, DISEASED OR UNWEANED ANIMALS.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, any animal seized and
impounded which is badly wounded, diseased (not a rabies suspect) or not weaned
and has no identification shall be taken immediately to the county animal
shelter.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2003)
§ 94.37 RESTRAINT AND DISPOSITION OF ANIMALS.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, an animal that cannot
be seized by reasonable means may be humanely restrained and taken immediately
to the county animal shelter.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2003)
§ 94.38 KEEPING STRAY ANIMALS; REQUIREMENTS, FAILURE TO SURRENDER.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person in the town knowingly and
intentionally to harbor, feed, keep in possession by confinement or otherwise
allow to remain on his or her property any animal which does not belong to him
or her, unless he or she has, within 72 hours from the time the animal came
into his or her possession, complied with all requirements of ownerships as
prescribed in this chapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to surrender any stray
animal to the Code Enforcement Officer, law enforcement or Department of Public
Works upon demand.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2003) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.39 AUTHORIZED KILLING OF VICIOUS DOGS.
   Whenever any police officer or other authorized employee or agent of the
town discovers any dog running at large or in other violation of the provisions
of this chapter, the police officer, employee or agent shall capture the dog
and impound it in the town pound; provided, that if the dog shows any symptoms
of or is reasonably suspected of having rabies, or appears of a vicious nature
as to make it reasonably appear that the animal at the time constitutes a
menace to the safety of the one seeking to capture it, or any other person,
then the officer, agent or employee of the town, or other person by his or her
direction, may immediately shoot or otherwise kill the same on the spot, in as
humane a manner as practical, and with due regard to the safety of other
persons.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2003)
Statutory references:
   Animal shelters, see G.S. § 160A-493
   Protection of livestock and poultry from ranging dogs, see G.S. §§ 67-30 et
seq.
§ 94.40 ENFORCEMENT; INTERFERENCE.
   (A)   This chapter may be enforced by an appropriate equitable remedy
issuing from a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (B)   No person shall interfere with, hinder or molest the Animal Control
Officer or any agents or employees of the Animal Control Program, or the
Robeson County Public Health Director or his or her designee, in their
performance of any duties under this chapter, nor seek to release any animal in
the custody of the same or of the animal shelter unless otherwise specifically
authorized by law. The penalty for a violation of this section shall be as set
forth in §
94.99 below.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2003) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Misdemeanor. Notwithstanding any civil penalties which may be assessed
under division (B) below, any person violating any of the provisions of this
chapter may be found guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor under G.S. §§ 14-4 and
153A-123. For a continuing violation, each day’s violation shall be deemed to
be a separate offense.
   (B)   Civil penalties. In addition to, and not in lieu of the criminal
penalties and other remedies provided by this chapter or by state law, a
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter may also subject the
offender to the civil penalties hereinafter set forth. The Animal Control
Officer shall be authorized to issue a citation to the person, giving notice of
the violation. Citations so issued may be delivered in person or mailed by
registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, to the person charged
if the person cannot otherwise be readily located. The civil penalty or
penalties set forth in the citation must be paid within 7 days of the receipt
of the citation and shall be paid to the Town Clerk. If the person charged
fails to pay the civil penalty within the time prescribed, a criminal summons
shall be issued against the person charging a misdemeanor violation of this
chapter under division (A) above and, upon conviction, that person shall in
addition to the penalties prescribed for the misdemeanor violation of this
chapter be punished as the court prescribes for failure to pay the civil
penalties imposed hereby. The civil penalties for a violation of this chapter
shall be as follows:
      (1)   For a violation of any provision of this chapter, the civil penalty
shall be $25 for a first offense, $50 for a second and $100 for a third or
subsequent offense.
      (2)   For a violation of any provisions of §
94.40, the civil penalty shall be $100 for a first offense, $250 for a second
offense and $500 for a third or subsequent offense.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2003; Am. Ord. 17-171, passed 6-20-2017)
CHAPTER 95:
PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
95.01   Purpose
   
95.02   Definitions
   
95.03   Rules and regulations
   
95.04   Lease rental
   
95.05   Enforcement
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulations for the public
health, safety and welfare in respect to the recreational activities, programs
and facilities of the Town of Fairmont. This chapter is designed to maximize
the enjoyment of recreation in Fairmont’s recreation facilities and programs
and offer protection from conditions, which could harm, injure or offend any
group or individual.
(Ord. passed 10-8-2002)
§ 95.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LOITERING. If a person or group of people remain, linger, stand idly about
or wander about in a recreational park or facility in a manner inconsistent
with the intended use of the park or facility and/or causes the delay or
hindrance of the use of the recreational park or facility by others.
   PARK. An area of land set aside for public use, as:
      (1)   A piece of land with few or no buildings within the Town of
Fairmont, maintained for recreational and ornamental purposes;
      (2)   Landscaped town square; or
      (3)   A large tract of land kept in a natural state and usually reserved
for the enjoyment and recreation of visitors.
   SERVICE ANIMAL. Any guide dog, signal dog or other animal individually
trained to provide assistance to an individual with a disability.
(Ord. passed 10-8-2002)
§ 95.03 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The following shall be the rules and regulations of all the recreational
facilities of the Town of Fairmont including any park, recreation area,
playground, ballfield, picnic shelter or any other recreation facility and the
parking facilities thereof and shall be strictly enforced.
   (A)   Use of park areas and facilities is “at your own risk.” The Town of
Fairmont assumes no responsibility or liability for misuse of park or
recreational facilities.
   (B)   Park and recreational facility hours of operation are as follows:
Monday through Sunday, sunup to sundown. It shall be unlawful for any person to
enter, use or remain within any park between the hours of sundown to sunup
unless a town-sponsored event is delayed or a written permit therefor has been
obtained from the Town Manager or his or her designee.
   (C)   Littering is expressly prohibited. All trash must be placed in
provided trash receptacles. Under no circumstances shall household garbage or
waste generated outside the park be permitted to be disposed of in the park
facilities or on park grounds.
(G.S. § 14-399)
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully mark, deface,
disfigure, injure, tamper with, display or remove any structure, equipment,
facilities or other property, either real or personal.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to damage, cut, carve, transplant
or remove any tree or plant, injure the bark, pick the flowers or seeds of any
tree or plant, to dig or otherwise disturb grass areas in any other way or
injure or impair the natural beauty or usefulness of any area.
(G.S. § 14-128)
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to obey all traffic signs.
All vehicles, including motorcycles, must be parked in parking spaces provided.
Service roads and walking paths are for pedestrians and town vehicles only. It
shall also be unlawful for failure to obey all traffic officers or persons
being authorized and instructed to direct traffic whenever and wherever needed
in the park.
   (G)   Vehicles left unattended for more than 24 hours on park property will
be towed away at the owner’s expense.
   (H)   Physically interfering with the lawful use of the park and its
facilities by others or insulting profane, indecent, abusive or threatening
language in a manner which would tend to provoke others to a breach of peace is
prohibited.
(G.S. § 14-132)
   (I)   It shall be unlawful for any person to carry, use or possess firearms,
concealed and/or dangerous weapons of any nature within any park. This section
shall not apply to law enforcement officers when engaged in the discharge of
their duties.
   (J)   (1)   No person shall, within the confines of any town-owned or town-
operated recreation facility, park, or recreation areas:
         (a)   Bring upon, possess, consume, or display any beer, wine,
whiskey, or other intoxicating liquor or beverage or controlled substances or
the containers thereof;
         (b)   Sell, deliver, or attempt to sell or deliver any alcoholic
beverage or illegal substance; or
         (c)   Be reasonably suspected to be under the influence of alcohol or
any controlled substance or to fail to leave immediately upon the request of a
police officer, recreation personnel, town employee, or volunteer in lawful
control of the premises, if such request is based upon suspicion that the
person is under the influence of alcohol or any controlled substance.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the organizer of a community
event or festival provides a copy of a valid ABC permit to the town 10 days
prior to the date of the event, the Town Manager shall grant permission for the
event to be an "alcohol-approved event" by the issuance of a writing setting
forth the dates, hours, and boundaries within which alcohol may be consumed.
      (3)   The following requirements apply to all alcohol-approved events:
         (a)   The event must be open to the public at large;
         (b)   There can only be one event scheduled at the same town-owned or
town-operated recreation facility, park, or recreation area on the same day
when an alcohol-approved event is scheduled for that place on that date. The
first person to request the scheduling of an event shall be given priority in
scheduling;
         (c)   The requirements of all ABC rules and regulations and state laws
regarding possession and distribution of alcoholic beverages must be met
throughout the event; and
         (d)   The bounds of the event located in the Fairmont Community Park
for alcoholic beverages is limited to the half of the park containing the
Fairmont Development Corporation Pavilion.
      (4)   A person who is not an occupant of a motor vehicle and who is old
enough to be permitted by state law to consume or possess malt beverages and /
or unfortified wine shall be allowed to possess and consume such during an
alcohol-approved event in the designated area.
      (5)   The sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages at or on town
property is restricted to the hours and areas designated in the written
permission of the Town Manager. No person shall bring, carry, or transport any
alcoholic beverage into or onto any site in which such a special event is
taking place, except under the direction of the event organizer.
   (K)   The holding of any exhibition, ceremony or making of any speech
without permission from the Parks and Recreation Department will not be
allowed.
   (L)   Soliciting of any kind on park property is prohibited. This includes
the distribution of any handbills or circulars, or posting, placing or erecting
any bills, notices, paper or advertising devices not authorized by the Parks
and Recreation Department and/or the Town Manager.
   (M)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell food, beverages or
merchandise or solicit donations for any individual, group, club, company or
corporation without first obtaining a permit from the Town Manager or his or
her designee.
   (N)   Animals are strictly prohibited. This section shall not apply to
service animals used by handicapped persons.
   (O)   Skateboards, skates, bicycles, all-terrain vehicles, motorcycles, dirt
bikes, go-carts, golf carts or other motorized vehicles are prohibited. This
shall not apply to authorized emergency and maintenance vehicles, nor to
motorized wheelchairs and similar vehicles used by handicapped persons. All
other motorized-type vehicles must be parked in parking spaces provided.
Bicycles must be parked in the bicycle racks provided.
   (P)   It shall be unlawful for any person to boat, swim, bathe, wade or fish
in the Old Field Canal.
   (Q)   No open fires or campfires are allowed. All fires must be contained in
the park grills, which are designed for charcoal only. Personal grills in good
operating condition may be used in designated picnic areas only. No grills or
other cooking appliances shall be used under shelters.
   (R)   It shall be unlawful for any person to bring, have in his or her
possession, set off or otherwise cause to explode, discharge or burn any
firecrackers, other fireworks, explosives or non-explosives, such as sparklers
or discharge them or throw them into any area from land or highway adjacent
thereto.
   (S)   No person shall drop, throw or otherwise scatter lighted matches,
burning cigarettes or cigars, or other flammable material within any park area
or on any highway, road or street abutting or contiguous thereto.
   (T)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave a picnic area or shelter
before the grill fire is completely extinguished and before all trash in the
nature of boxes, papers, cans, bottles, garbage and other refuse is placed in
receptacles provided. If no receptacles are available, then refuse and trash
shall be carried away from the park area by the user to be properly disposed of
elsewhere.
   (U)   The use of individual picnic sites and picnic shelters, together with
tables and benches, shall follow the rule of “First Come, First Served,” unless
a picnic reservation has been issued according to regulations adopted by the
Board of Commissioners.
   (V)   It shall be unlawful for any person to camp in any area without first
obtaining a permit from the Town Manager or his or her designee. No person
shall set up tents, shacks or any other temporary shelter for the purpose of
overnight camping, nor shall any person leave in any park after closing hours
any movable structure or special vehicle to be used or that could be used for
that purpose, such as a camper, RV, motor home or the like, without a permit
obtained from the Town Manager or his or her designee.
   (W)   Erecting tents, canopies or nailing decorations to park structures is
not allowed without permission from the Parks and Recreation Department and/or
the Town Manager.
   (X)   Fairground activities, flea market, garage sales and the like are not
allowed without proper approval and permit from the Parks and Recreation
Department and/or the Town Manager.
   (Y)   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter an area posted as “Closed
to the Public” or reserved to other individuals.
   (Z)   Hunting of any kind is prohibited.
   (AA)   Hitting golf balls is prohibited.
   (BB)   Audio and musical devices should be operated at a volume not to
disturb other visitors, with the exception of Parks and Recreation activities
and authorized events.
   (CC)   No rock or other projectile throwing is allowed.
   (DD)   The using of any area or facility for commercial purposes are
prohibited, without prior approval by the Parks and Recreation Department.
   (EE)   Any section or part of any park, recreation area or facility may be
declared closed to the public by the Town of Fairmont at any time and for any
interval of time, either temporarily or at regular and stated intervals (daily
or otherwise) and closed to certain uses.
   (FF)   Any requests for special events or use of the parks and recreational
facilities shall be presented to and approved by the Town Manager or his or her
designee. If these requests are approved, a permit will be issued and the Town
Manager or his or her designee will assess any fees.
   (GG)   The Town Manager and the Recreation Director have the authority and
responsibility to recommend rules and regulations governing the use and
maintenance of parks and recreational facilities to the Board of Commissioners
for their consideration. Rules and regulations become effective as adopted by
the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 10-8-2002; Am. Ord. 14-155, passed 6-17-2014) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.04 LEASE RENTAL.
   Any person or persons entering into a lease or rental agreement of any
recreation facility or recreation area agrees to hold harmless the Town of
Fairmont. The sponsor shall assume full responsibility. Rates shall be charged,
and a rate schedule shall be updated and approved by the Fairmont Board of
Commissioners. Failure to abide by the listed rules and regulations will result
in forfeiture of future rental use of the town’s facilities.
(Ord. passed 10-8-2002) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.05 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Users of all parks and recreation facilities shall adhere to not only
this chapter, but also to any rules and regulations set by the Town of Fairmont
Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   The Police Department shall have the authority to eject from any
facility any person acting in violation of the rules and regulations posted.
   (C)   It is prohibited to interfere with or hinder any Town of Fairmont
employee or contracted individual from performing their official duties.
(Ord. passed 10-8-2002) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter may be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor. The Town of Fairmont Police Department may issue
citations or take other legal measures as may be allowed to enforce the terms
and provisions of the rules and regulations set forth for the Fairmont
Community Park.
   (B)   Any violation of this chapter shall be an infraction punishable by a
fine of not more than $50, plus court costs or imprisonment for not more than
30 days, or both, in the discretion of the court, as provided by G.S. § 14-4.
   (C)   If any violation continues, each day’s violation may be considered a
separate offense.
   (D)   Flagrant misuse of parks and recreation facilities will result in a
forfeiture of future use or reservation privileges.
(Ord. passed 10-8-2002)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
111.   VEHICLES FOR HIRE
      
112.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
113.   (RESERVED)
      
114.   MOTOR VEHICLE STORAGE YARDS
      
115.   COMPUTER GAMING ESTABLISHMENTS
CHAPTER 110:
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Regulations
   
110.01   Tree cutting and trimming
   
110.02   Weekly list of attractions required from motion picture houses
   
110.03   Wine, fortified wine, and mixed beverages on Sunday mornings
Privilege License Taxes
   
110.15   Definitions
   
110.16   Unlawful to conduct business without license
   
110.17   Exemptions
   
110.18   License tax upon certain trades and business operations
   
110.19   Tax Collector designated to certain tasks
   
110.20   Schedule
   
110.21   Application
   
110.22   Effect of license
   
110.23   Term; expiration date
   
110.24   Proration of tax
   
110.25   Collection of unpaid tax
   
110.26   Display of license
   
110.27   License valid only for person and place named therein
   
110.28   Separate tax for separate place of business
   
110.29   Multiple businesses
   
110.30   Seasonal businesses
   
110.31   Sale or change in place of business
   
110.32   No abatement of license tax
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 110.01 TREE CUTTING AND TRIMMING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut or trim trees for
compensation within the town unless that person has a privilege license.
   (B)   The person shall immediately remove trimmings and limbs and trash
resulting therefrom.
(1988 Code, § 12-1) Penalty, §
10.99
§ 110.02 WEEKLY LIST OF ATTRACTIONS REQUIRED FROM MOTION PICTURE HOUSES.
   Every person conducting any show or motion picture house shall furnish to
the Tax Collector or other officer designated by the Board a list of
attractions of the house for each week not later than Tuesday of the preceding
week.
(1988 Code, § 12-2)
§ 110.03 WINE, FORTIFIED WINE, AND MIXED BEVERAGES ON SUNDAY MORNINGS.
   The sale of malt beverages, unfortified wine, fortified wine, and mixed
beverages shall be allowed within the corporate limits of the town at any
premises licensed pursuant to G.S. § 18B-1001 on Sundays beginning at 10:00
a.m.
(Ord. 22-220, passed 11-15-2022)
PRIVILEGE LICENSE TAXES
§ 110.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENT. The person having the agency for the manufacturer, producer or
distributor.
   BUSINESS. Any trade, occupation, profession, business, franchise or calling
of any kind, subject by the provisions of this subchapter to a license tax.
   ENGAGED OR ENGAGING IN BUSINESS WITHIN THE TOWN. When he or she is engaged
in business activity of any type, either as owner or operator of a business, by
maintaining a business within the town or by picking up or delivering
merchandise or performing services within the town.
   FISCAL YEAR. The period beginning with July 1 and ending with June 30 next
following.
   QUARTER. Any 3 consecutive months.
   SEASONAL IN NATURE. A business that is taxed by this subchapter on an annual
basis, but is operated within the town for less than 6 months of the year.
(1988 Code, § 12-16)
§ 110.16 UNLAWFUL TO CONDUCT BUSINESS WITHOUT LICENSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or his or her agent or servant to engage
in or carry on a business in the town for which there is required a license,
without first having paid the license tax and obtained the license. For the
purpose of this section the opening of a place of business or offering to sell,
followed by a single sale or the doing of any act or thing in furtherance of
the business shall be construed to be engaging in or carrying on a business.
Each day that a person shall engage in or carry on the business as aforesaid
shall be construed to be a separate offense.
(1988 Code, § 12-17) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Privilege license taxes generally, see G.S. §§ 160A-211 et seq., 105-33 et
seq.
§ 110.17 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Any person who engages in business within this town for religious,
educational or charitable purposes may be exempt from paying any privilege
license tax levied by this subchapter upon application for the exemption and
review of the exemption application.
   (B)   Any blind person engaging in business within this town shall be exempt
from paying any privilege license tax levied by this subchapter
(1988 Code, § 12-18)
§ 110.18 LICENSE TAX UPON CERTAIN TRADES AND BUSINESS OPERATIONS.
   In addition to the tax on property, as otherwise provided for, and under the
power and authority conferred in the laws of the state, there shall be levied
and collected annually or more often where provided for, a privilege license
tax on trades, professions, business operations, exhibitions, circuses and all
subjects authorized to be licensed, as set out in this subchapter. All licenses
shall be a personal privilege and shall not be transferable. Nothing contained
in this subchapter shall be construed to prevent the Board from imposing from
time to time, as it may see fit, license taxes as are not specifically defined
in this subchapter, or from increasing or decreasing the amount of any special
license tax, or from prohibiting or regulating the businesses subject to the
provisions of ordinances.
(1988 Code, § 12-20)
§ 110.19 TAX COLLECTOR DESIGNATED TO CERTAIN TASKS.
   (A)   The town Tax Collector is hereby designated as the proper official to
collect license taxes and to issue licenses.
   (B)   The Tax Collector shall make any investigation necessary to determine
the tax liability of persons engaged in business within the town. If necessary,
the Tax Collector is authorized to enter upon the premises of any business
during normal business hours for the purpose of determining whether this
subchapter has been complied with.
(1988 Code, § 12-20)
§ 110.20 SCHEDULE.
   The privilege license taxes levied by this subchapter shall be in the amount
and on the trades, professions, agencies, business operations and other
subjects set out in the schedule of license taxes adopted by ordinance which is
on file in the town office.
(1988 Code, § 12-21)
§ 110.21 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Every person desiring to obtain a license for the privilege of
engaging in a business within this town shall make application therefor in
writing to the Tax Collector.
   (B)   The application, to be made on a form provided by the Tax Collector,
shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Name and nature of the business for which the license is sought;
      (2)   The address where the business is conducted, and a mailing address
for the business, if different;
      (3)   The name and address of the person filling out the application, and
his or her relationship to the business;
      (4)   The gross receipts of the business for the most recently completed
tax year, if applicable; and
      (5)   Any other information which the Tax Collector determines to be
necessary.
(1988 Code, § 12-22)
§ 110.22 EFFECT OF LICENSE.
   The issuance of a license under this subchapter does not authorize the
carrying on of a business for which additional licenses or qualifications are
required by state or local law, nor does the issuance of a license prevent the
town from enacting additional regulations applicable to the licensee.
(1988 Code, § 12-23)
§ 110.23 TERM; EXPIRATION DATE.
   (A)   All privilege license taxes shall be for the fiscal year in which the
tax is due, unless otherwise specified, and shall expire on June 30 of each
fiscal year.
   (B)   The privilege license tax is due on July 1 of each year.
   (C)   If, however, a person begins a business after July 1, the tax for that
year must be paid before the business is begun.
(1988 Code, § 12-24)
§ 110.24 PRORATION OF TAX.
   Except when a tax is based on gross receipts, if a business is begun after
January 31 but before July 1, the privilege license tax shall be 1/2 of the
amount otherwise due.
(1988 Code, § 12-25)
§ 110.25 COLLECTION OF UNPAID TAX.
   (A)   If a person begins or continues to engage in a business taxed under
this subchapter without payment of the required privilege license tax, the Tax
Collector may use either of the following methods to collect the unpaid tax:
      (1)   The remedy of levy and sale or attachment and garnishment, in
accordance with G.S. § 160A-207; or
      (2)   The remedy of levy and sale of real and personal property of the
taxpayer in accordance with G.S. § 105-109(d).
   (B)   Any person who begins or continues to engage in a business taxed under
this subchapter without payment of tax is liable for an additional tax of 5% of
the original tax due for each 30 days or portion thereof that the tax is
delinquent.
(1988 Code, § 12-26)
§ 110.26 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Each person issued a license under this subchapter shall post the license in
a conspicuous place in his or her regular place of business. If there is no
regular place of business, the license shall be kept where it may be inspected
at appropriate times by the town Tax Collector. If a machine or other item of
personal property is licensed, the license shall be affixed to the machine or
item.
(1988 Code, § 12.27)
§ 110.27 LICENSE VALID ONLY FOR PERSON AND PLACE NAMED THEREIN.
   A license issued for the privilege of conducting a business is only valid
for the business conducted at the place and by the licensee named therein.
(1988 Code, § 12-28)
§ 110.28 SEPARATE TAX FOR SEPARATE PLACE OF BUSINESS.
   Unless otherwise provided by state law or by the privilege license tax
schedule, if a person engages in a business in 2 or more separate places, a
separate license tax shall be required for each place of business. For purposes
of this section, if a person engages in the same business at 2 or more
locations within the town, which locations are contiguous, communicate with and
open directly into each other and are operated as a unit, the person is liable
for only 1 license tax.
(1988 Code, § 12-29)
§ 110.29 MULTIPLE BUSINESSES.
   If a person is engaged in more than 1 business or business activity made
subject to a privilege license tax under this subchapter, the person shall pay
the license tax prescribed for each business, even if the businesses are
conducted at the same business location.
(1988 Code, § 12-30)
§ 110.30 SEASONAL BUSINESSES.
   Except when a tax is based on gross receipts, a person engaged in a business
which is seasonal in nature is liable for 1/2 of the amount of privilege
license tax otherwise due.
(1988 Code, § 12-31)
§ 110.31 SALE OR CHANGE IN PLACE OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   If a person holding a license required by this subchapter sells his or
her business to another then a new license is necessary, unless a special
permit to continue business under the original license is obtained from the
Board.
(1988 Code, § 12-32)
   (B)   (1)   If a person who has obtained a license for a business taxed
under this subchapter desires to move from 1 business location to another
within the town, the license which has been issued shall be valid for the
remainder of the license year at this new location, and no additional tax need
be paid.
      (2)   Within a reasonable time after the change in location, however, the
person shall inform the Tax Collector of the change in address.
(1988 Code, § 12-33)
§ 110.32 NO ABATEMENT OF LICENSE TAX.
   No privilege license tax shall be abated nor shall any refund of any part
thereof be made in any case where the licensee discontinues his or her business
before the end of the period for which the license was issued.
(Prior Code, § 12-34)
CHAPTER 111:
VEHICLES FOR HIRE
Section
Taxicabs
   
111.01   Operation; generally
   
111.02   Certificate of necessity
   
111.03   Liability insurance required
   
111.04   Rates and fares to be posted
   
111.05   Fares prescribed
   
111.06   Annual license required; application
   
111.07   Chief of Police and application
   
111.08   Issuance and revocation of permit
   
111.09   Posting of permit
   
111.10   Photograph and fingerprints to be attached to permit
TAXICABS
§ 111.01 OPERATION; GENERALLY.
   No person shall operate a taxicab business in the town without a certificate
of public convenience and necessity issued by the Board of Commissioners.
(1988 Code, § 21-1)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal regulation of taxicabs, see G.S. § 160A-304
§ 111.02 CERTIFICATE OF NECESSITY.
   (A)   Any person holding a certificate of necessity who goes out of the
taxicab business and ceases to operate his or her taxicab for a period of 90
days shall immediately lose his or her certificate, which shall be
automatically cancelled.
   (B)   No holder of a certificate of necessity may transfer or sell the
certificate.
(1988 Code, § 21.2)
§ 111.03 LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   When an application for a certificate under this subchapter is approved, the
applicant shall be required to obtain a policy from an insurance carrier
authorized to do business in this state. The insurance policy shall be
conditioned on the operator’s responding in damages for any liability incurred
on account of any injury to persons or damage to property and shall be in at
least the minimum amounts required by state law. The insurance policy shall be
filed with the Board of Commissioners as a condition precedent to the operation
of any taxicab.
(1988 Code, § 21-3)
Statutory reference:
   Financial responsibility of taxicab operators, see G.S. § 160A-304
§ 111.04 RATES AND FARES TO BE POSTED.
   Every taxicab operated within the town or operated between the town and
points unincorporated within a radius of 5 miles of the town shall have at all
times prominently posted and displayed in the taxicab, so as to be visible to
the passengers therein, the rates and fares for the use of the cab.
(1988 Code, § 21-4)
Statutory reference:
   Schedule of fares to be posted, see G.S. § 160A-304
§ 111.05 FARES PRESCRIBED.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall fix or charge a greater or lesser rate of fare
for a taxicab service than the following:
         (a)   For the first mile, or fraction thereof - the current schedule
of costs and fees are on file with the Town Clerk.
         (b)   For each succeeding 1/10 mile or fraction thereof, beyond the
town limits - the current schedule of costs and fees are on file with the Town
Clerk.
         (c)   For each hour of waiting time, or fraction thereof - the current
schedule of costs and fees are on file with the Town Clerk.
         (d)   For each stop, not exceeding 10 minutes per stop - the current
schedule of costs and fees are on file with the Town Clerk.
         (e)   For each bag of groceries - the current schedule of costs and
fees are on file with the Town Clerk.
         (f)   For each bag of luggage, of any kind whatsoever - the current
schedule of costs and fees are on file with the Town Clerk.
      (2)   The above rates apply for 1 or 2 passengers only, and any
additional passengers shall be $1.00 extra. A card, printed in an appropriate
fashion, shall prominently display the above rate schedule in the plain view of
any and all passengers in the taxicab.
   (B)   Waiting time shall include the time when the taxicab is not in motion,
beginning with the arrival at the place to which it has been called, or the
time consumed while standing or waiting at the direction of the passenger, but
no charge shall be made for time lost for inefficiency or breakdown of the
taxicab or for time consumed by premature response to a call.
(1988 Code, § 21.5)
§ 111.06 ANNUAL LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION.
   (A)   (1)   Every person before operating any taxicab within the town shall
apply to the Tax Collector for an annual license and shall secure from the Tax
Collector an annual license for the privilege of operating each taxicab. He or
she shall pay for the annual license a tax in the sum required under this
subchapter.
      (2)   The license shall be valid from July 1 of each year to June 30 of
the following year.
(1988 Code, § 21-6)
   (B)   No person shall drive any taxicab carrying passengers for hire from
place to place within the town or between town and unincorporated places within
5 miles of the town unless that person shall first have applied to and secured
from the Town Manager a permit to operate a taxicab.
(1988 Code, § 21-7)
   (C)   The application for a permit to operate a taxicab shall be made upon
blanks furnished by the town for the purpose and shall state the name, address,
physical condition, physical description, former employers, court record and
license number. The application shall be signed and sworn to by the applicant.
The applicant shall further appear at the Police Department for the purpose of
having his or her fingerprints taken, the impression of which shall constitute
a part of his or her application. The applicant shall also furnish a photograph
of himself or herself made within 30 days of his or her application. The
dimensions of the photograph shall be 2-1/2 inches by 2-1/2 inches or 3 inches
by 3 inches, full face; and this photograph shall be a part of his or her
application.
(1988 Code, § 21-8)
Statutory references:
   Municipal authority to license and regulate operators of taxicabs who
operate within a city or
   between a city and unincorporated places within 5 miles of a city, see G.S.
§ 20-37
   Privilege license tax imposed on taxi operators, see G.S. §§ 160A-211, 20-97
§ 111.07 CHIEF OF POLICE AND APPLICATION.
   The Chief of Police shall be charged with the duty of investigating the
facts stated in the application and shall report his or her findings and
recommendations to the Town Manager.
(1988 Code, § 21-9)
§ 111.08 ISSUANCE AND REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The Town Manager shall issue a permit to the applicant to drive a
taxicab if he or she finds that the applicant:
      (1)   Has not been convicted of a felony in this state or any other state
within the past 5 years;
      (2)   Has not been convicted within the past 5 years of violation of any
federal or state law relating to the use, possession or sale of alcoholic
beverages or narcotic or barbiturate drugs, or of any law relating to
prostitution;
      (3)   Has no addiction to or habitual use of alcoholic beverages or
narcotic or barbiturate drugs;
      (4)   Is a citizen of the United States;
      (5)   Has not been an habitual violator of traffic laws and ordinances
during the 5 years prior to the application; and
      (6)   Has passed a physical examination by a licensed physician within 30
days of the date of the application.
(1988 Code, § 21-10)
   (B)   A permit to drive a taxicab may be revoked by the Town Manager at any
time after its issuance for the following reasons:
      (1)   The holder is convicted of a felony;
      (2)   The holder is convicted of a violation of any federal or state
statute relating to the sale, use or possession of alcoholic beverages,
narcotic or barbiturate drugs or prostitution;
      (3)   The holder becomes an addict or habitual user of alcoholic
beverages or narcotic or barbiturate drugs; or
      (4)   The holder is habitually convicted of violations of traffic laws or
ordinances.
   (C)   (1)   For the first offense of division (B)(1) above, conviction of a
felony, the permit shall be revoked for a period of 3 years. For a second
conviction the permit shall be revoked permanently.
      (2)   For a conviction of any of the offenses set forth in division (B)
(2) or (B)(3) above, the permit shall be revoked for 3 years.
      (3)   For 3 convictions by the holder of violations of traffic laws
within a 12-month period, the holder of a permit shall be adjudged to an
habitual violator, and the permit shall be revoked for a period of 3 years.
(1988 Code, § 21-11)
Statutory reference:
   Grounds for refusal of permit, see G.S. § 160A-304
§ 111.09 POSTING OF PERMIT.
   At all times while operating his or her taxicab, or a taxicab belonging to
any other person, the driver shall prominently post and display so as to be
visible to the passengers therein his or her permit to drive a taxicab.
(1988 Code, § 21-12)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of city to require posting of permit, see G.S. § 160A-304(a)
§ 111.10 PHOTOGRAPH AND FINGERPRINTS TO BE ATTACHED TO PERMIT.
   Each permit to drive a taxicab shall have attached thereto the picture and
fingerprints of the person to whom the permit is issued. The photographs and
fingerprints shall be so attached to the permit as to be visible to anyone
examining the front of the permit.
(1988 Code, § 21-13)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of city to require posting of identification in cab, see G.S. §
160A-304(a)
CHAPTER 112:
PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Privilege license required
   
112.03   Registration
   
112.04   Badge
   
112.05   Peddling upon public streets
   
112.06   Soliciting subscriptions
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER. Any person who transports goods from place to place and sells or
offers for sale goods or who, without traveling from place to place, sells or
offers for sale any goods from any vehicle or device; provided, that any person
who separates the acts of sale and delivery for the purpose of evading the
provisions of this chapter shall be deemed a peddler.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels from place to place taking or offering to
take orders for the sale of goods for future delivery or for personal services
to be performed in the future, whether or not samples are displayed or money is
collected in advance.
   TRANSIENT VENDOR. Any person who engages in a temporary business of selling
and delivering goods and who, for this purpose, uses or occupies any building
or premises; provided, that no person shall be relieved from complying with the
provisions of this chapter merely by conducting a transient business in
association with any permanently established merchant.
(1988 Code, § 12-51)
§ 112.02 PRIVILEGE LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Any peddler, solicitor or transient vendor must, prior to performing or
conducting any business activity including but not limited to the sale of or
offering for sale any goods, wares, merchandise or service, obtain a privilege
license in accordance with
Chapter 110 of this code of ordinances.
(1988 Code, § 12-52)
§ 112.03 REGISTRATION.
   Each and every person doing business in the town as a peddler, solicitor or
transient vendor shall file with the Clerk on a form to be provided for the
purpose a statement setting forth the following information:
   (A)   Name and address of individual filing statement;
   (B)   Name and address of principal or employer if individual is an agent or
employee;
   (C)   Credentials showing relationship of agent and employee;
   (D)   Description of individual filing statement including height, weight,
sex, age, color and distinguishing characteristics if any;
   (E)   The goods to be sold or offered for sale or the type of services to be
rendered;
   (F)   The period of time during which the business will be carried on in the
town;
   (G)   Description of automobile or other vehicle to be used in the business,
including the make, model, body style, color and license number; and
   (H)   The state license number.
(1988 Code, § 12-53)
§ 112.04 BADGE.
   (A)   The Clerk shall issue to each person filing the statement required by
§
112.03 a badge substantially as follows:
      20_____ Town of______________    No._______
   SOLICITOR’S BADGE
      _____________has registered with the Town Clerk as required by Ordinance.
      (Name)      ________
               (Date)
            _________________________
            Town Clerk
   (B)   During the time the person is engaged in soliciting, the badge shall
be worn on the front of his or her outer garment in a manner as to be
conspicuous.
(1988 Code, § 12-54)
§ 112.05 PEDDLING UPON PUBLIC STREETS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell fish, oysters or other
freshwater food or seafood from wagons, trucks or other vehicles on any of the
public streets or public property.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to peddle any goods, wares or
merchandise upon any public street or public property.
(1988 Code, § 12-55) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.06 SOLICITING SUBSCRIPTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to solicit subscriptions to newspapers,
magazines, periodicals and the like, wherein premiums or gifts are given to
obtain subscription or to induce persons to subscribe to same unless the
solicitor obtains permission from the Town Manager and pays the Tax Collector a
fee fixed by the Board for each day that subscriptions are solicited.
(1988 Code, § 12-56) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 113:  (RESERVED)
CHAPTER 114:
MOTOR VEHICLE STORAGE YARDS
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Storage yard regulations
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTOMOBILE GRAVEYARD (STORAGE YARD). More than wrecked, scrapped, ruined,
dismantled or inoperable motor vehicles or motorized equipment which is not
being restored to operation located on a land parcel used in conjunction with
any establishment, or more than wrecked, scrapped, ruined, dismantled or
inoperable motor vehicles or motorized equipment used in conjunction with the
establishment but located on another land parcel, shall be subject to this
chapter.
   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls, and
designed or intended for the shelter, support, enclosure or protection of
persons, animals or chattels.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Any real property on which or in which there is operated or
maintained any commercial, industrial or service business or activity for
profit.
   FARE. Singularly or jointly owned land parcel or contiguous parcels on which
agricultural operations are conducted as the substantial use, to include
cultivation of crops, the husbandry of livestock and forestry.
   FENCE. A continuous, opaque, unperforated barrier extending from the surface
of the ground to a uniform height of not less than 8 feet from the ground at
all points constructed of wood, stone, steel or other metal, or any substance
of a similar nature and strength.
   GARAGE (STORAGE YARD). An establishment which is maintained and operated for
the primary purpose of making mechanical and/or body repairs to motor vehicles,
and which is not used to store more than 6 motor vehicles that are not capable
of being driven under their own power and are not being repaired or serviced.
   GATE. A door or other device attached to a fence which, when opened,
provides a means of ingress and egress of persons and things and which, when
closed, forms a continuous barrier as part of the fence to which it is
attached.
   HOUSING UNIT. A house, an apartment, a group of homes or a single room
occupied or intended for occupancy as separate living quarters for 1 or more
humans.
   JUNK .  Scrapped copper, brass, rope, rags, batteries, appliances, paper,
trash, rubber, dismantled or wrecked automobiles, dismantled or wrecked
motorized equipment or parts thereof, iron, steel and other scrap ferrous
material.
   JUNKYARD (STORAGE YARD) .  Any land parcel which is maintained, operated or
used for storing, keeping, buying or selling junk in conjunction with any
establishment located on the same or another land parcel or any establishment
which is maintained, operated or used for storing, keeping, buying or selling
junk regardless of the length of time that junk is stored or kept, or for
maintenance or operation of an automobile graveyard. JUNKYARD shall not include
the county-operated sanitary landfill.
   LAND PARCEL .  A single tract or contiguous tracts of land under single or
joint ownership.
   MOTOR VEHICLE .  Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is
or may be transported or drawn upon land, air or water which is propelled by
non-human or mechanical power sources, and every device designed to run upon
land, air or water that is pulled or pushed by a device propelled by non-human
or mechanical power.
   MOTORIZED EQUIPMENT .  Every device that is propelled or powered by non-
human or mechanical power sources which is designed to accomplish any work.
   PUBLIC ROAD. Any road or highway which is now or hereafter designated and
maintained by the North Carolina Department of Transportation as part of the
state highway system, whether primary or secondary, hard-surfaced or other
highways.
   REPAIR SHOP—MOTOR VEHICLES. An establishment which is maintained and
operated for the purpose of making mechanical and/or body repairs to motor
vehicles and which is not used to store more than 6 motor vehicles that are not
capable of being driven under their own power and are not being restored to
operable condition, regardless of the length of time that individual motor
vehicles are stored or kept at a property. There is no limit to the number of
vehicles that may be stored on site that are being restored to operable
condition.
   RESIDENTIAL AREA. Twenty-five or more housing units within a geographical
area comprised of a 1/4 mile-wide strip contiguous and parallel to the external
boundaries of the tract of real property on which an automobile graveyard or
junkyard is located.
   SCHOOL. Any public or private institution for the teaching of children under
18 years of age which is recognized and approved by the North Carolina Board of
Education.
   SERVICE STATION (STORAGE YARD). Any establishment which is maintained and
operated for the primary purpose of making retail sales of fuels, lubricants,
air, water and other items for the operation and routine maintenance of motor
vehicles, and/or for making mechanical repairs, servicing and/or washing of
motor vehicles, and which is not used to store more than 6 motor vehicles that
are not capable of being driven under their own power and that are not being
restored to operable conditions, regardless of the length of time that
individual motor vehicles are stored or kept at a property. There is no limit
to the number of vehicles that may be stored on site that are being restored to
operable condition.
   VECTORS. An organism that carries pathogens from 1 host to another.
   VEGETATION. Evergreen trees, including, but not limited to, white pine and/
or hemlock, evergreen shrubs or plants, that can reach a height of 8 feet
within a period of 8 years from the date planted.
   WIRE FENCE. A continuous, translucent, perforated barrier extending from the
surface of the ground to a uniform height of not less than 8 feet from the
ground at all points, constructed of wire, steel or nylon mesh, or any
substance of a similar nature and strength, but which perforations or openings
are not larger than 2 inches.
(1988 Code, § 12-111)
§ 114.02 STORAGE YARD REGULATIONS.
   (A)   This chapter shall not apply to bona fide service stations, repair
shops or garages.
   (B)   This chapter shall in no way regulate, restrict, prohibit or otherwise
deter any bona fide form and its related uses.
   (C)   All new and existing storage yards (junkyards and/or automobile
graveyards) established subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   The Town of Fairmont shall inspect each junkyard and automobile
graveyard at least 2 times each year to determine compliance with this chapter
and that no vectors are present. Should vectors be identified, the owner/
operator/maintainer shall submit satisfactory evidence to the town that vectors
have been eliminated.
      (2)   The owner/operator shall dispose of all petroleum products and
residue in a manner that will not adversely affect the environment and that
will comply with state and federal regulations.
      (3)   Each storage yard shall be entirely surrounded by an opaque fence
or by a wire fence and vegetation. Vegetation shall be planted on the outbound
or inboard side of a fence, contiguous to, and not more than 5 feet from the
fence. The vegetation shall be of a type that can reach a minimum height of 8
feet within 8 years from the date planted and shall be planted at intervals
evenly spaced and in close proximity to each other so that a continuous,
unbroken hedgerow (without gaps or open spaces not larger than 2 inches) will
exist to height of at least 8 feet along the length of the fence surrounding
the junkyard or automobile graveyard. The hedgerow shall be maintained as a
continuous, unbroken hedgerow for the period the property is used as a junkyard
and/or automobile graveyard.
      (4)   Each owner, operator or maintainer of a storage yard to which this
chapter applies shall utilize good husbandry techniques, as for example,
pruning, mulching and proper fertilization, so that the vegetation can reach a
height of 8 feet within 8 years of the date planted and will have maximum
density and foliage.
      (5)   Dead or diseased vegetation shall be replaced at the next
appropriate planting time.
      (6)   The fence or wire fence shall have not more than 4 gates for the
purpose of ingress and egress of motor vehicles. The gates shall be closed and
securely locked at all times, except during business hours.
      (7)   Each business or establishment affected by this chapter shall have
180 days to comply with this chapter.
(1988 Code, § 12-112)
CHAPTER 115: COMPUTER GAMING ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   Privilege license fees
   
115.03   Failure to pay or to obtain a regulatory license
   
115.04   Serial numbers required
   
115.05   Codes Enforcement Officer to ensure compliance
   
115.06   Allowable locations
   
115.07   Rules of operation of computer gaming establishments
   
115.08   Adult manager required on premises
   
115.09   Licensee responsible for acts and conduct of interested parties
   
115.10   License required
   
115.11   Application; form, filing, contents, fee and investigation
   
115.12   Determination of application by Board of Commissioners
   
115.13   Issuance and display of license
   
115.14   Notification of change in application information
   
115.15   Voidance; exception
   
115.16   Grounds for revocation
   
115.17   Notice and hearing prior to revocation or denial
§ 115.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMPUTER. Any electronic machines, including computers, used as game
promotions or for amusement subject to the provisions of this chapter.
   COMPUTER GAMING ESTABLISHMENT. 
      (1)   Any business enterprise utilizing 1 or more computers as game
promotions or for amusement. In a game promotion, a person may conduct a game
of chance in connection with the sale of consumer products or services and/or
for which the elements of chance and prize are present. This term includes, but
is not limited to, internet sweepstakes, internet cafes, and cybercafes. This
definition only applies where a machine emits, issues, displays, prints out or
otherwise records any receipt, paper, coupon, token, or other form of record
which is capable of being redeemed, exchanged or repurchased for cash, cash
equivalent, prizes, services or any other item of value, whether or not the
value of such distribution is determined by electronic games played or by
predetermined odds. This includes a system which invites patrons to purchase
prepaid internet access cards that also allow them to use computer terminals
with gaming software as an ancillary benefit.
      (2)   This term does not include any lottery approved by the State of
North Carolina.
   DEPARTMENT. The Fairmont Department of Public Safety.
   INTERESTED PARTY. Any person who is an applicant for a license or who is an
employee of any applicant for a license, any person who is a partner in a
partnership which is an applicant for a license and any person, partnership or
corporation which is an officer, director or principal stockholder of an entity
which is an applicant for a license.
(Ord. 09-127, passed 12-15-2009)
§ 115.02 PRIVILEGE LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   A privilege license fee shall be paid annually for each and every
computer at a computer gaming establishment as follows:
      For the first 10 machines within a building            $1,500 per machine
      For machines 11 to 25 within the same building         $1,000 per machine
      For machines 26 to 40 within the same building         $750 per machine
      For any additional machines within the same building   $500 per machine
   (B)   All privilege license fees shall be due and payable on or before July
1st of each year for the ensuing 12 months. The privilege license fee for
machines placed in use between January 1st and June 30th shall be 1/2 the
appropriate fee as established above. No interested party shall allow a
computer to be operated until the appropriate privilege license fees have been
paid for the machine.
(Ord. 09-127, passed 12-15-2009; Am. Ord. 12-145, passed 6-19-2012)
§ 115.03 FAILURE TO PAY OR TO OBTAIN A REGULATORY LICENSE.
   (A)   Failure to pay the privilege license fees required by this chapter or
to obtain the regulatory license required by this chapter before any such act
is requited shall result in a penalty equal to 100% of the fee that is due, in
addition to the fee itself.
   (B)   Consciously and purposely hiding computers, using switching devices to
change screens in order to hide the true purpose and use of a computer, or any
other ploy to hide the intended use of any computer within the establishment
shall be considered as perpetrating a fraud upon the town and shall result in
the immediate permanent revocation of the establishment’s privilege license.
(Ord. 09-127, passed 12-15-2009)
§ 115.04 SERIAL NUMBERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   As part of the licensing procedure, the operator shall provide the
serial number of each and every computer in the establishment. The serial
numbers of computers placed into service after the license is granted (and the
additional privilege license fees) shall be provided to the Town Clerk prior to
any use of the machine.
   (B)   Computers that are removed from the establishment shall be reported,
with the serial number, to the Town Clerk; any replacement computer shall be
reported, with the serial numbers of the original and replacement machines, to
the Town Clerk.
(Ord. 09-127, passed 12-15-2009)
§ 115.05 CODES ENFORCEMENT OFFICER TO ENSURE COMPLIANCE.
   The Fairmont Codes Enforcement Officer shall ensure that the regulations
contained herein shall be enforced; to those ends, the Codes Enforcement
Officer may inspect business establishments for compliance.
(Ord. 09-127, passed 12-15-2009)
§ 115.06 ALLOWABLE LOCATIONS.
   (A)   Computer gaming establishments shall be limited to the following
zoning districts and no others:
      (1)   CB - central business;
      (2)   GB - general business;
      (3)   NB - neighborhood business;
      (4)   R5 - residential, by conditional use permit only.
   (B)   Exception for National Register location:
      (1)   Notwithstanding the above, computer gaming establishments shall not
be allowed in the area designated as “Historic Downtown Fairmont.”
      (2)   Any such establishments in existence on April 7, 2010, shall be
exempt from this requirement as long as the use of the property as a computer
gaming establishment shall meet the requirements of
Chapter 154 from the date of the adoption of the amendment codified herein.
   (C)   The zoning regulations encompassed within this chapter shall be in
full force and effect within all areas of the extraterritorial jurisdiction of
the town.
   (D)   In all zoning districts where computer gaming establishments are
authorized, they may not be placed within 250 feet of any church, or of any
public or private school, or of any licensed day care facility.
(Ord. 09-127, passed 12-15-2009; Am. Ord. 10-131, passed 3-16-2010; Am. Ord.
11-141, passed June 30, 2011)
§ 115.07 RULES OF OPERATION OF COMPUTER GAMING ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   All computer gaming establishments shall be closed from 12:00 midnight
until 8:00 a.m. daily.
   (B)   No playing on any computer subject to this chapter shall be allowed
during the times when computer gaming establishments are required by this
chapter to remain closed.
   (C)   No minor (17 years of age or younger) shall be allowed to operate a
computer subject to this chapter.
   (D)   All computer gaming establishments must comply with requirements of
G.S. Chapter 14, Article 37.
(Ord. 09-127, passed 12-15-2009)
§ 115.08 ADULT MANAGER REQUIRED ON PREMISES.
   There must be an adult 18 years of age or older managing the business on the
premises of every computer gaming establishment during the hours of operation
at all times.
(Ord. 09-127, passed 12-15-2009)
§ 115.09 LICENSEE RESPONSIBLE FOR ACTS AND CONDUCT OF INTERESTED PARTIES.
   The acts and conduct of any interested party in the conduct of the business
of operating a computer gaming establishment shall be deemed to be the acts and
conduct of the licensee.
(Ord. 09-127, passed 12-15-2009)
§ 115.10 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No interested party shall operate a computer gaming establishment
unless the party shall have first applied for and received the regulatory
license provided for by this chapter. It shall be unlawful to operate a
computer gaming establishment within the town without a regulatory license as
required by this section.
   (B)   Establishments operating at the time of the adoption of this chapter
shall have applied for the regulatory license provided for by this chapter by
December 31, 2009. Any such establishment denied a license shall cease
operations of machines within 3 days of notice of such denial by a law
enforcement officer.
(Ord. 09-127, passed 12-15-2009)
§ 115.11 APPLICATION; FORM, FILING, CONTENTS, FEE AND INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Every application for the regulatory license required by this chapter
shall be upon a form approved by the Manager and shall be filed with the Town
Clerk. Every application shall be made under oath and shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   The name, age and residence of all interested parties;
      (2)   The address of the premises where the business shall be located;
      (3)   The proposed hours of operation of the business;
      (4)   A complete statement of all criminal convictions of all interested
parties;
      (5)   Dimensions of land owned or controlled by the applicant as premises
for the business;
      (6)   A description of any other business to be operated on the same
premises or any adjoining premises owned or controlled by the applicant; and
      (7)   A statement of any prior revocations of a license of any interested
party to operate a computer gaming establishment or similar business in any
jurisdiction.
   (B)   An application fee as may be determined from time to time (the current
schedule of costs and fees are on file with the Town Clerk) shall be paid to
and collected by the Town Clerk to cover the cost of processing the application
when an application for a license required by §
115.10 is submitted.
   (C)   (1)   The Town Clerk shall, within 5 business days, transmit a copy of
the application for a license required by §
115.10 to the Police Department for an investigative report, to the Building
Inspector to determine compliance with all building regulations and to the
Zoning Enforcement Officer to determine compliance with all zoning regulations.
      (2)   The Police Department, Building Inspector and Planning Board shall,
within a reasonable time, not to exceed 30 days, report the results of their
examinations to the Town Clerk.
(Ord. 09-127, passed 12-15-2009)
§ 115.12 DETERMINATION OF APPLICATION BY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.
   An application for a license required by this chapter in proper form,
accompanied by all reports required by this chapter, shall be submitted to the
Board of Commissioners, which shall approve the application if the Board
determines that:
   (A)   The application contains no misstatement of fact;
   (B)   No interested party has been convicted of selling intoxicating
beverages, narcotic drugs or marijuana or of violating any gambling laws of
this state or of violating any comparable statute of any other state;
   (C)   The applicant conforms to all requirements of applicable zoning,
building or other municipal codes; and/or
   (D)   No interested party has had revoked a previously issued license for
engaging in a business dealing with operating a computer gaming establishment
in any jurisdiction.
(Ord. 09-127, passed 12-15-2009)
§ 115.13 ISSUANCE AND DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon approval of the application for a license required by §
115.10 by the Board of Commissioners, the Clerk shall issue a regulatory
license to the applicant.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of all interested parties to ensure
that the license required by this chapter be prominently displayed within the
business.
(Ord. 09-127, passed 12-15-2009)
§ 115.14 NOTIFICATION OF CHANGE IN APPLICATION INFORMATION.
   Any change of any of the facts stated in an application filed under this
chapter must be reported immediately to the Town Clerk.
(Ord. 09-127, passed 12-15-2009)
§ 115.15 VOIDANCE; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   A license issued pursuant to this chapter shall become void if the
licensee moves or ceases to operate at the location required to be stated in
the application for the license.
   (B)   However, any licensed computer gaming establishment required to
relocate under §
115.06(B) herein above shall not have their license voided due to said
relocation.
(Ord. 09-127, passed 12-15-2009)
§ 115.16 GROUNDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A regulatory license issued pursuant to this chapter shall be revoked by
action of the Board of Commissioners if the Board determines that:
   (A)   The licensee or any interested party has violated any provisions of
this chapter or other applicable code provision;
   (B)   The licensee or interested party is convicted of selling intoxicating
beverages, narcotic drugs or marijuana on the licensed premises or elsewhere;
   (C)   The licensee or any interested party violates any zoning, building or
other code or ordinance as the same applies to the premises;
   (D)   The licensee or any interested party suffers or permits any activity
in violation of G.S. Chapter 14, Article 37;
   (E)   The licensee or any interested party suffers or permits the licensed
premises to become disorderly or permits any profane, obscene or indecent
language thereon;
   (F)   The licensee or any interested party suffers or permits any
intoxicating beverages, narcotic drugs or marijuana to be sold or kept or
consumed on the licensed premises; or
   (G)   The licensee or any interested party employs, in carrying on the
business, any person who has been convicted of violating any gambling laws of
the state or of any other state.
(Ord. 09-127, passed 12-15-2009)
§ 115.17 NOTICE AND HEARING PRIOR TO REVOCATION OR DENIAL.
   Before the Board of Commissioners revokes a license issued pursuant to this
chapter, or if the Board of Commissioners determines that reasonable grounds
exist to deny an application for a license pursuant to this chapter, the Board
of Commissioners shall cause a written notice to be sent by certified mail or
other appropriate means to the licensee or applicant affected, at the address
stated in the license or application. The notice shall advise the affected
party of a right to appear before the Board of Commissioners, with or without
legal counsel, at a stated time and place, for the purpose of presenting any
evidence, examining any evidence submitted and examining or cross-examining any
person providing evidence.
(Ord. 09-127, passed 12-15-2009)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERALLY
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC SAFETY
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND ORDER
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
CHAPTER 130:
GENERALLY
Section
   
130.01   Damaging municipal property
   
130.02   Climbing water tank
   
130.03   Posting bills; other advertising
   
130.04   Placing handbills on motor vehicles
   
130.05   Placing political signs on public property
   
130.06   Begging, soliciting and panhandling prohibited
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 DAMAGING MUNICIPAL PROPERTY.
   No person shall injure, tamper with, remove, paint upon or deface any
bridge, culvert, ditch and drain, sign, signpost, street light, traffic signal,
bulletin board or other municipal property upon the streets and sidewalks or
elsewhere except employees of the town in the performance of their duties.
(1988 Code, § 13-1) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory references:
   Injuring houses, churches, fences and walls and the like, see G.S. § 14-144
   Injuring personal property, see G.S. § 14-160
   Injuring wires, fixtures of telephone and power companies, see G.S. §§ 14-
154
   Injury to public buildings, see G.S. § 14-132
   Malicious injury to real property, see G.S. § 14-127
§ 130.02 CLIMBING WATER TANK.
   It shall be unlawful for any person other than persons employed by the town
to climb up the water tank in the town.
(1988 Code, § 13-2) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 POSTING BILLS; OTHER ADVERTISING.
   No person shall stick, paint, brand, stamp, write or put upon any house,
fence, wall, pavement, post or upon any property owned by any person or owned
by the town any printed, written, painted or other advertisement, bill, notice,
sign or poster, without first having obtained the written permission of the
owner of that property and having received a permit from the Clerk.
(1988 Code, § 13-3) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Unlawful posting of advertisements, see G.S. § 14-145
§ 130.04 PLACING HANDBILLS ON MOTOR VEHICLES.
   No person shall place a handbill on a motor vehicle. It is an affirmative
defense to a prosecution for violating this section that the handbill was
placed on the vehicle with the consent of the operator of the vehicle.
(1988 Code, § 13-4) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 PLACING POLITICAL SIGNS ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   No person shall place a political sign on public property. It is an
affirmative defense to a prosecution for violating this section that the sign
was placed with the consent of the owner of the property.
(1988 Code, § 13-5) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.06 BEGGING, SOLICITING AND PANHANDLING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACCOSTING. Approaching or speaking to an individual or individuals in a
manner as would cause a reasonable person to fear imminent bodily harm or the
commission of a criminal act upon his or her person, or upon property in his or
her immediate possession.
      BEG, SOLICIT or PANHANDLE. The communication, by use of gestures, spoken
words, written or printed word or other acts as are conducted in the
furtherance of the purpose of immediately collecting contributions of money,
food or goods, for the use of one’s self or others. As used in this section,
the word SOLICIT and its forms includes BEGGING and PANHANDLING.
      COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any store, grocery store, restaurant or carry
out, office building, gas station.
      FINANCIAL INSTITUTION. Any bank, industrial bank, credit union or savings
and loan.
      FORCING ONESELF UPON THE COMPANY OF ANOTHER:
         (a)   Continuing to solicit in close proximity to the individual
addressed after the person to whom the solicitation is directed has made a
negative response, either verbally, by physical sign, by attempting to leave
the presence of the person soliciting or by other negative indication;
         (b)   Blocking the passage of the individual solicited; or
         (c)   Otherwise engaging in conduct that could reasonably be construed
as intending to compel or force a person to accede to a solicitation.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to beg, solicit or panhandle, as
defined in division (A) above:
      (1)   By accosting another, or by forcing oneself upon the company of
another;
      (2)   Within 20 feet of the entrance to any financial institution, any
automatic teller machine or any commercial establishment;
      (3)   At any outdoor dining or merchandise area; provided that areas are
in active use at the time;
      (4)   At any transit stop or taxi stand, or in a public transit vehicle;
      (5)   While the person being solicited is standing in line waiting to be
admitted to a commercial establishment;
      (6)   By touching the person being solicited without that person’s
consent;
      (7)   By blocking the path of a person being solicited or blocking the
entrance or exit to any building or vehicle;
      (8)   By or with the use of profane or abusive language, during the
solicitation or following an unsuccessful solicitation;
      (9)   By or with the use of any gesture or act intended to cause a
reasonable person to be fearful of the solicitor or feel compelled to accede to
the solicitation;
      (10)   After dark, which shall mean 1/2 hour after sunset until 1/2 hour
before sunrise;
      (11)   While under the influence of alcohol, as defined in the North
Carolina Controlled Substance Act, being G.S. §§ 90-86 et seq.;
      (12)   While on private property after being asked to either leave or
refrain from begging, soliciting or panhandling; or
      (13)   By begging, soliciting or panhandling as part of a group of 2 or
more people, using words or gestures intended to intimidate a person into
giving money.
(Ord. passed 5-18-2004) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory references:
   Authority to prohibit or regulate begging, see G.S. §§ 160A-179, 14-4
   Enforcement of ordinances, see G.S. § 160A-175
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person convicted of violating the provisions of §
130.06 shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined an
amount not to exceed $500 and/or imprisoned for a period not to exceed 30 days
as provided by G.S. § 14-4. Each day of violation shall be considered a
separate offense.
(Ord. passed 5-18-2004)
CHAPTER 131:
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC SAFETY
Section
   
131.01   Fire bombs
   
131.02   Carrying deadly weapons
   
131.03   Discharging firearms
   
131.04   Discharging airguns
   
131.05   Unused or abandoned wells
   
131.06   Signs prohibiting the carrying of concealed weapons
§ 131.01 FIRE BOMBS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      FIRE BOMB. Any type of object designed or constructed so that upon being
propelled it will explode or ignite its area of impact.
      MOLOTOV COCKTAIL .  Any breakable container, or any container which is
designed in a manner that upon being propelled it will at impact empty its
contents which is filled with an inflammable fluid or substance, and which is
fitted with a fuse or wick.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to manufacture,
possess, transport or use any Molotov cocktail or other fire bomb.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person or group of persons to possess all
the items or materials needed to manufacture Molotov cocktails or other fire
bombs, other than on his or her or their premises. The provisions of this
section shall be cumulative and in addition to any other ordinance or general
statute of the state on this subject.
   (D)   The Mayor and in his or her absence, the Mayor Pro Tempore, and in the
absence of both officials, the Chief of Police, shall be and they are hereby
authorized to enforce this section for periods of time as they shall deem
necessary.
(1988 Code, § 13-26) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Fire bombs and the like, see G.S. § 14-288.8
§ 131.02 CARRYING DEADLY WEAPONS.
   (A)   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person to carry about his or
her person any deadly weapon, under any of the following circumstances or
conditions:
      (1)   While under the influence of intoxicating drink or narcotic drugs;
      (2)   At any public assembly;
      (3)   In a manner calculated to inspire terror; or
      (4)   While taking part in a parade or march the purpose or 1 of the
purposes of which is to inspire terror.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to members of the armed forces of the
United States, officers of the government of the United States, this state or
any subdivision thereof charged with the execution of the laws of the United
States, this state or the town, when acting in the discharge of their official
duties.
(1988 Code, § 13-27) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Possession of weapon at parade, see G.S. § 14-277.2
§ 131.03 DISCHARGING FIREARMS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to discharge any firearms within the corporate
limits of the town.
   (B)   Division (A) does not apply to:
      (1)   Law enforcement officers, members of the armed forces of the United
States or members of the National Guard while engaged in the performance of
their official duties; or
      (2)   Persons exercising the right of self defense, defense of others or
defense of property.
(1988 Code, § 13-28) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prohibit discharge of firearms, see G.S. § 160A-189
§ 131.04 DISCHARGING AIRGUNS.
   No person shall discharge an air rifle or air pistol in the town.
(1988 Code, § 13-29) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.05 UNUSED OR ABANDONED WELLS.
   Unused or abandoned wells shall be filled by the owners or agents in charge
of the property on which wells are located. Failure to fill wells within 30
days after written notification to do so shall be a violation of this section.
(1988 Code, § 13-30) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Leaving unused well open and exposed, see G.S. § 14-287
§ 131.06 SIGNS PROHIBITING THE CARRYING OF CONCEALED WEAPONS.
   (A)   Posting of signs required. The Town Manager is hereby authorized and
instructed to post conspicuous signage at appropriate locations on or within
each park and each building or portion of a building owned, leased as lessee,
operated, occupied, managed or controlled by the town as well as the
appurtenant premises to buildings, indicating that carrying a concealed handgun
is prohibited therein.
   (B)   Location of signs. Signs on buildings shall be visibly posted on the
exterior of each entrance by which the general public can access the building.
The Town Manager shall exercise discretion in determining the number and
appropriate location of signs to be placed on or within appurtenant premises
and parks.
(1988 Code, § 13-31)
CHAPTER 132:
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND ORDER
Section
   
132.01   Spitting
   
132.02   Noise
   
132.03   Profanity
   
132.04   Curfew for minors
 
   
132.99   Penalty
§ 132.01 SPITTING.
   No person shall spit on the sidewalks or on the floors of any public
buildings.
(1988 Code, § 13-51) Penalty, see §
132.99 
§ 132.02 NOISE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to create or assist in creating,
permit, continue or permit the continuance of any unreasonably loud, disturbing
and unnecessary noise in the town. Noise of that character, intensity and
duration as to be detrimental to the life or health of any individual is
prohibited.
   (B)   The following acts, among others, are declared to be loud, disturbing
and unnecessary noises in violation of this section, but enumeration shall not
be deemed to be exclusive:
      (1)   The sounding of any horn or signal device on any automobile,
motorcycle, bus or other vehicle while not in motion, except as a danger signal
if another vehicle is approaching apparently out of control, or if in motion
only as a danger signal after or as brakes are being applied and deceleration
of the vehicle is intended; the creation by means of any signal device or any
unreasonably loud or harsh sound and the sounding of a device for an
unnecessary and unreasonable period of time;
      (2)   The use of any gong or siren upon any vehicle other than police,
fire or other emergency vehicle;
      (3)   The use or operation of any manual or automatic piano, phonograph,
radio, loudspeaker, any other instrument or sound amplifying device so loudly
as to disturb persons in the vicinity thereof, or in a manner as to render the
same a public nuisance; provided, however, that upon application to the Board,
permits may be granted to responsible organizations to produce programs in
music, speeches or general entertainment;
      (4)   The keeping of any animal or bird which by causing frequent or loud
continued noise shall disturb the comfort and repose of any person in the
vicinity;
      (5)   The use of any automobile, motorcycle or other vehicle so out of
repair, so loaded or in a manner as to create loud or unnecessary grating,
grinding, rattling or other noise;
      (6)   The blowing of any steam whistle attached to any stationary boiler
except to give notice of the time to begin or stop work or as a warning of
danger;
      (7)   The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any steam engine,
motor vehicle except through a muffler or other device which will effectively
prevent loud or explosive noises therefrom;
      (8)   The use of any mechanical device operated by compressed air unless
the noise created thereby is effectively muffled and reduced;
      (9)   The erection including excavation, demolition, alteration or repair
of any building in a residential or business district other than between the
hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on weekdays except in the case of urgent
necessity in the interest of public safety and then only with a permit from the
Clerk, which permit may be renewed for a period of 3 days or less while the
emergency continues;
      (10)   The creation of any excessive noise on any street adjacent to any
school, institution of learning or court while the same is in session, or
within 150 feet of any hospital, which unreasonably interferes with the working
of the institution, provided conspicuous signs are displayed on streets
indicating that the same is a school, court or hospital street;
      (11)   The creation of any excessive noise on Sundays on any street
adjacent to any church, provided conspicuous signs are displayed in streets
adjacent to churches indicating that the same is a church street;
      (12)   The creation of loud and excessive noise in connection with
loading or unloading any vehicle, of the opening and destruction of bales,
boxes, crates and containers;
      (13)   The sounding of any bell or gong attached to any building or
premises which disturbs the quiet or repose of persons in the vicinity thereof;
      (14)   The shouting and crying of peddlers, barkers, hawkers, vendors and
other persons which disturbs the quiet and peace of the neighborhood;
      (15)   The use of any drum, loudspeaker or other instrument or device for
the purpose of attracting attention by creation of noise to any performance,
show or sale or display of merchandise;
      (16)   The use of any mechanical loudspeaker or amplifiers on trucks or
other moving vehicles for advertising purposes or other purposes except where
specific license is received from the Board;
      (17)   The conducting, operating or maintaining of any garage or filling
station in any residential district so as to cause loud or offensive noises to
be emitted therefrom between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.;
      (18)   The firing or discharging of squibs, crackers, gunpowder or other
combustible substances in the streets or elsewhere for the purpose of making
noise or disturbance except by permit from the Board.
(1988 Code, § 13-52) Penalty, see §
132.99
Statutory reference:
   Noise regulations authorized, see G.S. § 160A-184
§ 132.03 PROFANITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in any public or private place to swear,
curse, sing or speak openly obscene words loudly enough to be heard by persons
on any street or other public place or to make obscene proposals at those
places.
(1988 Code, § 13-53) Penalty, see §
132.99
Statutory reference:
   Profanity, see G.S. §§ 14-196 et seq.
§ 132.04 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   The purpose of this section shall be to establish a curfew for minors
in the Town of Fairmont, thus promoting the health, safety and welfare of both
minors and adults in the town by creating an environment offering protection
and security for all concerned.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ADOLESCENT MINOR. A minor as defined herein who has reached his or her
sixteenth birthday, but has not reached his or her eighteenth birthday.
      GUARDIAN. One who legally has the care and management of the person
defined as a minor by this section.
      JUVENILE MINOR. A minor as defined herein who has not reached his or her
sixteenth birthday.
      MINOR. A person who has not reached his or her eighteenth birthday and is
not married, emancipated or a member of the armed services of the United
States. MINOR shall include juvenile minors and adolescent minors.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Areas such as, but not limited to, all common areas open to
all for common use; alleys, streets, public areas, highways, parks;
establishments open to the public for the conduct of business.
   (C)   This section does not apply to a minor who is:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
      (2)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (3)   Involved in an emergency;
      (4)   Attending an official school, religious or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the town, a civic organization
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, and official school,
religious or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the town, a civic organization or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor; or
      (5)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with state law.
   (D)   A curfew applicable to minors is established and shall be enforced as
follows:
      (1)   Time limits. It is unlawful for any juvenile minor to be or remain
upon any public place as defined in this chapter in the town between 11:00 p.m.
and 6:00 a.m. on Monday through Sunday. It shall be unlawful for any adolescent
minor to be or remain upon any public place as defined in this chapter in the
town between midnight and 6:00 a.m. on Monday through Sunday.
      (2)   Exceptions. The restrictions provided by division (C)(1) above
shall not apply to any minor who is accompanied by a guardian or other person
charged with the care and custody of a minor, nor shall the restriction apply
to any minor who is traveling between his or her home or place of employment,
church, municipal building or school where a function is being held.
      (3)   Responsibility of adults. It is unlawful for any parent, guardian
or other person charged with the care and custody of any minor to allow or
permit a minor to be in or upon a public place within the town within the
curfew hours set by division (C)(1) except as otherwise provided in division
(C)(2).
      (4)   Responsibility of business establishments. It is unlawful for any
person, firm or corporation operating a place of business or amusement to allow
or permit any minor to remain in or upon any place of business or amusement
operated by them within the curfew hours set by division (C)(1), except as
otherwise provided in division (C)(2).
      (5)   Enforcement.
         (a)   When a minor is found to be in violation of this section, the
officer will check the computer files located at the Police Department to see
if the juvenile is a first offender. If the juvenile is a first offender, he or
she will be taken to the residence of his or her parent or guardian. A warning
will be given to that adult and an information report will be taken by the
officer to include the name of the juvenile and adult, the time, date and
location of the offense. This report will be kept in the computer files at the
Police Department.
         (b)   If, upon checking the computer files, the juvenile is found to
be a repeat offender, he or she will be taken to the residence of his or her
parent or guardian and the adult will be subject to a criminal citation
pursuant to division (C)(6) of this section. A report will be turned in to the
Fairmont Police Department and it will be reviewed by the Fairmont Police Chief
or his designee for possible referral to the Robeson County Juvenile Justice
office.
         (c)   If the juvenile is under 12 years of age, a report will be made
and a copy forwarded to the Robeson County Department of Social Services.
      (6)   Aiding and abetting by adult or guardian. It shall be a violation
of this section for an adult, guardian or parent to allow, permit, encourage,
aid or abet a minor in the violation of division (C)(1) of this section except
otherwise provided in division (C)(2).
      (7)   Refusal of guardian or parent to take custody of a minor. If any
guardian or parent refuses to take custody of his or her minor found in
violation of this section, the officer(s) with custody of the minor shall
contact the Robeson County Department of Social Services and release the minor
to that agency, pending further investigation by the Police Department and the
Department of Social Services. The adult will be subject to criminal citation
pursuant to division (C)(6) of this section.
(1988 Code, § 13-54) (Am. Ord. 06-104, passed 11-21-2006; Am. Ord. 23-237,
passed 4-18-2023) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $100 and
imprisonment in the discretion of the Court in accordance with G.S. § 14-4.
   (B)   In addition to any other applicable penalty, a minor who violates any
provision of §
132.04 is subject to being adjudicated delinquent. The Court may, in its
discretion, impose any dispositional alternative that is provided in the North
Carolina Juvenile Code for any minor who is delinquent.
(1988 Code, § 13-54) (Am. Ord. 23-237, passed 4-18-2023)
CHAPTER 133:
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
Section
Generally
   
133.01   Consumption of malt beverages and unfortified wine
Sexually Explicit Materials
   
133.15   Definitions
   
133.16   Display; defense
   
133.17   Violations; declared public nuisances
   
133.18   Interpretation of multiple displays; violations
   
133.19   Enforcement
   
133.20   Remedies cumulative
GENERALLY
§ 133.01 CONSUMPTION OF MALT BEVERAGES AND UNFORTIFIED WINE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume malt beverages and
unfortified wine on the public streets of the town or any private property
which is frequented by the public in the town. For the purposes of this
section, the “private property” that is frequented by the public in the town
shall include all property wherein persons are invited by express or implied
invitation to go upon the property, whether for the purposes of engaging in
business or purchasing from establishments located on the property or wherein
private properties are used for parking areas for the general public, and shall
include any qualified public area in front of or adjacent to any store, shop,
restaurant, luncheonette, drive-in restaurant, drive-in car wash, laundry or
other place of business, and shall include any parking lots or other vacant
private property open to the public.
(1988 Code, § 13-76) Penalty, §
10.99 
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prohibit consumption of malt beverages and unfortified wine on
property owned or controlled by town, see G.S. § 18B-300
SEXUALLY EXPLICIT MATERIALS
§ 133.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Any commercial establishment offering sexually explicit material
for sale.
   KNOWINGLY. With knowledge of the content, nature and character of the
material, but does not require knowledge that any material is sexually
explicit.
   MATERIAL. Any book, magazine, newspaper, pamphlet, handbill or similar
printed or written matter; any drawing, picture, illustration, transparency,
photograph, motion picture, film negative, film positive, videotape or similar
representation or reproduction.
   MINOR. A person under the age of 18 years.
   NUDITY .  The showing, in the context of sexual or erotic conduct or
arousal, of the human male or female genitals, pubic area or anal area, with
less than full opaque covering, or the showing of the female breasts with less
than full opaque covering of any portion thereof below the top of the areola,
or the depiction of covered or uncovered male genitals in a discernibly turgid
state.
   PUBLIC DISPLAY WITH RESPECT TO SEXUALLY EXPLICIT MATERIAL .  Placing or
making available that material in any public place so that minors may possess
or handle any material and peruse, inspect or leaf through it.
   SEXUALLY EXPLICIT MATERIAL .  Any material which:
      (1)   The average person, applying contemporary community standards would
find, when considered in the whole context in which it is used or presented
appeals to the prurient interest in sex of minors;
      (2)   Depicts or describes ultimate sex acts, normal or perverted, actual
or explicitly simulated; masturbation, excretory functions or direct physical
stimulation of unclothed genitals or anal area; nudity; or acts of apparent or
actual sexual stimulation or gratification; and/or
      (3)   When considered as a whole and in the context in which it is used
or presented, lacks serious artistic, literary, political, educational or
scientific value to minors. Material may be found to be explicit if the
externally visible covers thereof meet the standards of this section or if the
contents thereof meet the standards of this section.
(Prior Code, § 13-89)
Statutory reference:
   Obscenity and material harmful to minors, see G.S. §§ 14-190.1 et seq.
§ 133.16 DISPLAY; DEFENSE.
   (A)   It is a violation of this division if any person knowingly places
sexually explicit material upon public display in any public place through
which minors pass or to which they are invited as members of the general
public, except that sexually explicit material may be displayed as provided in
division (A)(1) of this section.
      (1)   A business shall not be deemed to place sexually explicit material
upon public display in any area through which minors pass or to which they are
invited as members of the general public, if the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The sexually explicit material is placed in racks or on shelves
separate from racks, shelves or other sales display cases from other material;
         (b)   The racks or shelves are located at least 60 inches from floor
level and within 8 feet or less of a cash register or similar purchase
location;
         (c)   Those racks or shelves are constructed with a full opaque
barrier that shields the sexually explicit material so that only the title of
the material or material that is not sexually explicit is visible on the covers
but so that the materials may be conveniently removed and perused or inspected,
subject to the business’s practices, by persons not minors;
         (d)   Any of the racks or shelves or portions thereof that contain 1
or more items of sexually explicit material are clearly and continuously
visible without obstruction from the cash register or purchase location; and
         (e)   The cash register or purchase location is tended by a proprietor
or employee of the business, which person shall be under a duty to
affirmatively and frequently ascertain that minors are not able to and do not
peruse, inspect or leaf through sexually explicit materials.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prohibit any other
method of removing from minors the opportunity or ability to peruse, inspect or
leaf through sexually explicit materials that places materials exclusively
under the possession and control of the proprietor or employee of the business
until the time of sale of material to a person other than a minor.
(1988 Code, § 13-90)
   (B)   It shall be a defense to division (A) that:
      (1)   A minor possessing or handling sexually explicit materials is at
the time under parental or parentally-approved adult supervision;
      (2)   That the proprietor or other employee of the business made a bona
fide, good faith effort to determine the minor’s age and had reasonable grounds
to believe the minor was over 18 years of age.
(1988 Code, § 13-91) Penalty, §
10.99 
§ 133.17 VIOLATIONS; DECLARED PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   Each violation of this subchapter constitutes a public nuisance. Each item
of sexually explicit material publicly displayed in violation of this
subchapter shall constitute a public nuisance.
(1988 Code, § 13-92) Penalty, §
10.99 
§ 133.18 INTERPRETATION OF MULTIPLE DISPLAYS; VIOLATIONS.
   Each instance of public display of an item of sexually explicit material
shall constitute a separate violation of this subchapter, but possession of
multiple copies of a particular item of sexually explicit material shall
constitute a single violation of this subchapter. Each day of public display of
sexually explicit material shall constitute a separate violation of this
subchapter.
(1988 Code, § 13-93) Penalty, §
10.99 
§ 133.19 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Violation of this subchapter is declared to be a misdemeanor. The
Chief of Police may seek from an appropriate official of the general court of
justice an arrest warrant or other process initiating criminal charges against
any person alleged to have violated this subchapter. No other agent or employee
of the town may in his or her official capacity seek an arrest warrant or other
criminal process without the prior written approval of the Town Manager.
   (B)   The town may also enforce this subchapter by bringing suit under G.S.
§ 160A-175 or any successor provision for the enforcement of town ordinances to
abate the public display of sexually explicit materials to minors. No action
shall be taken to abate the public display until the alleged violator has been
given an opportunity to be heard in an adversarial judicial proceeding to
determine whether the materials publicly displayed are sexually explicit within
the meaning of this subchapter. Any order of abatement shall apply to material
judicially determined to be sexually explicit within the meaning of this
subchapter, and shall direct the abatement of the public display by removal,
confiscation and destruction of material judicially determined to be sexually
explicit and to have been publicly displayed in violation of this subchapter.
(1988 Code, § 13-94) Penalty, §
10.99 
§ 133.20 REMEDIES CUMULATIVE.
   The remedies provided under this subchapter are cumulative and not exclusive
and may be independently pursued against the same person for the same activity
constituting a violation of this subchapter.
(1988 Code, § 13-95) Penalty, §
10.99 
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   (RESERVED)
      
151.   BUILDINGS; CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS
      
152.   MINIMUM HOUSING STANDARDS
      
152A.   NON-RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES STANDARDS
      
153.   (RESERVED)
      
154.   ZONING ORDINANCE
CHAPTER 150: (RESERVED)
CHAPTER 151:
BUILDINGS; CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS
Section
Generally
   
151.01   Fire limits
   
151.02   Permit and inspection fees
Unsafe Buildings and Structures
   
151.15   Inspections
   
151.16   Notification of owner of defects
   
151.17   Notice posted on unsafe building
   
151.18   Removing notice from dangerous building
   
151.19   Hearing following failure of owner to correct defects
   
151.20   Order to take corrective action
   
151.21   Appeal
   
151.22   Failure to comply with order
GENERALLY
§ 151.01 FIRE LIMITS.
   The following territory in the town is hereby declared the primary fire
limits: The territory included within the limits of 135 feet from the outer or
east edge of the sidewalk on the west side of South Main Street, 135 feet from
the centerline of the A.C.L. Railroad running in a straight line to the
property of the Baptist church, crossing Main Street with a line 90 feet on the
south side of Red Cross Street to and across Walnut Street, 90 feet on the east
side of the street, then up Walnut Street 90 feet on the east side of the
street to a point 135 feet from the centerline of the A.C.L. Railroad, then in
a straight line to the beginning.
(1988 Code, § 4-1)
Statutory reference:
   Establishment of fire limits, see G.S. § 160A-435
§ 151.02 PERMIT AND INSPECTION FEES.
   Building permit and inspection fees shall be as established by ordinance.
(1988 Code, § 4-2)
Statutory reference:
   State building code, see G.S. § 143-138
UNSAFE BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES
§ 151.15 INSPECTIONS.
   The Department of Code Enforcement may make periodic inspections, subject to
the Board’s directions, for unsafe, unsanitary or otherwise hazardous and
unlawful conditions in buildings and structures within its territorial
jurisdiction. In addition, the Department of Code Enforcement is authorized to
make and shall make inspections when it has reason to believe that conditions
may exist in a particular building or structure. In exercising this power,
employees of the Department of Code Enforcement shall have a right to enter on
any premises within the jurisdiction of the Department at all reasonable hours
for the purposes of inspection or other enforcement action, upon presentation
of proper credentials.
(1988 Code, § 4-61)
§ 151.16 NOTIFICATION OF OWNER OF DEFECTS.
   When a Department of Code Enforcement Inspector finds any defects in a
building or structure, or finds that the building or structure has not been
constructed in accordance with the applicable state and local laws or that a
building or structure, because of its condition, is dangerous or contains fire
hazardous conditions, it shall be his or her duty to notify the owner or
occupant of the building of its defects, hazardous conditions or failure to
comply with law. The owner or occupant shall each immediately remedy the
defects, hazardous conditions or violations of law in the property he or she
owns.
(1988 Code, § 4-62)
§ 151.17 NOTICE POSTED ON UNSAFE BUILDING.
   Every building or structure which shall appear to a Department of Code
Enforcement Inspector to be especially dangerous to life because of its
liability to fire or because of bad conditions of walls, overloaded floors,
defective construction, decay, unsafe wiring or heating system, inadequate
means of egress or other causes, shall be held to be unsafe, and the Inspector
shall affix a notice of the dangerous character of the structure to a
conspicuous place on the exterior wall of the building.
(1988 Code, § 4-63)
§ 151.18 REMOVING NOTICE FROM DANGEROUS BUILDING.
   If any person shall remove any notice that has been affixed to any building
or structure by a town Department of Code Enforcement Inspector and that states
the dangerous character of the building or structure, he or she shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor.
(1988 Code, § 4-64)
§ 151.19 HEARING FOLLOWING FAILURE OF OWNER TO CORRECT DEFECTS.
   (A)   If the owner of a building or structure that has been condemned as
unsafe pursuant to G.S. §§ 160A-426 and 160A-463 shall fail to take prompt
corrective action, the Department of Code Enforcement shall give him or her
written notice, by certified or registered mail to his or her last known
address or by personal service that:
      (1)   The building or structure is in a condition that appears to
constitute a fire or safety hazard or to be dangerous to life, health or other
property;
      (2)   A hearing will be held before the Chief Inspector at a designated
place and time, not later than 10 days after the date of the notice, at which
time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by counsel and to
present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
      (3)   Following the hearing, the Chief Inspector may issue an order to
repair, close, vacate or demolish the building or structure as appears
appropriate.
   (B)   If the name or whereabouts of the owner cannot after due diligence be
discovered, the notice shall be properly and adequately served if a copy
thereof is posted on the outside of the building or structure in question at
least 10 days prior to the hearing and a notice of the hearing is published in
a newspaper having general circulation in the town at least once not later than
1 week prior to the hearing.
(1988 Code, § 4-65)
§ 151.20 ORDER TO TAKE CORRECTIVE ACTION.
   If upon a hearing held pursuant to the notice prescribed in G.S. § 160A-465,
the Inspector shall find that the building or structure is in a condition that
constitutes a fire or safety hazard or renders it dangerous to life, health or
other property, he or she shall make an order in writing, directed to the owner
to remedy the defective conditions by repairing, closing, vacating or
demolishing the building or structure or taking other necessary steps, within a
period, not less than 60 days, as the Chief Inspector may prescribe.
(1988 Code, § 4-66)
§ 151.21 APPEAL.
   Any owner who has received an order under G.S. § 160A-466 may appeal from
the order to the Board by giving notice of appeal in writing to the Inspector
and to the Town Clerk within 10 days following issuance of the order. In the
absence of an appeal, the order of the Chief Inspector shall be final. The
Board shall hear an appeal within a reasonable time and may affirm, modify or
revoke the order.
(1988 Code, § 4-67)
§ 151.22 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ORDER.
   If the owner of a building or structure fails to comply with an order issued
pursuant to G.S. § 160A-466 from which no appeal has been taken or fails to
comply with an order of the Board following an appeal, he or she shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1988 Code, § 4-68)
CHAPTER 152: MINIMUM HOUSING STANDARDS
Section
   
152.01   Findings; purpose; authority
   
152.02   Scope
   
152.03   Definitions
   
152.04   Office of Housing Inspection created; powers and duties
   
152.05   Inspections
   
152.06   Preliminary investigations; notices; hearings
   
152.07   Dwelling unfit for human habitation
   
152.08   Dwellings not in compliance but not unfit for human habitation
   
152.09   Procedure after hearing; order
   
152.10   Failure to comply with order
   
152.11   Service of complaints and orders
   
152.12   Appeals
   
152.13   General penalties
   
152.14   Alternative remedies
   
152.15   Conflict with other provisions
   
152.16   Violations
   
152.17   Validity
§ 152.01 FINDINGS; PURPOSE; AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Pursuant to G.S. § 160D-1201, it is hereby found and declared that
there exist in the town and its planning and development regulation
jurisdiction dwellings which are unfit for human habitation due to
dilapidation, defects increasing the hazards of fire, accidents and other
calamities, lack of ventilation, light and sanitary facilities, and due to
other conditions rendering such dwellings unsafe and unsanitary, and dangerous
and detrimental to the health, safety and morals, and otherwise inimical to the
welfare of the residents of the Town of Fairmont.
   (B)   In order to protect the health, safety and welfare of the residents of
the town and its planning and development regulation jurisdiction, as
authorized by G.S. Chapter 160D, Article 12, it is the purpose of this chapter
to establish minimum standards of fitness for the initial and continued
occupancy of all buildings used for human habitation, as expressly authorized
by G.S. § 160D-1201.
   (C)   In addition, it is hereby found and declared, under the authority of
G.S. § 160A-174, that there exist in the town dwellings which, although not
meeting the classification as unfit for human habitation,
fail to fully comply with all the minimum standards for housing fitness as
established herein and therefore have present one or more conditions which are
inimical to the public health, safety and general welfare. Such conditions, if
not corrected can lead to deterioration and dilapidation of dwellings which
render them unfit for human habitation.
(Ord. 23-227, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 152.02 SCOPE.
   (A)   This chapter is hereby declared to be remedial and shall be construed
to secure the beneficial interests and purposes thereof which are public
safety, health and general welfare through structural strength, stability,
sanitation, adequate light and ventilation and safety to life and property from
fire and other hazards incident to the construction, alteration, repair,
removal, demolition, use and occupancy of dwellings, apartment houses, rooming
houses or buildings, structures or premises used or intended for use as such.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all existing housing and
to all housing hereafter constructed within the town and its planning and
development regulation jurisdiction as now or hereafter established. Portable,
mobile, or demountable buildings or structures, including trailers,
manufactured homes and mobile homes when used or intended for use for housing
within the jurisdiction, shall be subject to the applicable provisions of this
chapter. This chapter establishes minimum requirements for the initial and
continued occupancy of all buildings used for human habitation and does not
replace or modify requirements otherwise established for the construction,
repair, alteration or use of buildings, equipment, or facilities except as
provided in this chapter.
   (C)   The provisions of this chapter shall also apply, as authorized by G.S.
§ 160D-1201(b), to abandoned structures which are found by the Board of
Commissioners to be a health or safety hazard as a result of the attraction of
insects or rodents, conditions creating a fire hazard, dangerous conditions
constituting a threat to children or frequent use by vagrants as living
quarters in the absence of sanitary conditions.
(Ord. 23-227, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 152.03 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement
of this chapter. Whenever the words "dwelling", "dwelling unit", "rooming
house", "rooming unit" or "premises" are used in this chapter, they shall be
construed as though they were followed by the words "or any part thereof'.
   ABANDONED STRUCTURE. Any structure, whether designed and intended for
residential or other uses, which has been vacant or not in active use,
regardless of purpose or reason, for the past two-year period and which is
determined by the Housing Inspector to be unfit for human habitation or
occupancy based upon the standards as set forth in this chapter.
   BASEMENT.  A portion of a building which is located partly underground,
having access to light and air from windows located above the level of the
adjoining ground.
   CELLAR. A portion of a building located partly or wholly underground having
inadequate access to light and air from windows located partly or wholly below
the level of the adjoining ground.
   DETERIORATED DWELLING. A dwelling that is unfit for human habitation and can
be repaired, altered, or improved to comply with all of the minimum standards
established by this chapter, at a cost not in excess of 50% of its value, as
determined by finding of the Housing Inspector.
   DILAPIDATED DWELLING.  A dwelling that is unfit for human habitation and
cannot be repaired, altered, or improved to comply with all of the minimum
standards established by this chapter, at a cost not in excess of 50% of its
value, as determined by finding of the Housing Inspector.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, manufactured home or mobile home, or part
thereof, used and occupied for human habitation or intended to be so used, and
includes any accessory buildings and structures and appurtenances belonging
thereto or usually enjoyed therewith, except that it does not include any
manufactured home or mobile home, which is used solely for a seasonal vacation
purpose.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling and
forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are used or intended to
be used for living, sleeping, cooking, and eating.
   EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rodents, or other
pests by eliminating their harborage places; by removing or making inaccessible
materials that may serve as their food; by poisoning, spraying, fumigating,
trapping or by any other recognized and legal pest elimination methods approved
by the Housing Inspector.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   HABITABLE ROOM.  A room or enclosed floor space used or intended to be used
for living, sleeping, cooking, or eating purposes, excluding bathrooms, water
closet compartments, laundries, heater rooms, foyers or communicating
corridors, closets, and storage spaces.
   HOUSING INSPECTOR. The person, public officer, or officers, appointed by the
Board of Commissioners to carry out the administration and enforcement of this
chapter.
   INFESTATION. The presence, within or around a dwelling, of any insects,
rodents, or other pests in such number as to constitute a menace to the health,
safety, or welfare of the occupants or to the public.
   MANUFACTURED HOME (MOBILE HOME). A structure as defined in G.S. § 143-145
(7).
   MULTIPLE DWELLING. Any dwelling containing more than two dwelling units.
   OCCUPANT. Any person over one year of age living, sleeping, cooking, or
eating in, or having actual possession of a dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming
unit.
   OPERATOR.  Any person who has charge, care or control of a building or part
thereof, in which dwelling units or rooming units are let.
   OWNER. The holder of the title in fee simple and every mortgagee of record.
   PARTIES IN INTEREST. All individuals, associations and corporations who have
interests of record in a dwelling and any who are in possession thereof.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Any housing authority or any officer who is in charge of
any department or branch of the government of the town, county, or state
relating to health, fire, building regulations, or other activities concerning
dwellings in the town.
   ROOMING HOUSE. Any dwelling, or that part of any dwelling containing one or
more rooming units, in which space is let by the owner or operator to three or
more persons who are not husband and wife, son or daughter, mother or father or
sister or brother of the owner or operator.
   ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group or rooms forming a single habitable unit
used or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for cooking or
eating purposes.
   RUBBISH. Combustible and noncombustible waste materials except garbage and
ashes, and the term shall include, but not be limited to, paper, rags, cartons,
boxes, wood, excelsior, rubber, leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin
cans, metals, mineral matter, glass crockery and dust.
   SUPPLIED. Paid for, furnished, or provided by, or under the control of, the
owner or operator.
   TENANT. Any natural person or entity who is a named party or signatory to a
lease or rental agreement, and who occupies, resides in, or has a legal right
to possess and use an individual rental unit.
(Ord. 23-227, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 152.04 OFFICE OF HOUSING INSPECTOR CREATED; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   For the purposes of administering and enforcing the provisions of this
chapter, the office of Housing Inspector is hereby created. The Housing
Inspector shall be appointed by the Board of Commissioners, and shall have such
powers as may be necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the
purposes and provisions of this chapter, including, without limiting the
generality of the foregoing, in addition to others herein granted, the
following powers:
   (A)   Investigations. To investigate the dwelling and building conditions in
the town in order to determine which dwellings therein are unfit for human
habitation and dangerous, being guided in such examination of dwellings and
buildings by the requirements set forth in this chapter.
   (B)   Oaths, witnesses, etc. To administer oaths and affirmations and to
examine witnesses and receive evidence.
   (C)   Right of entry. To enter upon and within premises and dwellings for
the purpose of making examinations and investigations; provided, that such
entries shall be made in such a manner as to cause the least possible
inconvenience to the persons in possession. If entry upon the premises for
purposes of investigation is necessary, such entry shall be made pursuant to a
duly issued administrative search warrant in accordance with G.S. § 15-27.2 or
with permission of the owner, the owner's agent, a tenant, or other person
legally in possession of the premises.
   (D)   Warrants; Citations, etc. To swear criminal warrants, issue civil
citations and to take such other actions as may be necessary to carry out the
enforcement procedures of this chapter.
   (E)   Delegation of functions, etc. To delegate any of his functions and
powers under this Chapter to such officers and agents as he may designate.
(Ord. 23-227, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 152.05 INSPECTIONS.
   For the purpose of carrying out the intent of this chapter, the Housing
Inspector, upon proper identification, is hereby authorized to enter, examine
and survey at all reasonable times all dwellings, dwelling units, rooming
houses, rooming units and premises, including abandoned structures. The owners
or occupants or every dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming unit, or rooming house,
or the person in charge thereof, shall give the Housing Inspector free access
to such dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house or rooming unit, and its
premises, at all reasonable times for the purposes of such inspection,
examination, and survey. Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall
give the owner thereof, or his agent or employee, access to any part of such
dwelling or dwelling unit, and its premises, at all reasonable times for the
purpose of making such repairs or alterations as are necessary to effect
compliance with the provisions of this chapter or with any lawful order issued
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 23-227, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 152.06 PRELIMINARY INVESTIGATIONS; NOTICES; HEARINGS.
   (A)   Whenever a petition is filed with the Housing Inspector by a public
authority or by at least five
residents of the town charging that any dwelling is unfit for human habitation
or whenever it appears to the Housing Inspector (on his own motion) that any
dwelling is unfit for human habitation, the Housing Inspector shall, if his
preliminary investigation discloses a basis for such charges, issue and cause
to be served upon the owner and parties in interest in such dwellings a
complaint stating the charges in that respect and containing a notice that a
hearing will be held before the Housing Inspector (or his designated agent) at
a place within the town therein fixed not less than ten days nor more than 30
days after the serving of the complaint; that the owner and parties in interest
shall be given the right to file an answer to the complaint and to appear in
person, or otherwise, and give testimony at the place and time fixed in the
complaint; and that the rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity
shall not be controlling in hearings before the Housing Inspector.
   (B)   In accordance with G.S. § 1-120.2, upon the issuance of a complaint
and notice of hearing pursuant to this section, the Inspector may cause the
filing of a notice of lis pendens, with a copy of the complaint and notice of
hearing attached thereto, in the Office of the Clerk of Superior Court of
Brunswick County, to be indexed and cross-indexed in accordance with the
indexing procedures of G.S. § 1-117. The Inspector shall cause a copy of the
notice of lis pendens to be served upon the owners and parties in interest in
the dwelling at the time of filing as applicable. From the date and time of
indexing, the complaint and notice of hearing or order shall be binding upon
the successors and assigns of the owners of and parties in interest in the
building or dwelling. The notice of lis pendens shall remain in full force and
effect until cancelled. Upon compliance with the requirements of any order
issued based upon such complaint and hearing, the Inspector shall direct the
Clerk of Superior Court to cancel the notice of lis pendens.
(Ord. 23-227, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 152.07 DWELLING UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION.
   (A)   The Housing Inspector shall determine that a dwelling is unfit for
human habitation if he finds that any one of the following conditions exist in
such dwelling:
      (1)   Interior walls or vertical studs which seriously list, lean or
buckle to such an extent as to render the dwelling unsafe.
      (2)   Supporting member or members which show 33% or more damage or
deterioration, or non-supporting, enclosing or outside walls or covering which
shows 50% or more of damage or deterioration.
      (3)   Floors or roofs which have improperly distributed loads, which are
overloaded, or which have insufficient strength to be reasonably safe for the
purpose used.
      (4)   Such damage by fire, wind, or other causes as to render the
dwelling unsafe.
      (5)   Dilapidation, decay, unsanitary conditions, or disrepair which is
dangerous to the health, safety or welfare of the occupants or other people in
the town.
      (6)   Inadequate facilities for egress in case of fire or panic.
      (7)   Defects significantly increasing the hazards of fire, accident, or
other calamities.
      (8)   Lack of adequate ventilation, light, heating, or sanitary
facilities to such extent as to endanger the health, safety or general welfare
of the occupants or other residents of the town.
      (9)   Lack of proper electrical, heating, or plumbing facilities required
by this chapter which constitutes a definite health or safety hazard.
      (10)   Lack of connection to a potable water supply and/or to the public
sewer or other approved sewage disposal system, the lack of either one of which
renders a dwelling unfit for human habitation. For the purposes of this
standard, a dwelling is not connected to a potable water supply if the water
supply has been "cut off' because of nonpayment of the water bill or otherwise
or if the system for any reason is not receiving a flow of potable water to the
tap.
   (B)   In addition to the ten conditions stated in division (A) above, any
one of which renders a dwelling unfit for human habitation, the Housing
Inspector shall determine that a dwelling is unfit for human habitation if he
finds that a dwelling fails to fully comply with seven or more of the following
enumerated standards of dwelling fitness:
      (1)   Structural standards.
         (a)   Structural integrity. Walls, partitions, supporting members,
sills, joists, rafters, or other structural members shall not list, lean, or
buckle, shall not be rotted, deteriorated or damaged, and shall not have holes
or cracks which might admit rodents.
         (b)   Supports. Floors or roofs shall have adequate supporting members
and strength to be reasonably safe for the purpose used.
         (c)   Foundations. Foundations, foundation walls, piers or other
foundation supports shall not be deteriorated or damaged.
         (d)   Steps. Steps, stairs, landings, porches or other parts or
appurtenances shall be maintained in such condition that they will not fail or
collapse.
         (e)   Egress. Adequate facilities for egress in case of fire or panic
shall be provided.
         (f)   Interior materials. Interior walls and ceilings of all rooms,
closets and hallways shall be furnished of suitable materials which will, by
use of reasonable household methods, promote sanitation and cleanliness, and
shall be maintained in such a manner so as to enable the occupants to maintain
reasonable privacy between various spaces.
         (g)   Weatherization. The roof, flashings, exterior walls, basement
walls, floors and all doors and windows exposed to the weather shall be
constructed and maintained so as to be weather and watertight.
         (h)   Chimneys. There shall be no chimneys or parts thereof which are
defective, deteriorated or in danger of falling, or in such condition or
location as to constitute a fire hazard.
         (i)   Floors. There shall be no use of the ground for floors, or wood
floors on the ground.
      (2)   Plumbing standards.
         (a)   Facilities. Each dwelling unit shall contain not less than a
kitchen sink, lavatory, tub or shower, water closet, and an adequate supply of
both cold water and hot water. All water shall be supplied through an approved
pipe distribution system connected to a potable water supply. Each dwelling
shall be connected to the public sewer or other approved sewage disposal
system. For the purposes of this standard, a dwelling is not connected to a
potable water supply if the water supply has been “cut off”' because of non-
payment of the water bill or otherwise or if the system for any reason is not
receiving a flow of potable water to the tap.
         (b)   Maintenance. All plumbing fixtures shall meet the standards of
the Plumbing Code and shall be maintained in a state of good repair and in good
working order.
         (c)   Accessible. All required plumbing fixtures shall be located
within the dwelling and be accessible to the occupants of the same. The water
closet and tub or shower shall be located in a room or rooms affording privacy
to the user.
      (3)   Heating standards. Every dwelling shall have facilities for
providing heat in accordance with either division (a) or (b) below. Such
facilities shall be maintained in a state of good repair and good working
order.
         (a)   Central and electrical heating systems. Every central or
electric heating system shall be of sufficient capacity so as to heat all
habitable rooms, bathrooms and water closet compartments in every dwelling to
which it is connected with a minimum temperature of 70ºF. measured at a point
three feet above the floor during average winter conditions.
         (b)   Other heating facilities. Where a central or electric heating
system is not provided, each dwelling shall be provided with sufficient
electrical receptacles, fireplaces, chimneys, flues, or gas vents whereby
heating appliances may be connected so as to heat all habitable rooms,
bathrooms and water closet compartments with a minimum temperature of 70ºF.
measured three feet above the floor during average winter conditions.
      (4)   Electrical standards.
         (a)   Wiring. Every dwelling shall be wired for electric lights and
convenience receptacles. Every habitable room shall contain at least two floor
or wall type electrical convenience receptacles, connected in such manner as
determined by the Electrical Code. There shall be installed in every bathroom,
water closet room, laundry room and furnace room at least one supplied ceiling
or wall type electric light fixture. In the event wall or ceiling light
fixtures are not provided in any habitable room, then each such habitable room
shall contain at least three floor or wall type electric convenience
receptacles.
         (b)   Hall lights. Every public hall and stairway in every multiple
dwelling shall be adequately lighted by electric lights at all times when
natural light is not sufficient.
         (c)   Maintenance. All fixtures, receptacles, equipment, and wiring
shall be maintained in a state of good repair, safe, capable of being used, and
installed in accordance with the Electrical Code.
      (5)   Ventilation standards.
         (a)   Generally. Every habitable room shall have at least one window
or skylight facing directly to the outdoors. The minimum total window area,
measured between stops, for every habitable room shall be ten percent of the
floor area of such room. Whenever walls or other portions of structures face a
window of any such room and such light obstructions are located less than five
feet from the window and extend to a level above that of the ceiling of the
room, such a window shall not be deemed to face directly to the outdoors and
shall not be included as contributing to the required minimum total window
area. Whenever the only window in a room is a skylight type window in the top
of such a room, the total window area of such skylight shall equal at least 15%
of the total floor area of such room.
         (b)   Habitable rooms. Every habitable room shall have at least one
window or skylight which can easily be opened, or such other device as will
adequately ventilate the room. The total openable window area in every
habitable room, shall be equal to at least 45% of the minimum window area size
or minimum skylight type window size as required, or shall have other approved
equivalent ventilation.
         (c)   Bathroom and water closet room. Every bathroom equipped with
more than one water closet compartment shall comply with the light and
ventilation requirements for habitable rooms.
      (6)   Space, use and location standards.
         (a)   Ceiling height. At least one-half of the floor area of every
habitable room shall have a ceiling height of not less than seven feet and six
inches.
         (b)   Cellar. No cellar shall be used for living purposes unless:
            1.   The floor and walls are substantially watertight;
            2.   The total window area, total openable window area and ceiling
height are equal to those required for a habitable room;
            3.   The required minimum window area of every habitable room is
entirely above the grade adjoining such window area, except where the windows
face a stairwell, window well or access way.
      (7)   Safe and sanitary maintenance standards.
         (a)   Exterior foundation, walls, and roofs. Every foundation wall,
exterior wall and exterior roof shall be substantially weather tight and rodent
proof; shall be kept in sound condition and good repair; shall be capable of
affording privacy; shall be safe to use and capable of supporting the load
which normal use may cause to be placed thereon. Every exterior wall shall be
protected with paint or other protective covering to prevent the entrance or
penetration of moisture or the weather.
         (b)   Interior floors, walls, and ceilings. Every floor, interior wall
and ceiling shall be substantially rodent proof; shall be kept in sound
condition and good repair; and shall be safe to use and capable of supporting
the load which normal use may cause to be placed thereon.
         (c)   Windows and doors. Every window, exterior door, basement or
cellar door and hatchway shall be substantially weather tight, watertight, and
rodent proof; and shall be kept in sound working condition and good repair.
         (d)   Stairs, porches, and appurtenances. Every inside and outside
stair, porch and any appurtenances thereto shall be safe to use and capable of
supporting the load that normal use may cause to be placed thereon; and shall
be kept in sound condition and good repair.
         (e)   Bathroom and kitchen floors. Every bathroom and kitchen floor
surface and water closet compartment floor surface shall be constructed and
maintained so as to be reasonably impervious to water and so as to permit such
floor to be easily kept in sound condition and good repair.
         (f)   Supplied facilities. Every supplied facility, piece of equipment
or utility which is required under this chapter shall be so constructed or
installed that it will function safely and effectively and shall be maintained
in satisfactory working condition. Food preparation surfaces shall be
impervious to water and free of defects which could trap food or liquid.
Shelving, cabinets, or drawers for the storage of food and cooking and eating
utensils, shall be supplied and shall maintained in good repair.
         (g)   Drainage. Every yard shall be properly graded so as to obtain
thorough drainage and so as to prevent the accumulation of stagnant water.
         (h)   Smoke detector systems.
            1.   Every dwelling shall be equipped with smoke detectors
installed to protect occupants in all sleeping areas. Operable smoke alarms,
shall be either battery-operated or electrical, having an Underwriters'
Laboratories, Inc. listing or other equivalent national testing laboratory
approval, and installed in accordance with either the standards of the National
Fire Protection Association or the minimum protection designated in the
manufacturer's instructions.
            2.   Every dwelling shall have a minimum of one operable carbon
monoxide alarm per rental unit per level, either battery-operated or
electrical, that is listed by a nationally recognized testing laboratory that
is OSHA-approved to test and certify to American National Standards Institute/
Underwriters Laboratories Standards ANSI/UL2034 or ANSI/UL2075, and install the
carbon monoxide alarms in accordance with either the standards of the National
Fire Protection Association or the minimum protection designated in the
manufacturer's instructions.
            3.   A carbon monoxide alarm may be combined with smoke alarms if
the combined alarm does both of the following:
               a.   Complies with ANSI/UL2034 or ANSI/UL2075 for carbon
monoxide alarms and ANSI/UL217 for smoke alarms; and
               b.   Emits an alarm in a manner that clearly differentiates
between detecting the presence of carbon monoxide and the presence of smoke.
            4.   The requirements in divisions (h)2. and (h)3. above apply only
to dwelling units having a fossil-fuel burning heater, appliance, or fireplace,
and in any dwelling unit having an attached garage.
      (8)   Insect, rodent, and infestation control standards.
         (a)   Screens. For protection against mosquitoes, flies, and other
insects every dwelling shall have:
            1.   Supplied and installed screens on every door opening leading
directly from the dwelling to outdoor space. Except, that sliding doors, doors
with self closing devices, doors on mobile homes with self closing devices and
doors that open into rooms of living spaces that are artificially ventilated or
air conditioned are exempt from this provision.
            2.   Supplied and installed screens on every window or other device
with an opening to outdoor space, except that this requirement shall not apply
for any room or rooms of a dwelling that are ventilated year-round with an
operable and installed heating and air conditioning system.
         (b)   Rodent control. Every basement or cellar window used or intended
to be used for ventilation, and every other opening to a basement which might
provide an entry for rodents, shall be supplied with screens installed or such
other approved device as will effectively prevent their entrance.
         (c)   Infestation. Every dwelling shall be maintained in a manner to
be free of any infestations of insects, rodents, or other pests. Every occupant
of a dwelling containing a single dwelling unit shall be responsible for the
extermination of any insects, rodents, or other pests therein or on the
premises; and every occupant of a dwelling unit in a dwelling containing more
than one dwelling unit shall be responsible for such extermination whenever his
dwelling unit is the only one infested. Whenever infestation exists in two or
more of the dwelling units in any dwelling or in the shared or public parts of
any dwelling containing two or more dwelling units, extermination shall be the
responsibility of the owner.
         (d)   Rubbish storage and disposal. Every dwelling shall be supplied
with approved containers and covers for storage of rubbish as required by town
ordinances, and the owner, operator, or agent in control of such dwelling or
dwelling unit shall be responsible for the removal of rubbish.
         (e)   Garbage storage and disposal. Every dwelling shall be supplied
with an approved outside garbage container as required by town ordinances.
      (9)   Rooming house standards. All of the provisions of this chapter, and
all of the minimum standards and requirements of this chapter, shall be
applicable to rooming houses, and to every person who operates a rooming house
or who occupies or lets to another for occupancy any rooming unit in any
rooming house, except as provided in the following divisions:
         (a)   Water closet, hand lavatory and bath facilities. At least one
water closet, lavatory basin and bathtub or shower, properly connected to an
approved water and sewer system and in good working condition, shall be
supplied for each four rooms within a rooming house wherever such facilities
are shared. All such facilities shall be located within the residence building
served, shall be directly accessible from a common hall or passageway and shall
not be more than one story removed from any of the persons sharing such
facilities. Every lavatory basin and bathtub or shower shall be supplied with
hot and cold water at all times. Such required facilities shall not be located
in a cellar.
         (b)   Sanitary conditions. The operator of every rooming house shall
be responsible for the sanitary maintenance of all walls, floors, and ceilings,
and for the sanitary maintenance of every other part of the rooming house; and
shall be further responsible for the sanitary maintenance of the entire
premises where the entire structure or building within which the rooming house
is contained, is leased or occupied by the operator.
         (c)   Sanitary facilities. Every water closet, flush urinal, lavatory
basin and bathtub or shower required by division (9)(a) above of this section
shall be located within the rooming house and within a room or rooms which
afford privacy and are separate from the habitable rooms, and which are
accessible from a common hall and without going outside the rooming house or
through any other room therein.
[Note: Full compliance with a standard means that if any part of the stated
standard is not complied with by a particular dwelling, then that dwelling has
failed to fully comply with the enumerated standard. For example, in regard to
the standard listed in division (B)(2)(a) above, if all standards are met in a
dwelling except that a supply of hot water is not provided then the dwelling
fails to fully comply with the standard of (B)(2)(a).]
(Ord. 23-227, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 152.08 DWELLINGS NOT IN COMPLIANCE BUT NOT UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION.
   In any case where the Housing Inspector determines that a dwelling fails to
fully comply with one or more but less than seven of the above enumerated
standards of dwelling fitness, such dwelling shall not be found to be unfit for
human habitation and shall not be subject to the procedures and remedies as
provided for in this chapter for dwellings unfit for human habitation. Each
such failure or noncompliance, however, shall constitute a violation of the
terms of this chapter and shall subject the violator to the penalties and
enforcement procedures of §
152.13, General Penalty. In making the determination as described in this
section, the Housing Inspector shall not be required to make notice and hold
the hearing as called for in §
152.06, but the Housing Inspector may do so if the determination of the
severity and classification of dwelling fitness is not clear to the Housing
Inspector upon preliminary investigation.
(Ord. 23-227, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 152.09 PROCEDURE AFTER HEARING; ORDER.
   (A)   If, after notice and hearing, the Housing Inspector determines that
the dwelling under consideration is unfit for human habitation in accordance
with the standards set forth above, he shall state in writing his findings of
fact in support of that determination and shall issue and cause to be served
upon the owner thereof an order:
      (1)   If the repair, alteration or improvement of the dwelling can be
made at a cost of less than 50% of the value of the dwelling, requiring the
owner, within the time specified, to repair, alter or improve the dwelling in
order to render it fit for human habitation or to vacate and close the dwelling
as a human habitation, based upon the Housing Inspector's standards for closing
dwellings; or
      (2)   If the repair, alteration, or improvement of the dwelling cannot be
made at a cost of less than 50% of the value of the dwelling, requiring the
owner, within the time specified in the order, to repair, alter or improve the
dwelling in order to render it fit for human habitation or to remove or
demolish such dwelling.
   (B)   If, after notice and hearing the Housing Inspector determines that the
dwelling under consideration is not unfit for human habitation but is not in
full compliance with one or more standards of dwelling fitness as set forth
above, he may cause a warning citation to be issued to the owner, either in
person or posted in the United States mail service by first class mail
addressed to the last known address of the owner as contained in the records of
the County. Such warning citation shall set out the nature of the violation,
the section violated, the date of the violation, and shall contain an order to
bring the dwelling into compliance with this chapter, providing for a
reasonable period of time in which the violation must be corrected.
   (C)   Whenever a determination is made pursuant to divisions (A) or (B) of
this section that a dwelling must be vacated and closed, or removed or
demolished, under the provisions of this chapter, notice of the order shall be
given by first-class mail to any organization involved in providing or
restoring dwellings for affordable housing that has filed a written request for
such notices. A minimum period of 45 days from the mailing of such notice shall
be given before removal or demolition by action of the Inspector, to allow the
opportunity for any organization to negotiate with the owner to make repairs,
lease, or purchase the property for the purpose of providing affordable
housing. The Inspector shall certify the mailing of the notices, and the
certifications shall be conclusive in the absence of fraud. Only an
organization that has filed a written request for such notices may raise the
issue of failure to mail such notices, and the sole remedy shall be an order
requiring the Inspector to wait 45 days before causing removal or demolition.
(Ord. 23-227, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 152.10 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ORDER.
   (A)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to repair, alter or improve
or to vacate and close the dwelling, the Housing Inspector may:
      (1)   Cause the dwelling to be repaired, altered, or improved or to be
vacated and closed.
      (2)   Cause to be posted on the main entrance of any such dwelling, a
placard with the following words: “This building is unfit for human habitation;
the use or occupation of this building for human habitation is prohibited and
unlawful.” Occupation of a building so posted shall constitute a violation of
this chapter.
   (B)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to repair, alter or improve
or to remove or demolish the dwelling, the Housing Inspector may:
      (1)   Cause such dwelling to be vacated and removed or demolished.
      (2)   Cause to be posted on the main entrance of any such dwelling, a
placard with the following words: “This building is unfit for human habitation;
the use or occupation of this building for human habitation is prohibited and
unlawful.” Occupation of a building so posted shall constitute a violation of
this chapter.
   (C)   The duties of the Housing Inspector set forth in divisions (A) and (B)
shall not be exercised until the Board of Commissioners shall have by ordinance
ordered the Housing Inspector to proceed to effectuate the purpose of this
chapter with respect to the particular property or properties which the Housing
Inspector shall have found to be unfit for human habitation and which property
or properties shall be described in the ordinance. No such ordinance shall be
adopted to require demolition of a dwelling until the owner has first been
given a reasonable opportunity to bring it into conformity with the Housing
Standards. For the purposes of this subsection, a period of 90 days following
the date of the Housing Inspector's order shall constitute a reasonable
opportunity. The ordinance shall be recorded in the Office of the Register of
Deeds in the county wherein the property or properties are located and shall be
indexed in the name of the property owner in the grantor index.
   (D)   The amount of the cost of repairs, alterations, or improvements, or
vacating and closing, or removal or demolition by the Housing Inspector shall
be a lien against the real property upon which the cost was incurred, which
lien shall be filed, have the same priority, and be collected as the lien for
special assessment provided in G.S. Ch. 160A, Article 10. If the dwelling is
removed or demolished by the Housing Inspector, he shall sell the materials of
the dwelling, and any personal property, fixture or appurtenances found in or
attached to the dwelling, and shall credit the proceeds of the sale against the
cost of the removal or demolition and any balance remaining shall be deposited
in the Superior Court by the Housing Inspector, shall be secured in a manner
directed by the Court, and shall be disbursed by the Court to the persons found
to be entitled thereto by final order of the decree of the Court.
   (E)   If any occupant fails to comply with an order to vacate a dwelling,
the Housing Inspector may file a civil action in the name of the town to remove
such occupant. The action to vacate the dwelling shall be in the nature of
summary ejectment and shall be commenced by filing a complaint naming as
parties-defendant any persons occupying such dwelling. The Clerk of Superior
Court shall issue a summons requiring the defendant to appear before a
magistrate at a certain time, date, and place not to exceed ten days from the
issuance of the summons to answer the complaint. The summons and complaint
shall be served as provided in G.S. § 42-29. The summons shall be returned
according to its tenor, and if on its return it appears to have been duly
served, and if at the hearing the Housing Inspector produces the certified copy
of an Ordinance adopted by the Board of Commissioners pursuant to division (C)
above authorizing the Housing Inspector to proceed to vacate the occupied
dwelling, the magistrate shall enter judgment ordering that the premises be
vacated and that all persons be removed. The judgement ordering that the
dwelling be vacated shall be enforced in the same manner as the judgment for
summary ejectment entered under G.S. § 42-30. An appeal from any judgment
entered hereunder by the magistrate may be taken as provided in G.S. 7A-228,
and the execution of such judgement may be stayed as provided in G.S. § 7A-227.
An action to remove an occupant of a dwelling who is a tenant of the owner may
not be in the nature of a summary ejectment proceeding pursuant to this
paragraph unless such occupant was served with notice at least 30 days before
the filing of the summary ejectment proceeding that the Board of Commissioners
has ordered the Housing Inspector to proceed to exercise his duties under
divisions (A), (B) and (C) of this section to vacate and close or remove and
demolish the dwelling.
   (F)   If the Board of Commissioners shall have adopted an ordinance, or the
Housing Inspector shall have issued an order, ordering a dwelling to be
repaired or vacated and closed, as provided in §
152.09, and if the owner has vacated and closed such dwelling and kept such
dwelling vacated and closed for a period of one year pursuant to the ordinance
or order, then if the Board of Commissioners shall find that the owner has
abandoned the intent and purpose to repair, alter, or improve the dwelling in
order to render it fit for human habitation and that the continuation of the
dwelling in its vacated and closed status would be inimical to the health,
safety, moral, and welfare of the town in that the dwelling would continue to
deteriorate, would create a fire and safety hazard, would be a threat to
children and vagrants, would attract persons intent on criminal activities,
would cause or contribute to blight and the deterioration of property values in
the area, and would render unavailable property and a dwelling which might
otherwise have been made available to ease the persistent shortage of decent
and affordable housing in the town, then in such circumstances, the Board of
Commissioners may, after the expiration of such one year period, enact an
ordinance and serve such ordinance on the owner, setting forth the following:
      (1)   If it is determined that the repair of the dwelling to render it
fit for human habitation can be made at a cost not exceeding 50% of the then
current value of the dwelling, the ordinance shall require that the owner
either repair or demolish and remove the dwelling within 90 days; or
      (2)   If it is determined that the repair of the dwelling to render it
fit for human habitation cannot be made at a cost not exceeding 50% of the then
current value of the dwelling, the ordinance shall require the owner to
demolish and remove the dwelling within 90 days.
   (G)   This ordinance shall be recorded in the Office of the Register of
Deeds in the county wherein the property or properties are located and shall be
indexed in the name of the property owner in the grantor index as provided by
G.S. § 160D-1203(4). If the owner fails to comply with the ordinance, the
Housing Inspector shall effect the purpose of the ordinance.
(Ord. 23-227, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 152.11 SERVICE OF COMPLAINTS AND ORDERS.
   (A)   Complaints or orders issued by the Housing Inspector shall be served
upon persons either personally or by certified mail. When service is made by
certified mail, a copy of the complaint or order may also be sent by regular
mail. Service shall be deemed sufficient if the certified mail is unclaimed or
refused, but the regular mail is not returned by the post office within ten
days after the mailing. If regular mail is used, a notice of the pending
proceedings shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises affected.
   (B)   If the identities of any owners or the whereabouts of persons are
unknown and cannot be ascertained by the inspector in the exercise of
reasonable diligence, or, if the owners are known but have refused to accept
service by certified mail, and the inspector makes an affidavit to that effect,
then the serving of the complaint or order upon the owners or other persons may
be made by publication in a newspaper having general circulation in the town at
least not later than the time at which personal service would be required under
the provisions of this chapter. When service is made by publication, a notice
of the pending proceedings shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the
premises thereby affected.
(Ord. 23-227, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 152.12 APPEALS.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment is hereby appointed as the Housing Appeals
Board to which appeals from any decision or order of the Housing Inspector may
be taken. Except where this chapter provides for different rules or procedures,
the Board of Adjustment acting as the Housing Appeals Board shall follow its
rules of procedure, which may be amended to provide specifically for this
function.
   (B)   An appeal from any decision or order of the Housing Inspector may be
taken by any person aggrieved thereby or by any officer, board, or commission
of the town. Any appeal from the Housing Inspector shall be taken within ten
days from the rendering of the decision or service of the order by filing with
the Housing Inspector and with the Board a notice of appeal which shall specify
the grounds upon which the appeal is based. Upon the filing of any notice of
appeal, the Housing Inspector shall forthwith transmit to the Board all the
papers constituting the record upon which the decision appealed from was made.
When an appeal is from a decision of the Housing Inspector refusing to allow
the person aggrieved thereby to do any such act, his decision shall remain in
force until modified or reversed. When any appeal is from a decision of the
Housing Inspector requiring the person aggrieved to do any act, the appeal
shall have the effect of suspending the requirement until the hearing by the
Board, unless the Housing Inspector certifies to the Board after the notice of
appeal is filed with him, that because of facts stated in the certificate (a
copy of which shall be furnished the appellant), a suspension of his
requirement would cause imminent peril to life or property. In that case the
requirement shall not be suspended except by a restraining order, which may be
granted for due cause shown upon not less than one day's written notice to the
Housing Inspector, by the Board, or by a court of record upon petition made
pursuant to division (E) below of this section.
   (C)   The Board shall fix a reasonable time for hearing appeals, shall give
due notice to the parties, and shall render its decision within a reasonable
time. Any party may appear in person or by agent or attorney. The Board may
reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the decision or order
appealed from, and may make any decision and order that in its opinion ought to
be made in the matter, and to that end it shall have all the powers of the
Housing Inspector, but the concurring vote of four-fifths of the members of the
Board shall be necessary to reverse or modify any decision or order of the
Housing Inspector. The Board shall have power also in passing upon appeals,
when practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships would result from carrying
out the strict letter of this chapter, to adapt the application of the chapter
to the necessities of the case to the end that the spirit of the chapter shall
be observed, public safety and welfare secured, and substantial justice done.
   (D)   Every decision of the Board shall be subject to review by proceedings
in the nature of certiorari instituted within 15 days of the decision of the
Board, but not otherwise.
   (E)   Any person aggrieved by an order issued by the Housing Inspector, or a
decision rendered by the Board may petition the Superior Court for an
injunction, restraining the Housing Inspector from carrying out the order or
decision and the Court may, upon such petition, issue a temporary injunction
restraining the Housing Inspector pending a final disposition of the cause. The
petition shall be filed within 30 days after issuance of the order or rendering
of the decision. Hearings shall be had by the Court on a petition within 20
days and shall be given preference over other matters on the Court's calendar.
The Court shall hear and determine the issues raised and shall enter such final
order or decree as law and justice may require. It shall not be necessary to
file bond in any amount before obtaining a temporary injunction under this
division (E).
(Ord. 23-227, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 152.13 GENERAL PENALTIES.
   (A)   An act constituting a violation of the provisions of this chapter or a
failure to comply with any of its requirements shall subject the offender to a
civil penalty of $50, which includes administrative fees. Each day any single
violation continues shall be a separate violation. A violation of this chapter
shall not constitute a misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. § 14-4. If the offender
fails to correct this violation by the prescribed deadline after being notified
of said violation, the penalty may be recovered in a civil action in the nature
of a debt.
   (B)   In addition to the civil penalties set out above, any provision of
this chapter may be enforced by an appropriate equitable remedy issuing from a
court of competent jurisdiction. In such case, the General Court of Justice
shall have jurisdiction to issue such orders as may be appropriate, and it
shall not be a defense to the application of the town for equitable relief that
there is an adequate remedy at law.
   (C)   In addition to the civil penalties set out above, the provisions of
this chapter may be enforced by injunction and order of abatement by the
General Court of Justice. When a violation of these provisions occurs, the town
may apply to the appropriate division of the General Court of Justice for a
mandatory or prohibitory injunction and/or order of abatement commanding the
defendant to correct the unlawful condition upon or cease the unlawful use of
the property. The action shall be governed in all respects by the laws and
rules governing civil proceedings, including the Rules of Civil Procedure in
general and Rule 65, in particular.
   (D)   Upon failure of the violator to obey the notice of violation/warning
citation, a notice of civil citation may be issued by the enforcement official,
either served directly on the violator, his duly designated agent, or
registered agent if a corporation, either in person or posted in the United
States mail service by first class mail addressed to the last known address of
the violator as contained in the records of the county or obtained from the
violator at the time of issuance of the notice of violation/warning citation.
The violator shall be deemed to have been served upon the mailing of said
notice of civil citation. The notice of civil citation shall direct the
violator to appear in person at the town hall to pay the penalty within 15 days
of the date of the civil citation, or alternatively to pay the citation by
mail.
   The violation for which the penalty is issued must have been corrected by
the time the penalty is paid, otherwise further penalties shall accrue.
Penalties accrue from the date initially imposed in the notice of civil
citation and will continue without further notice, for each day the offense
continues, until the prohibited activity is corrected, ceased, or abated. The
town may institute a civil action in the North Carolina General Court of
Justice for the collection of the penalty, attorney fees, interest, court
costs, and other such relief as permitted by law.
(Ord. 23-227, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 152.14 ALTERNATIVE REMEDIES.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter nor any of its provisions shall be construed
to impair or limit in any way the power of the town to define and declare
nuisances and to cause their removal or abatement by summary proceedings or
otherwise nor shall enforcement of one remedy provided herein prevent the
enforcement of any other remedy or remedies provided herein or in other
chapters or laws. In addition to the remedies provided for herein, any
violation of the terms of this chapter shall subject the violator to the
penalties and remedies, as set forth in the §
152.13.
   (B)   No dwelling shall be hereafter erected, altered, moved, or changed in
occupancy without a certificate of occupancy. In any case where the Housing
Inspector, after notice and hearing as required herein, finds that a dwelling
or dwelling unit is unfit for human habitation, he shall withhold issuance of a
certificate of occupancy for such dwelling or dwelling unit: until such time
that he determines that it is fit for human habitation. In addition, in any
case where the Housing Inspector, after preliminary investigation as provided
for herein, concludes, based upon that investigation, that a dwelling or
dwelling unit is unfit for human habitation and believes that the occupancy of
such dwelling or dwelling unit could cause imminent peril to life or property
from fire or other hazards, he shall withhold issuance of a certificate of
occupancy for such dwelling or dwelling unit until such time that he determines
that it is fit for human habitation.
   (C)   If any dwelling is erected, constructed, altered, repaired, converted,
maintained, or used in violation of this chapter or of any valid order or
decision of the Housing Inspector or Board made pursuant to any ordinance
adopted under authority of this chapter, the Housing Inspector may institute
any appropriate action or proceedings to prevent the unlawful erection,
construction, reconstruction, alteration or occupancy, to restrain, correct or
abate the violation, to prevent the occupancy of the dwellings, or to prevent
any illegal act, conduct or use in or about the premises of the dwelling.
(Ord. 23-227, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 152.15 CONFLICT WITH OTHER PROVISIONS.
   In the event any provision, standard or requirement of this chapter is found
to be in conflict with any provision of any other ordinance or code of the
town, the provision which establishes the higher standard or more stringent
requirement for the promotion and protection of the health and safety of the
residents of the town's jurisdiction shall prevail. The North Carolina Building
Code, current edition, shall serve as the standard for all alterations,
repairs, additions, removals, demolitions, and other acts of building made or
required pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 23-227, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 152.16 VIOLATIONS.
   In addition to the conditions, acts or failures to act that constitute
violations specified in this chapter above, it shall be unlawful for the owner
of any dwelling or dwelling unit to fail, neglect or refuse to repair, alter or
improve the same, or to vacate and close or vacate and remove or demolish the
same, upon order of the Inspector duly made and served as herein provided,
within the time specified in such order. It shall be unlawful for the owner of
any dwelling, with respect to which an order has been issued pursuant to §
152.09, to occupy or permit the occupancy of the same after the time prescribed
in such order for its repair, alteration or improvement or its vacation and
closing, or vacation and removal or demolition.
(Ord. 23-227, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 152.17 VALIDITY.
   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of this chapter is
for any reason held to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity
of the remaining portions of this chapter. The Board of Commissioners hereby
declares that it would have passed this chapter and each section, subsection,
clause, and phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more
sections, subsections, sentences, clauses or phrases be declared invalid.
(Ord. 23-227, passed 3-21-2023)
CHAPTER 152A: NON-RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES STANDARDS
Section
   
152A.01   Title
   
152A.02   Purpose
   
152A.03   Findings; authority
   
152A.04   Scope; jurisdiction
   
152A.05   General definitions and interpretations
   
152A.06   Special definitions and interpretations
   
152A.07   Office of Non-Residential Buildings or Structures Standards Inspector
created; powers and duties
   
152A.08   Duties and responsibilities of the owner
   
152A.09   Duties and responsibilities of the occupant
   
152A.10   Relationship of duties and responsibilities to occupancy
   
152A.11   Validity
   
152A.12   Conflict with other provisions
   
152A.13   Amendments
   
152A.14   Unlawful to own unsafe buildings and structures
   
152A.15   Buildings and premises not declared unsafe but which are not in
compliance with all standards
   
152A.16   Investigation
   
152A.17   Complaint and notice of hearing
   
152A.18   Order to take corrective action; contents; issuance
   
152A.19   Service of complaints and orders of Inspector
   
152A.20   Appeal of order of Inspector; finality if not appealed
   
152A.21   Failure to comply with order of Inspector
   
152A.22   Remedies; lien for cost of demolition and removal
   
152A.23   Failure of occupant to comply with order to vacate
   
152A.24   Action by Board of Commissioners upon abandonment of intent to repair
   
152A.25   Demolition of non-residential buildings or structures by owner
   
152A.26   Inspections
   
152A.27   Defects in buildings to be corrected
   
152A.28   Violations
   
152A.29   General penalties
   
152A.30   Procedure is alternative
§ 152A.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Non-Residential Buildings or Structures
Standards” for the Town of Fairmont, and may be cited as such, and will be
referred to hereinafter as “this chapter.”
(Ord. 23-228, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 152A.02 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of the provisions of this chapter to provide a just,
equitable and practicable method to evaluate whether non-residential buildings
or structures fail to meet minimum standards of maintenance, sanitation, and
safety established by the town. The minimum standards address conditions that
are dangerous and injurious to public health, safety, and welfare and identify
circumstances under which a public necessity exists for the repair, closing, or
demolition of such buildings or structures. The provisions of this chapter are
cumulative with and in addition to any other remedy provided by law including
the current editions of standard codes adopted by the town.
(Ord. 23-228, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 152A.03 FINDINGS; AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Pursuant to G.S. Chapter 160D-1129, it is hereby found and declared
that there exist in the town, and its planning and development regulation
jurisdiction, non-residential buildings or structures which are unsafe and
especially dangerous to life because of liability to fire or because of bad
conditions of walls, overloaded floors, defective construction, decay, unsafe
wiring or heating systems, inadequate means of egress and other causes.
   (B)   In addition, it is hereby found and declared, that there exist in the
town, and its planning and development regulation jurisdiction, non-residential
buildings or structures which, although not meeting the classification of
unsafe and especially dangerous to life, fail to fully comply with all the
minimum standards for non-residential buildings or structures fitness as
established herein and, therefore, have present one or more conditions which
are inimical to the public health, safety and general welfare. Such conditions,
if not corrected, can lead to deterioration and dilapidation of non-residential
buildings or structures which render them unsafe and especially dangerous to
life.
(Ord. 23-228, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 152A.04 SCOPE; JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all existing non-residential
buildings or structures and to all non-residential buildings or structures
hereafter constructed within the corporate town limits and its planning and
development regulation jurisdiction, as now or hereafter established.
(Ord. 23-228, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 152A.05 GENERAL DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS.
   Unless specifically defined in §
152A.06, words used in the Non-Residential Buildings or Structures Standards
shall have their respective customary dictionary definitions. For the purpose
of these regulations, certain words, terms or phrases used herein are
interpreted and defined as follows.
   (A)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future tense.
   (B)   Words used in the singular shall include the plural and words used in
the plural shall include the singular.
   (C)   The words “shall” and “will” always indicate Mandatory. The words
“should” and “may” always indicate Optional.
   (D)   The word “lot” includes the words “plot” and/or “parcel”.
   (E)   The word “building” includes the word “structure”.
   (F)   The word “person” includes a “firm, association, organization,
partnership, trust, company, corporation and/or individual”.
   (G)   The word “use” includes the terms “arranged, designed, and/or
intended” for a use, activity and/or purpose.
   (H)   The term “Board of Adjustment” shall always indicate the Board of
Adjustment of the Town of Fairmont, North Carolina as created and appointed by
the Board of Commissioners of the Town of Fairmont.
   (I)   The term “Board of Commissioners” shall always indicate the Board of
Commissioners of the Town of Fairmont, North Carolina.
(Ord. 23-228, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 152A.06 SPECIAL DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS.
   The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement
of this chapter:
   BUILDING. Any covered structure intended for shelter, housing or enclosure
of persons, animals, facilities, equipment, or chattels; the term BUILDING
shall be construed to include the term “structure”; furthermore, it shall be
construed as if followed by the term “or part thereof”.
   BUILDING, ACCESSORY. A detached subordinate building located on a lot,
parcel, or tract whose use is incidental to that of the principal building. A
building cannot be considered accessory unless it accompanies a principal
building on the same lot, parcel, or tract.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building in which the principal use of the lot,
parcel or tract is conducted.
   BUILDING CODE. The North Carolina State Building Code.
   DETERIORATION. The condition of a building or part thereof, characterized by
holes, breaks, rot, crumbling, rusting, peeling paint or other evidence of
physical decay or loss of structural integrity.
   FIRE HAZARD. (see also Nuisance) Any thing or act which increases, or may
cause an increase of, the hazard, likelihood or menace of fire to a greater
degree than reasonable for the conduct of the non-residential use on the
premises, or which may unreasonably obstruct, delay, or hinder, or may
unreasonably become the cause of an obstruction, a delay, a hazard or an
unreasonable hindrance to the prevention, suppression or extinguishment of
fire.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   INFESTATION. The haunting or overrunning by rats, snakes, birds, insects or
other destructive vermin or animals that endanger the public health and safety.
   LANDOWNER or OWNER. The holder of the title in fee simple. Absent evidence
to the contrary, a local government may rely on the county tax records to
determine who is a landowner. The landowner may authorize a person holding a
valid option, lease, or contract to purchase to act as his or her agent or
representative for the purpose of making applications for development
approvals.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES STANDARDS INSPECTOR. The person
delegated as such by the Board of Commissioners of the Town of Fairmont.
(Hereinafter referred to as “the Inspector”.)
   NUISANCE.
      (1)   Any public nuisance known as common law or in equity jurisprudence,
or as provided by the statutes of the State of North Carolina, or the
ordinances of the Town of Fairmont; or
      (2)   Any condition including an attractive nuisance which may prove
detrimental to human health or safety whether in a building, on the premises of
a building, or part of a building or upon an occupied lot; or
      (3)   Physical conditions dangerous to human life or detrimental to
health of persons in, on or near the premises where the condition exists; or
      (4)   Unsanitary conditions or conditions that are dangerous to public
health, well-being, or the general welfare; or
      (5)   Fire hazards or other safety hazards.
   OCCUPANT. Any person who has charge, care or control of a non-residential
building or structure or a part thereof, whether with or without the knowledge
and consent of the owner, or any person, individually or jointly, entitled to
possession regardless of whether the building or structure is actually occupied
or not.
   OWNER. The holder of the title in fee simple and every mortgagee of record
of a property.
   PARTIES IN INTEREST. All individuals, associations, and corporations who
have interests of record in a nonresidential building or structure and any who
are in possession thereof.
   PHYSICAL VALUATION. The estimated cost to replace a building in kind.
   PLUMBING. All of the following supplies, facilities and equipment, gas
pipes, gas burning equipment, water pipes, water heaters, garbage disposal
units, waste pipes, water closets, sinks, installed dishwashers, lavatories,
bathtubs, shower baths, installed clothes washing machines, catch basins, vents
and other similar fixtures, together with all connections to water, sewer or
gas lines, and water pipes and lines utilized in conjunction with HVAC
equipment.
   PREMISES.  A lot, plot or parcel of land including the buildings or
structures thereon, under control by the same owner or occupant, devoted to or
zoned for non-residential use.
   PUBLIC SANITARY SEWER. Any sanitary sewer owned, operated and maintained by
the county or the town and available for public use for the disposal of sewage.
   RUBBISH. Combustible and non-combustible waste materials, except garbage and
ashes, including, but not limited to, paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood,
excelsior, rubber, leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals,
mineral matter, glass crockery and dust.
   SEWAGE. Waste from a flush toilet, bathtub, sink, lavatory, dishwashing or
laundry machine, or water-carried waste from any other fixture, equipment, or
machine.
   STRUCTURALLY SOUND. Substantially free from flaw, defect, decay, or
deterioration to the extent that such structure or structural member is capable
of adequately or safely accomplishing the purpose for which it was intended or
designed.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected which requires location on the
ground. (Refer to the definition of "building" herein.)
   SUPPLIED. Paid for, furnished, or provided by, or under control of, the
owner or occupant.
   VACANT INDUSTRIAL WAREHOUSE.  Any building or structure designed for the
storage of goods or equipment in connection with manufacturing processes, which
has not been used for that purpose for at least one year and has not been
converted to another use.
   VACANT MANUFACTURING FACILITY. Any building or structure previously used for
the lawful production or manufacturing of goods, which has not been used for
that purpose for at least one year and has not been converted to another use.
(Ord. 23-228, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 152A.07 OFFICE OF NON-RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES STANDARDS INSPECTOR
CREATED; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   For the purposes of administering and enforcing the provisions of this
chapter the office of Non-Residential Buildings or Structures Standards
Inspector, (herein called “Inspector”), is hereby created.
   (B)   The Inspector shall be appointed by the Board of Commissioners and
shall have such powers as may be necessary or convenient to carry out and
effectuate the purposes and provision of this chapter including without
limiting the generality of the foregoing, in addition to others herein granted,
the following powers:
      (1)   To investigate the non-residential building conditions in the
jurisdiction in order to determine which buildings therein are unsafe, being
guided in such examinations of buildings by the requirements set forth in this
chapter and for the purpose of carrying out the objectives of this chapter with
respect to such non-residential buildings or structures.
      (2)   To administer oaths and affirmations and to examine witnesses and
receive evidence.
      (3)   To enter upon and within premises and buildings for the purpose of
making examinations and investigations; provided, that such entries shall be
made at reasonable hours in such a manner as to cause the least possible
inconvenience to the persons in possession.
      (4)   To delegate any of his functions and powers under this chapter to
such officers and agents as he may designate.
(Ord. 23-228, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 152A.08 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE OWNER.
   It shall be the duty and responsibility of the owner to maintain all non-
residential buildings or structures in accordance with all standards for non-
residential buildings or structures fitness as stated in this chapter.
(Ord. 23-228, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 152A.09 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE OCCUPANT.
   It shall be the duty and responsibility of the occupant to ensure that:
   (A)   All parts of the premises under the control of the occupant shall be
kept in a safe, clean and sanitary condition consistent with the non-
residential use and the occupant shall refrain from performing any acts which
would render any part of the building or premises unsafe or unsanitary or which
would obstruct any adjacent owner/occupant from performing any duty required,
or from maintaining his building or premises in a safe and sanitary condition.
   (B)   Every occupant shall be responsible for the elimination of infestation
in and on the premises, subject to his control.
   (C)   Every occupant shall maintain all supplied plumbing fixtures in a safe
and sanitary condition and shall be responsible for the exercise of reasonable
care in the proper use and operation of same.
   (D)   No garbage or solid waste shall be stored or allowed by the occupant
to accumulate on the premises unless contained in a trash receptacle(s) which
is in accordance with the ordinances of the town.
   (E)   Damage to public sidewalks and/or curb and gutter located in the
public right-of-way shall be repaired or replaced at no expense to the town
when such damage is caused by vehicles making deliveries to the non-residential
use under the control of the occupant.
   (F)   Where the owner would not otherwise know of a defect of any facility,
utility or equipment required to be furnished hereunder and the same is found
to be defective or inoperable, the occupant affected thereby shall, upon
learning of such defect, provide notice to the owner.
(Ord. 23-228, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 152A.10 RELATIONSHIP OF DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES TO OCCUPANCY.
   The provisions of this chapter that apply to the exterior or exterior
components of a structure or building or to the premises shall be complied with
whether the structure or building or premises is occupied or vacant. All
unoccupied or vacant structures or buildings shall be secured by their owners
to prevent the entry of unauthorized persons or the formation of nuisance
conditions such as infestation.
(Ord. 23-228, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 152A.11 VALIDITY.
   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of this chapter is
for any reason held to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity
of the remaining portions of this chapter. The Board of Commissioners hereby
declares that it would have passed this chapter and each section, subsection,
clause, and phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more
sections, subsections sentences, clauses or phrases be declared invalid.
(Ord. 23-228, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 152A.12 CONFLICT WITH OTHER PROVISIONS.
   In the event any provision, standard or requirement of this chapter is found
to be in conflict with any provision of any other ordinance or code of the
town, the provision which establishes the higher standard or more stringent
requirement for the promotion and protection of the health and safety of the
residents of the jurisdiction shall prevail. The North Carolina State Building
Code, current edition, shall serve as the standard for all alterations,
repairs, additions, removals, demolitions, and other acts of building made or
required pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 23-228, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 152A.13 AMENDMENTS.
   The Board of Commissioners may, from time to time amend, supplement, or
change the provisions and requirements of this chapter. Any such amendment
shall be by ordinance of the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 23-228, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 152A.14 UNLAWFUL TO OWN UNSAFE BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any firm, person, or corporation to own a
building or a structure situated in the jurisdiction of the town which is in
such a defective or hazardous condition that it is unsafe and especially
dangerous to life. The Board of Commissioners has determined that unsafe and
especially dangerous buildings and structures are detrimental to the health,
safety, and welfare of the citizens of Fairmont, that such unsafe and
especially dangerous buildings and structures shall be condemned, and that the
owners of such unsafe and especially dangerous buildings and structures shall
immediately remedy the unsafe, dangerous, hazardous, or unlawful conditions or
demolish such buildings or structures.
   (B)   A building or structure shall be found to be especially dangerous to
life and held unsafe by the Inspector if the Inspector finds that any one of
the following conditions exists in such building or structure:
      (1)   Interior walls or vertical studs which seriously list, lean or
buckle to an extent as to render the building unsafe.
      (2)   Supporting member or members which show 33% or more damage or
deterioration, or non-supporting, enclosing or outside walls or covering which
shows 50% or more of damage or deterioration.
      (3)   Floors or roofs which have improperly distributed loads, which are
overloaded, or which have insufficient strength to be reasonably safe for the
purpose used.
      (4)   Such damage by fire, wind, or other causes as to render the
building unsafe.
      (5)   Dilapidation, decay, unsanitary conditions, or disrepair which is
dangerous to the health, safety or welfare of the occupants or other people of
the jurisdiction.
      (6)   Inadequate facilities for egress in case of fire or panic.
      (7)   Defects significantly increasing the hazards of fire, accident, or
other calamities.
      (8)   Lack of adequate ventilation, light, heating, or sanitary
facilities to such extent as to endanger the health, safety or general welfare
of the occupants or other residents of the jurisdiction.
      (9)   Lack of proper electrical, heating, or plumbing facilities required
by this chapter which constitutes a health or a definite safety hazard.
      (10)   For any building whose occupancy classification requires it, lack
of connection to a potable water supply and/or to the public sanitary sewer or
other approved sewage disposal system. For the purposes of this standard, a
building is not connected to a potable water supply if the water supply has
been “cut off” because of nonpayment of the water bill or otherwise or if the
system for any reason is not receiving a flow of potable water to the tap.
      (11)   Any violation of the State Fire Prevention Code which constitutes
a condition which is unsafe and especially dangerous to life.
      (12)   Any abandoned non-residential building or structure which is found
to be a health or safety hazard by the Inspector as a result of the attraction
of insects or rodents, conditions creating a fire hazard, dangerous conditions
constituting a threat to children, or frequent use by vagrants as living
quarters in the absence of sanitary facilities.
   (C)   In addition to conditions enumerated in (B)(1) through (B)(12) above,
any one of which renders a building or structure unsafe, the Inspector shall
determine that a non-residential building or structure is unsafe if he finds
that a building or structure fails to fully comply with any five or more of the
following enumerated standards of building and premises fitness. Full
compliance with a standard means that if any part of the stated standard is not
complied with by a particular building and premises, then that building and
premises has failed to fully comply with the enumerated standard.
      (1)   General.
         (a)   Buildings and premises shall be kept clear of accumulations of
garbage, trash, or rubbish which create health and sanitation problems. All
garbage and solid waste shall be in approved containers or stored in a safe and
sanitary way.
         (b)   Flammable, combustible, explosive or other dangerous or
hazardous materials shall be stored in a manner approved for such materials and
consistent with the State Fire Prevention Code.
         (c)   Buildings and premises shall be kept free of loose and
insufficiently anchored overhanging objects which constitute a danger of
falling on persons or property.
         (d)   The premises shall be kept free of insufficiently protected
holes, excavations, breaks, projections, obstructions, and other such dangerous
impediments on and around fences, walls, walks, driveways, parking lots and
other areas which are accessible to and generally used by persons on the
premises.
         (e)   Building and premise surfaces shall be kept clear of cracked or
broken glass, loose shingles, loose wood, crumbling stone or brick, loose or
broken plastic or other dangerous objects or similar hazardous conditions.
Exterior surfaces shall be maintained in such material or treated in such a
manner as to prevent deterioration.
         (f)   Buildings and premises shall be kept free of objects and
elements protruding from building walls, roof or premises which are unsafe or
not properly secured or which can create a hazard such as abandoned electrical
boxes and conduits, wires, sign brackets and other brackets, and similar
objects.
      (2)   Appurtenances.
         (a)   All chimneys, flues and vent attachments thereto shall be
maintained structurally sound. Chimneys, flues, gas vents or other draft-
producing equipment which are in use shall provide sufficient draft to develop
the rated output of the connected equipment, shall be structurally safe,
durable, smoke-tight, and capable of withstanding the action of flue gases.
         (b)   All exterior porches, landings, balconies, stairs, and fire
escapes shall be provided with banisters or railings properly designed and
maintained to minimize the hazard of falling, and the same shall be kept
structurally sound, in good repair, and free of defects.
         (c)   All cornices shall be made structurally sound. Rotten or
weakened portions shall be removed and/or replaced. All exposed wood shall be
treated or painted.
         (d)   Gutters and down spouts shall be replaced or repaired as
necessary and shall be appropriately located and securely installed so as not
to cause a hazard to pedestrians, vehicular traffic, or property.
         (e)   Attached and unattached accessory structures shall be maintained
in a state of good repair.
         (f)   Advertising sign structures, attached or freestanding, awnings,
marquees and their supporting members and other similar attachments and
structures shall be maintained in good repair and shall not cause a nuisance or
safety hazard.
      (3)   Structural.
         (a)   Walls, partitions, supporting members, sills, joists, rafters,
or other structural members shall not list, lean, or buckle, shall not be
rotted, deteriorated or damaged, and shall not have holes or cracks which might
admit rodents.
         (b)   Floors or roofs shall have adequate supporting members and
strength to be reasonably safe for the purpose used.
         (c)   Foundations, foundation walls, piers or other foundation
supports shall not be deteriorated or damaged.
         (d)   Interior and exterior steps, railings, landings, porches or
other parts or appurtenances shall be maintained in such condition that they
will not fall or collapse.
         (e)   Where a wall of a building has become exposed as a result of
demolition of an adjacent building said wall must have all doors, windows,
vents or other similar openings closed with material of the type comprising the
wall unless such doors, windows, vents or other similar openings are to be
maintained in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. No protrusions or
loose material shall be in the wall. The exposed wall shall be painted,
stuccoed, or bricked and weatherproofed if necessary to prevent deterioration
of the wall.
      (4)   Plumbing, electrical and supplied facilities.
         (a)   All plumbing fixtures and pipes shall meet the standards of the
State Plumbing Code and shall be maintained in a state of good repair and in
good working order.
         (b)   All electrical fixtures, receptacles, equipment, and wiring
shall be maintained in a state of good repair, safe, capable of being used, and
installed in accordance with the State Electric Code.
         (c)   Every supplied facility, piece of equipment or utility which is
required under this chapter or the State Building Code for occupancy or use
shall be so constructed or installed that it will function safely and
effectively and shall be maintained in satisfactory working condition.
      (5)   Egress.
         (a)   Facilities for egress in case of fire or panic shall be adequate
and shall remain clear for such purposes.
         (b)   All windows must be tight-fitting and have sashes of proper size
and design and free from rotten wood, broken joints, or broken or loose
mullions.
         (c)   All windows shall be maintained free of broken glass that could
be dangerous to the public, invitees or third parties ordinarily expected to
use the premises, from falling or shattering.
         (d)   All openings originally designed as windows shall be maintained
as windows, unless specifically approved by the Inspector for enclosure. All
broken and missing windows shall be replaced with glass, Plexiglass or similar
material approved by the Non-Residential Buildings or Structures Standards
Inspector and the North Carolina Building Code.
      (6)   Drainage. All yards and premises shall be properly graded and
maintained so as to obtain thorough drainage and so as to prevent the
accumulation of stagnant water.
(Ord. 23-228, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 152A.15 BUILDINGS AND PREMISES NOT DECLARED UNSAFE BUT WHICH ARE NOT IN
COMPLIANCE WITH ALL STANDARDS.
   In any case where the Inspector determines that a non-residential building
or structure fails to fully comply with one or more but less than five of the
standards of non-residential buildings or structures fitness set forth in §
152A.14(C), such building or structure shall not be found to be unsafe and
shall not be subject to the procedures and remedies as provided for in this
chapter for unsafe buildings and premises. Each such failure of non-compliance,
however, shall constitute a violation of the terms of this chapter and shall
subject the violator to the penalties and enforcement procedures of §
152A.29. In such case the Inspector shall not be required to notify the owner
as provided for in §
152A.17.
(Ord. 23-228, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 152A.16 INVESTIGATION.
   Whenever it appears to the Inspector that any nonresidential building or
structure has not been properly maintained so that the safety or health of its
occupants or members of the general public are jeopardized for failure of the
property to meet the minimum standards established by the Board of
Commissioners, the Inspector shall undertake a preliminary investigation. If
entry upon the premises for purposes of investigation is necessary, such entry
shall be made pursuant to a duly issued administrative search warrant in
accordance with G.S. § 15-27.2 or with permission of the owner, the owner's
agent, a tenant, or other person legally in possession of the premises.
(Ord. 23-228, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 152A.17 COMPLAINT AND NOTICE OF HEARING.
   If the preliminary investigation discloses evidence of a violation of the
minimum standards, the Inspector shall issue and cause to be served upon the
owner of and parties in interest in the nonresidential building or structure a
complaint. The complaint shall state the charges and contain a notice that a
hearing will be held before the Inspector (or his or her designated agent) at a
place within the town, scheduled not less than ten days nor more than 30 days
after the serving of the complaint; that the owner and parties in interest
shall be given the right to answer the complaint and to appear in person, or
otherwise, and give testimony at the place and time fixed in the complaint; and
that the rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity shall not be
controlling in hearings before the Inspector.
(Ord. 23-228, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 152A.18 ORDER TO TAKE CORRECTIVE ACTION; CONTENTS; ISSUANCE.
   If, after notice and hearing, the Inspector determines that the
nonresidential building or structure has not been properly maintained so that
the safety or health of its occupants or members of the general public is
jeopardized for failure of the property to meet the minimum standards as
established by the Board of Commissioners, the Inspector shall state in writing
the findings of fact in support of that determination and shall issue and cause
to be served upon the owner thereof an order. The order may require the owner
to take remedial action, within a reasonable time specified, subject to the
procedures and limitations herein.
   (A)   An order may require the owner to repair, alter, or improve the
nonresidential building or structure in order to bring it into compliance with
the minimum standards established by the Board of Commissioners or to vacate
and close the nonresidential building or structure for any use.
   (B)   An order may require the owner to remove or demolish the
nonresidential building or structure if the cost of repair, alteration, or
improvement of the building or structure would exceed 50% of its then current
value. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, if the nonresidential
building or structure is designated as a local historic landmark, listed in the
National Register of Historic Places, or located in a locally designated
historic district or in a historic district listed in the National Register of
Historic Places and the Board of Commissioners determines, after a public
hearing as provided by ordinance, that the nonresidential building or structure
is of individual significance or contributes to maintaining the character of
the district, and the nonresidential building or structure has not been
condemned as unsafe, the order may require that the nonresidential building or
structure be vacated and closed until it is brought into compliance with the
minimum standards established by this chapter.
   (C)   An order may not require repairs, alterations, or improvements to be
made to vacant manufacturing facilities or vacant industrial warehouse
facilities to preserve the original use. The order may require such building or
structure to be vacated and closed, but repairs may be required only when
necessary to maintain structural integrity or to abate a health or safety
hazard that cannot be remedied by ordering the building or structure closed for
any use.
(Ord. 23-228, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 152A.19 SERVICE OF COMPLAINTS AND ORDERS OF INSPECTOR.
   Complaints or orders issued by the Inspector pursuant to this ordinance
shall be served upon persons either personally or by certified mail so long as
the means used are reasonably designed to achieve actual notice. When service
is made by certified mail, a copy of the complaint or order may also be sent by
regular mail. Service shall be deemed sufficient if the certified mail is
refused, but the regular mail is not returned by the post office within ten
days after the mailing. If regular mail is used, a notice of the pending
proceedings shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises affected. If
the identities of any owners or the whereabouts of persons are unknown and
cannot be ascertained by the Inspector in the exercise of reasonable diligence,
and the Inspector makes an affidavit to that effect, the serving of the
complaint or order upon the owners or other persons may be made by publication
in a newspaper having general circulation in the town at least once no later
than the time that personal service would be required under this section. When
service is made by publication, a notice of the pending proceedings shall be
posted in a conspicuous place on the premises affected.
(Ord. 23-228, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 152A.20 APPEAL OF ORDER OF INSPECTOR; FINALITY IF NOT APPEALED.
   Any owner who has received an order under §
152A.18 may appeal from the order to the town Board of Adjustment by giving
notice of appeal in writing to the Inspector and to the Town Clerk within ten
days following issuance of the order. In the absence of an appeal to the Board
of Adjustment within the prescribed time, the order of the Inspector shall be
final. The Board of Adjustment shall hear appeals within a reasonable time
after receipt of the notice of appeal and it may modify and affirm or revoke
the order. Any person aggrieved by a decision or order of the Inspector shall
have the remedies provided in G.S. § 160D-1208.
(Ord. 23-228, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 152A.21 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ORDER OF INSPECTOR.
   (A)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to repair, alter, or
improve or to vacate and close the nonresidential building or structure, the
Board of Commissioners may adopt an ordinance ordering the Inspector to proceed
to effectuate the purpose of this section with respect to the particular
property or properties that the Inspector found to be jeopardizing the health
or safety of its occupants or members of the general public. The property or
properties shall be described in the ordinance. The ordinance shall be recorded
in the Office of the Register of Deeds and shall be indexed in the name of the
property owner or owners in the grantor index. Following adoption of an
ordinance, the Inspector may cause the building or structure to be repaired,
altered, or improved or to be vacated and closed. The Inspector may cause to be
posted on the main entrance of any nonresidential building or structure so
closed a placard with the following words: "This building is unfit for any use;
the use or occupation of this building for any purpose is prohibited and
unlawful." Any person who occupies or knowingly allows the occupancy of a
building or structure so posted shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to remove or demolish the
nonresidential building or structure, the Board of Commissioners may adopt an
ordinance ordering the Inspector to proceed to effectuate the purpose of this
section with respect to the particular property or properties that the
Inspector found to be jeopardizing the health or safety of its occupants or
members of the general public. No ordinance shall be adopted to require
demolition of a nonresidential building or structure until the owner has first
been given a reasonable opportunity to bring it into conformity with the
minimum standards established by the Board of Commissioners. The property or
properties shall be described in the ordinance. The ordinance shall be recorded
in the Office of the Register of Deeds and shall be indexed in the name of the
property owner or owners in the grantor index. Following adoption of an
ordinance, the Inspector may cause the building or structure to be removed or
demolished.
(Ord. 23-228, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 152A.22 REMEDIES; LIEN FOR COST OF DEMOLITION AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   The amount of the cost of repairs, alterations, or improvements, or
vacating and closing, or removal or demolition by the Inspector shall be a lien
against the real property upon which the cost was incurred, which lien shall be
filed, have the same priority, and be collected as the lien for special
assessment provided in G.S. Chapter 160A, Article 10.
   (B)   The amount of the costs is also a lien on any other real property of
the owner located within the town limits except for the owner's primary
residence. The additional lien provided in this subsection is inferior to all
prior liens and shall be collected as a money judgment.
   (C)   If the nonresidential building or structure is removed or demolished
by the Inspector, he or she shall offer for sale the recoverable materials of
the building or structure and any personal property, fixtures, or appurtenances
found in or attached to the building or structure and shall credit the proceeds
of the sale, if any, against the cost of the removal or demolition, and any
balance remaining shall be
deposited in the superior court by the Inspector, shall be secured in a manner
directed by the court, and shall be disbursed by the court to the persons found
to be entitled thereto by final order or decree of the court. Nothing in this
section shall be construed to impair or limit in any way the power of the Board
of Commissioners to define and declare nuisances and to cause their removal or
abatement by summary proceedings or otherwise.
(Ord. 23-228, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 152A.23 FAILURE OF OCCUPANT TO COMPLY WITH ORDER TO VACATE.
   If any occupant fails to comply with an order to vacate a nonresidential
building or structure, the Inspector may file a civil action in the name of the
town to remove the occupant. The action to vacate shall be in the nature of
summary ejectment and shall be commenced by filing a complaint naming as
parties-defendant any person occupying the nonresidential building or
structure. The clerk of superior court shall issue a summons requiring the
defendant to appear before a magistrate at a certain time, date, and place not
to exceed ten days from the issuance of the summons to answer the complaint.
The summons and complaint shall be served as provided in G.S. § 42-29. The
summons shall be returned according to its tenor, and if on its return it
appears to have been duly served and if at the hearing the Inspector produces a
certified copy of an ordinance adopted by the Board of Commissioners pursuant
to §
152A.21 of this chapter to vacate the occupied nonresidential building or
structure, the magistrate shall enter judgment ordering that the premises be
vacated and all persons be removed. The judgment ordering that the
nonresidential building or structure be vacated shall be enforced in the same
manner as the judgment for summary ejectment entered under G.S. § 42-30. An
appeal from any judgment entered under this division by the magistrate may be
taken as provided in G.S. § 7A-228, and the execution of the judgment may be
stayed as provided in G.S. § 7A-227. An action to remove an occupant of a
nonresidential building or structure who is a tenant of the owner may not be in
the nature of a summary ejectment proceeding pursuant to this division unless
the occupant was served with notice, at least 30 days before the filing of the
summary ejectment proceeding, that the governing body has ordered the Inspector
to proceed to exercise his or her duties under §
152A.21 of this chapter to vacate and close or remove and demolish the
nonresidential building or structure.
(Ord. 23-228, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 152A.24 ACTION BY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS UPON ABANDONMENT OF INTENT TO
REPAIR.
   (A)   If the Board of Commissioners has adopted an ordinance or the
Inspector has issued an order requiring the building or structure to be
repaired or vacated and closed and the building or structure has been vacated
and closed for a period of two years pursuant to the ordinance or order, the
Board of Commissioners may make findings that the owner has abandoned the
intent and purpose to repair, alter, or improve the building or structure and
that the continuation of the building or structure in its vacated and closed
status would be inimical to the health, safety, and welfare of the municipality
in that it would continue to deteriorate, would create a fire or safety hazard,
would be a threat to children and vagrants,
would attract persons intent on criminal activities, or would cause or
contribute to blight and the deterioration of property values in the area. Upon
such findings, the Board of Commissioners may, after the expiration of the two-
year period, enact an ordinance and serve such ordinance on the owner, setting
forth the following:
      (1)   If the cost to repair the nonresidential building or structure to
bring it into compliance with the minimum standards is less than or equal to
50% of its then current value, the ordinance shall require that the owner
either repair or demolish and remove the building or structure within 90 days;
or
      (2)   If the cost to repair the nonresidential building or structure to
bring it into compliance with the minimum standards exceeds 50% of its then
current value, the ordinance shall require the owner to demolish and remove the
building or structure within 90 days.
   (B)   In the case of vacant manufacturing facilities or vacant industrial
warehouse facilities, the building or structure must have been vacated and
closed pursuant to an order or ordinance for a period of five years before the
Board of Commissioners may take action under this division. The ordinance shall
be recorded in the office of the register of deeds in the county wherein the
property or properties are located and shall be indexed in the name of the
property owner in the grantor index. If the owner fails to comply with the
ordinance, the Inspector shall effectuate the purpose of the ordinance.
(Ord. 23-228, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 152A.25 DEMOLITION OF NON-RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES BY OWNER.
   Where a non-residential building or structure is under the jurisdiction of
this chapter, the building may be demolished by the owner provided that the
following requirements are met:
   (A)   The owner shall obtain a demolition permit from the Building
Inspections Department.
   (B)   All sewer, gas, water and similar taps or connections shall be
properly closed and disconnected.
   (C)   All debris from the building shall be removed from the site. This
requirement is for the removal of all debris that is above the street level of
the building.
   (D)   The lot shall be graded to a smooth, even, finished grade, free from
building material, debris, holes, and/or depressions. Where building debris
remains on the site below street level, the owner must back fill the lot with
12 inches of clean fill which shall be graded to a smooth, even finished grade.
   (E)   Where walls of adjacent buildings become exposed as a result of the
demolition, said walls must have all doors, windows, vents or other similar
openings closed with material of the type comprising the wall, unless such
doors, windows, vents, or other similar openings are to be maintained in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. No protrusions or loose
material shall be in the wall. The exposed wall shall be painted, stuccoed, or
bricked and weatherproofed if necessary to prevent deterioration of the wall.
(Ord. 23-228, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 152A.26 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of carrying out the intent of this chapter, the
Inspector is hereby authorized to enter, examine, and survey at all reasonable
times all non-residential buildings and premises, including abandoned
structures. The owner or occupant of every non-residential building or the
person in charge thereof, shall give the Inspector free access to such building
and its premises, at all reasonable times for the purposes of such inspection,
examination, and survey. Every occupant of a non-residential building shall
give the owner thereof, or his agent or employee, access to any part of such
building and its premises at all reasonable times for the purpose of making
such repairs or alterations as are necessary to effect compliance with the
provisions of this chapter or with any lawful order issued pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Inspector may make periodic inspections for unsafe, unsanitary, or
otherwise hazardous and unlawful conditions in non-residential structures
within the jurisdiction. In addition, he may make inspections when he has
reason to believe that such conditions may exist in a particular structure or
premises.
(Ord. 23-228, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 152A.27 DEFECTS IN BUILDINGS TO BE CORRECTED.
   When the Inspector finds any defects in a non-residential building or finds
that a building has not been constructed in accordance with applicable state
and town laws, or that a building because of its condition is dangerous or
contains fire hazardous conditions, it shall be his duty to notify the owner or
occupant of the building of its defects, hazardous conditions, or failure to
comply with law. The owner or occupant shall each immediately remedy the
defects, hazardous conditions, or violations of law in the property he owns.
Failure to do so shall constitute a violation of this chapter. Each day any
violation of this chapter shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 23-228, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 152A.28 VIOLATIONS.
   In addition to the conditions, acts or failure to act that constitute
violations specified in this chapter, it shall be unlawful for the owner of any
building or structure to fail, neglect or refuse to repair, alter or improve
the same, or to vacate and close or vacate and remove or demolish the same,
upon order of the Inspector duly made and served as herein provided, within the
time specified in such order. It shall be
unlawful for the owner of any building, with respect to which an order has been
issued pursuant to §
152A.18, to occupy or permit the occupancy of the same after the time
prescribed in such order for its repair, alteration or improvement or its
vacation and closing, or vacation and removal or demolition.
(Ord. 23-228, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 152A.29 GENERAL PENALTIES.
   (A)   An act constituting a violation of the provisions of this chapter or a
failure to comply with any of its requirements shall subject the offender to a
civil penalty of $100, which includes administrative fees. Each day any single
violation continues shall be a separate violation. A violation of this chapter
shall not constitute a misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. § 14-4. If the offender
fails to correct this violation by the prescribed deadline after being notified
of said violation, the penalty may be recovered in a civil action in the nature
of a debt.
   (B)      In addition to the civil penalties set out above, any provision of
this chapter may be enforced by an appropriate equitable remedy issuing from a
court of competent jurisdiction. In such case, the General Court of Justice
shall have jurisdiction to issue such orders as may be appropriate, and it
shall not be a defense to the application of the town for equitable relief that
there is an adequate remedy at law.
   (C)   In addition to the civil penalties set out above, the provisions of
this chapter may be enforced by injunction and order of abatement by the
General Court of Justice. When a violation of these provisions occurs, the town
may apply to the appropriate division of the General Court of Justice for a
mandatory or prohibitory injunction and/or order of abatement commanding the
defendant to correct the unlawful condition upon or cease the unlawful use of
the property. The action shall be governed in all respects by the laws and
rules governing civil proceedings, including the Rules of Civil Procedure in
general and Rule 65, in particular.
   (D)   Upon failure of the violator to obey the notice of violation/warning
citation, a notice of civil citation may be issued by the enforcement official,
either served directly on the violator, his duly designated agent, or
registered agent if a corporation, either in person or posted in the United
States mail service by first class mail addressed to the last known address of
the violator as contained in the records of the county or obtained from the
violator at the time of issuance of the notice of violation/warning citation.
The violator shall be deemed to have been served upon the mailing of said
notice of civil citation. The notice of civil citation shall direct the
violator to appear in person at the town hall to pay the penalty within 15 days
of the date of the civil citation, or alternatively to pay the citation by
mail. The violation for which the penalty is issued must have been corrected by
the time the penalty is paid, otherwise further penalties shall accrue.
Penalties accrue from the date initially imposed in the notice of civil
citation and will continue without further notice, for each day the offense
continues, until the prohibited activity is corrected, ceased, or abated. The
Town may institute a civil action in the North Carolina General Court of
Justice for the collection of the penalty, attorney fees, interest, court
costs, and other such relief as permitted by law.
(Ord. 23-228, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 152A.30 PROCEDURE IS ALTERNATIVE.
   Neither this chapter nor any of its provisions shall be construed to impair
or limit in any way the power of the town to define and declare nuisances and
to cause their abatement by summary action or otherwise, and the enforcement of
any remedy provided herein shall not prevent the enforcement of any other
remedy or remedies provided herein or in other ordinance or laws.
(Ord. 23-228, passed 3-21-2023)
CHAPTER 153: (RESERVED)
CHAPTER 154: ZONING ORDINANCE
Section
Purpose and Authority
   
154.001   Short title
   
154.002   Authority
   
154.003   Purpose
   
154.004   Repeal of prior ordinance, inconsistencies
   
154.005   Jurisdiction and exemptions, extraterritorial jurisdiction, split
jurisdiction
   
154.006   Compliance
   
154.007   Relationship to Comprehensive Plan
   
154.008   Development approvals run with the land
   
154.009   Fees
   
154.010   Severability
   
154.011   Conflicts with other regulations
   
154.012   Effect on prior laws
   
154.013   Effective date
Interpretation and Definitions
   
154.020   Minimum requirements
   
154.021   Greater restrictions govern
   
154.022   Rounding of numbers
   
154.023   Figures and tables
   
154.024   Rules of construction
   
154.025   Computation of time
   
154.026   Definitions
General Regulations
   
154.035   General
   
154.036   Applicability to extraterritorial areas
   
154.037   Zoning map
   
154.038   Interpretation by Zoning Administrator
   
154.039   Types of zoning map interpretation
   
154.040   Relationship of zoning map to comprehensive land use plan
   
154.041   North Carolina state building codes
   
154.042   Street access
   
154.043   Minimum requirements for newly created lots
   
154.044   Minimum street requirements
   
154.045   Required yards not to be used by another building
   
154.046   Relationship of building to lot
   
154.047   Substandard lot of record
   
154.048   Adjoining and vacant lots of record
   
154.049   Additional environmental provisions
   
154.050   Curb cuts giving access to public rights-of-way
   
154.051   Projection into public rights-of-way
   
154.052   Height limit exceptions
   
154.053   Corner visibility
   
154.054   No minimum square footage for one-and two-family dwellings
   
154.055   Record retention
Authority Related to Planning and Zoning
(Board of Commissioners, Planning Board, Board of Adjustment, Town Clerk and
Zoning Administrator)
   
154.065   Types of authority
   
154.066   Conflicts of interest
   
154.067   Board of Commissioners - general authority and duties related to
zoning
   
154.068   Town Clerk - general authority and duties
   
154.069   Administrative Staff/Zoning Administrator - general authority and
duties
   
154.070   Planning Board - general authority and duties
   
154.071   Board of Adjustment - general authority and duties
   
154.072   Other advisory boards
Administrative Permits, Enforcement and Appeals
   
154.080   Purpose
   
154.081   Zoning permit approval required
   
154.082   Zoning Enforcement Officer established
   
154.083   Zoning permit application procedure
   
154.084   Site plan content requirements
   
154.085   Temporary certificate of zoning compliance
   
154.086   Sign permit procedure
   
154.087   Temporary use permit procedure
   
154.088   Duration of permits
   
154.089   Changes to zoning permits
   
154.090   Inspections by administrative staff
   
154.091   Violations
   
154.092   Enforcement
   
154.093   Remedies
   
154.094   Revocations (cancellations) of permits
   
154.095   Certificate of occupancy
   
154.096   Appeals of administrative decisions
Quasi-Judicial Permits, Enforcement and Appeals
(Special Use Permits, Variances and Appeals of Administrative Decisions)
   
154.105   Purpose
   
154.106   Permit approval required
   
154.107   Special use permits
   
154.108   Variances
   
154.109   Appeals of administrative decisions; procedure
   
154.110   Appeals of variances, special use permits, and other quasi-judicial
decisions
   
154.111   Subdivision approvals
   
154.112   Appeal of decisions on subdivision plats
   
154.113   Civil action for declaratory relief, other remedies; joinder of
complaint and petition for writ of certiorari in certain cases
   
154.114   No estoppel effect when challenging development conditions
   
154.115   Other civil actions
   
154.116   Statutes of limitations
Legislative Permits, Enforcement, and Appeals
(Text Amendments and Rezoning)
   
154.125   Development approval required
   
154.126   Procedure for ordinance text and zoning map amendments (rezoning)
   
154.127   Legislative decisions: citizen comments
   
154.128   Legislative decisions: Planning Board review and comments
   
154.129   Legislative decisions: governing board statement
   
154.130   Legislative decisions: duration
   
154.131   Legislative decisions: revocation
   
154.132   Legislative decisions: statute of limitations
   
154.133   Legislative decisions: judicial review and appeal
   
154.134   Legislative decisions: down-zoning
   
154.135   Reconsideration: one-year limitation
Zoning Districts and Table of Uses
   
154.145   Purpose and boundaries
   
154.146   Types of uses within districts
   
154.147   Rural Agriculture District (R-A)
   
154.148   Residential District R-20
   
154.149   Residential District R-15
   
154.150   Residential District R-10
   
154.151   Residential District R-8
   
154.152   Residential District R-5
   
154.153   Mobile Home Park Residential (R-MH)
   
154.154   Central Business District (C-B)
   
154.155   General Business District (G-B)
   
154.156   Neighborhood Business District N-B
   
154.157   Light Industrial District L-1
   
154.158   Historic Business District (H-D Business)
   
154.159   Summary dimensions matrix (existing and proposed ordinances)
   
154.160   Table of uses
Other Design Standards for Zoning Districts
   
154.170   Purpose
   
154.171   Building design elements which cannot be regulated
   
154.172   Regulation of land or structures subject to the NC Residential Code
for One- and Two-Family Dwellings
   
154.173   Standards applicable to all districts
Off-Street Parking and Loading, Signs, Landscaping and Buffering, Outdoor
Lights
Part I. Off-Street Parking, Stacking and Loading Requirements
   
154.185   General requirements
   
154.186   Parking lots
   
154.187   Parking and storing of manufactured homes and vehicles
   
154.188   Design requirements for parking spaces and driveways
   
154.189   Design requirements for off-street loading space
Part II. Signs
   
154.195   Purpose of sign regulations
   
154.196   General sign regulations
   
154.197   Signs not requiring a permit from the Zoning Enforcement Officer
   
154.198   Permanent signs for subdivisions and multi-family developments
   
154.199   Business and industrial signs
   
154.200   Outdoor advertising signs
   
154.201   Signs on town property
   
154.202   Sign permits
Part III. Landscaping, Buffering and Screening
   
154.205   Purpose of buffering and screening
   
154.206   Landscaping of parking and loading areas
   
154.207   Screening of dumpsters
   
154.208   Screening of multi-family, industrial and commercial uses
   
154.209   Walls, fences, and planted screens
   
154.210   Line of sight
   
154.211   Alternative screening methods
   
154.212   Use of existing screening
   
154.213   Guarantee in lieu of immediate installation
Part IV. Outdoor Lighting
   
154.215   Purpose
   
154.216   Definitions
   
154.217   Outdoor advertising signs
   
154.218   Recreational facilities
Regulations for Specific Uses
   
154.230   Purpose
   
154.231   Application required
   
154.232   Site plan required with application
   
154.233   Minimum requirements for all uses within all districts
   
154.234   Accessory uses and structures
   
154.235   Adult business and entertainment establishments (including
bookstores)
   
154.236   Ambulance services (public and private)
   
154.237   Animal kennels, outdoor; boarding and grooming facilities; vet
clinics
   
154.238   Animal shelters
   
154.239   Assembly uses- arenas, exhibition halls, clubs, and lodges, clubs,
lodges
   
154.240   Auction houses, no livestock
   
154.241   Automobile and other junk, wrecking or salvage yards
   
154.242   Automobile service station - including storage of junked vehicles or
vehicle parts
   
154.243   Camp grounds, public and private, including recreational vehicle
parks and travel trailer parks
   
154.244   Commercial or industrial incineration
   
154.245   Concrete and asphalt plants
   
154.246   Cemeteries - independent and family cemeteries; religious
institutions with cemetery
   
154.247   Day care center, adult (facility serving four or more clients)
   
154.248   Day care center - child
   
154.249   Day care home - child (two to eight children); family child care home
   
154.250   Day care home - adult (seven or more beds)
   
154.251   Dwelling, mixed use
   
154.252   Dwelling, multi-family
   
154.253   Family care home / group home for persons with disabilities
   
154.254   Farmer's market/open air market
   
154.255   Firing range
   
154.256   Flea markets - permanent location
   
154.257   Fuel oil sales
   
154.258   Funeral home, no crematorium
   
154.259   Funeral home with crematorium
   
154.260   Golf course, public or private (excluding miniature golf)
   
154.261   Home occupations
   
154.262   Ice vending establishment, unmanned
   
154.263   Industrial supplies and equipment sales
   
154.264   Junkyards/salvage yards/automobile graveyards
   
154.265   Manufactured home as a temporary use
   
154.266   Manufactured home storage and repair yard
   
154.267   Manufacturing and industrial uses not listed
   
154.268   Mini-warehouse storage facility
   
154.269   Nursing homes, rest homes and convalescent centers
   
154.270   Outdoor sales and display areas
   
154.271   Outdoor storage
   
154.272   Public or private utility facilities
   
154.273   Radio and television studios, including towers
   
154.274   Satellite dish antenna
   
154.275   Shopping centers
   
154.276   Temporary structures and uses
   
154.277   Transportation and freight terminals/truck stop
   
154.278   Urgent care facilities/ medical care clinics/ hospitals - public and
private
   
154.279   Any use not otherwise prohibited by law or by this chapter
   
154.280   Tiny houses on permanent foundations
   
154.281   Cluster development
   
154.282   Airports and air strips, public and private
   
154.283   Repurposed metal shipping containers
   
154.284   Planned unit developments
Manufactured Home Parks
   
154.295   In general
   
154.296   Manufactured home parks - general requirements
   
154.297   Procedure for securing approval of a new manufactured home park
   
154.298   Lot requirements for new manufactured home parks
   
154.299   Interior street system - applies to new manufactured home parks
   
154.300   Operating standards for new manufactured home parks
   
154.301   Procedures and standards for existing manufactured home parks
   
154.302   Responsibilities and duties of park operators
   
154.303   Administration
   
154.304   Right of appeal
Solar Energy Systems
   
154.315   Purpose
   
154.316   Applicability
   
154.317   Definitions
   
154.318   Applicability
   
154.319   Permit requirements
   
154.320   Parcel line setbacks
   
154.321   Height limitations
   
154.322   Site plan requirements
   
154.323   Requirements for Level 2 and Level 3 SES
   
154.324   Decommissioning
   
154.325   Modification to existing solar farms
   
154.326   Aviation notification
   
154.327   Certain livestock allowed
Wireless Communications
Part I. General Requirements
   
154.340   Purpose and applicability
   
154.341   Certain uses not covered by this subchapter
   
154.342   Interpretation and definition
   
154.343   When special use permit is required
   
154.344   Evaluation of locations for new wireless facilities
   
154.345   General requirements for all wireless support structures
   
154.346   Attached wireless support structures
   
154.347   Collocations and eligible facilities requests of wireless support
structures
   
154.348   Collocation of small wireless facilities
   
154.349   Wireless facilities and wireless support structures in existence on
the date of adoption of this chapter
Part II. Administration
   
154.355   Towers allowed by administrative review
   
154.356   Shared facilities and collocation policy
   
154.357   Removal of abandoned support structures
   
154.358   Nonconforming wireless communication facilities
   
154.359   Revocation of tower and antenna use applications
   
154.360   Civil penalty
   
154.361   Annual review
   
154.362   Fees
Land Subdivision Regulations
Part I. General Requirements
   
154.375   Title
   
154.376   Purpose and applicability
   
154.377   Authority and jurisdiction
   
154.378   Abrogation and greater restriction governs
   
154.379   Interpretation
   
154.380   Severability
   
154.381   Recording of plats
   
154.382   Thoroughfare plans
   
154.383   Adequate public facilities
   
154.384   Compliance with zoning and other plans
   
154.385   Fees
   
154.386   Effect on pending litigation
   
154.387   Variances
   
154.388   Amendments to this chapter
   
154.389   Permit choice and vested rights
   
154.390   Development moratoria
   
154.391   Effect of plat approvals on dedication
   
154.392   Penalties
   
154.393   No service provision
   
154.394   Validity
   
154.395   Adoption and effective date
Part II. Definitions
   
154.400   Definitions
Part III. General Procedure for Subdivisions
   
154.405   Plat required on any subdivision of land
   
154.406   Expedited process for certain subdivision of land
   
154.407   Determination of classification - minor or major subdivision, or
exempt
   
154.408   Combination and recombination of land
   
154.409   Resubdivision procedures
   
154.410   Application; plan and plat approvals
Part IV. Minor Subdivision Procedures
   
154.415   Application for minor subdivision
   
154.416   Minor subdivision sketch plan
   
154.417   Action on minor subdivision sketch plan
   
154.418   Minor subdivision final plat
   
154.419   Review procedure; approval or disapproval
   
154.420   Appeal
Part V. Major Subdivisions
   
154.425   Application for major subdivision
   
154.426   Sketch plans
   
154.427   Preliminary plat submission and review
   
154.428   Final plat submission and review
   
154.429   Information to be depicted on plats - minor and major subdivisions
Part VI. Required Improvements, Dedications, Reservations, and Minimum
Standards of Design for Major Subdivisions
   
154.435   Generally
   
154.436   Suitability of land
   
154.437   Floodplain or flood-prone areas
   
154.438   Wetlands
   
154.439   Stormwater and drainage
   
154.440   Sedimentation and erosion control
   
154.441   Pre-sale or pre-lease of subdivision lots
   
154.442   Historic properties and natural assets
   
154.443   Conformity to existing plans
   
154.444   Pre-sale or pre-lease of subdivision lots
   
154.445   Completing development in phases
   
154.446   Amendment to and modification of approved preliminary plats
   
154.447   Plat approval not acceptance of dedication offers
   
154.448   Performance guarantee
   
154.449   Construction cost estimate
   
154.450   Default
   
154.451   Maintenance of improvements
   
154.452   Defects guarantee
   
154.453   Maintenance guarantee
   
154.454   Vacation of plats
   
154.455   Dedications and reservations
   
154.456   Name duplication
   
154.457   Subdivision layout and design
   
154.458   Streets
   
154.459   Utilities
   
154.460   Other requirements
Development Agreements and Vested Rights
   
154.475   Applicability
   
154.476   Development agreements
   
154.477   Vested rights and permit choice
   
154.478   Vested rights certificate
Moratoria
   
154.490   Purpose of moratoria
   
154.491   Authority
   
154.492   Hearing required
   
154.493   Exempt projects
   
154.494   Required statements
   
154.495   Limits on renewal or extension
   
154.496   Expedited judicial review
Nonconforming Situations
   
154.510   Purpose and intent
   
154.511   Nonconforming situations - general
   
154.512   Nonconforming lots
   
154.513   Nonconforming structures
   
154.514   Nonconforming uses
   
154.515   Nonconforming signs
   
154.516   Board of Adjustment and non-conformities
Flood Damage Prevention
   
154.530   Purpose and intent
   
154.531   Ordinance as required by the State of North Carolina
   
154.532   Statutory authorization, findings of fact, purpose and objectives
   
154.533   Definitions
   
154.534   General provisions
   
154.535   Administration
   
154.536   Provisions for flood hazard reduction
   
154.537   Legal status provisions
Appendix A: List of Text Amendments
Appendix B: Decommissioning Plan for Solar Locations
Appendix C: List of Preferred Locations for Telecommunications Equipment
PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY
§ 154.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Zoning Ordinance of the
Town of Fairmont.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.002 AUTHORITY.
   The zoning provisions enacted in this document are under the authority of
North Carolina General Statutes G.S. Chapter 160D which extends to towns and
counties the authority to enact regulations which promote the health, safety,
morals, or the general welfare of the community. The provisions contained in
G.S. Chapter 160D apply to all development regulations adopted pursuant to G.S.
Chapter 160D, applicable and related local acts, and any other local ordinance
that substantially affects land use and development. This section further
authorizes the establishment of overlay districts in which additional
regulations may be imposed upon properties that lie within the boundary of the
district. The statutes also require that all such regulations shall be uniform
for each class or type of building throughout each district, but that the
regulations in one district may differ from those in other districts. For
similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-101.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.003 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the purpose of promoting the
public health, safety, morals and general welfare; of the residents of Fairmont
and its extraterritorial planning jurisdiction. Regulations within this chapter
are made in accordance with the Town's Comprehensive Plan as outlined in §
154.007 and may be updated from time to time. These regulations are found by
the Board of Commissioners to be necessary and appropriate to:
   (A)   Lessen congestion in the streets;
   (B)   Secure safety from fire, panic and other dangers;
   (C)   Provide adequate light and air;
   (D)   Prevent the overcrowding of land and protect the natural features
within the town;
   (E)   Avoid undue concentration of population;
   (F)   Facilitate the efficient, adequate and economic provision of
transportation, water, sewage, schools, parks, and other public services;
   (G)   Preserve and enhance visual attractiveness and economic vitality;
   (H)   Require appropriate setbacks for buildings and other structures to
facilitate the safe movement of vehicular and pedestrian traffic, provide
adequate fire lanes and ensure adequate distance from dust, noise and fumes
created by vehicular traffic; and
   (I)   Establish a zoning vested right upon the approval of a site specific
development plan pursuant to G.S. § 160D-108.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.004 REPEAL OF PRIOR ORDINANCE, INCONSISTENCIES.
   This chapter is hereby enacted and shall be the Zoning Ordinance for the
Town of Fairmont. All ordinances, or portions thereof, of the Town of Fairmont
which relate to zoning and land use which are inconsistent with the provisions
of this chapter are hereby repealed to the extent of such inconsistency.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.005 JURISDICTION AND EXEMPTIONS, EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION, SPLIT
JURISDICTION.
   (A)   Jurisdiction. The regulations and provisions found in this zoning
ordinance shall apply to all the properties within the corporate limits and the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the Town of Fairmont, North Carolina,
established pursuant to G.S. § 160D-202, which shall comprise the Town of
Fairmont's planning jurisdiction. For similar state law provisions, refer to
G.S. § 160D-201(a).
      (1)   In addition to other locations required by law, a copy of a map
showing the boundaries of the town's planning jurisdiction shall be available
for public inspection in the Municipal Building.
      (2)   Except as hereinafter provided, no building or structure shall be
erected, moved, altered, or extended, and no land, building, or structure or
part thereof shall be occupied or used unless in conformity with the
regulations specified for the district in which it is located.
      (3)   Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-392, the provisions of this chapter shall
not be applicable to any lands owned by any governmental body (Federal, State,
or local), but shall be applicable to the erection, construction, and use of
buildings owned by a governmental body (Federal, State, or local).
      (4)   Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-458.5, forestry activity on forestland that
is taxed on the basis of its present-use value as forestland under G.S. Chapter
105, Article 12, or forestry activity that is conducted in accordance with a
forest management plan that is prepared or approved by a forester registered in
accordance with G.S. Chapter 89B shall not be subject to the regulations of
this chapter.
      (5)   Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-360(k), property located within the town's
extraterritorial planning and zoning jurisdictional area that is used for bona
fide farm purposes, as defined in G.S. § 153A-340, is not subject to the
regulations of this chapter. However, when such property ceases to be used for
bona fide farm purposes, it shall become subject to the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   Extraterritorial jurisdiction. The extraterritorial jurisdiction of
the town is that area described in the ordinance adopted by the Town Board of
Commissioners on April 8, 1975. Such planning jurisdiction may be modified from
time to time in accordance with G.S. Chapter160D. For similar state law
provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-202(a).
      (1)   Authority in the extraterritorial area. The town may not exercise
extraterritorially any power conferred by this chapter in its extraterritorial
jurisdiction that it is not exercising within its corporate limits. The twn may
exercise in its extraterritorial area all powers conferred by G.S. Chapter 160D
that it is exercising within its corporate limits. If the town fails to extend
a particular type of development regulation to the extraterritorial area, the
county may elect to exercise that particular type of regulation in the
extraterritorial area. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-
202(b).
      (2)   County approval of town jurisdiction. The town may not extend its
extraterritorial powers into any area for which Robeson County has adopted and
is enforcing county zoning and subdivision regulations. However, the town may
do so where the county is not exercising both of these powers, or when the town
and the county have agreed upon the area within which each will exercise the
powers conferred by G.S. Chapter 160D. The town may not extend its
extraterritorial powers beyond one mile from its corporate limits without the
approval of the Robeson County Board of Commissioners.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-202(c).
      (3)   Notice of proposed jurisdiction change. When the Town of Fairmont
proposes to exercise extraterritorial jurisdiction under G.S. Chapter 160D, the
town shall notify the owners of all parcels of land proposed for addition to
the area of extraterritorial jurisdiction, as shown on the county tax records.
The notice shall be sent by first-class mail to the last addresses listed for
affected property owners in the county tax records. The notice shall inform the
landowner of the effect of the extension of extraterritorial jurisdiction, of
the landowner's right to participate in a legislative hearing prior to adoption
of any ordinance extending the area of extraterritorial jurisdiction, as
provided in G.S. § 160D-6-1, and the right of all residents of the area to
apply to the Robeson County Board of Commissioners to serve as a representative
on the planning board and the board of adjustment, as provided in G.S. § 160D-
3-3. The notice shall be mailed at least 30 days prior to the date of the
hearing. The person or persons mailing the notices shall certify to the Town
Board of Commissioners that the notices were sent by first-class mail, and the
certificate shall be deemed conclusive in the absence of fraud.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-202(d).
      (4)   Boundaries. The Town's Board of Commissioners, exercising
extraterritorial jurisdiction under Chapter 160D, has adopted an ordinance
specifying the areas to be included based upon existing or projected urban
development and areas of critical concern to the town, as evidenced by
officially adopted plans for its development. A single jurisdictional boundary
is, therefore, applicable for all powers conferred in Chapter 160D. Boundaries
are defined, to the extent feasible, in terms of geographical features
identifiable on the ground and also follow parcel ownership boundaries. The
boundaries specified in the ordinance shall at all times be drawn on a map, set
forth in a written description, or shown by a combination of these techniques.
This delineation shall be maintained in the manner provided in G.S. § 160A-22
for the delineation of the corporate limits, and shall be recorded in the
Office of the Register of Deeds of each county in which any portion of the area
lies. Where the extraterritorial jurisdiction of two or more towns overlaps,
the jurisdictional boundary between them shall be a line connecting the midway
points of the overlapping area unless the Boards agree to another boundary line
within the overlapping area based upon existing or projected patterns of
development.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-202(e).
      (5)   County authority within town jurisdiction. The county may on
request of the Town Board of Commissioners exercise any or all of these powers
in any or all areas lying within the town's corporate limits or within the
town's specified area of extraterritorial jurisdiction.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-202(f).
      (6)   Transfer of jurisdiction. When a town annexes, or the town extends
its jurisdiction to include, an area that is currently being regulated by the
county, the county development regulations and powers of enforcement shall
remain in effect until (i) the town has adopted such development regulations,
or (ii) a period of 60 days has elapsed following the annexation, extension or
incorporation, whichever is sooner. Prior to the transfer of jurisdiction, the
town may hold hearings and take any other measures consistent with G.S. § 160D-
2-4 that may be required in order to adopt and apply its development
regulations for the area at the same time it assumes jurisdiction.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-202(g).
      (7)   Relinquishment of jurisdiction. When the town relinquishes
jurisdiction over an area that it is regulating under G.S. Chapter 160D to a
county, the town development regulations and powers of enforcement shall remain
in effect until (i) the county has adopted such development regulation or (ii)
a period of 60 days has elapsed following the action by which the city
relinquished jurisdiction, whichever is sooner. Prior to the transfer of
jurisdiction, the town may hold hearings and take other measures consistent
with G.S. § 160D-204 that may be required in order to adopt and apply its
development regulations for the area at the same time it assumes jurisdiction.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-202(h).
      (8)   Process for local government approval. When the town is granted
powers by this section subject to the request, approval, or agreement of
another local government, the request, approval, or agreement shall be
evidenced by a formally adopted resolution of the Board of Commissioners of the
town. Any such request, approval, or agreement can be rescinded upon two years'
written notice to the other governing boards concerned by repealing the
resolution. The resolution may be modified at any time by mutual agreement of
the governing boards concerned.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-202(i).
      (9)   Local Acts. Nothing in this section shall repeal, modify, or amend
any local act that defines the boundaries of a city's extraterritorial
jurisdiction by metes and bounds or courses and distances.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-202(j).
      (10)   Effect on vested rights. Whenever the town, pursuant to this
section, acquires jurisdiction over a territory that theretofore has been
subject to the jurisdiction of another local government, any person who has
acquired vested rights in the surrendering jurisdiction may exercise those
rights as if no change of jurisdiction had occurred. The city or county
acquiring jurisdiction may take any action regarding such a development
approval, certificate, or other evidence of compliance that could have been
taken by the local government surrendering jurisdiction pursuant to its
development regulations. Except as provided in this division, any building,
structure, or other land use in a territory over which a city or county has
acquired jurisdiction is subject to the development regulations of the city or
county.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-202(k).
   (C)   Split jurisdiction. If a parcel of land lies within the planning and
development regulation jurisdiction of more than one local government, the
local governments may by mutual agreement pursuant to G.S. Chapter 160A,
Article 20 and with the written consent of the landowner assign exclusive
planning and development regulation jurisdiction for the entire parcel to any
one of those local governments. Such a mutual agreement shall only be
applicable to development regulations and shall not affect taxation or other
non-regulatory matters. The mutual agreement shall be evidenced by a resolution
formally adopted by each governing board and recorded with the register of
deeds in the county where the property is located within 14 days of the
adoption of the last required resolution.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-203.
   (D)   Pending jurisdiction. After consideration of a change in local
government jurisdiction has been formally proposed, the local government that
is potentially receiving jurisdiction may receive and process proposals to
adopt development regulations and any application for development approvals
that would be required in that local government if the jurisdiction is changed.
No final decisions shall be made on any development approval prior to the
actual transfer of jurisdiction. Acceptance of jurisdiction, adoption of
development regulations, and decisions on development approvals may be made
concurrently and may have a common effective date.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-204.
   (E)   Exemptions. In accordance with G.S. § 160A-392, the Town of Fairmont
Zoning Ordinance applies to state-owned lands only when a building is involved.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.006 COMPLIANCE.
   No building, premises, or structure shall be constructed, erected, modified,
converted, occupied, placed, maintained or moved, and no land use shall be
commenced, maintained, or modified, except as authorized by this chapter.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-403(a).
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.007 RELATIONSHIP TO COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   (A)   It is the intention of the Board of Commissioners that this chapter
implement the planning policies adopted for the Town of Fairmont, for the
purpose of promoting the public health, safety, morals and general welfare;
promoting the orderly development of the community; lessening congestion in the
roads and streets; securing safety from fire, panic and other dangers;
providing adequate light and air; preventing the overcrowding of the land;
avoiding undue concentration of population; and facilitating the adequate
provision of transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks and other public
requirements, all in accordance with a well-considered comprehensive plan, as
reflected in the Comprehensive Plan and other planning documents. While the
Board of Commissioners reaffirms its commitment that this chapter and any
amendment to it be in conformity with adopted planning policies, the Board of
Commissioners hereby expresses its intent that neither this chapter nor any
amendment to it may be challenged on the basis of any alleged nonconformity
with any planning document.
      (1)   Comprehensive plan required. As a condition of adopting and
applying zoning regulations under G.S. Chapter 160D and this chapter, the Town
of Fairmont shall adopt and reasonably maintain a comprehensive plan that sets
forth goals, policies, and programs intended to guide the present and future
physical, social, and economic development of the jurisdiction.
         (a)   The comprehensive plan sets forth the goals, policies and
programs intended to guide coordinated, efficient, and orderly development
within the planning and development regulation jurisdiction based on an
analysis of present and future needs.
         (b)   Planning analysis supporting the plan may address inventories of
existing conditions and assess future trends regarding demographics, economic,
environmental, and cultural factors.
         (c)   The planning process shall include opportunities for citizen
engagement in plan preparation and adoption.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-501.
      (2)   Other plans. In addition to a comprehensive plan, the town may
prepare and adopt such other plans as deemed appropriate. This may include, but
is not limited to, land use plans, small area plans, neighborhood plans, hazard
mitigation plans, transportation plans, housing plans, and recreation and open
space plans.
         (a)   If adopted pursuant to the process set forth in this section,
such plans shall be considered in review of proposed zoning amendments.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-501.
      (3)   Contents. A comprehensive plan may, among other topics, address any
of the following as determined by the town:
         (a)   Issues and opportunities facing the local government, including
consideration of trends, the values expressed by citizens, community vision,
and guiding principles for growth, and development.
         (b)   The pattern of desired growth and development and civic design,
including the location, distribution, and characteristics of future land uses,
urban form, utilities, and transportation networks.
         (c)   Employment opportunities, economic development, and community
development.
         (d)   Acceptable levels of public services and infrastructure to
support development, including water, waste disposal, utilities, emergency
services, transportation, education, recreation, community facilities, and
other public services, including plans and policies for provision of and
financing for public infrastructure.
         (e)   Housing with a range of types and affordability to accommodate
persons and households of all types and income levels.
         (f)   Recreation and open spaces.
         (g)   Mitigation of natural hazards such as flooding, winds,
wildfires, and unstable lands.
         (h)   Protection of the environment and natural resources, including
agricultural resources, mineral resources, and water and air quality.
         (i)   Protection of significant architectural, scenic, cultural,
historical, or archaeological resources.
         (j)   Analysis and evaluation of implementation measures, including
regulations, public investments, and educational programs.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-501(b).
   (B)   Adoption and effect of plans.
      (1)   Plans shall be adopted by the governing board with the advice and
consultation of the planning board.
      (2)   Adoption and amendment of a comprehensive plan is a legislative
decision and shall follow the process mandated for zoning text amendments set
by G.S. § 160D-6-1.
      (3)   Plans adopted under this chapter may be undertaken and adopted as
part of or in conjunction with plans required under other statutes, including
but not limited to the plans required by G.S. § 113A-110.
      (4)   Plans adopted under this chapter shall be advisory in nature
without independent regulatory effect. Plans adopted under this chapter do not
expand, diminish, or alter the scope of authority for development regulations
adopted under this chapter.
      (5)   Plans adopted under this section shall be considered by the
planning board and governing board when considering proposed amendments to
zoning regulations as required by G.S. § 160D-604 and § 160D-605.
      (6)   If a plan is deemed amended by G.S. § 160D-605 by virtue of
adoption of a zoning amendment that is inconsistent with the plan, that
amendment shall be noted in the plan. However, if the plan is one that requires
review and approval subject to G.S. § 113A-110, the plan amendment shall not be
effective until that review and approval is completed.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-501(c)
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.008 DEVELOPMENT APPROVALS RUN WITH THE LAND.
   Unless provided otherwise by law, all rights, privileges, benefits, burdens
and obligations created by approvals made pursuant to this chapter and to G.S.
Chapter 160D attach to and run with the land.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-104.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.009 FEES.
   (A)   Reasonable fees sufficient to cover the costs of administration,
inspection, publication of notice and similar matters may be charged to
applicants for zoning permits, sign permits, special use permits, zoning
amendments, variances and other administrative relief and plan review. The
amount of the fees charged shall be set forth in the town's budget or as
established by resolution of the Board of Commissioners and filed in the
offices of the Town Clerk.
   (B)   Fees established in accordance with division (A) above of this section
shall be paid upon submission of a signed application or notice of appeal.
   (C)   Refund of fees determined to be illegal. If the town is found to have
illegally imposed a tax, fee, or monetary contribution for development or a
development approval not specifically authorized by law, the shall return the
tax, fee, or monetary contribution plus interest of 6% per annum to the person
who made the payment or as directed by a court if the person making the payment
is no longer in existence.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-106.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.010 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section or specific provision or standard of this chapter or any
regulating district boundary arising from it is found by a court to be invalid
for any reason, the decision of the court shall not affect the validity of any
other section, provision, standard, or district boundary of these regulations
except the provision in question. The other portions of these regulations not
affected by the decision of the court shall remain in full force and effect.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.011 CONFLICTS WITH OTHER REGULATIONS.
   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter, they shall be
held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public safety,
health, convenience, prosperity, and general welfare. It is not intended by
this chapter to interfere with, abrogate, or annul any easements, covenants, or
other agreements between parties; provided, however, that where this chapter
imposes a greater restriction upon the use of buildings or premises or upon the
height of buildings, or requires larger open spaces than are imposed or
required by other ordinances, rules, regulations, restrictive covenants, or
agreements, the provisions of this greater restriction shall govern.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.012 EFFECT ON PRIOR LAWS.
   (A)   The enactment of this chapter shall not require the re-adoption of any
local government ordinance enacted pursuant to laws that were in effect before
July 18, 2023 and are restated or revised herein. The provisions of this
chapter shall not affect any act heretofore done, any liability incurred, any
right accrued or vested, or any suit or prosecution begun or cause of action
accrued as of July 18, 2023 The enactment of this chapter shall not be deemed
to amend the geographic area within which town development regulations adopted
prior to July 1, 2021 are effective.
   (B)   G.S. § 153A-3 and § 160A-3 are applicable to this chapter. Nothing in
this chapter repeals or amends a charter or local act in effect as of July 18,
2023 unless this chapter or a subsequent enactment of the General Assembly
clearly shows a legislative intent to repeal or supersede that charter or local
act.
   (C)   Whenever a reference is made in another section of the General
Statutes or any local act, or any town ordinance, resolution, or order, to a
portion of G.S. Chapter 160A, Article 19 or Chapter 153A, Article 18 that is
repealed or superseded by G.S. Chapter 160D, the reference shall be deemed
amended to refer to that portion of G.S. 160D that most nearly corresponds to
the repealed or superseded portion of G.S. Chapter 160A, Article 19 or Article
18 of Chapter 153A.133.
   (D)   Building permits prior to effective date. No section of this chapter
shall in any way prohibit, restrict, or affect in any manner or form any
person, firm or corporation who has secured a building permit by the town prior
to the effective date of this chapter.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-111.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.013 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The provisions in this chapter were adopted and became effective on July 18,
2023.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
INTERPRETATION AND DEFINITIONS
§ 154.020 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be considered to be minimum requirements and deemed neither to limit nor repeal
any other powers granted under state statutes.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.021 GREATER RESTRICTIONS GOVERN.
   These regulations shall be the minimum requirements for administration,
enforcement, procedures, restrictions, standards, uses, variances, and all
other areas addressed by this chapter. If any federal or state law or any other
existing ordinance or regulation allows lesser regulation, this chapter shall
govern so that, in all cases, the more restrictive (greater) restriction shall
govern. Whenever regulations imposed by this chapter are less restrictive than
regulations imposed by any governmental authority through regulation, rule or
restriction, the regulations imposed by that authority shall govern. Regardless
of any other provision of this chapter, no land shall be developed or used, and
no structure shall be erected or maintained in violation of any state or
federal regulation.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.022 ROUNDING OF NUMBERS.
   All calculations that result in a part or fraction of a whole number shall
be rounded to the nearest whole number.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.023 FIGURES AND TABLES.
   The figures and tables provided in this chapter are designed to provide a
visual explanation to selected sections of the chapter. If any illustration
appears to be in conflict with the text of this chapter, the text shall govern.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.024 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following rules of construction shall
apply.
   (A)   Word interpretation. Words not defined in this chapter shall be given
their ordinary and common meaning.
   (B)   Tense. Words used in the present tense include the future tense. Words
used in the singular number include the plural, and words used in the plural
number include the singular, unless the natural construction of the wording
indicates otherwise.
   (C)   Singular and plural. Words used in the singular number include the
plural number, and the plural number includes the singular number, unless the
context of the particular usage clearly indicates otherwise.
   (D)   Mandatory meaning. The words “shall”, “will”, and “must” are mandatory
in nature implying an obligation or duty to comply with the particular
provision.
   (E)   Gender. As used in this chapter, words importing the masculine gender
include the feminine and neuter.
   (F)   References. Any reference to a subchapter or section shall mean a
subchapter or section of this chapter, unless otherwise specified.
   (G)   “Written” or “in writing” is deemed to include electronic
documentation. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S.§ 160D-110(b).
   (H)   Delivery. Unless specified otherwise, in the absence of evidence to
the contrary, delivery by first-class mail shall be deemed received on the
third business day following deposit of the item for mailing with the United
States Postal Service, and delivery by electronic mail shall be deemed received
on the date sent. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-110
(c).
   (I)   Person. Includes a firm, association, organization, corporation,
company, trust, and partnership as well as an individual.
   (J)   May and should. Are permissive; an officially adopted course or method
of action intended to be followed.
   (K)   Shall and will. Are always mandatory and not merely directive;
expresses determination to implement/take action.
   (L)   Used for. Shall include the meaning “designed for.”
      (M)   Used or occupied. Shall mean “intended, designed, and arranged to
be used or occupied.”
   (N)   Lot. Shall include the words “plot,” “parcel,” “site,” and “premises.”
   (O)   Building. Shall include the word “structure.”
   (P)   Street. Includes the word “alley,” “road,” “cul-de-sac,” “highway,” or
“thoroughfare,” whether designated as public or private.
   (Q)   Includes. Shall not limit the term to specified examples, but is
intended to extend its meaning to all other instances or circumstances of like
kind or character.
   (R)   Zoning Administrator. Shall mean the Zoning Administrator or his/her
designee.
   (S)   Planning Board. Shall mean the “Town of Fairmont Planning Board.”
   (T)   Town. Shall mean the “Town of Fairmont,” a municipality of the State
of North Carolina.
   (U)   Map and zoning map. Shall mean the “Official Zoning Map for the Town
of Fairmont, North Carolina.”
   (V)   Board of Adjustment. Shall mean the “Town of Fairmont Board of
Adjustment.”
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.025 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   Unless otherwise specifically provided, the time within which an act
is to be done shall be computed by excluding the first and including the last
day. If the last day is a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, that day shall be
excluded. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven days,
intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays shall be excluded.
   (B)   Unless otherwise specifically provided, whenever a person has the
right or is required to do some act within a prescribed period after the
service of a notice and the notice or paper is served by mail (certified mail/
return receipt requested), three days shall be added to the prescribed period.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.026 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, certain words, concepst, and ideas are
defined herein. Except where specifically defined herein, all words used in
this chapter shall have their customary dictionary definition.
   ABUTTING. Having property or district lines in common. Lots are also
considered to be abutting if they are directly opposite each other and
separated by a street, right-of-way, alley, easement or stream.
   ACCESS. A way of approaching or entering a property. Access also includes
ingress, the right to enter, and egress, the right to leave.
   ACCESS EASEMENT. An easement which grants the right to cross property.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING/STRUCTURE.  A detached subordinate building operated and
maintained under the same ownership, the use of which is customarily incidental
to that of the main building and which is located on the same lot as the main
building. Accessory buildings include the following but are not limited to:
detached garages, storage buildings, playhouses, and workshops, all of which
are totally for personal use. Accessory buildings cannot be a manufactured
home.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use incidental to and customarily associated with the use
by right, and located on the same zone lot with the use by right, and operated
and maintained under the same ownership with the operation of the use by right.
   ADDRESS. The official street number assigned by Robeson County 911
Addressing for a specific lot, building or portion thereof.
   ADMINISTRATIVE APPROVAL. Approval that the Zoning Administrator or designee
is authorized to grant after Administrative Review.
   ADMINISTRATIVE DECISION. Decisions made in the implementation,
administration, or enforcement of development regulations that involves the
determination of facts and the application of objective standards set forth in
this chapter or local government development regulations. These are sometimes
referred to as “ministerial” decisions or “administrative determinations.” For
similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-102.
   ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING. A proceeding to gather facts needed to make an
administrative decision. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. §
160D-102.
   ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW.  Non-discretionary evaluation of an application by
the Zoning Administrator or designee. This process is not subject to a public
hearing.
   ADULT CARE HOME. An assisted living residence in which the housing
management provides 24-hour scheduled and unscheduled personal care services to
two or more residents, either directly or, for scheduled needs, through formal
written agreement with licensed home care or hospice agencies. Some licensed
adult care homes provide supervision to people with cognitive impairments whose
decisions, if made independently, may jeopardize the safety or well-being of
themselves or others and therefore require supervision. Medication in an adult
care home may be administered by designated, trained staff. Adult care homes
that provide care to two to six unrelated residents are commonly called family
care homes. Adult care homes and family care homes are subject to licensure by
the Division of Health Service Regulation. For similar state law provisions,
refer to G.S. § 131D-2.1.
   ADULT DAY CARE CENTER. The provision of group care and supervision in a
place other than their usual place of abode on a less than 24-hour basis to
adults who may be physically or mentally disabled.
   ADULT ESTABLISHMENT/SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS. Any business or enterprise
that has as one of its principal business purposes or as a significant portion
of its business an emphasis on matter and conduct depicting, describing, or
related to anatomical areas and sexual activities specified in G.S. § 14-
202.10. This includes, but it not limited to, adult bookstores, adult motion
picture theaters, adult mini motion picture theaters, adult live
entertainments, or massage businesses. For similar state law provisions, refer
to G.S. § 160D-902(f).
   AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION (CROPS). The production of (and activities relating
or incidental to the production of) crops, fruits, vegetables, ornamental and
flowering plants, and nursery products such as bulbs, trees, vines, shrubbery,
flower and vegetable seeds and plants, and sod. Included in this definition are
establishments primarily engaged in the operation of timber tracts, tree farms,
forest nurseries, and related activities.
   AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION (LIVESTOCK). The production of (and activities
relating or incidental to the production of) dairy, livestock, poultry
products. Livestock as used here includes cattle, sheep, goats, hogs, and
poultry as well as animal specialties such as horses, rabbits, bees, fur-
bearing animals in captivity, and fish in captivity. This definition does not
include animal feeder/breeder operations.
   AGRITOURISM. Agritourism means any activity carried out on a farm or ranch
that allows members of the general public, for recreational, entertainment, or
educational purposes, to view or enjoy rural activities, including farming,
ranching, historic, cultural, harvest-your-own activities, or natural
activities and attractions. A building or structure used for AGRITOURISM
includes any building or structure used for public or private events,
including, but not limited to, weddings, receptions, meetings, demonstrations
of farm activities, meals, and other events that are taking place on the farm
because of its farm or rural setting. For similar state law provisions, refer
to G.S. § 160D-903(a).
   AIR COMPRESSORS. A device that converts power (using an electric motor,
diesel or gasoline engine, etc.) into potential energy stored in pressurized
air (i.e., compressed air). By one of several methods, an AIR COMPRESSOR forces
more and more air into a storage tank, increasing the pressure.
   ALLEY. A public or private thoroughfare which affords only a secondary means
of access to abutting property and not intended for general traffic
circulation.
   ALTER. To make any structural changes in the supporting or loadbearing
members of a building, such as bearing walls, columns, beams, girders, floor
joists.
   ANIMAL FEEDER/BREEDER OPERATIONS. Establishments primarily engaged in the
production, feeding, or fattening of cattle, hogs, chickens, or turkeys in a
confined area for a period of at least 45 days on a contract or fee basis.
   ANTENNA ARRAY. One or more rods, panels, discs, or similar devices used for
the transmission or reception of radio frequency signals, which may include
omni-directional antenna (rod), directional antenna (panel), and parabolic
antenna (disc). The ANTENNA ARRAY does not include the support structure.
   ANTENNA COMMUNICATIONS. Equipment that transmits, receives, or transmits and
receives electromagnetic radio signals used in the provision of all types of
wireless communication services.
   APARTMENT HOUSE. See DWELLING, MULTIPLE FAMILY.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the interpretation of any provision of
this chapter.
   APPLICABLE CODES. The North Carolina State Building Code and any other
uniform building, fire, electrical, plumbing, or mechanical and health codes
adopted by a recognized national code organization together with state or local
amendments to those codes enacted solely to address imminent threats of
destruction of property or injury to persons.
   APPLICATION, WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY. A request that is submitted by
an applicant to a town for a permit to collocate wireless facilities or to
approve the installation, modification, or replacement of a utility pole, town
utility pole, or wireless support structure.
   ASSEMBLY. A joining together of completely fabricated parts to create a
finished product.
   ASSISTED LIVING RESIDENCE.  Any group housing and services program for two
or more unrelated adults, by whatever name it is called, that makes available,
at a minimum, one meal a day and housekeeping services and provides personal
care services directly or through a formal written agreement with one or more
licensed home care or hospice agencies. Settings in which services are
delivered may include self-contained apartment units or single or shared room
units with private or area baths. There are three types of assisted living
residences: adult care homes, adult care homes that serve only elderly persons,
and multi-unit assisted housing with services. As used in this definition,
“elderly person” means: (i) any person who has attained the age of 55 years or
older and requires assistance with activities of daily living, housing, and
services; or (ii) any adult who has a primary diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease
or other form of dementia who requires assistance with activities of daily
living, housing, and services provided by a licensed Alzheimer's and dementia
care unit.
      (1)   ADULT CARE HOME.  An assisted living residence in which the housing
management provides 24-hour scheduled and unscheduled personal care services to
two or more residents, either directly or for scheduled needs, through formal
written agreement with licensed home care or hospice agencies. Some licensed
adult care homes provide supervision to persons with cognitive impairments
whose decisions, if made independently, may jeopardize the safety or well-being
of themselves or others and therefore require supervision. Medication in an
ADULT CARE HOME may be administered by designated trained staff. ADULT CARE
HOMES that provide care to two to six unrelated residents are commonly called
family care homes. ADULT CARE HOMES include halfway houses and drug rehab
facilities.
      (2)   MULTI-UNIT ASSISTED HOUSING WITH SERVICES. An assisted living
residence in which hands-on personal care services and nursing services which
are arranged by housing management are provided by a licensed home care or
hospice agency through an individualized written care plan. The housing
management has a financial interest or financial affiliation or formal written
agreement which makes personal care services accessible and available through
at least one licensed home care or hospice agency. The resident has a choice of
any provider, and the housing management may not combine charges for housing
and personal care services. All residents, or other compensatory agents, must
be capable, through informed consent, of entering into a contract and must not
be in need of 24-hour supervision. Assistance with self-administration of
medications may be provided by appropriately trained staff when delegated by a
licensed nurse according to the home care agency's established plan of care.
   ATHLETIC FIELD. Outdoor sites, often requiring equipment, designed for
formal athletic competition in field sports (e.g. softball, soccer, football)
   ATTACHED BUILDING. A building that is joined to another building at one or
more sides by a party wall or walls.
   AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINE. A mechanized consumer banking device operated by
or associated with a financial institution for the convenience of its
customers, whether outside, in an access controlled facility or a location
remote from the controlling financial institution. ATM's located within a
building or on site of the controlling financial institution shall be
considered accessory to the principal use.
   AUTO WRECKING. A person or establishment that provides open storage,
disassembling, or salvaging for junked motor vehicles.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR SERVICES. An establishment primarily engaged in one or
more of the following activities: 1 ) general automotive repair or service, 2)
automotive engine repair, 3) installation or repair of automotive
transmissions, 4) installation or repair of automotive glass, 5) installation
or repair of automotive exhaust systems, 6) repair of automotive tops, bodies
and interiors, and 7) automotive painting and refinishing.
   A-WEIGHTED SOUND LEVEL (dBA). A number in decibels, which is read from a
sound-level meter, when the meter is switched to its weighting scale labeled
“A.” The number approximately measures the relative noisiness or annoyance
level of many common sounds, including aircraft.
   BAR, LOUNGE.  An establishment used primarily for sale or dispensing of
alcoholic beverages by the drink for on-site consumption and where food may be
available for consumption on the premises as an accessory to the principal use.
   BASE STATION. A station at a specific site authorized to communicate with
mobile stations, generally consisting of radio receivers, antennas, coaxial
cables, power supplies, and other associated electronics.
   BASEMENT.  A story of a building or structure having one-half or more of its
clear height below grade.
   BED AND BREAKFAST INN. An overnight lodging business located within a
structure originally designed and built as a single family residence. Overnight
guest facilities are limited in number, and maximum stay by guests is
restricted to seven consecutive days. Meals shall only be provided to overnight
guests. BED AND BREAKFAST INNS are further divided into Bed and Breakfast Guest
Homes and Bed and Breakfast Inns.
      (1)   A BED AND BREAKFAST GUEST HOME  is an owner-occupied, single-family
residential structure with accommodations for up to six guest sleeping rooms.
      (2)   A BED AND BREAKFAST INN has accommodations for up to 23 persons in
no more than 12 guest sleeping rooms.
   BEDROOM.  A room designated as sleeping or bedroom on the plans.
   BILLBOARD. Outdoor structure or display, pictorial or otherwise, either
freestanding or attached to a building, which advertises or attracts attention
to a business, commodity, service or other activity conducted, sold or offered
elsewhere than on the premises on which the sign is located.
   BINGO HALL. A facility used primarily for the conduct of bingo games, open
to the public and not in a subsidiary nature to another use.
   BLOCK. The land lying within an area bounded on all sides by streets or any
combination of intersecting streets, railroad rights-of-way, watercourses or
other features or natural barriers which permanently interrupt the continuity
of development.
   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.  A quasi-judicial body, appointed by the Board of
Commissioners, and given certain powers under this chapter.
   BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.  An elected board - called the city or town council,
the board of commissioners or the board of aldermen - is the governing body in
each North Carolina municipality. The number of members on the board, method of
election and whether they represent districts or hold at-large seats are
determined by the municipal charter.
   BONA FIDE FARM. Land that receives or is eligible to receive an agricultural
use exemption from the county tax office and is used for the production and
activities relating or incidental to the production of crops, fruits,
vegetables, ornamental and flowering plants, dairy, livestock, poultry, and all
other forms of agricultural products having a domestic or foreign market. The
term does not include nonfarm activities conducted on farmland. For purposes of
determining whether a property is being used for bona fide farm purposes, any
of the following shall constitute sufficient evidence that the property is
being used for bona fide farm purposes:
      (1)   A farm sales tax exemption certificate issued by the Department of
Revenue.
      (2)   A copy of the property tax listing showing that the property is
eligible for participation in the present use value program pursuant to G.S. §
105-277.3.
      (3)   A copy of the farm owner's or operator's Schedule F from the
owner's or operator's most recent federal income tax return.
      (4)   A forest management plan.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. 160D-903(a).
   BONA FIDE FARM PURPOSES. Agricultural activities as set forth in G.S. §
160D-903.
   BUFFER. An area of natural or planted vegetation through which stormwater
runoff flows in a diffuse manner so that the runoff does not become channelized
and which provides for infiltration of the runoff and filtering of pollutants.
The buffer is measured landward from the normal pool elevation of impounded
structures and from the bank of each side of streams and rivers.
   BUFFER YARD/BUFFER STRIP. A strip of land which is established to separate
one type of land use from another type of land use and which contains natural
or planted vegetation, berms, walks, or fences.
   BUILDABLE LOT. One or more lots of record in one undivided ownership with
sufficient total area, exclusive of easements, flood hazards, well and septic
tank fields; sufficient total dimensions; and sufficient access to permit
construction thereon of a principal building together with its required parking
and buffer yards.
   BUILDING. Any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any
use or occupancy. Each portion of a building separated from other portions by a
fire wall shall be considered a separate building.
   BUILDING, ACCESSORY. A building subordinate to the main building on a lot
and used for purposes customarily incidental to the main or principal building
and located on the same lot therewith.
   BUILDING, HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the grade of the
highest point of the coping of a flat roof, to the deck line of a mansard roof,
or to the mean height level between the eaves and ridge of a gable, hip, or
gambrel roof. Height of a building in stories does not include basements,
except as specifically provided for in this chapter.
   BUILDING PERMIT. An official administrative authorization issued by the town
prior to beginning construction consistent with the provisions of G.S. § 160A-
417.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building in which is conducted the principal use of
the lot on which the building is situated.
   BUILDING SEPARATION. The minimum required horizontal distance between
buildings.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE.  A line establishing the minimum allowable distance
between the nearest portion of any building, excluding the outermost three feet
of any uncovered porches, steps, eaves, gutters and similar fixtures and the
street right-of-way line when measured perpendicularly thereto.
   CALIPER INCHES. Quantity in inches of the diameter of trees measured at six
inches above the ground for trees four inches or less in trunk diameter and
twelve inches above the ground for trees over four inches in trunk diameter.
   CAMPER TRAILER (POP-UP). A vehicular portable unit mounted on wheels and
constructed with collapsible partial side walls that fold for towing by another
vehicle and unfold at the campsite to provide temporary living quarters for
recreational, camping, or travel use.
   CAMPGROUND. Campgrounds, also including recreational vehicle park and travel
trailer parks, means a parcel of land in which two or more campsites are
designated primarily for temporary occupancy by recreational vehicles for
travel, recreational or vacation uses. Such parks shall be construed to include
those parks having sites for tent camping as well as for RV campers. Also
referred to as “campground” and “park.”
   CANOPY TREE.  A species of tree which normally grows to a mature height of
40 feet or more with a minimum mature crown width of 30 feet.
   CEMETERY. Land and facilities, including offices and chapels, used for or
intended to be used for the burial of the dead, whether human or animal. Such a
facility includes any burial ground, mausoleum, or columbarium.
   CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. Official certification that a premises conforms to
provisions of the zoning code and building code and may be used or occupied.
Such a certificate is granted for new construction or for alterations or
additions to existing structures or a change in use. Unless such a certificate
is issued, a structure cannot be occupied.
   CERTIFICATE OF ZONING COMPLIANCE.  A statement, signed by the Zoning
Administrator, setting forth that the building, structure or use complies with
the zoning ordinance and that the same may be used for the purpose stated
therein.
   CERTIFY. Whenever this chapter requires that some agency certify the
existence of some fact or circumstance to the town, the town may require that
such certification be made in any manner that provides reasonable assurance of
the accuracy of the certification. By way of illustration, and without limiting
the foregoing, the town may accept certification by telephone from some agency
when the circumstances warrant it, or the town may require that the
certification be in the form of a letter or other document.
   CERTIORARI, NATURE OF. The review of the record of a case (minutes of a
hearing) by a court for the issuance of a ruling to a board having some
judicial power.
   CHARTER. The entire body of local acts currently in force applicable to the
Town of Fairmont, including articles of incorporation issued to a city by an
administrative agency of the state, and any amendments thereto adopted. For
similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160A-102.
   CHANNEL. The bed where a river, stream or watercourse runs.
   CHILD CARE. A program or arrangement where three or more children less than
13 years old, who do not reside where the care is provided, receive care on a
regular basis of at least once per week for more than four hours but less than
24 hours per day from persons other than their guardians or full-time
custodians, or from persons not related to them by birth, marriage, or
adoption.
   CHILD CARE FACILITY. Includes child care centers, family child care homes,
and any other child care arrangement not excluded by G.S. § 110-86 (2) that
provides child care, regardless of the time of day, wherever operated, and
whether or not operated for profit.
      (1)   CHILD CARE CENTER. An arrangement where, at any one time, there are
three or more preschool-age children or nine or more school-age children
receiving child care.
      (2)   FAMILY CHILD CARE HOME.  A child care arrangement located in a
residence where, at any one time, more than two children, but less than nine
children, receive child care.
      (3)   SMALL CHILD CARE CENTER. Small centers in a residence that are
licensed for six to 12 children which may keep up to three additional school
age children, depending upon the ages of other children in care. When the group
has children of different ages, staff-child ratios and group size must be met
for the youngest child in the group.
   CHIMNEY.  A vertical shaft of reinforced concrete, masonry, or other
approved material enclosing one or more flues, for the purpose of removing
products of combustion from solid, liquid, or gaseous fuel.
   CHURCHES/PLACES OF WORSHIP. Facilities used primarily for nonprofit purposes
by a recognized and legally established sect to provide assembly and meeting
areas for religious activities. Accessory uses include Sunday school
facilities, parking, caretaker's housing, pastor's housing, and permanent group
living facilities such as convents. Examples include churches, temples,
synagogues, and mosques, but not associated schools, day care facilities, or
other facilities not devoted to religious activity.
   CIRCULATION AREA. That portion of the vehicle accommodation area used for
access to parking or loading areas or other facilities on the lot. Essentially,
driveways and other maneuvering areas (other than parking aisles) comprise the
circulation area.
   CITY. As defined in G.S. § 160A-1(2), CITY is interchangeable with the terms
“town” and “village,” as used throughout this chapter. For similar state law
provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-102.
   CITY/TOWN RIGHT-OF-WAY. A right-of-way owned, leased, or operated by a town,
including any public street or alley that is not a part of the state highway
system.
   CITY/TOWN UTILITY POLE.  A pole owned by a town in the town right-of-way
that provides lighting, traffic control, or a similar function.
   CLASS A MOTOR VEHICLE. A combination of motor vehicles that meets either of
the following descriptions:
      (1)   Has a combined GVWR of at least 26,001 pounds and includes as part
of the combination a towed unit that has a GVWR of at least 10,001 pounds.
      (2)   Has a combined GVWR of less than 26,001 pounds and includes as part
of the combination a towed unit that has a GVWR of at least 10,001 pounds.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 20-4.01(2a).
   CLASS B MOTOR VEHICLE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A single motor vehicle that has a GVWR of at least 26,001 pounds.
      (2)   A combination of motor vehicles that includes as part of the
combination a towing unit that has a GVWR of at least 26,001 pounds and a towed
unit that has a GVWR of less than 10,001 pounds.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 20-4.01(2b).
   CLASS C MOTOR VEHICLE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A single motor vehicle not included in Class B.
      (2)   A combination of motor vehicles not included in Class A or Class B.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 20-4.01(2c).
   CLUBS AND LODGES.  An incorporated or unincorporated association for civic,
social, cultural, fraternal, literary, political, recreational or like
activities, operated on a nonprofit basis for the benefit of its members.
   CODE OFFICIAL. An employee of the town with responsibility for
administration and enforcement of development ordinances.
   COLLECTOR STREET. A street whose principal function is to carry traffic
between cul-de-sac, local, and sub-collector streets, and streets of higher
classification, but which may also provide direct access to abutting
properties.
   COLLOCATION. The placement, installation, maintenance, modification,
operation, or replacement of wireless facilities on, under, within, or on the
surface of the surface of the earth adjacent to existing structures, including
utility poles, town utility poles, water towers, buildings, and other
structures capable of structurally supporting the attachment of wireless
facilities in compliance with applicable codes. The term COLLOCATION does not
include the installation of new utility poles, town utility poles, or wireless
support structures.
   COMBINATION USE. A use consisting of a combination on one lot of two or more
principal uses separately listed in the Table of Permitted Uses. Under some
circumstances, a second principal use may be regarded as accessory to the
first, and thus a combination use is not established. When two or more
separately owned or separately operated enterprises occupy the same lot, and
all such enterprises fall within the same principal use classification, this
shall not constitute a combination use.
   COMMON AREA(S). All areas, including private streets, conveyed to an owners'
association within a development, or owned on a proportional undivided basis in
a condominium development.
   COMMUNICATIONS FACILITY. The set of equipment and network components,
including wires and cables and associated facilities used by a communications
service provider to provide communications service.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. Cable service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(6),
information service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(24), telecommunications
service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(53), or wireless services.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER. A cable operator as defined in 47 U.S.C. §
522(5); a provider of information service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(24); a
telecommunications carrier, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(51); or a wireless
provider.
   COMPETENT EVIDENCE. NC General Statutes require that the rules of evidence
as applied in the trial division of the General Court of Justice ordinarily be
followed but adds the important exception that "when evidence is not reasonably
available under such rules to show relevant facts, they may be shown by the
most reliable and substantial evidence available." The Board just limit itself
to the type of evidence that ought to be admissible before local administrative
agencies generally. The term “competent” is essentially a synonym for
“admissible before a local board.”
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The Comprehensive Plan is intended to guide coordinated,
efficient, and orderly development within the planning and development
regulation jurisdiction based on an analysis of present and future needs. The
comprehensive plan, land-use plan, small area plans, neighborhood plans,
transportation plan, capital improvement plan, and any other plans regarding
land use and development that have been officially adopted by the governing
board. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-102.
   CONDITIONAL ZONING. A legislative zoning map amendment with site-specific
conditions incorporated into the zoning map amendment. For similar state law
provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-102.
   CONDOMINIUM.  Portions of real estate which are designated for separate
ownership, and the remainder of which is designated for common ownership solely
by the owners of those portions. Real estate is not a CONDOMINIUM unless the
undivided interests in the common elements are vested in the unit owners.
   CONDOMINIUM DEVELOPMENT. A development of one or more structures containing
two or more units intended for owner occupancy, where the land beneath each
unit and all common areas (as defined in the North Carolina Unit Ownership Act)
are owned proportionately by each unit owner in the development. Units and the
land on which they are built do not meet conventional lot requirements for
street frontage and yard sizes, and walls between units are constructed in
accordance with North Carolina State Building Code requirements. All such
projects shall conform to the density requirements as outlined in this chapter
and shall be approved in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   CONVENIENCE STORE. A one-story retail that is designed and stocked to sell
primarily food, beverages, and other household supplies to customers who
purchase only relatively few items (in contrast to a “supermarket”). It is
designed to attract and depends upon a large volume of “stop and go” traffic.
Illustrative examples of convenience stores are those operated by the “Fast
Fare,” “7-11,” and “Pantry” chains.
   CORNER LOT. A lot abutting two or more streets at their intersection.
   COUNTY. Any one of the counties listed in G.S. § 153A-10. For similar state
law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-102.
   COUNTY BOARD.  Refers to the Robeson County Board of County Commissioners.
   CRITICAL ROOT ZONE.  The rooting area of a tree established to limit root
disturbance, generally defined as a circle with a radius extending from a
tree's trunk to the furthest point of the crown dripline.
   CUL-DE-SAC STREET. A short local street having one end open to traffic and
the other end permanently terminated by a vehicular turnaround.
   CURB LINE. On the basis of orientation of the existing structure the line
located at the back of the street curb perpendicular to the structure. Such
line shall be fixed by the Zoning Administrator subject to review by the Board
of Adjustment.
   CUSTOMARY HOME OCCUPATIONS. Any use conducted for gain within a dwelling and
carried on by the occupants thereof, which use is clearly incidental and
secondary to the use of the dwelling for residential purposes and does not
change the character thereof, and in connection with which there is no display;
provided further, no person not a resident on the premises shall be employed
specifically in connection with the activity; no mechanical equipment shall be
installed or used except such as is normally used for domestic or professional
purposes; and not over 25% of the total floor space or 400 square feet of any
structure, whichever is less, shall be used for home occupations.
   DAY. Any reference to days shall mean calendar days unless otherwise
specified. A duration of days shall include the first and last days on which an
activity is conducted, and all days in between, unless otherwise specified by
state law.
   DAY-NIGHT AVERAGE SOUND LEVEL (LDN). A measure of noise which considers the
24-hour average sound level, 365 days a year, in “A” weighted decibels. Those
events occurring between 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., incur a 10 decibel penalty.
This is the accepted parameter for determining the impacts of noise on people.
   DECIBEL (dB). Sound is measured in decibels. The zero on the decibel scale
is based on the lowest sound level that is the healthy, unimpaired human ear
can detect. Decibels are not linear units, but representative points on a
sharply rising (exponential) curve. Thus, an increase of 10 decibels represent
an approximate doubling of acoustic energy.
   DECISION-MAKING BOARD. A governing board, planning board, board of
adjustment, historic district board, or other board assigned to make quasi-
judicial decisions under this chapter. For similar state law provisions, refer
to G.S. § 160D-102.
   DECK. An open and roofless platform that adjoins a house and is supported by
a means other than the principal structure.
   DETACHED BUILDING. A building having no party or common wall with another
building except an accessory building.
   DETERMINATION. A written, final and binding order, requirement, or
determination regarding an administrative decision. DETERMINATIONS can include
stop work order and notices of violation to force development to halt. For
similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-102.
   DEVELOPER. A person, including a governmental agency or redevelopment
authority, who undertakes any development and who is the landowner of the
property to be developed or who has been authorized by the landowner to
undertake development on that property. For similar state law provisions, refer
to G.S. § 160D-102.
   DEVELOPMENT. Unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, the term means
any of the following:
      (1)   The construction, erection, alteration, enlargement, renovation,
substantial repair, movement to another site, or demolition of any structure;
      (2)   Excavation, grading, filling, clearing, or alteration of land;
      (3)   The subdivision of land as defined in G.S. § 160D-802; or
      (4)   The initiation or substantial change in the use of land or the
intensity of use of land. This definition does not alter the scope of
regulatory authority granted by the Articles of G.S. Chapter 160D.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-102.
   DEVELOPMENT APPROVAL. An administrative or quasi-judicial approval made
pursuant to G.S. Chapter 160D that is written and that is required prior to
commencing development or undertaking a specific activity, project or
development proposal. Development approvals include, but are not limited to,
zoning permits, site plan approvals, special use permits, variances, and
certificates of appropriateness. The term also includes all other regulatory
approvals required by regulations adopted pursuant to this chapter, including
plat approvals, permits issued, development agreements entered into, and
building permits issued. Unless provided otherwise by law, all rights,
privileges, benefits, burdens, and obligations created by development approvals
made pursuant to G.S. Chapter 160D attach to and run with the land. For similar
state law provisions, refer to G.S. Chapter 160D-104.
   DEVELOPMENT, DENSITY OF. The density of development shall be determined
using a gross acreage system. The total area of the tract, including areas to
be used for new streets, rights-of-way, drives, parking, structures, recreation
areas, dedicated areas, and required setbacks, shall be used for density
calculations.
   DEVELOPMENT REGULATION. A unified development ordinance, zoning regulation,
subdivision regulation, erosion and sedimentation control regulation,
floodplain or flood damage prevention regulation, mountain ridge protection
regulation, stormwater control regulation, wireless telecommunication facility
regulation, historic preservation or landmark regulation, housing code, State
Building Code enforcement, or any other regulation adopted pursuant to G.S.
Chapter 160D, or a local act or charter that regulates land use or development.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-102.
   DIRECT LIGHT. Light emitted directly from the lamp, off of the reflector or
reflector diffuser, or through the refractor or diffuser lens, of a lighting
system.
   DISTRICT. Any section of the Town of Fairmont in which zoning regulations
are uniform.
   DRAINAGE EASEMENT.  An easement which grants the right of water drainage to
pass in open channels or enclosed structures.
   DRAINAGEWAY. Any natural or man-made channel that carries surface runoff
from precipitation.
   DRAWINGS. Construction drawings utilized during construction prepared by an
architect, landscape architect, engineer, or surveyor licensed to practice in
North Carolina. Drawings, as-built engineering plans prepared after the
completion of construction, by the engineer by an architect, landscape
architect, engineer, or surveyor licensed to practice in North Carolina, in
such a manner as to accurately identify and depict the location of all on-site
improvements, which includes but is not limited to all structures, parking
facilities, detention/retention areas, curbs, gutters, and sidewalks.
   DRIPLINE. A vertical line extending the outermost portion of a tree's canopy
to the ground.
   DRIVEWAY. A private, vehicular access connecting a house, carport, parking
area, garage, or other buildings with the street. A DRIVEWAY is not a road,
street, boulevard, highway, or parkway.
   DRIVEWAY APPROACH. An area of the public right-of-way located between the
roadway and property adjacent to the public right-of-way that is intended to
provide for vehicles from the roadway to the adjacent property.
   DUPLEX. See TWO-FAMILY DWELLING.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, manufactured home or mobile home, or part
thereof, used and occupied for human habitation or intended to be so used, and
includes any outhouses and appurtenances belonging thereto or usually enjoyed
therewith, except that for purposes of G.S. Chapter 160D, Article 12 - Minimum
Housing Codes, it does not include any manufactured home, mobile home, or
recreational vehicle, if used solely for a seasonal vacation purpose. For
similar state law provisions, refer to G.S.§ 160D-102.
   DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. A building arranged or designed to be occupied by
three or more families living independently of each other.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. Also referred to as a “Single-Family Detached
Unit,” is a building arranged, or designed to be occupied by one family, the
structure having only one dwelling unit.
   DWELLING, TOWNHOUSE. A building consisting of single-family residences
attached to one another in which each unit is located on an individually-owned
parcel, generally within a development containing drives, walks and open space
in common area.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building arranged or designed to be occupied by two
families living independently of each other (the structure having only two
dwelling units).
   DWELLING UNIT. A dwelling or that portion of a multiple dwelling used or
designed as a residence for one family. In nursing homes, homes for the aged,
convalescent homes and other such multi-unit facilities, two resident persons
shall be equivalent of one dwelling unit. The term “dwelling” shall not be
deemed to include a motel, hotel, tourist home, or other structure designed for
transient residence.
   EASEMENT. A grant by the property owner for use, by the public, a
corporation, or a person(s), of a strip of land for a specified use.
   EAVE. An overhanging roof extension not exceeding three feet.
   EFFECTIVE DATE OF THIS CHAPTER. The date of adoption by the Fairmont Board
of Commissioners of this chapter and any amendments thereto.
   ELIGIBLE FACILITIES REQUEST.  A request for modification of an existing
wireless tower or base station that involves collocation of new transmission
equipment or replacement of transmission equipment but does not include a
substantial modification.
   EQUIPMENT COMPOUND. An area surrounding or near the base of a wireless
support structure within which a wireless facility is located.
   EQUIPMENT FACILITY. Any structure used to contain ancillary equipment for a
wireless communication facility which includes cabinets, shelters, a build out
of an existing structure, pedestals, and other similar structures.
   ERECT. Build, construct, erect, re-build, re-construct, or re-erect as the
same is commonly defined.
   EVIDENTIARY HEARING. A hearing to gather competent material, and substantial
evidence in order to make findings for a quasi-judicial decision required by a
development regulation adopted under G.S. Chapter 160D. For similar state law
provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-102.
   EX PARTE. A Latin legal term meaning “from (by or for) [the/a] party”. An EX
PARTE decision is one decided by a judge without requiring all of the parties
to the controversy to be present.
   EXISTING DEVELOPMENT. Those projects that are built or those projects that
at a minimum have established a vested right under North Carolina zoning law as
of the effective date of this chapter based on at least one of the following
criteria:
      (1)   Substantial expenditures of resources (time, labor, money) based on
a good faith reliance upon having received a valid local government approval to
proceed with the project, or
      (2)   Having an outstanding valid building permit, or
      (3)   The right to undertake and complete the development and use of
property under the terms and conditions of an approval secured as specified in
G.S. § 160D-1-8 or under common law. For similar state law provisions, refer to
G.S. § 160D-102.
   EXISTING LOT (LOT OF RECORD). A lot which is part of a subdivision, a plat
of which has been recorded in the Office of the Robeson County Register of
Deeds prior to the original adoption of this chapter, or a lot described by
metes and bounds, the description of which has been so recorded prior to the
original adoption of this chapter.
   EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION (ETJ). An area outside the municipal corporate
limits extending up to one mile from these limits, where the town exercises
planning, zoning and subdivision powers.
   FABRICATION. Manufacturing, excluding the refining or other initial
processing of basic raw materials such as metal ores, lumber or rubber.
FABRICATION relates to stamping, cutting or otherwise shaping the processed
materials into useful objects.
   FALL ZONE.  The area in which a wireless support structure may be expected
to fall in the event of a structural failure, as measured by engineering
standards.
   FAMILY. One or more persons occupying a dwelling unit and living as a single
household.
   FAMILY CARE HOME. A home meeting the North Carolina Residential Building
Code with support and supervisory personnel that provides room and board,
personal care and habilitation services in a family environment for six or less
resident handicapped persons, pursuant to G.S. § 168-21.
   FAMILY FOSTER HOME. The private residence of one or more individuals who
permanently reside as members of the household and who provide continuing full-
time foster care for a child or children who are placed there by a child
placing agency or who provide continuing full-time foster care for two or more
children who are unrelated to the adult members of the household by blood,
marriage, guardianship, or adoption.
   FARMERS' MARKET, OPEN-AIR/ FARM STAND. A market where the seasonal selling
or offering for sale at retail of locally and self-grown vegetables or produce
is conducted. This may include items made directly from vegetables or produce,
fresh flowers and plants, and/or self-made crafts and sold directly to the
consumer at an open-air-market in a pre-designated area, where the vendor is
generally the individual who raised the vegetables or produce or created the
craft.
   FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION FCC. The Federal Communications Commission
regulates interstate and international communications by radio, television,
wire, satellite, and cable in all 50 states, the District of Columbia and U.S.
territories. An independent U.S. government agency overseen by Congress, the
Commission is the federal agency responsible for implementing and enforcing
America's communications law and regulations.
   FEDERAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1996. The Telecommunications Act of 1996
was the first significant overhaul of telecommunications law in more than 60
years, amending the Communications Act of 1934.
   FENCE. A physical barrier or enclosure consisting of wood, stone, brick,
block, wire, metal or similar material, used as a boundary or means of
protection or confinement, but not including a hedge or other vegetation.
   FIFTH-WHEEL TRAILER. A vehicular unit mounted on wheels designed to provide
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, or travel use, of a size
and weight that does not require a special highway movement permit and designed
to be towed by a motorized vehicle that contains a towing mechanism that is
mounted above or forward of the tow vehicle's rear axle.
   FINE ARTS AND CRAFTS. Individual art pieces, not mass produced consisting of
one or more of the following: paintings, drawings, etchings, sculptures,
ceramics, inlays, needlework, knitting, weaving, and/or craftwork, leather,
wood, metal, or glass.
   FLAG LOT.  A lot that is composed of a narrow 'flagpole' strip extending
from the street and much wider 'flag' section lying immediately behind a lot or
lots having the required street frontage for a conventional lot. In the case of
a flag lot, the lot line at the end of the flag pole lying generally parallel
to the street to which the flagpole connects shall be considered to be the
front lot line for setback purposes.
   FLEA MARKET. Buildings or open areas in which sales areas or stalls are set
aside or rented, and which are intended for use by one or more individuals or
by educational, religious, or charitable organizations to sell a variety of
articles such as those which are either homemade, homegrown, handcrafted, old,
obsolete or antique.
   FLOATING HOME.  A house built on a floating platform without a means of
propulsion. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 146-12.
   FOOD TRUCK. A large motorized vehicle, such as a van or trailer, which can
be moved from place to place, and which is equipped to cook, prepare, serve,
and/or sell food.
   FORESTLAND. Land that is devoted to growing trees for the production of
timber, wood, and other forest products.
   FORESTRY. The professional practice embracing the science, business, and art
of creating, conserving, and managing forests and forestland for the sustained
use and enjoyment of their resources, materials, or other forest products.
   FORESTRY ACTIVITY.  Any activity associated with the growing, managing,
harvesting, and related transportation, reforestation, or protection of trees
and timber, provided that such activities comply with existing state rules and
regulations pertaining to forestry.
   FORESTRY OPERATIONS. Establishments primarily engaged in the operation of
timber tracts, tree farms, forest nurseries, and related activities. Not
included in this definition are logging establishments, sawmills, and planing
mills.
   FRONTAGE. All property abutting on one side of a street measured along the
street line.
   GAME ROOM. A use providing video games or other games for playing for
amusement and recreation. Any table games such as air hockey, football,
pinball, or the like shall be included under this definition. More than three
such games shall constitute a primary use and shall be allowed only in those
zoning districts permitting game rooms as a listed permitted use. Three or
fewer such games shall constitute an accessory use and may be permitted in any
licensed retail business.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. A building or space used as an accessory to or a part of
the main building permitted in any residence district, and providing for the
storage or care of motor vehicles and in which no business, occupation or
service for profit is in any way conducted.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. Any building or premises, except those described as a
private or storage garage, used for the storage or care of motor vehicles for
the public or where any such vehicles are equipped for operation, repaired, or
kept for remuneration, hire or sale.
   GARAGE, STORAGE.  Any building or premises, other than a private or public
garage, used exclusively for the parking or storage of motor vehicles.
   GOLF CART. A vehicle designed and manufactured for operation on a golf
course for sporting or recreational purposes and that is not capable of
exceeding speeds of 20 miles per hour and shall be operated in compliance with
G.S. § 20-121.1. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. 20-4.01, and
G.S. § 20-121.1.
   GOVERNING BOARD. The city council or board of county commissioners. The term
is interchangeable with the terms “board of aldermen” and “boards of
commissioners” and shall mean any governing board without regard to the
terminology employed in charters, local acts, other portions of the General
Statutes, or local customary usage. For similar state law provisions, refer to
G.S. § 160D-102.
   GRADE, FINISHED. The final elevation of the ground surface after
development.
   GRADE, NATURAL. The elevation of the ground surface in its natural state
before man-made alterations.
   GRANNY POD/TEMPORARY HEALTH CARE STRUCTURE. A temporary structure that will
house a single mentally or physically impaired person in accordance with G.S. §
160A-383.5. The statute defines these to be North Carolina residents who
require assistance with two or more activities of daily living (bathing,
dressing, personal hygiene, ambulation, transferring, toileting, and eating).
The impairment must be certified in writing by a physician licensed in North
Carolina.
   GROCERY STORE. A retail establishment, not a convenience store, for the
display and sale of meat, fruits, fresh and packaged foods, cleaning supplies,
paper goods, pet supplies, health and beauty products, bakery products, dairy
products, wine, beer, and similar items for human consumption and may include a
bakery, delicatessen or prescription pharmacy.
   GROSS FLOOR AREA.  The total area of a building measured by taking the
outside dimensions of the building at each floor level intended for occupancy
or storage. The sum of the gross horizontal areas of one or several floors of a
building measured from the exterior face of exterior walls, or from the
centerline of a wall separating two buildings, but not including interior
parking spaces, loading space for motor vehicles, or any space where the floor-
to-ceiling height is less than six feet.
   GROUP CARE FACILITY. A facility licensed by the State of North Carolina (by
whatever name it is called, other than “Family Care Home” as defined by this
chapter), with support and supervisory personnel that provides room and board,
personal care or habilitation services in a family environment for not more
than 30 people.
   GROUP DEVELOPMENT.  A group of two or more principal structures built on a
single lot, tract or parcel of land not subdivided into the customary streets
and lots and which will not be so subdivided, and designed for occupancy by
separate families, businesses or other enterprises. Examples would be: cluster
type subdivisions, row houses, apartment courts, housing projects, school and
hospital campuses, shopping centers and industrial parks.
   HABITABLE FLOOR. Any floor useable for living purposes which includes
working, sleeping, eating, cooking or recreation or a combination thereof.
   HABITABLE ROOM.  A room or heated floor space used or intended to be used
for living or sleeping, excluding bathrooms, kitchens, places for cooking or
eating purposes, water closet compartments, laundries, heater rooms, foyers or
communicating corridors, closets, and storage spaces.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL. Any material defined as a hazardous substance under 29
Code of Federal Regulations § 1910.120(a)(3).
   HEALTH SPA.  A profit-making business or a private club as opposed to YMCA.
Spa would include such activities as weight lifting, exercising, steam room,
whirlpool, sauna, and possibly other gymnastics.
   HEIGHT, WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY. When referring to a wireless
communication facility, the vertical distance measured from the base of the
tower to the highest point on the wireless communication facility, including
the antenna array and other attachments.
   HOME FOR THE AGED. A boarding home with more than six beds meeting all of
the requirements of the State of North Carolina for the boarding and care of
persons who are not critically ill and who do not need regular professional
medical attention.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any profession or occupation carried on entirely within a
dwelling providing that such use is clearly incidental and secondary to the use
of the dwelling for dwelling purposes, that no more than 25% of the total floor
area is used for such purposes, and that there is no
outside or window display. No mechanical equipment shall be installed or used
other than is normally used for domestic or home occupation purposes.
   HOTEL(MOTEL).  A building used as an abiding place of more than 14 persons
who for compensation are lodged with or without meals and in which no provision
is made for cooking in any individual room or suite.
   INDIRECT LIGHT. Direct light that has been reflected or has scattered off of
other surfaces.
   INOPERABLE VEHICLE.  Any vehicle, designed to be self-propelled, which by
virtue of broken or missing component parts, is no longer capable of self-
propulsion. For the purpose of this chapter, any vehicle which is registered
with the North Carolina Department of Motor Vehicles and has a current North
Carolina motor vehicle registration license affixed to it shall not be
considered inoperable.
   INSTITUTIONALIZED PERSONS. Persons who are committed through some legal
process (jail, hospital ward for the dangerously mentally ill), or persons
committed to an institution, such as a halfway house, on a time-of-day basis.
   INTERIOR SETBACK. A setback from any property line not alongside a street.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT, TRANSIENT MERCHANT, ITINERANT VENDOR OR FOOD TRUCK
VENDOR.  Any person, firm or corporation whether as owner, agent, consignee, or
employee, whether a resident of the town or not, who engages in a temporary
business of selling and delivering goods, wares and merchandise within said
town, and who, in furtherance of such purpose, hires, leases, uses, or occupies
any building or land, structure, motor vehicle, tent, trailer, railroad box
car, truck or boat, public room in hotel, motel, lodging houses, apartments,
shops, or any street, alley, or other place within the town for the exhibition
and sale of such goods, wares, and merchandise, either privately, or at public
auction provided that such definition shall not be construed to include:
      (1)   Any person selling at a yard sale who has received the appropriate
permits and licenses from the town;
      (2)   Internet sales;
      (3)   Any vendor lawfully participating in sales at a Farmers Market; and
      (4)   Non-profits, civic and religious organizations.
   JUNK/SALVAGE YARD. Any land or area used, in whole or in part, for the
storage, keeping, or accumulation of material, including scrap metals, waste
paper, rags, or other scrap materials, or used building materials, for the
dismantling, demolition or abandonment of automobiles or other vehicles or
machinery or parts thereof.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE. A motor vehicle that does not display a current
license plate and is one or more of the following:
      (1)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked; or
      (2)   Cannot be self-propelled or moved in the manner in which it
originally was intended to move; or
      (3)   More than five years old and appears to be worth less than $100;
provided that any motor vehicle used on a regular basis for business or
personal use shall not be caused to be removed or disposed.
   KENNEL. A commercial operation that:
      (1)   Provides food and shelter and care of animals for purposes not
primarily related to medical care (a kennel may or may not be run by or
associated with a veterinarian);
      (2)   Engages in the breeding of animals for sale; or
      (3)   Engages in the training or breeding of animals.
   LAKE FRONT PROPERTY. Any property adjoining or abutting upon a lake.
   LAND CLEARING AND INERT DEBRIS LANDFILL (LCID). A landfill facility for
waste generated from land clearing, concrete, brick, concrete block,
uncontaminated soil, gravel and rock, unpainted wood, and yard trash. “Yard
trash” is solid waste resulting from landscaping and yard maintenance such as
brush, grass, tree limbs, and similar vegetative materials.
   LANDOWNER OR OWNER. The holder of the title in fee simple. Absent evidence
to the contrary, a local government may rely on the county tax records to
determine who is a landowner. The landowner may authorize a person holding a
valid option, lease, or contract to purchase to act as his or her agent or
representative for the purpose of making applications for development
approvals. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-102.
   LARGE RETAIL. A retail structure or group of structures having a total in
excess of 25,000 square feet of gross floor area.
   LEGISLATIVE DECISION.  The adoption, amendment, or repeal of a regulation
under this chapter or an applicable local act. It also includes the decision to
approve, amend, or rescind a development agreement consistent with the
provisions of G.S. Chapter 160D, Article 10 - Development Agreements.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-102.
   LEGISLATIVE HEARING. A hearing to solicit public comment on a proposed
legislative decision. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-
102.
   LOADING AREA OR SPACE, OFF-STREET. An off-street area logically and
conveniently located for bulk pickups and deliveries, scaled to delivery
vehicles expected to be used, and accessible to such vehicles. Required off-
street loading space is not to be included as off-street parking in computing
required off-street parking space.
   LOCAL ACT. As defined in G.S. § 160A-1(5).
   LOCAL GOVERNMENT. A city or county. For similar state law provisions, refer
to G.S. § 160D-102.
   LOCAL STREET. A street whose primary function is to provide access to
abutting properties.
   LOT. A parcel of land occupied or to be occupied by a main building or group
of main buildings and accessory buildings, together with such yards, open
spaces, lot width and lot area as are required by this chapter and having not
less than the minimum required frontage upon a street, either shown on a plat
of record, or considered as a unit of property and described by metes and
bounds.
   LOT, AREA. The total area circumscribed by the boundaries of a lot, except
that:
      (1)   When the legal instrument creating a lot shows the boundary of the
lot extending into a public street right-of-way, then the lot boundary for
purposes of computing the lot area shall be the street right-of-way line, or if
the right-of-way line cannot be determined, a line running parallel to and
thirty feet from the center of the traveled portion of the street; or
      (2)   In a residential district, when a private road that serves more
than three dwelling units is located along any lot boundary, then the lot
boundary for purposes of computing the lot area shall be the inside boundary of
the traveled portion of that road.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot which occupies the interior angle at the intersection of
two street lines which make an angle of more than 45 degrees and less than 135
degrees with each other. The street line forming the least frontage shall be
deemed the front of the lot except where the two street lines are equal, in
which case the owner shall be required to specify which is the front when
requesting a zoning permit.
   LOT COVERAGE.  The portion of a lot covered by building(s) and/or structure
(s).
   LOT, DEPTH OF. The average horizontal distance between front and rear lot
lines.
   LOT, WIDTH OF. The average horizontal distance between side lot lines.
   LOT LINE, REAR. 
      (1)   If the lot has one front line, the boundary opposite that front
line shall be the rear line.
      (2)   If the lot has two front lines the boundary opposite the shorter of
the two front lines shall be the rear line, provided that if both front lines
are of equal length, the rear line shall be fixed by the Building Inspector,
subject to review by the Board of Adjustment, on the basis of orientation of
existing structures.
      (3)   If the lot has three or more front lines, there shall be no rear
line. Lot of Record A lot which is a part of a subdivision, a plat of which has
been recorded in the Office of the Register of Deeds of Robeson County prior to
the adoption of this chapter, or a lot described by metes and bounds, the
description of which has been so recorded prior to the adoption of this
chapter.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot, plot, parcel, or tract recorded in the Office of the
Robeson County Register of Deeds in conformance with the ordinance(s) in effect
at the time of recordation.
   MAJOR REPAIR. Any activity that could result in deposition of materials or
pollution into the shoreline area waters.
   MAJOR THOROUGHFARE STREET. Major thoroughfares consist of interstate, other
freeway, expressway, or parkway links, and major streets that provide for the
expeditious movement of high volumes of traffic within and through urban areas.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
in the traveling mode is eight body feet or more in width, or 40 body feet or
more in length, or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet; and which
is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling, with or
without permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities,
including the plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical systems
contained therein. MANUFACTURED HOME also means a double-wide manufactured
home, which is two or more portable manufactured housing units designed for
transportation on their own chassis that connect on site for placement on a
temporary or semi-permanent foundation having a measurement of over 32 feet in
length and over eight feet in width. A manufactured home (formerly known as a
mobile home) is built to the Manufactured Home Construction and Safety
Standards (HUD Code) and displays a red certification label on the exterior of
each transportable section. Manufactured homes are built in the controlled
environment of a manufacturing plant and are transported in one or more
sections on a permanent chassis. (HUD.GOV)
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-102 and G.S. § 143-145
(7).
   MANUFACTURED HOME, CLASS A/MODULAR HOME.  A manufactured home that meets or
exceeds the construction standards promulgated by the U.S. Department of
Housing and Urban Development that were in effect at the time of construction
and satisfies each of the following additional criteria:
      (1)   The home has a length not exceeding four times its width;
      (2)   The pitch of the home's roof shall have a minimum vertical rise of
one foot for each five feet of horizontal run, and the roof is finished with a
type of shingle that is commonly used in standard residential construction;
      (3)   The exterior siding consists of wood, hardboard, or aluminum (vinyl
covered or painted, but in no case exceeding the reflectivity of gloss white
paint) comparable in composition, appearance, and durability to the exterior
siding commonly used in standard residential construction;
      (4)   The tongue, axles, transporting lights, and removable towing
apparatus are removed after placement on the lot and before occupancy.
      (5)   The front entrance has stairs and a porch being at least four feet
by six feet in size. Stairs, porches, entrance to and exit from the home shall
be constructed in compliance with the applicable NC Building Code.
   MANUFACTURED HOME, CLASS B. A manufactured home that meets or exceeds the
construction standards promulgated by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development that were in effect at the time of construction but that does not
satisfy the criteria necessary to qualify the house as a Class A manufactured
home. A Class B manufactured home satisfies these additional criteria:
      (1)   The manufactured home has a minimum length of 52 feet measured
along the longest axis and a minimum width of 14 feet measured at the narrowest
part of the other axis;
      (2)   The manufactured home has a minimum of 728 square feet of enclosed
living area;
      (3)   The pitch of the roof of the manufactured home has a minimum
vertical rise of three feet for each 12 feet of horizontal run;
      (4)   The exterior siding consists predominantly of vinyl or aluminum
horizontal lap siding (whose reflectivity does not exceed that of gloss white
paint), wood, or hardboard, comparable in composition, appearance, and
durability to the exterior siding commonly used in standard residential
construction.
      (5)   The manufactured home is set up in accordance with the standards
set by the North Carolina Department of Insurance and rests upon a continuous
uniform foundation enclosure, un-pierced except for required ventilation and
access. The foundation skirting shall be of a non-combustible material or
material that will not support combustion. Any wood framing for foundation
skirting shall be constructed with treated lumber;
      (6)   Stairs, porches, entrance platforms, ramps, and other means of
entrance and exit to and from the home shall be installed or constructed in
accordance with the standards set be the North Carolina State Building Code;
and
      (7)   The moving hitch, wheels and axles, and transporting lights have
been removed.
   MANUFACTURED HOME, CLASS C. (Commonly referred to as a single section
manufactured home.) Any manufactured home that does not meet the definition
criteria of a Class A or Class B manufactured home. Class C manufactured homes
shall not be moved in to the town's planning jurisdiction. Once a Class C
manufactured home is disconnected from utilities at its current location, it
cannot be moved or reconnected to utilities at a different location within the
town. Also, the disconnected manufactured home must be removed and disposed of
and cannot be used for storage.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK.  Land used or intended to be used, leased or rented
for occupancy by six or more mobile homes, anchored in place by a foundation or
other stationary support, to be used for living purposes and accompanied by
automobile parking spaces and incidental utility structures and facilities
required and provided in connection therewith. This definition shall not
include trailer sales lots on which unoccupied trailers are parked for purposes
of inspection and sale.
   MANUFACTURED HOME SPACE. A designated area of land within a manufactured
home park designed for the accommodation of a single manufactured dwelling home
in accordance with the requirements of this chapter.
   MARQUEE.  Any permanent roof-like structure projecting beyond a building or
extending along and projecting beyond the wall of the building, generally
designed and constructed to provide protection from the weather.
   MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY. A small wireless facility that is no larger in
dimension than 24 inches in length, 15 inches in width, and 12 inches in height
and that has an exterior antenna, if any, no longer than 11 inches.
   MINOR THOROUGHFARE STREET.  Minor thoroughfares collect traffic from
collector, sub-collector, and local streets and carry it to the major
thoroughfare system. Minor thoroughfares may be used to supplement the major
thoroughfare system by facilitating movement of moderate volumes of traffic
within and through urban areas and may also serve abutting property.
   MODULAR HOME.  A dwelling unit constructed in accordance with the standards
set forth in the North Carolina State Building Code and composed of components
substantially assembled in a manufacturing plant and transported to the
building site for final assembly on a permanent foundation. Among other
possibilities, a modular home may consist of two or more sections transported
to the site in a manner similar to a manufactured home (except that the modular
home meets the North Carolina State Building Code applicable to site built
homes), or a series of panels or room sections transported
on a truck and erected or joined together on the site. To qualify for a label
or seal under subsection (a) of this section, a single-family modular home must
meet or exceed the following construction and design standards:
      (1)   Roof pitch. For homes with a single predominant roofline, the pitch
of the roof shall be no less than five feet rise for every 12 feet of run.
      (2)   Eave projection. The eave projections of the roof shall be no less
than 10 inches, which may not include a gutter around the perimeter of the
home, unless the roof pitch is 8/12 or greater.
      (3)   Exterior wall. The minimum height of the exterior wall shall be at
least seven feet six inches for the first story.
      (4)   Siding and roofing materials. The materials and texture for the
exterior materials shall be compatible in composition, appearance, and
durability to the exterior materials commonly used in standard residential
construction.
      (5)   Foundations. The home shall be designed to require foundation
supports around the perimeter. The supports may be in the form of piers, pier
and curtain wall, piling foundations, a perimeter wall, or other approved
perimeter supports. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-910
and G.S. § 143-139.1.
   MORATORIUM. The temporary prohibition of any activity.
   MOTEL or MOTOR LODGES. A building or group of buildings containing sleeping
rooms, designed for or used temporarily by automobile transients, with garage
or parking space conveniently located to each unit.
   MOTOR HOME. A vehicular unit, designed to provide temporary living quarters,
built into as an integral part, or permanently attached to, a self-propelled
motor vehicle chassis or van. The vehicle must provide at least four of the
following facilities: cooking, refrigeration or icebox, self-contained toilet,
heating or air conditioning, a portable water supply system including a faucet
and sink, separate 110-125-volt electrical power supply, or an LP gas supply.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 20-4.01(27) k.
   MULTI-TENANT BUILDING. A building that is used for two or more occupancies,
provided each occupancy is separated by construction having fire-resistive
ratings in compliance with the NC Building Code.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM.  This program makes available to residents
of flood-prone areas, flood insurance at reasonable premium rates through the
means of a federal subsidy. Local jurisdictions are required to enact land use
and control measures designed to guide the rational use
of the flood plain and minimize potential damage from future flooding as a
condition for the availability of the federally subsidized flood insurance.
   NIGHTCLUBS AND BARS. Include commercial clubs, private clubs, discotheques,
cabarets, taverns and places of entertainment in which music, dancing, and
entertainment is conducted. A commercial establishment open to the general
public either without charge or upon payment of a cover charge or membership,
licensed to sell alcoholic beverages or holding a brown bag permit, offering
entertainment involving the use of prerecorded or live amplified sound,
provided by paid employees, paid private contractors, unpaid entertainers or
customers.
   NOISE ABATIVE CONSTRUCTION.  Includes insulation, storm windows and/or air
conditioning designed to reduce interior noise due to aircraft activity.
Landscaping may reduce ground noise, but has little impact on noise reduction
from airborne produced noise.
   NONCONFORMING LOT.  A lot existing at the effective date of this chapter or
any amendment to it (and not created for the purpose of evading the
restrictions of this chapter) that cannot meet the minimum area or lot-width
requirements of the district in which the lot is located.
   NONCONFORMING PROJECT. Any structure, development, or undertaking that is
incomplete at the effective date of this chapter and would be inconsistent with
any regulation applicable to the district in which it is located if completed
as proposed or planned.
   NONCONFORMING SITUATION. A situation that occurs when, on the effective date
of this chapter or any amendment to it, an existing lot or structure or use of
any existing lot or structure does not conform to one or more of the
regulations applicable to the district in which the lot or structure is
located. Among other possibilities, a nonconforming situation may arise because
a lot does not meet minimum acreage requirements, because structures do not
satisfy maximum height limitations, because the relationship between existing
buildings and the land (in such matters as density and setback requirements) is
not in conformity with the chapter, or because land or buildings are used for
purposes made unlawful by this chapter.
   NONCONFORMING USE.  A nonconforming situation that occurs when property is
used for a purpose or in a manner made unlawful by the use regulations
applicable to the district in which the property is located. (For example, a
commercial office building in a residential district may be a nonconforming
use.) The term also refers to the activity that constitutes the use made of the
property. (For example, all the activity associated with running a
manufacturing business in a residentially zoned area is a nonconforming use.)
   NONCONFORMITY, DIMENSIONAL. A nonconforming situation that occurs when the
height or size of a structure or the relationship between an existing building
or buildings and other buildings or lot lines does not conform to the
regulations applicable to the district in which the property is located.
   NURSING HOME.  An establishment which provides full-time convalescent or
chronic care, or both, to persons who are not related by blood or marriage to
the operator, or who, by reason of advanced age, chronic illness or infirmity,
are unable to care for themselves.
   OBSTRUCTION. Any structure, growth, or other object, including a mobile
object, which exceeds a limiting height set forth in this chapter.
   OFFICE. Quarters maintained by individuals or corporation for the purpose of
offering services in which no goods or merchandise are sold or displayed over
the counter.
   OFFICIAL MAPS AND PLANS.  Any maps or plans officially adopted by the City
Council as a guide for the future development and growth of the town and the
area immediately adjacent to it. Such maps or plans may consist of maps,
charts, and text.
   OPEN SPACE. An area (land and/or water) generally lacking in man-made
structures and reserved for enjoyment in its unaltered state.
   OPEN STORAGE. Unroofed storage areas, whether fenced or not.
   ORDINANCE. This chapter, including any amendments. Whenever the effective
date of the Ordinance is referred to, the reference includes the effective date
of any amendment to it.
   OUTDOOR ADVERTISING, OFF-PREMISES. The use of land consisting of a sign
erected and maintained for the purpose of:
      (1)   Displaying, advertising, identifying, or directing attention to
business products, operations, or services sold or offered at a site other than
the site where the sign is erected or
      (2)   Promoting an attraction, activity, idea, opinion, or other
noncommercial messaging that is unrelated to the site where the sign is
erected. A sign meeting this definition is commonly known as a billboard, where
space is commonly made available or rented to advertisers to display their
messages to the traveling public.
   OUTDOOR ADVERTISING. Any outdoor sign, display, light, device, figure,
painting, drawing, message, plaque, poster, billboard, or any other thing which
is designed, intended or used to advertise or inform, any part of the
advertising or information contents of which is visible from any place on the
main-traveled way of the interstate or primary system, whether the same be
permanent or portable installation. For similar state law provisions, refer to
G.S. § 136-128.
   OWNER. A holder of any legal or equitable estate in the premises, whether
alone or jointly with others, and whether in possession or not.
   OVERLAY DISTRICT. A zoning district established by the ordinance to
prescribe special regulations to be applied to a site in combination with the
underlying or base district.
   PARKING LOT OR AREA. An area or plot of land used for, or designated for,
the parking of vehicles, either as a principle use or as an accessory use.
   PARK MODEL HOME.  Park Model Homes are factory produced and assembled units
which can meet one of the three following set of regulations:
      (1)   Those that are considered recreational vehicles constructed in
accordance with the ANSI A119.5- Recreational Park Trailer Standards,
      (2)   Those that are considered equivalent to a single family stick built
residence because they are “dual labeled” as a recreational park trailer and
also labeled with a validating stamp for compliance with the NC Modular
Construction Program, and
      (3)   Those that are constructed and dual labeled in accordance with the
Federal Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards as a single
family (HUD) manufactured home.
   PARKING SPACE. The storage space for one automobile of not less space than
prescribed by this chapter, plus the necessary access space. It shall always be
located outside the dedicated street right-of-way.
   PARKING SPACE, OFF-STREET. A parking space located outside of a dedicated
street right-of-way.
   PEDESTRIAN WAY. A right-of-way or easement dedicated to public use to
facilitate pedestrian access to adjacent streets and properties.
   PERMITTED USE. Also known as “Use by Right”. Any use permitted as a right in
a zoning district and subject to the limitations of the regulations of the
zoning district.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, firm, association, joint venture, public
or private corporation, trust, estate, commission, board, public or private
institution, utility, cooperative, interstate body, the State of North Carolina
and its agencies and political subdivisions, or other legal entity. For similar
state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-102.
   PERSON WITH DISABILITIES. Person with disabilities means a person with a
temporary or permanent physical, emotional, or mental disability including but
not limited to mental retardation, cerebral palsy, epilepsy, autism, hearing
and sight impairments, emotional disturbances and orthopedic impairments but
not including mentally ill persons who are dangerous to others as defined in
G.S. § 122C-3(11) b. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. 160D-907
(b).
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A tract of land under single corporation, firm,
partnership or association ownership, or otherwise under unified ownership,
planned and developed as integral unit in a single development scheme or a
well-defined series of development operations in accordance with an approved
site plan.
   PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT REGULATION JURISDICTION. The geographic area
defined in G.S. Chapter 160D, Part 2, within which a city or county may
undertake planning and apply the development regulations authorized by G.S.
Chapter 160D. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-102.
   PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION. A Board appointed by the Town Council and
the County Board of Commissioners to study the town and its environs, to
recommend plans and policies for the future, and to advise the Town Council in
matters pertaining to planning and zoning.
   PLANNING BOARD. Any board or commission established pursuant to G.S. 160D-3-
1. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-102.
   PLAT. A surveyed map or plan of a parcel of land which is to be, or has been
subdivided.
   POLLUTION. The presence in the waters of the town of any one or more
substances or contaminants which are harmful or injurious to human health or
welfare, marine, animal or plant life, or property.
   PRE-SCHOOL.  A facility for the care and/or education of children of pre-
school age, including kindergartens and day care centers.
   PRINCIPAL BUILDING.  A building in which is conducted the principal use of
the buildable lot on which it is located or, in a group housing development, of
the building site on which it is located.
   PRINCIPAL DWELLING.  Any principal building or structure which is used and
designed for human habitation including living, sleeping, cooking and eating
activities excluding dormitories, hotels, motels, shelters for the homeless or
other structures designed for transient residents.
   PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE.  A structure(s) in which is conducted the principal use
(s) of the lot on which it is located.
   PRIVATE DRINKING WATER WELL. See WATER SYSTEM, INDIVIDUAL.
   PRIVATE DRIVE.  A vehicular travel way not dedicated or offered for
dedication as a public street, providing access to parking lot(s) for two or
more principal buildings in a group housing development.
   PRIVATE SEWER. A system which provides for collection and/or treatment of
wastewater from a development, or property, and which is not maintained with
public funds.
   PRIVATE STREET.  A vehicular travel way not dedicated or offered for
dedication as a public street, but resembling a cul-de-sac or a local street by
carrying traffic from a series of driveways to the public street system.
   PRIVATE WATER.  A system which provides for the supply and/or distribution
of potable water for use by a development, project, or owner, and which is not
operated or maintained by a government organization or utility district.
   PROCESSING. Any operation changing the nature of material or materials, such
as chemical composition or physical qualities. Does not include operations
described as fabrication.
   PROPERTY. All real property subject to land-use regulation by a local
government and includes any improvements or structures customarily regarded as
a part of real property. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. §
160D-102.
   PROPERTY OWNER'S ASSOCIATION. An incorporated organization operating under
land agreements through which:
      (1)   Each lot owner is automatically a member;
      (2)   Each lot is automatically subject to a proportionate share of the
expenses for the organization's activities, such as maintaining common
property.
   PUBLIC. Belonging or open to, enjoyed and used by and/or maintained for the
public generally, but not limited to a facility the control of which is wholly
or partially exercised by some governmental agency.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A system which provides for the collection and treatment of
sanitary sewage from more than one property, and is owned and operated by a
government organization or sanitary district.
   PUBLIC STREET. A dedicated public right-of-way for vehicular traffic which:
      (1)   Has been accepted by the Town of Fairmont or the NCDOT for
maintenance; or
      (2)   Is not yet accepted but in which the roadway design and
construction have been approved under public standards for vehicular traffic.
   PUBLIC WATER. A system which provides distribution of potable water for more
than one property and is owned and operated by a government organization or
utility district.
   QUASI-JUDICIAL DECISION. A decision involving the finding of facts regarding
a specific application of development regulation and that requires the exercise
of discretion when applying the standards of the regulation. Quasi-judicial
decisions include but are not limited to decisions involving variances, special
use permits, certificates of appropriateness, and appeals of administrative
determinations. Decisions on the approval of subdivision plats and site plans
are quasi-judicial in nature if the regulation authorizes a decision-making
board to approve or deny the application based not only upon whether the
application complies with the specific requirements set forth in the
regulation, but also on whether the application complies with one or more
generally stated standards requiring a discretionary decision on the findings
to be made by the decision-making board. For similar state law provisions,
refer to G.S. § 160D-102.
   REAR SETBACK. A setback from an interior property line lying on the opposite
side of the lot from the front street setback.
   REASONABLE ACCOMMODATIONS.  Accommodations held to be reasonable include
conversion of a motel to a shelter and a variance from setback requirements. A
total exclusion of all nursing home facilities and assisted living residences
from a residential district has been held to be a failure to make reasonable
accommodations.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.  
      (1)   A vehicular type unit designed as temporary living quarters for
recreational, camping, or travel use that either has its own motive power or is
mounted on, or towed by, another vehicle. Examples of recreational vehicles
include mapper trailers, fifth-wheel trailers, motor homes, travel trailers and
truck campers. This term shall not include a manufactured home as defined in
G.S. § 143-143.9(6).
      (2)   A recreational vehicle is:
         (a)   Built on a single chassis;
         (b)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
         (c)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a
passenger motor vehicle or a light-duty truck or designed to be carried on a
pickup truck; and
         (d)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 20-4.01.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK. Any site or tract of land, of contiguous
ownership, upon which two or more recreational vehicles, motor homes, travel
trailers and tents, but not manufactured homes, together with supporting
facilities and required open spaces are provided in accordance with this
chapter. This definition shall not include migrant labor camps, manufactured
home parks or recreational vehicle sales lots. See also CAMPGROUND.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE SPACE. A plot of land within a recreational vehicle
park designed for the accommodation of one recreational vehicle in accordance
with the requirements set forth in this chapter.
   RESERVATION. An obligation shown on a plat or site plan to keep property
free from development and available for public acquisition for a stated period
of time. It is not a dedication nor a conveyance.
   RESIDENTIAL CHILD-CARE FACILITY. A staffed premise with paid or volunteer
staff where children receive continuing full-time foster care. RESIDENTIAL
CHILD-CARE FACILITY includes child-caring institutions, group homes, and
children's camps which provide foster care, but not family care homes.
   RESTAURANT.  An establishment where food service is a primary activity. The
facility may be designed to cater or accommodate the consumption of food either
on or off the premises. The serving of alcoholic beverages in a restaurant
shall be in compliance with the ABC laws.
   RETAIL TRADE.  Businesses which sell goods (that are not for resale) to the
public and which are open on a regular basis for consumer shopping. At least
40% of the floor space of a retail business must be open to the public and
devoted to the sale and display of goods on the premises.
   RETAINING WALL. A structure, either masonry, metal, or treated wood,
designed to prevent the lateral displacement of soil, rock, fill or other
similar material.
   REVERSE FRONTAGE LOT. A through lot which is not accessible from one of the
parallel or non-intersecting streets upon which it fronts.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any public or private area that allows passage of people or
goods, to include: passageways such as freeways, streets, bike paths, alleys,
sidewalks, and walkways. A public right-of-way is a right-of-way that is
dedicated or deeded to the public for public use and is under the control of a
public agency.
   ROOF LINE.  The top edge of the roof or the top of the parapet, whichever
forms the top line of the building silhouette.
   ROOMING HOUSE. A building or portion thereof which contains guest rooms
which are designed or intended to be used, let, or hired out for occupancy by,
or which are occupied by, four or more but not exceeding nine individuals for
compensation, whether the compensation be paid directly or indirectly.
   ROOMING UNIT. A room designed, occupied, or intended for occupancy as
separate living quarters with sleeping, but not necessarily cooking and
sanitary facilities provided therein.
   SEARCH RING. The area within which a wireless support facility or wireless
facility must be located in order to meet service objectives of the wireless
service provider using the wireless facility or wireless support structures.
   SEATING CAPACITY.  The actual seating capacity of an area based upon the
number of seats, or one seat per 18 inches of bench or pew length. For other
areas where seats are not fixed, the seating capacity shall be determined as
indicated by the NC Building Code.
   SERVICE STATION. Any building or land used for the dispensing, sale or
offering for sale at retail of any automobile fuels, lubricants, or tires,
except that indoor car washing, minor motor adjustment, and flat tire repair
are only performed incidental to the conduct of the service station.
   SETBACKS. The required distance between every structure and the lot lines of
the lot on which it is located.
   SETBACK, WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY. The required distance from the
property line of the parcel on which the wireless communication facility is
located to the base of the support structure and equipment shelter or cabinet
where applicable, or, in the case of guy-wire supports, the guy anchors.
   SEWERAGE SYSTEM, PUBLIC.  A system serving two or more connections. Plans
for public and community sewer systems must be approved by the NC Department of
Environmental Quality.
   SEWERAGE SYSTEM, INDIVIDUAL. A septic tank arrangement of sewage disposal.
Individual sewage disposal systems must be installed and maintained in
accordance with the State Board of Health Rules and Regulations Governing the
Disposal of Sewage from any Residence, Place of Business, or Place of Public
Assembly in North Carolina, and regulations of the County Board of Health.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. Any business or enterprise that has as one of
its principal business purposes or as a significant portion of its business an
emphasis on matter and conduct depicting, describing, or related to anatomical
areas and sexual activities specified in G.S. § 14-202.10.
   SHOPPING CENTER. A group of commercial establishments planned, developed,
and managed as a unit with a unified design of buildings and with coordinated
parking and service areas.
   SHRUB, INTERMEDIATE.  Deciduous or evergreen plants installed at a minimum
height of 36 inches, a minimum of five canes, and a minimum spread of roots or
root ball diameter of 14 inches.
   SHRUB, LARGE.  Deciduous and/or evergreen plants, as required in the
applicable sections, installed at a minimum height of five feet, a minimum of
six canes, and a minimum spread of roots or root ball diameter of 24 inches.
Large shrubs shall be maintained at a height of six to ten feet, and shall be
of a vegetation family which normally does not grow taller than ten feet. Site
plan A plan, to scale, showing uses and structures proposed for a parcel of
land as required by the regulations involved. It includes lot lines, streets,
building sites, reserved open space, buildings, major landscape features both
natural and manmade and, depending on requirements, the location of proposed
utility lines.
   SIDE SETBACK. Any interior property line setback other than a rear setback.
   SIDEWALK. All that area legally open to public use as a pedestrian public
way between the curb line and the public right-of-way boundary along the
abutting property.
   SIGHT DISTANCE AREA, HORIZONTAL. The area formed by extending lines from the
point of intersection of intersecting streets along the centerline of such
streets for a distance of 40 feet and connecting the ends of such lines by a
straight line to form the base for a triangle. Each of the two sides of the
triangle will be 40 feet in length.
   SIGHT DISTANCE AREA, VERTICAL.  The area between three feet and ten feet
above the horizontal area measured from the level of the point of intersection
of the centerlines of the intersecting streets.
   SIGHT DISTANCE EASEMENT. An easement which grants to the Town of Fairmont
the right to maintain unobstructed view across property located at a street
intersection.
   SIGN. Any words, lettering, parts of letters, pictures, figures, numerals,
phrases, sentences, emblems, devices, design, trade names, or trademarks by
which anything is made known, such as the designation of an individual, a firm,
an association, a profession, a business, a commodity, or product, which are
visible from any public way and used to attract attention. This definition
includes signs painted on building exterior walls.
   SIGN, ACCESSORY. An advertising device used to disseminate information
concerning the particular use of the lot upon which it is located.
   SIGN, A-FRAME. Any sign constructed in such a manner as to form an “A” or
tent-like shape, hinged or not hinged at the top; each angular face held at an
approximate distance by a supporting member. Also referred to as sandwich
boards.
   SIGN, ANIMATION.  The movement, or optical illusion of movement of any part
of the sign. Also included in this definition are signs having chasing action
which is the action of a row of lights commonly used to create the appearance
of motion. Automatic changeable copy boards are permitted provided that there
is no running action to copy and provided that the copy does not change more
than once every one minute. No flashing, revolving, or intermittent
illuminating shall be employed.
   SIGN, AREA. The surface area of a sign which shall be computed as including
the entire area within a regular geometric form or combinations of regular
geometric forms comprising all of the display area of the sign and including
all of the elements of the matter displayed. However, in computing sign area
only one side of a double-faced sign structure shall be considered. Frames and
structural members not bearing advertising matter shall not be included in
computation of the surface area.
   SIGN, ANNOUNCEMENT or SIGN, BUSINESS.  Any outdoor notice containing words,
letters, figures, numerals, emblems, devices, trademarks or trade names or
combinations thereof, by which anything is made known such as the designation
of a firm, corporation, profession, business, commodity or product located or
available on the premises.
   SIGN, BANNER. A temporary sign composed of cloth, canvas, plastic, fabric,
or similar light-weight, non-rigid material that can be mounted to a structure
with cord, rope, cable, or a similar method or that may be supported by stakes
in the ground.
   SIGN, BEACON.  Any light with one or more beams directed into the atmosphere
or directed at one or more points not on the same property as the light source.
Also, any light with one or more beams that rotate or move.
   SIGN, BUSINESS IDENTIFICATION. Any sign which advertises an establishment, a
service, commodity, or activity conducted upon the premises where such sign is
located.
   SIGN, CANOPY OR AWNING.  Any sign that is a part of or attached to an
awning, canopy, or other structural protective covering above a door, entrance,
window, or walkway.
   SIGN, COLUMN/POLE. A freestanding sign supported by one or more columns or
poles or other similar support.
   SIGN, CONSTRUCTION.  A sign placed at a construction site identifying or
announcing the project or the name of the architect, engineer, contractor,
financier or others involved in the development of the project.
   SIGN, COPY. Any words, letters, numbers, figures, characters, symbols,
logos, or insignia that are used on a sign display surface.
   SIGN, ELECTRONIC MESSAGE CENTER. A sign with a fixed or changing display/
message composed of a series of lights that may be changed through electronic
means.
   SIGN, FACE. The entire display surface area of a sign upon, against, or
through which copy is placed.
   SIGN, FEATHER/FLUTTER FLAG. A freestanding temporary sign typically
constructed of a single plastic or metal shaft driven in the ground with an
attached pennant that is vertically elongated and attached to the shaft.
   SIGN, FLAG. A device generally made of flexible material, usually cloth,
paper or plastic, typically used as a symbol of a government, school, or
religion. The term "Flag" does not include feather flag signs.
   SIGN, FREESTANDING. A sign that is attached to, erected on, or supported by
some structure (such as a pole, mast, frame, or other structure) that is not
itself an integral part of or attached to a building or other structure having
a principal function other than the support of a sign.
   SIGN, HEIGHT OF. The vertical distance measured from the natural ground to
the top of the sign face or sign structure, whichever is greater. Fill may not
be used to raise the sign height.
   SIGN, INCIDENTAL.  Those signs that are permitted without need for a sign
permit.
   SIGN, KINETIC. A wall-mounted computer-programmable lighting system that
displays changing and moving colors.
   SIGN, MARQUEE. Any sign that is attached to, in any manner, or made a part
of any permanent roof-like structure projecting beyond a building or extending
along and projecting beyond the wall of a building, generally designed and
constructed to provide protection from the weather.
   SIGN, MESSAGE BOARD. A sign or portion thereof with characters, letters, or
illustrations that can be changed or rearranged without altering the face or
the surface of the sign. This definition does not include menu and sandwich
board signs.
   SIGN, MONUMENT. Any sign permanently attached to the ground and not attached
to any building advertising multiple tenants, multiple uses, multiple buildings
or multiple parcels. The design of the monument sign is to advertise multiple
offerings in the building, group of buildings, or development area. Individual
business within multi-tenant facilities are not permitted freestanding signs
and shall have their signage located on a monument sign.
   SIGN, NONCONFORMING. A sign which was legally erected prior to the effective
date of this chapter, but which does not conform to these regulations.
   SIGN PERMIT. A zoning permit issued by the Zoning Inspector that authorizes
the location of a sign.
   SIGN, POLITICAL. A sign identifying and urging voter support for a
particular election issue, political party, or candidate for public office.
   SIGN, PORTABLE. A sign whose principal supporting structure is intended, by
design and construction, to be used by resting upon the ground for support and
may be easily moved or relocated for reuse. PORTABLE SIGNS shall include but
are not limited to signs mounted upon a trailer, bench, wheeled carrier, or
other non-motorized mobile structure with or without wheels.
   SIGN, PROJECTING. A sign which is attached to and projects more than 12
inches from a building face or wall.
   SIGN REGULATIONS. Regulations governing the size, material, lighting,
placement, and other requirements for locating signs within the town's planning
jurisdiction.
   SIGN, ROOF. Any sign erected, constructed, or maintained upon or over the
roof of a building, or extending above the highest wall of the building, and
having its principal support on the roof or walls of the building.
   SIGN, SNIPE.  A sign that is tacked, nailed, posted, pasted, glued or
otherwise attached to trees, poles, stakes, fences, or to other objects.
   SIGN, STACKING. The placing of one sign above another in the same location.
   SIGN, STRUCTURE.  Any structure that is built to support, supports, or has
supported a sign.
   SIGN, SUBDIVISION. A sign identifying a recognized residential subdivision,
condominium complex, or residential development.
   SIGN, TEMPORARY.  A sign that is used in connection with a circumstance,
situation, or event that is designed, intended, or expected to take place or to
be completed within a reasonably short or definite period after the erection of
such sign, or is intended to remain on the location where it is erected or
placed for a period of not more than 30 calendar days prior to or following the
associated circumstance, situation, or event.
   SIGN, WALL. Any sign attached to, painted on, or erected against any wall of
a building or structure so that the exposed face of the sign is on a plane
parallel to the plane of said wall and which does not extend more than 12
inches from the wall. WALL SIGNS also include any sign erected against,
installed on, or painted on a penthouse above the roof of a building as long as
the wall of the penthouse is on a plane parallel to the wall of the building.
WALL SIGNS also include a sign attached to, painted on, or erected against a
false wall or false roof that does not vary more than 30 degrees from the plane
of the adjoining wall elevation.
   SIGN, WINDOW. Any sign appearing in, on or through a window of a structure
and visible from outside. The term WINDOW SIGN shall not be used to define a
window display.
   SITE PLAN. A scaled drawing and supporting text showing the relationship
between lot lines and the existing or proposed uses, buildings, or structures
on the lot. The SITE PLAN may include, but is not limited to, site-specific
details such as building areas, building height and floor area, setbacks from
lot lines and street rights-of-way, intensities, densities, utility lines and
locations, parking, access points, roads, and stormwater control facilities,
that are depicted to show compliance with all legally required development
regulations that are applicable to the project and the site plan review. A site
plan approval based solely upon application of objective standards is an
administrative decision and a site plan approval based in whole or in part upon
the application of standards involving judgment and discretion is a quasi-
judicial decision. A SITE PLAN may also be approved as part of a conditional
zoning decision. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-102.
   SITE PLAN, MAJOR.  All site plans not meeting the requirements for a minor
site plan.
   SITE PLAN, MINOR. Includes the following:
      (1)   Buildings or additions with an aggregate enclosed square footage of
less than 7,000 square feet;
      (2)   Buildings or additions involving land disturbance of less than one
acre;
      (3)   Multi-family development involving fewer than ten dwelling units;
      (4)    Parking lot expansions which comply with this chapter with no
increase in enclosed floor area;
      (5)   Revision to landscaping, signage, or lighting which comply with the
requirements of this chapter;
      (6)   Accessory uses which comply with the requirements of this chapter;
      (7)   Site plans which do not require a variance or modification of the
requirements of this chapter, and otherwise comply with this chapter; and
      (8)   Site plans which do not require easement dedication or street
construction.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY. A wireless facility that meets both of the
following qualifications:
      (1)   Each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than six
cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed elements,
the antenna and all of its exposed elements, if enclosed, could fit within an
enclosure of no more than six cubic feet.
      (2)   All other wireless equipment associated with the facility has a
cumulative volume of no more than 28 cubic feet. For purposes of this
subdivision, the following types of ancillary equipment are not included in the
calculation of equipment volume: electric meters, concealment elements,
telecommunications demarcation boxes, ground-based enclosures, grounding
equipment, power transfer switches, cut-off switches, vertical cable runs for
the connection of power and other services, or other support structures.
   SOUND TRANSMISSION CLASS (STC). A single-number rating which provides an
estimate of sound transmissions loss performance of a wall or floor as related
to airborne sound generated by a limited class of household sound sources. The
higher the number, the better the performance.
   SPECIAL USE. A use that is allowed, through a special use permit, in
specific zoning districts provided they meet certain conditions set out in the
ordinance. Those conditions are generally related to avoiding adverse impacts
on the neighboring area.
   SPECIAL EVENT. Temporary street fairs, festivals, farmers' markets, or other
types of special events that:
      (1)   Run for longer than one day but not longer than two weeks;
      (2)   Are intended to or likely to attract substantial crowds; and
      (3)   Are unlike the customary or usual activities generally associated
with the property where the special event is to be located.
   SPECIAL EXCEPTION. A specific authorization granted in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter by the Board of Adjustment for the extension,
enlargement, or replacement of a nonconforming use.
   SPECIAL PROMOTION. An advertising activity or circumstance of a business
which is not part of its daily activities or normal routine, and in which the
display or sale of merchandise, wares, or other tangible items is the sole
purpose for the promotion. SPECIAL PROMOTIONS include grand openings or
closeout sales, but do not include reoccurring sales advertisements or other
similar publicity.
   SPECIAL USE PERMIT. A permit issued to authorize development or land uses in
a particular zoning district for a use of property that is an exception. For
similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-102.
   STABILIZING VEGETATION. Any vegetation that protects the soil against
erosion.
   STABLES. A capacity of not more than one horse for each 3,500 square feet of
lot area upon which the stable is located is required. Horses are to be owned
by the owners/occupants of the premises and are not kept for remuneration or
hire.
   STANDING. The following persons shall have standing to file a petition or
appeal under this chapter:
      (1)   Any person meeting any of the following criteria:
         (a)   Has an ownership interest in the property that is the subject of
the decision being appealed, a leasehold interest in the property that is the
subject of the decision being appealed, or an interest created by easement,
restriction, or covenant in the property that is the subject of the decision
being appealed.
         (b)   Has an option or contract to purchase the property that is the
subject of the decision being appealed.
         (c)   Was an applicant before the decision-making board whose decision
is being appealed.
      (2)   Any other person who will suffer special damages as the result of
the decision being appealed.
      (3)   An incorporated or unincorporated association to which owners or
lessees of property in a designated area belong by virtue of their owning or
leasing property in that area, or an association otherwise organized to protect
and foster the interest of the particular neighborhood or local area, so long
as at least one of the members of the association would have standing as an
individual to challenge the decision being appealed, and the association was
not created in response to the particular development or issue that is the
subject of the appeal.
      (4)   A town whose decision-making board has made a decision that the
Council believes improperly grants a variance or is otherwise inconsistent with
the proper interpretation of an ordinance adopted by the Town Council.
   STORM DRAINAGE FACILITIES. The system of inlets, conduits, channels, ditches
and appurtenances which serve to collect and convey stormwater through and from
a given drainage area.
   STORMWATER RUNOFF. The direct runoff of water resulting from precipitation
in any form. STORMWATER RUNOFF is generated from rain and snowmelt events that
flow over land or impervious surfaces, such as paved streets, parking lots, and
building rooftops, and does not soak into the ground. The runoff picks up
pollutants like trash, chemicals, oils, and dirt/sediment that can harm our
rivers, streams, lakes, and coastal waters.
   STORY. That portion of a building, other than the basement, included between
the surface of any floor and the surface floor next above it; or, if there be
no floor above it, the space between the floor and the ceiling next above it.
   STORY, HALF. A space under a sloping roof, which has the line of
intersection of roof decking and wall face not more than three feet above the
top floor level, and in which not more than two-thirds of the floor area is
finished off for use.
   STREAM.  A stream has a defined channel that contains water for at least
part of the year. It may have flow that is increased by stormwater runoff. It
may dry up during part of the year.
    STREET LINE. The dividing line between a street right-of-way or easement
and the contiguous property.
   STREET, PRIVATE.  Any right-of-way or area set aside to provide vehicular
access within a development that is not dedicated to the Town of Fairmont or
State of North Carolina and that is not maintained by the Town of Fairmont or
State of North Carolina.
   STREET, PUBLIC. A street consisting of a publicly dedicated right-of-way and
a roadway maintained by the Town of Fairmont or the State of North Carolina.
   STREET RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by
a travelway for vehicles and also available, with the consent of the
appropriate governmental agency, for installation and maintenance of sidewalks,
traffic control devices, traffic signs, street name signs, historical marker
signs, water lines, sanitary sewer lines, storm sewer lines, gas lines, power
lines, and communication lines.
   STREET SETBACK. Any setback from a street, road, or lane.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
permanent location of the ground, or attachment to something having a permanent
location on the ground, including signs.
   SUB-COLLECTOR STREET.  A street whose principal function is to provide
access to abutting properties, but which is also designed to be used or is used
to connect local streets with collector or higher classification streets.
   SUBDIVIDER.  Any person who subdivides land.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of land for the purpose of sale or development as
specified in G.S. § 160D-8-2. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. §
160D-102.
   SUBDIVISION REGULATION. A set of regulations adopted by the town which
governs the proposed division of land into separate lots for resale against
pre-determined standards. In addition to final plat approval, the regulation
may include provisions for review and approval of sketch plans and preliminary
plats. The regulation may provide for different review procedures for different
classes of subdivisions. Decisions on approval or denial of preliminary or
final plats may be made only on the basis
of standards explicitly set forth in the subdivision or unified development
ordinance. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-801.
   SUBSTANTIAL MODIFICATION. The mounting of a proposed wireless facility on a
wireless support structure that substantially changes the physical dimensions
of the support structure. A mounting is presumed to be a substantial
modification if it meets any one or more of the criteria listed below. The
burden is on the local government to demonstrate that a mounting that does not
meet the listed criteria constitutes a substantial change to the physical
dimensions of the wireless support structure.
      (1)   Increasing the existing vertical height of the structure by the
greater of:
         (a)   More than 10%; or
         (b)   The height of one additional antenna array with separation from
the nearest existing antenna not to exceed 20 feet.
      (2)   Except where necessary to shelter the antenna from inclement
weather or to connect the antenna to the tower via cable, adding an
appurtenance to the body of a wireless support structure the greater of:
         (a)   More than 20 feet or
         (b)   More than the width of the wireless support structure at the
level of the appurtenance.
      (3)   Increasing the square footage of the existing equipment compound by
more than 2,500 square feet.
   SUPPORT STRUCTURE.  A structure designed and constructed specifically to
support an antenna array, and may include a monopole, self-supporting (lattice)
tower, guy-wire-support tower and other similar structures. Any device
(attachment device) which is used to attach an attached wireless communication
facility to an existing building or structure (attachment structure) shall be
excluded from the definition of and regulations applicable to SUPPORT
STRUCTURES.
    SWIMMING POOL.  A water-filled enclosure, permanently constructed or
portable, having a depth of more than 18 inches below the level of the
surrounding land, or an above-surface pool, having a depth of more than 30
inches designed, used, and maintained for swimming and bathing.
   TEMPORARY BUILDING. Any building of an impermanent nature, or one which is
designed for use for a limited time, including any tent or canopy.
   TEMPORARY EMERGENCY, CONSTRUCTION OR REPAIR RESIDENCE.  A subordinate
residence (which may be a Class B manufactured home, travel trailer) that is:
      (1)   Located on the same lot as a single-family dwelling made
uninhabitable by fire, flood, or other natural disaster and occupied by the
persons displaced by such disaster, or
      (2)   Located on the same lot as a residence that is under construction
or undergoing substantial repairs or reconstruction and occupied by the persons
intending to live in such permanent residence when the work is completed.
   TEMPORARY EVENT. An activity sponsored by a governmental, charitable, civic,
educational, religious, business, or trade organization which is infrequent in
occurrence and limited in duration. Examples include arts and crafts shows,
athletic events, community festivals, carnivals, fairs, circuses, concerts,
conventions, exhibitions, trade shows, outdoor religious events and other
similar activities.
   TEMPORARY STORAGE FACILITY (PORTABLE STORAGE UNITS). Any container intended
for storing or keeping household goods, other personal property or business
related goods intended to be filled, refilled, or emptied while located
outdoors and later removed from the property for storage or disposal off-site.
TEMPORARY STORAGE FACILITIES are sometimes also known as portable storage units
or portable storage containers.
   TEMPORARY STRUCTURE. Any structure of an impermanent nature or one which is
designed for use for a limited time, including any tent or canopy.
   TEMPORARY WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY. A Wireless Communication Facility
to be placed in use for 90 or fewer days.
   TENANT.  Any person who alone, or jointly, or severally with others occupies
a building under a lease or holds a legal tenancy.
   THERAPEUTIC FOSTER HOME. Family foster home where, in addition to the
provision of foster care, foster parents who receive appropriate training
provide a child with behavioral health treatment services under the supervision
of a county department of social services, an area mental health program, or a
licensed private agency and in compliance with licensing rules adopted by the
Commission.
   THOROUGHFARE PLAN. A plan adopted by the Board of Commissioners for the
development of existing and proposed major streets that will adequately serve
the future travel needs of an area in an efficient and cost effective manner.
   THROUGH LOT.  A lot abutting two streets that do not intersect at the corner
of the lot.
   TINY HOUSE.  A single-family detached home that is 200 square feet to 699
square feet in size (not including loft space) and complies with the North
Carolina State Building Code, includes container homes. A tiny house on wheels
for permanent occupancy (longer than 30 days) is considered a recreational
vehicle.
   TOURIST COTTAGES. A commercial operation primarily engaged in the seasonal
rental, on a daily, weekly or monthly basis, of attached or detached lodging
units. The lodging units, which may also contain cooking and eating facilities,
are short-term, seasonal housing accommodations similar to that provided by a
motel or resort lodge.
   TOURIST HOME. A private residence in which accommodations are provided for
lodging and may include meals for overnight guests for a fee for not exceeding
14 persons, and open to transients.
   TOWER AND ANTENNA USE APPLICATION (TAA). A form provided to the applicant by
the town for the applicant to specify the location, construction, use and
compliance with the development standards of a proposed wireless communications
facility.
   TOWN COUNCIL. The Town Board of Commissioners of Fairmont, North Carolina.
   TOWNHOUSE DEVELOPMENT  A development of one or more structures containing a
total of two or more units intended for owner occupancy, where ownership of the
land beneath each unit runs with that unit, where units and the individually
owned lands on which they rest do not meet conventional lot requirements for
street frontage and yard sizes, and where walls between units are constructed
in accordance with North Carolina State Building Code requirements.
   TOWNHOUSE LOT. A parcel of land intended as a unit for transfer of
ownership, and lying underneath, or underneath and around, a townhouse, patio
home, or unit in a nonresidential group development.
   TRACT. All continuous land and bodies of water in one ownership, or
contiguous land and bodies of water in diverse ownership, being developed as a
unit, although not necessarily all at one time.
   TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicular unit mounted on wheels, designed to provide
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, or travel use, and of a
size or weight that does not require a special highway movement permit when
towed by a motorized vehicle.
   TRAVEL WAY. That portion of a right-of-way that is improved for use by self-
propelled vehicles or bicycles, including paved or gravel areas and any other
area intended for vehicle movement.
   TRUCK CAMPER. A portable unit that is constructed to provide temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, or travel use, consisting of a roof,
floor, and sides and is designed to be loaded onto and unloaded from the bed of
a pickup truck.
   USE.  The purpose for which land or structures thereon is designed, arranged
or intended to be occupied or used, or for which it is occupied, maintained,
rented or leased.
   USE, ACCESSORY. See ACCESSORY USE.
   USE BY RIGHT. A use which is listed as a use by right in any given zone
district in this chapter.
   USE, MIXED. Occupancy of building or land by more than one use.
   USE(S), PRINCIPAL. The primary purpose or function that a lot or structure
serves or is proposed to serve.
   USE, SPECIAL.  See SPECIAL USE.
   UTILITY EASEMENT.  An easement which grants to the Town of Fairmont or other
utility provider the right to install and thereafter maintain any and all
utilities including, but not limited to, water lines, sewer lines, septic tank
drain fields, storm sewer lines, electrical power lines, telephone lines,
natural gas lines and community antenna television systems.
   UTILITY POLE.  A structure that is designed for and used to carry lines,
cables, wires, lighting facilities, or small wireless facilities for telephone,
cable television, electricity, lighting, or wireless services.
   VARIANCE. A request to deviate from current zoning requirements. If granted,
it permits the owner to use his land in a way that is ordinarily not permitted
by the zoning ordinance. It is not a change in the zoning law, but a waiver
from the requirements of the zoning ordinance. Variances run with the land and
are not a personal right of any individual applicant, therefore the personal
circumstances of an applicant are irrelevant. If, however, the applicant is a
person with disabilities, the Federal Fair Housing Act requires that the town
make reasonable accommodation for that person. For similar state law
provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-102, Note 381.
   VEHICLE STACKING LANE. The space specifically designated as awaiting area
for vehicles whose occupants will be patronizing a drive-in business. Such
space is considered to be located directly alongside a drive-in window,
facility, or entrance used by patrons and in lanes leading up to and away from
the business establishment.
   VESTED RIGHT. The right to undertake and complete the development and use of
property under the terms and conditions of an approval secured as specified in
G.S. § 160D-1-8 or under common law.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-102.
   VIDEO ARCADES. Any establishment that has on its premises more than two
video games, pinball machines or other games for the purpose of monetary gain
or the enjoyment of its patrons.
   WAIVER. Official permission from a designated permit-issuing authority,
other than the Board of Adjustment, to depart from specified requirements of
this chapter.
   WAREHOUSE. A building or compartment in a building used and appropriated by
the occupant for the deposit and safekeeping or selling of his own goods at
wholesale, and/or for the purpose of storing the goods of others placed there
in the regular course of commercial dealing and trade, to be again removed or
reshipped.
   WAREHOUSING. The depositing or securing of goods, wares, and/or merchandise
in a warehouse.
   WATERCRAFT. A watercraft of any type or size specifically designed to be
propelled, whether by engine, sail, oar, paddle, or other means, which is used
to travel from place to place by water. A boat or vessel shall also include any
machine designed or intended to travel over water by self-propulsion or while
attached to any self- propelled vessel.
   WATER SYSTEM, PUBLIC. A system for the provision to the public of water for
human consumption through pipes or other constructed conveyances if the system
serves 15 or more service connections or which regularly serves 25 or more
individuals. For similar state law provisions, refer to
G.S. § 130A-313(10).
   WATER SYSTEM, INDIVIDUAL (PRIVATE DRINKING WATER WELL). Any excavation that
is cored, bored, drilled, jetted, dug, or otherwise constructed to obtain
groundwater for human consumption and that serves or is proposed to serve 14 or
fewer service connections or that serves or is proposed to serve 24 or fewer
individuals. The term PRIVATE DRINKING WATER WELL includes a well that supplies
drinking water to a transient noncommunity water system as defined in 40 Code
of Federal Regulations § 141.2 (July 1, 2003 Edition). For similar state law
provisions, refer to G.S. § 87-85(10a).
   WATER SYSTEM, SEMI-PUBLIC. Water supply systems serving from two to nine
connections, inclusive. This system may be regulated by the County Board of
Health, and plans should be approved by the County Health Department.
   WATER TOWER.  A water storage tank, a standpipe, or an elevated tank
situated on a support structure originally constructed for use as a reservoir
or facility to store or deliver water.
   WHOLESALE. Sale for resale, not for direct consumption.
   WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY. Any unstaffed facility for the transmission
and/or reception of wireless telecommunication services, usually consisting of
an antenna array, connection cables, an equipment facility, and a support
structure to achieve the necessary elevation. Wireless facility equipment at a
fixed location that enables wireless communications between user equipment and
a communications network, including (i) equipment associated with wireless
communications and (ii) radio transceivers, antennas, wires, coaxial or fiber-
optic cable, regular and backup power supplies, and comparable equipment,
regardless of technological configuration. The term includes small wireless
facilities. The term shall not include any of the following:
      (1)   The structure or improvements on, under, within, or adjacent to
which the equipment is collocated.
      (2)   Wireline backhaul facilities.
      (3)   Coaxial or fiber-optic cable that is between wireless structures or
utility poles or town utility poles or that is otherwise not immediately
adjacent to or directly associated with a particular antenna.
   WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS. Any personal wireless services as defined in the
Telecommunications Act of 1996, which includes FCC licensed commercial wireless
telecommunications services including cellular, personal communication services
(PCS), specialized mobile radio (SMR), enhanced specialized mobile radio
(ESMR), paging, and similar services that currently exist.
   WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER. Any person with a certificate to provide
telecommunications service in the state who builds or installs wireless
communication transmission equipment, wireless facilities, or wireless support
structures for small wireless facilities but that does not provide wireless
services.
   WIRELESS PROVIDER. A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless services
provider.
   WIRELESS SERVICES.  Any services, using licensed or unlicensed wireless
spectrum, including the use of Wi-Fi, whether at a fixed location or mobile,
provided to the public using wireless facilities.
   WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER. A person who provides wireless services.
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A new or existing structure, such as a monopole,
lattice tower, or guyed tower that is designed to support or capable of
supporting wireless facilities. A utility pole or a town utility pole is not a
wireless support structure.
   YARD. An open space on the same lot with a principal building, unoccupied
and unobstructed by any structure from the surface of the ground upward except
for drives, sidewalks, lamp posts, entrance steps, retaining walls, fences,
landscaping, and as otherwise provided herein.
   YARD, FRONT. An open space on the same lot with a building, between the
front line of the building (exclusive of steps) and the front property line or
street right-of-way line and extending the full width of the lot.
   YARD, REAR.  An open space between the rear line of the principal building
(exclusive of steps) and the rear line of the lot and extending the full width
of the lot; may be used for accessory building.
   YARD, SIDE. An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a building
between the side line of the building (exclusive of six to eight steps) and the
side line of the lot and extending from the front yard line to the rear yard
line.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The official as designated by the Town Board of
Commissioners who is charged with the enforcement of the zoning ordinance (this
chapter).
   ZONING DISTRICT. An area defined by this chapter and delineated on the
Official Zoning Map, in which the requirements for the use of land and in which
building and development standards are prescribed.
   ZONING MAP. Zoning district boundaries adopted pursuant to this chapter
shall be drawn on a map that is adopted or incorporated within a duly adopted
development regulation. Zoning district maps that are so adopted shall be
maintained for public inspection in the office of the local government clerk or
such other office as specified in the development regulation. The maps may be
in paper or a digital format approved by the local government.
   ZONING MAP AMENDMENT OR REZONING. An amendment to a zoning regulation to
change the zoning district that is applied to a specified property or
properties. It does not include the initial adoption of a zoning map by a local
government or the repeal of a zoning map and re-adoption of a new zoning map
for the entire planning and development regulation jurisdiction. It does not
include updating the zoning map to incorporate amendments to the names of
zoning districts made by zoning text amendments where there are no changes in
the boundaries of the zoning district or land uses permitted in the district.
It does include the initial application of zoning when land is added to the
territorial jurisdiction of a local government that has previously adopted
zoning regulations. It does include the application of an overlay zoning
district or a conditional zoning district. For similar state law provisions,
refer to G.S. § 160D-102.
   ZONING PERMIT.  A permit issued by the Zoning Administrator that authorizes
the recipient to make use of property in accordance with the requirements of
this chapter.
   ZONING REGULATION. A zoning regulation authorized by G.S. Chapter 160D,
Article 7.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-102.
   ZONING VESTED RIGHT. See VESTED RIGHT.
   ZOOLOGICAL GARDEN. A public park or large enclosure where live animals are
kept for display to the public.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 154.035 GENERAL.
   Regulations contained in this subchapter shall apply uniformly jurisdiction
wide.
   (A)   Subject to §§
154.510 through
154.516 of this chapter (nonconforming situations), no person may use, occupy,
or sell any land or buildings or authorize or permit the use, occupancy, or
sale of land or buildings under his control except in accordance with all of
the applicable provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, the “use”or “occupancy” of a building or
land relates to anything and everything that is done to, on, or in that
building or land.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.036 APPLICABILITY TO EXTRATERRITORIAL AREAS.
   The provisions of this chapter are applicable to any extraterritorial
jurisdiction.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.037 ZONING MAP.
   (A)   Zoning district boundaries adopted by this chapter shall be drawn on a
map that is adopted and included by reference as part of this chapter. The
zoning map shall be maintained for public inspection in the office of the Town
Clerk. The map may be in paper or a digital format approved by the town. For
similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-105(b).
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator or his or her representative shall be
responsible for the maintenance and revision of the Official Zoning Map. Upon
notification by the Board of Commissioners that a zoning change has been made,
the Zoning Administrator shall make the necessary changes on the Official
Zoning Map within seven calendar days of notification.
   (C)   Identification of Official Zoning Map. The zoning map shall be
identified by the signature of the Chairman and attested by the Town Clerk and
bearing the seal of the town under the following words: "This is to certify
that this is the Official Zoning Map of the Zoning Ordinance, Town of Fairmont,
North Carolina," together with the date of the adoption of this chapter and
most recent revision date.
      (1)   If, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, changes are
made in district boundaries or other items portrayed on the zoning map, such
changes shall be entered on the official
zoning map promptly after the amendment has been approved by the Town Board of
Commissioners, with an entry on the official zoning map denoting the date of
amendment, description of amendment, and signed by the Town Clerk. No amendment
to this chapter which involves matter portrayed on the official zoning map
shall become effective until after such change and entry has been made on said
map.
      (2)   No changes of any nature shall be made in the official zoning map
or matter shown thereon except in conformity with the procedures set forth in
this chapter and state law. Any unauthorized change of whatever kind by any
person shall be considered a violation of this chapter.
      (3)   Regardless of the existence of purported copies of the official
zoning map which may from time to time be made or published, the official
zoning map, which shall be located in the office of the Town Clerk, shall be
the final authority as to the zoning status of land and water areas, buildings,
and other structures in the town.
      (4)   In the event the official zoning map becomes damaged, destroyed,
lost, or difficult to interpret, the Town Board of Commissioners may by
resolution adopt a new official zoning map which shall supersede the prior
zoning map. The new official zoning map may correct drafting errors or other
errors or omissions in the prior official zoning map, but no correction shall
have the effect of amending the original official zoning map, or any subsequent
amendment thereof. The new official zoning map shall be identified by the
signature of the Chairman attested by the Town Clerk, and bearing the seal of
the town under the following words: “This is to certify that this Official
Zoning Map supersedes and replaces the Official Zoning Map adopted (date of
adoption of map being replaced), as part of the Zoning Ordinance, Town of
Fairmont, North Carolina.”
      (5)   Unless the prior official zoning map has been lost, or has been
totally destroyed, the prior map or any significant parts thereof remaining,
shall be preserved together with all available records pertaining to its
adoption or amendment. In the case of GIS data, each version of the zoning map
produced shall be archived.
   (D)   Incorporation by reference. 
      (1)   Development regulations adopted pursuant to this chapter may
incorporate by reference the most recently adopted versions of flood insurance
rate maps, watershed boundary maps, or other maps officially adopted or
promulgated by state and federal agencies.
      (2)   When zoning district boundaries are based on these maps, the town's
zoning district boundaries are automatically amended to remain consistent with
changes in the officially promulgated state or federal maps, provided a copy of
the currently effective version of any incorporated map shall be maintained for
public inspection.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-105(b).
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.038 INTERPRETATION BY ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   In the event that any question arises concerning the application of
regulations, performance standards, definitions, development criteria, or any
other provision of this chapter, the Zoning Administrator shall be responsible
for interpretation and shall look to this chapter for guidance.
   (B)   Responsibility for interpretation by the Zoning Administrator shall be
limited to standards, regulations and requirements of this chapter. The Zoning
Administrator shall not interpret any technical codes adopted by reference in
this chapter, and shall not override the responsibilities given to any
commission, board, building inspector, or town officials named in other
sections or articles of this chapter.
   (C)   Minor deviations. In keeping with the purpose of these regulations to
accomplish coordinated, balanced, and harmonious development in a manner which
will best promote the health, safety, and general welfare while avoiding undue
and unnecessary hardships, the following maximum minor deviations may be
allowed by the Zoning Official:
      (1)   Size.
         (a)   Minimum lot area, 10%, so long as all environmental health
requirements are met.
         (b)   Minimum lot depth, ten feet.
         (c)   Minimum lot width, five feet.
         (d)   Minimum rear yard, five feet.
         (e)   Minimum side yard, one foot.
      (2)   Number per parcel. Only one minor deviation of dimensional
requirements shall be allowed per land parcel.
      (3)   Deviation from street frontage requirements. A minor deviation from
street frontage requirements is defined as the approval of not more than one
new lot that has less than or no street frontage as required in §
154.173. A minor deviation may be approved in accordance with all of the
following criteria:
         (a)   The request does not involve a flag lot. A flag lot is described
as a lot accessed by a narrow strip of property connecting the street with the
proposed lot;
         (b)   The request is associated with written permission from the
property owner across whose property access is provided. Such written
permission must contain provisions for maintenance mid specify responsibility;
         (c)   A reflective address sign is permanently posted and obviously
visible at the access point from the street;
         (d)   Not more than three dwellings use the same access easement, each
having a clearly visible reflective address sign;
         (e)   No Town of Fairmont ordinance violations exist on the parent
parcel or proposed parcel;
         (f)   The parent parcel and resultant lot may not be further
subdivided via the minor deviation process;
         (g)   The proposed access will have or has adequate width, drainage,
and is free from obstruction that might impede emergency responses; and
         (h)   The approval signature is in accordance with §§
154.375 through
154.460 (Subdivision Regulations).
         (i)   Should the applicant not meet one or more of the criteria for a
minor deviation, the applicant may appeal to the Board of Adjustment for a
variance to the criteria required for approval of a minor deviation. Should the
applicant disagree with the determination of the Planning Director, the
applicant may appeal the decision or interpretation of the ordinance to the
Board of Adjustment. In the event there is no Planning Director, the appeals
shall be directly to the Board of Zoning Adjustment.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.039 TYPES OF ZONING MAP INTERPRETATION.
   Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of any districts
shown on the zoning map, the following rules shall apply:
   (A)   Use of property lines. Where district boundaries are indicated as
approximately following street lines, alley lines, and lot lines, such lines
shall be construed to be such boundaries. Where streets, highways, railroads,
water courses, and similar areas with width are indicated as the district
boundary, the actual district boundary line shall be the centerline of such
area.
   (B)   Vacated or abandoned streets. Where any street or alley is hereafter
officially vacated or abandoned, the zoning regulations applicable to each
parcel of abutting property shall apply to the centerline of such abandoned
street or alley.
   (C)   Split zoned parcels. If a district boundary divides a parcel, the
requirement for the district in which the greater portion of the parcel lies
shall be extended to the remainder of the parcel, provided
that such extension shall not include any part of such parcel which lies more
than 150 feet beyond the existing district boundary, and further provided that
the remaining parcel shall not be less than the minimum required lot area for
the district in which it is located. Following adoption of this chapter, split
zoning of parcels will not be permitted.
   (D)   Flood hazard boundaries. Interpretations of the location of floodway
and floodplain boundary lines shall be made by the Zoning Administrator.
   (E)   Board of adjustment. In case any further uncertainty exists, the Board
of Adjustment shall interpret the intent of the map as to location of such
boundaries.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.040 RELATIONSHIP OF ZONING MAP TO COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN.
   It is the intention of the Board of Commissioners that this chapter
implement the planning policies adopted by the elected board for the town, as
reflected in the Town of Fairmont Comprehensive Land Use Plan and other
planning documents. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-701.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.041 NORTH CAROLINA STATE BUILDING CODES.
   The Town of Fairmont hereby adopts by reference the North Carolina State
Building Code with appendices. This shall serve as the basis for regulation of
building construction and repair. This chapter is not intended to conflict with
or supersede the North Carolina State Building Code regulations.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.042 STREET ACCESS.
   No building shall be erected on a lot which does not about a street or have
access to a street, provided that in a business district or in a planned
project in a residential district, a building may be erected adjoining a
parking area or other dedicated open space which has access to a street used in
common with other lots.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.043 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS FOR NEWLY CREATED LOTS.
   The minimum street frontage requirements for newly created lots shall be as
shown here:
                                     Minimum Street Frontage
Lots with both public water and sewer 60 feet
                                      Minimum Street Frontage
Lots with both public water and sewer  60 feet
Lots with either public water or sewer 80 feet
Lots without both public water and     100 feet
sewer
Lots abutting the turning circle of a  Not less than 35 feet
cul-de-sac
                                      Minimum Lot Depth
Any newly created lot                  Depth of two times minimum lot frontage
                                      Minimum Lot Area
Any newly created lot                  Based on the above dimensions
Lots abutting the turning circle of a  The equivalent area for lots with
cul-de-sac                             typical frontage as specified
 
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.044 MINIMUM STREET REQUIREMENTS.
   In addition to requirements set within the “street” definition provided by §
154.026, streets shall be designated as public or private and designed and
completed in accordance with §
154.458, which are incorporated into and made a part of this chapter.
   (A)   All streets, private or those streets proposed to be dedicated to the
state roads system, in a subdivision shall be designed and paved as prescribed
by, and in accordance with specifications and standards required by the North
Carolina Department of Transportation.
   (B)   All subdivision streets shall be maintained by the developer to
minimum standards of the Department of Transportation as required for
acceptance of subdivision streets to the State Maintained System.
   (C)   The developer shall petition the Department of Transportation through
the Board of Commissioners for all subdivision streets to be accepted to the
state maintained system immediately when such streets meet the minimum
acceptance standards of the Department of Transportation.
   (D)   A street may be referred to as a road, subdivision road, or as in §
154.382, as a thoroughfare.
   (E)   When access within an easement or by a driveway is designed and built
in accordance with street design standards specified by town ordinances and
North Carolina Department of Transportation “Subdivision Roads - Minimum
Construction Standards”, then the access within an easement or by a driveway
may be considered a public or private street or road and shall be considered to
have a level of service suitable to satisfy the street frontage requirements
for new lots. Otherwise the level of service for access within an easement or
by a driveway shall be considered equivalent to a privately maintained
residential driveway and not suited for the creation of new lots. Access within
easements and by driveways that do not meet the street design and construction
requirements shall not satisfy the street frontage requirements. New lots
having access within an easement or by a driveway, that do not meet the street
frontage requirements may be considered for approval by the Town of Fairmont
Board of Zoning Adjustment in accordance with §
154.108 Variances.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.045 REQUIRED YARDS NOT TO BE USED BY ANOTHER BUILDING.
   The minimum yards or other open spaces required by this chapter for each and
every building shall not be encroached upon or considered as meeting the yard
and open space requirements of any other building.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.046 RELATIONSHIP OF BUILDING TO LOT.
   Every building hereafter erected, moved or structurally altered shall be
located on a lot and in no case shall there be more than one principal building
and its customary accessory buildings on any lot, except in the case of a
specially designed complex of institutional, residential, commercial or
industrial buildings in an appropriate zoning district, i.e., school campus,
cluster housing, shopping center, industrial park, and so forth, as permitted
by §
154.029.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.047 SUBSTANDARD LOT OF RECORD.
   Where the owner of a lot at the time of the adoption of this chapter or his
successor in title thereto does not own sufficient land to enable him to
conform to the dimensional requirements of this chapter, such lot may be used
as a building site in the district in which it is located provided that the lot
width and lot area are not more than 20% below the minimum specified in this
chapter.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.048 ADJOINING AND VACANT LOTS OF RECORD.
   Notwithstanding the foregoing, whenever two or more adjoining vacant lots of
record are in single ownership at any time after the adoption of this chapter
and the lots individually have less area or width than the minimum requirements
of the district in which the lots are located, the lots shall be considered as
a single lot or several lots which meet the minimum requirements of this
chapter for the district in which the lots are located.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.049 ADDITIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL PROVISIONS.
   In addition to the requirements of this chapter, all effluents and emissions
into the air or surface or groundwater from new development permitted by this
chapter including any land-disturbing activity must be in conformity with all
applicable federal, state, and town health and environmental quality
regulations. Land development must also comply with all other applicable
regulations, which also include flood plain, and water shed regulations. All
applicable Health Department regulations shall apply.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.050 CURB CUTS GIVING ACCESS TO PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   Construction of curb cuts for purposes of ingress or egress to property
abutting a public right-of-way shall be approved by the public authority in the
town which has jurisdiction over the maintenance of public streets and the
North Carolina Department of Transportation where said curbs affect access to
State Highways. Provision for all access work done on highway right-of-way is
subject to approval by the Department of Transportation.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.051 PROJECTION INTO PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   No private sign, structure, or other items shall project beyond an imaginary
line drawn ten feet from and parallel to the outer edge of the public right-of-
way. Any projection into a public right-of- way, new or existing, shall be
removed.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.052 HEIGHT LIMIT EXCEPTIONS.
   The height limitations of this chapter shall not apply to church spires,
belfries, cupolas and domes not intended for human occupancy; monuments, water
towers, observation towers, transmission towers, chimneys, smokestacks,
conveyors, flag poles, radio towers, television towers, masts, aerials and
similar structures, except as otherwise provided in the vicinity of airports.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.053 CORNER VISIBILITY.
   On any corner lot, a sight triangle shall be established. The sight triangle
shall be formed by extending lines from the intersections of two streets
(measured from the edge of the right-of-way) to points 25 feet from the corner
of the rights-of-way of the intersecting streets and then connecting the two
points.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0fa087e7aaf2d1426066c541dcf0227ca59242f9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2350.png]
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.054 NO MINIMUM SQUARE FOOTAGE FOR ONE- A ND TWO-FAMILY DWELLINGS.
   This chapter shall not set forward a minimum square fo otage of any
structure subject to regulation under the North Carolina Code for One- and Two-
Family Dwellings. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160A-381.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.055 RECORD RETENTION.
   A record of all decisions, permits, minutes, and other documents described
in this chapter shall be kept on file as provided in the latest editions of the
Municipal Records Retention and Disposition Schedule issued by the NC
Department of Cultural Resources, Division of Archives and Records. Specific
standards describing the documents required by this chapter include Standard-
5 Building Inspections Records and Standard-13 Planning and Zoning Records. For
similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. §§ 121-5 (c) and 132-8.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
AUTHORITY RELATED TO PLANNING AND ZONING
(BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS, PLANNING BOARD, BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT, TOWN CLERK AND
ZONING ADMINISTRATOR)
 § 154.065 TYPES OF AUTHORITY.
   Zoning and regulation of development are based upon three separate types of
authority as described below. Depending upon the development decision before
them, the various Boards and personnel responsible for zoning and regulation of
development within Fairmont may utilize these authorities.
   (A)   Administrative authority. Means the authority to make decisions in the
implementation, administration, or enforcement of development regulations that
involve the determination of facts and the application of objective standards
set forth in G.S. Chapter 160D or local government development regulations. An
administrative decision may include an administrative hearing to gather facts
needed to make an administrative decision. These are sometimes referred to as
ministerial decisions or administrative determinations. This authority is
typically exercised by the planning staff of the jurisdiction. For similar
state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-102.
   (B)   Legislative authority. Means the authority to adopt, amend, or repeal
a regulation under G.S. Chapter 160D or an applicable local act. The term also
includes the decision to approve, amend, or rescind a development agreement
consistent with the provisions of G.S. Chapter 160D, Article 10. Legislative
decisions often require a hearing to solicit public comment on a proposed
legislative decision. This authority is typically exercised by the governing
board of the jurisdiction. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. §
160D-102.
   (C)   Quasi-judicial authority. Means the authority to make decisions
involving the finding of facts regarding a specific application of a
development regulation and which requires the exercise of discretion when
applying the standards of the regulation. The term includes, but is not limited
to, decisions involving variances, special use permits, certificates of
appropriateness, and appeals of administrative determinations. Decisions on the
approval of subdivision plats and site plans are quasi-judicial in nature if
the regulation authorizes a decision-making board to approve or deny the
application based not only upon whether the application complies with the
specific requirements set forth in the regulation, but also on whether the
application complies with one or more generally stated standards requiring a
discretionary decision on the findings to be made by the decision-making board.
This authority is typically exercised by the Board of Adjustment. For similar
state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-102 and G.S. § 160D-406.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.066 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   (A)   In order to promote public confidence in the integrity of the
decision-making process, members of all boards, appointed and elected for the
town, shall conform to the following conflict of interest policy.
      (1)   Town Board of Commissioners.
         (a)   A member of the Town Board of Commissioners shall not vote on
any legislative decision regarding a development regulation adopted pursuant to
this chapter where the outcome of the matter being considered is reasonably
likely to have a direct, substantial, and readily identifiable financial impact
on the member.
         (b)   A member of the Town Board of Commissioners shall not vote on
any zoning amendment if the landowner of the property subject to a rezoning
petition or the applicant for a text amendment is a person with whom the member
has a close familial, business, or other associational relationship.
      (2)   Appointed boards.
         (a)   Members of appointed boards, such as but not limited to the
Planning Board and Board of Adjustment, shall not vote on a legislative
decision regarding a development regulation adopted pursuant to this chapter
where the outcome of the matter being considered is reasonably likely to have a
direct, substantial, and readily identifiable financial impact on the member.
         (b)   An appointed board member shall not vote on any zoning amendment
if the landowner of the property subject to a rezoning petition or the
applicant for a text amendment is a person with whom the member has a close
familial, business, or other associational relationship. This shall apply even
if no direct financial impact would result for the board/board member.
      (3)   Administrative staff. No staff member shall make a final decision
on an administrative decision required by this chapter if the outcome of that
decision would have a direct, substantial, and readily identifiable financial
impact on the staff member or if the applicant or other person subject to that
decision is a person with whom the staff member has a close familial, business,
or other associational relationship.
         (a)   If a staff member has a conflict of interest under this section,
the decision shall be assigned to the supervisor of the staff person or such
other staff person as may be designated by the development regulation or other
ordinance.
         (b)   No staff member shall be financially interested or employed by a
business that is financially interested in a development subject to regulation
under this chapter unless the staff member is the owner of the land or building
involved.
         (c)   No staff member or other individual or an employee of a company
contracting with the town to provide staff support shall engage in any work
that is inconsistent with his or her duties or with the interest of the town,
as determined by the town.
   (B)   Quasi-judicial decisions. A member of any board exercising quasi-
judicial functions pursuant to this chapter shall not participate in or vote on
any quasi-judicial matter in a manner that would violate affected persons'
constitutional rights to an impartial decision maker. Impermissible violations
of due process include, but are not limited to, a member having a fixed opinion
prior to hearing the matter that is not susceptible to change, undisclosed ex
parte communications, a close familial, business, or other associational
relationship with an affected person, or a financial interest in the outcome of
the matter.
   (C)   Resolution of objection. If an objection is raised to a board member's
participation at or prior to the hearing or vote on that matter and that member
does not recuse himself or herself, the remaining members of the board shall by
majority vote rule on the objection.
   (D)   Familial relationship. For purposes of this section, a close familial
relationship means a spouse, parent, child, brother, sister, grandparent, or
grandchild. The term includes the step, half, and in-law relationships. For
similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-109.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.067 BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS - GENERAL AUTHORITY AND DUTIES RELATED TO
ZONING.
   (A)   Types of decisions. Depending on the type of decision before them, the
Board of Commissioners may be called upon to act with legislative, quasi-
judicial, or administrative authority. Refer to the ordinance sections noted
below for further explanation of procedure and process. Understand that this
chapter addresses only the authority and duties of the Board of Commissioners
related to zoning and regulation of development.
      (1)   Legislative. In considering the adoption, amendment or repeal of an
ordinance, Board of Commissioners acts in its legislative capacity. The
hearings that accompany these decisions are legislative hearings and seek
public input on the proposed policy change. Legislative decisions must proceed
in accordance with the requirements of G.S. Chapter 160D, Article 6.
      (2)   Quasi-judicial. The Board of Commissioners, in considering special
use permit applications and site-specific development plans, acts in a quasi-
judicial capacity and, accordingly, is required to observe the procedural
requirements set forth for the Board of Adjustment. An evidentiary hearing must
be conducted to secure competent, material, and substantial evidence to
establish the facts of the case. Testimony in an evidentiary hearing is under
oath and subject to cross-examination. Quasi-judicial decisions must proceed in
accordance with the requirements of G.S. Chapter 160D-406. A majority vote
shall be required for the Board of Commissioners to issue a special use permit.
      (3)   Administrative. Should the Board of Commissioners be assigned
administrative approvals of any kind, the applicable procedure shall be G.S.
Chapter 160D-403.
   (B)   Voting. A majority vote, excluding vacant seats and disqualified
members, shall be sufficient for the purpose of taking any official action
except that variance requests require a four-fifths vote of its members,
excluding vacant seats and disqualified members. Vacant positions on the Board
of Commissioners and members who are disqualified from voting on a quasi-
judicial matter under G.S. 160D-109(d) shall not be considered members of the
board for calculation of the requisite majority if there are no qualified
alternates available to take the place of such members. For similar state law
provisions, refer to G.S. Chapter 160D-406(i).
   (C)   Excuses from voting.
      (1)   No member shall be excused from voting except upon matters
involving the consideration of the member's own financial interest or official
conduct or on matters on which the member is prohibited from voting under G.S.
§ 14-234 or G.S. § 160D-109. In all other cases except votes taken under G.S. §
160D-601, a failure to vote by a member who is physically present in the
council chamber, or who has withdrawn without being excused by a majority vote
of the remaining members present, shall be recorded as an affirmative vote. The
question of the compensation and allowances of members of the council is not a
matter involving a member's own financial interest or official conduct.
      (2)   Notwithstanding division (C)(1) above of this section, a vote or
failure to vote by any member present by means of simultaneous communication in
accordance with G.S. § 166A-19.24 shall be treated as if the member were
physically present only during the period while simultaneous communication is
maintained for that member.
      (3)   An affirmative vote equal to a majority of all the members of the
council not excused from voting on the question in issue, including the mayor's
vote in case of an equal division, shall be required to adopt an ordinance,
take any action having the effect of an ordinance, authorize or commit the
expenditure of public funds, or make, ratify, or authorize any contract on
behalf of the city. In addition, no ordinance nor any action having the effect
of any ordinance, except an ordinance on which a public hearing must be held
pursuant to G.S. § 160D-601 before the ordinance may be adopted, may be finally
adopted on the date on which it is introduced except by an affirmative vote
equal to or greater than two thirds of all the actual membership of the
council, excluding vacant seats and not including the Mayor unless the Mayor
has the right to vote on all questions before the CCouncil. For purposes of
this section, an ordinance shall be deemed to have been introduced on the date
the subject matter is first voted on by the Council. For similar state law
provisions, refer to G.S. § 160A-75.
   (D)   Hiring and maintaining planning staff. The town may appropriate for
the support of the staff any funds that it deems necessary. It shall have power
to fix reasonable fees for support, administration, and implementation of
programs authorized by this chapter and all such fees shall be used for no
other purposes. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-402(d).
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.068 TOWN CLERK - GENERAL AUTHORITY AND DUTIES.
   In matters related to planning and regulation of development, the Town Clerk
shall have the authority and duties below:
   (A)   Establish and publish application procedures for permits, appeals, and
actions pursuant to this chapter and forms implementing the same.
   (B)   Maintain all records pertaining to the provisions of this chapter in
his/her office(s) and make said records open for public inspection.
   (C)   Receive appeals and forward cases to the appropriate Board; and
   (D)   Perform other duties as may be assigned by the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.069 ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF/ZONING ADMINISTRATOR - GENERAL AUTHORITY AND
DUTIES.
   (A)   The town shall have the authority to enact ordinances, procedures and
fee schedules relating to the enforcement of this chapter and to retain staff.
This shall include an adequate number of qualified staff to administer the
town's zoning and related ordinances. A Zoning Administrator, to be designated
by the Town Board of Commissioners, is hereby authorized and it shall be his or
her duty to enforce the provisions of this chapter. This official shall have
the right to enter upon any premises regulated by this chapter at any
reasonable time necessary to carry out his or her duties. If the suspected
violation involves areas which cannot be viewed from public areas, an
administrative search warrant must be obtained from a magistrate or judge
authorizing a reasonable inspection. It is the intention of this chapter that
all questions arising in connection with enforcement and interpretation shall
be presented first to the Zoning Administrator. Appeal from his or her decision
may be made to the Board of Adjustment. The Zoning Administrator may be
assisted by other town staff in performing the duties herein. For similar state
law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-402(a) and (b).
   (B)   Financial support. The town may appropriate for the support of the
staff any funds that it deems necessary. It shall have power to fix reasonable
fees for support, administration, and implementation of programs authorized by
this chapter and all such fees shall be used for no other purposes. For similar
state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-402(d)
   (C)   Duties. In administering the provisions of this chapter, the Zoning
Administrator shall:
      (1)   Receive and process applications for development approvals; make
and maintain records of all applications for permits, special uses, and
requests listed herein, and records of all permits issued or denied, with
notations of all special conditions or modifications involved.
      (2)   File and safely keep copies of all plans submitted, and the same
shall form a part of the records of his or her office and shall be available
for inspection at reasonable times by any interested party.
      (3)   Provide notices of applications and hearings. Transmit to the
Planning Board, Board of Commissioners, and/or the Board of Adjustment all
applications and plans for which their review and approval is required along
with a report of his/her recommendations as may be required.
      (4)   Make decisions and determinations regarding the implementation of
the town's development regulations.
      (5)   Determine whether applications for development approvals meet the
applicable standards as established by law and local ordinance.
      (6)   Provide administrative interpretations of the zoning ordinance.
      (7)   Issue or deny certificates of zoning compliance or occupancy.
      (8)   Provide nonconformity determinations, including expansions of
nonconforming uses and structures.
      (9)   Conduct inspections of premises and, upon finding that any of the
provisions of this chapter are being violated, notify in writing the person
responsible for such violations, indicating the nature of the violation and
ordering the action necessary to correct it. The Zoning Administrator shall
order discontinuance of illegal use of land, buildings or structures; inform
the designated building inspections department of illegal buildings or of
additions, alterations, or structural changes there to which are not compliant
with the zoning ordinance; order discontinuance of any illegal work being done;
or shall take any other action authorized by this chapter to insure compliance
with or to prevent violation of its provisions.
      (10)   Recommend bringing judicial action against actual or threatened
violations.
      (11)   Maintain the public records of the Planning Board and Board of
Adjustment.
      (12)   Perform any other actions that may be required in order to
adequately enforce the laws and development regulations under their
jurisdiction.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-402(b)
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.070 PLANNING BOARD - GENERAL AUTHORITY AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Authority. The Planning Board of Fairmont is created pursuant to G.S.
§ 160D-301. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-301.
   (B)   Duties. The duties of the Planning Board are to:
      (1)   Prepare, review, maintain, monitor, and periodically update and
recommend to the governing board a comprehensive plan, and such other plans as
deemed appropriate, and conduct ongoing related research, data collection,
mapping, and analysis.
         (a)   The Comprehensive Plan (Land Use Plan) and any ordinances or
other measures to effectuate the plans shall be made with the general purpose
of guiding and accomplishing a coordinated, adjusted, and harmonious
development of the town and its environs. Reflecting both present and future
needs, the Comprehensive Plan shall:
            1.   Promote health, safety, and the general welfare, as well as
efficiency and economy in the process of development;
            2.   Support the transportation needs of the town;
            3.   Promote in buildings and structures the necessary safety from
fire and other dangers, adequate provision for light and air, and a healthful
and convenient distribution of population;
            4.   Support the promotion of good civic design and arrangement,
the wise and efficient expenditure of public funds, and the adequate provision
of public utilities, services, and other public requirements.
         (b)   Comprehensive Plan Contents. A comprehensive plan may, among
other topics, address any of the following as determined by the local
government:
            1.   Issues and opportunities facing the local government,
including consideration of trends, values expressed by citizens, community
vision, and guiding principles for growth and development.
            2.   The pattern of desired growth and development and civic
design, including the location, distribution, and characteristics of future
land uses, urban form, utilities, and transportation networks.
            3.   Employment opportunities, economic development, and community
development.
            4.   Acceptable levels of public services and infrastructure to
support development, including water, waste disposal, utilities, emergency
services, transportation, education, recreation, community facilities, and
other public services, including plans and policies for provision of and
financing for public infrastructure.
            5.   Housing with a range of types and affordability to accommodate
persons and households of all types and income levels.
            6.   Recreation and open spaces.
            7.   Mitigation of natural hazards such as flooding, winds,
wildfires, and unstable lands. Protection of the environment and natural
resources, including agricultural resources, mineral resources, and water and
air quality.
            8.   Protection of significant architectural, scenic, cultural,
historical, or archaeological resources.
            9.   Analysis and evaluation of implementation measures, including
regulations, public investments, and educational programs.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-501.
      (2)   Facilitate and coordinate citizen engagement and participation in
the planning process;
      (3)   Develop and recommend policies, ordinances, development
regulations, administrative procedures, and other means for carrying out plans
in a coordinated and efficient manner;
      (4)   Advise the governing board concerning the implementation of plans,
including, but not limited to, review and comment on all zoning text and map
amendments as required by G.S. § 160D-604.
      (5)   Exercise any functions in the administration and enforcement of
various means for carrying out plans that the governing board may direct;
      (6)   Provide a preliminary forum for review of quasi-judicial decisions,
provided that no part of the forum or recommendation may be used as a basis for
the deciding board;
      (7)   Perform any other related duties that the governing board may
direct.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-301(b).
   (C)   Organization.
      (1)   Appointment and terms of Planning Board members.
         (a)   The Planning Board shall consist of nine members appointed by
the Board of Commissioners for terms of three years, with eligibility for
reappointment.
         (b)   One month prior to the expiration of appointed terms, notice
shall be given to the Town Clerk by the Secretary of the Planning Board.
         (c)   At least three of the members shall represent the town's
extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction (ETJ). The extraterritorial representative
(s) shall be appointed by the Robeson County Board of County Commissioners and
as directed in G.S. § 160A-362. All extraterritorial members shall be appointed
by the Board of County Commissioners for Robeson County unless the County Board
fails to act and upon such failure extraterritorial members may be appointed by
the Town Board of Commissioners.
         (d)   Future composition of the Planning Board may be amended to
account for population changes within the town or it's ETJ and shall be
considered at least after every census.
         (e)   If a member moves outside of the jurisdiction from which he or
she has been appointed, that shall constitute a resignation from the Planning
Board, effective upon the date a replacement is appointed.
      (2)   Vacancies. Vacancies may be filled by the Town Board of
Commissioners for the unexpired terms. Vacancies which occur other than the
expiration of term shall be filled by the Town Board of Commissioners for the
remaining period of the term vacated.
      (3)   Attendance and removal. Attendance is mandatory. If an appointee is
habitually absent from meetings, and such absences are not caused by
extraordinary events, the member is obligated to resign in writing. Planning
and Zoning Board members may be removed by the Board of Commissioners at any
time for failure to attend three consecutive meetings or for failure to attend
30% or more of the meetings within any 12-month period or for any other
reasonable cause related to performance of duties.
      (4)   Compensation. Compensation is at the discretion of the Town Board
of Commissioners.
   (D)   Meetings, elections and voting.
      (1)   Organizational meeting. The annual organizational meeting of the
Planning Board shall be held in July of each year.
         (a)   Officers including the Chairman, Vice-Chairman and Secretary
shall be elected from among the appointed members at the annual organizational
meeting.
         (b)   The candidate for each office receiving a majority vote of the
entire membership of the Planning Board shall be declared elected.
         (c)   All officers shall be elected for a term of one year and all
officers shall be able to succeed themselves.
         (d)   The Planning Board shall adopt bylaws for transaction of its
business and shall keep a record of its members' attendance and of its
resolutions, discussions, findings and recommendations, which record shall be a
public record.
      (2)   Regular meetings. The Planning Board shall establish a regular
meeting schedule and shall meet frequently enough so that it can take timely
action in regard to all matters of Planning and Zoning. The Board shall conduct
its meetings so as to obtain necessary information and to promote the full and
free exchange of ideas. The Town Clerk shall keep minutes of all proceedings.
      (3)   Special meetings. The chairperson of the Planning Board shall have
the authority to call a special meeting when requested to do so in writing by a
majority of the members of the Planning Board, or at his or her discretion. The
chairperson may designate, in advance, regular and special meetings. All of the
requirements of G.S. § 143-318.2 (b) Public Notice of Official Meetings shall
be followed when calling and holding special meetings. Minutes shall be kept of
all proceedings.
      (4)   All meetings are public meetings. All regular and special meetings,
hearings, records and accounts of the Planning Board and all committees thereof
shall be open to the general public, and all meetings shall be advertised.
Minutes shall be kept of all proceedings.
      (5)   Quorum. A quorum for the Planning Board shall consist of a majority
of the Board membership (excluding vacant seats). A quorum is necessary for the
Board to take official action. All actions of the Planning Board shall be taken
by a majority vote, a quorum being present. A roll call vote shall be taken
upon the request of any member. With a nine member board, the quorum would be
five members.
      (6)   Voting. Provided a quorum is present, the transaction of business,
and the taking of official action by the Planning Board shall require a
concurring vote of a majority of the voting members of the Planning Board.
         (a)   Voice vote. Voting shall be by voice vote and the minutes shall
show the names of those voting on each issue. A proxy signed by the Board
member shall be allowed when the member knows in advance that he or she will
not be able to attend the regular meeting.
         (b)   Abstaining. No member shall be excused from voting except upon
matters which stem from a conflict of interest described in above. Such cases
shall be brought to the attention of the Chairperson as soon as possible. The
position of such member in the vote taken shall be recorded as “Abstained”.
Members properly excused from voting shall not participate in the discussion on
the matter which is subject to action. Members who abstain from voting without
the consent of a majority of Board members present shall have their vote
recorded in the affirmative.
         (c)   If the Planning Board should ever be called to vote on
recommendations regarding quasi- judicial decisions, the following shall apply:
            1.   Vacant positions on the Planning Board, and members who are
disqualified from voting due to a conflict of interest, shall not be considered
“members of the Board” for calculation of the requisite majority if there are
no qualified alternates available to take the place of such members. For
similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-406.
            2.   A member of the Planning Board shall not participate in, or
vote on, any matter in a manner that would violate affected persons'
constitutional rights to an impartial decision maker. Impermissible conflicts
include, but are not limited to, a member having a fixed opinion prior to
hearing
the matter that is not susceptible to change, undisclosed ex parte
communications, a close familial, business, or other associational relationship
with an affected person, or a financial interest in the outcome of the matter.
If an objection is raised to a member's participation, and that member does not
recuse himself or herself, the remaining members shall by majority vote rule on
the objection. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-109(d).
      (7)   Order of business. The secretary shall consult with the Zoning
Enforcement Officer and prepare an agenda for each meeting, and the order of
business.
      (8)   Rules of procedures and records. The Planning Board shall keep a
record of its member attendance and of its resolutions, discussions, findings
and recommendations, which record shall be a public record. The minutes of
meetings shall be public record. For similar state law provisions, refer to
G.S. § 160D-308.
      (9)   Cancellation of meetings. Whenever there is no business for the
Board, the Chair may dispense with a regular meeting by giving notice to all
members not less than 24 hours prior to the time set for the meeting.
      (10)   Reports. The Planning Board shall provide to the Town Board of
Commissioners a quarterly report which details the business before the Planning
Board and actions taken. Reports shall be in writing and provided by the last
day of the following months: January, April, July, and October.
   (E)   Offices and duties.
      (1)   Chairperson. The Chairperson shall preside at all meetings, appoint
members to committees, and perform other duties and perform other duties as may
be ordered by the Board. The Chairperson may take part in all deliberations and
may vote on all issues.
      (2)   Vice-Chairperson. The Vice-Chairperson shall serve as acting chair
in the absence of the Chairperson, and at such times he or she shall have the
same powers and duties as the Chairperson. The Vice-Chairperson may take part
in all deliberations and may vote on all issues.
      (3)   Secretary. The Secretary shall execute such documents as authorized
by the Board, in the name of the Board, perform the duties hereinafter listed,
and such other duties as the Board shall determine. The Secretary shall keep
all minutes and records; shall prepare all correspondence of the Board; receive
and file all referrals, applications, papers, and records; and prepare,
publish, and mail all notices as required.
   (F)   Oath of office. All members appointed to boards under this subchapter
shall, before entering their duties, qualify by taking an oath of office as
required by G.S. Chapter 160D. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S.
§ 160D-309.
   (G)   Advisory committees.
      (1)   From time to time, Town Board of Commissioners may appoint one or
more individuals to assist the Planning Board to carry out its planning
responsibilities with respect to a particular subject area. By way of
illustration, without limitation, the Board of Commissioners may appoint
advisory committees to consider thoroughfare plan(s), bikeway plan(s), housing
plans, and economic development plans, etc.
      (2)   Members of such advisory committees shall sit as nonvoting members
of the Planning Board when such issues are being considered and lend their
talents, energies, and expertise to the Planning Board. However, all formal
recommendations to the Town Board of Commissioners shall be made by the
Planning Board.
      (3)   Nothing in this subchapter shall prevent the Town Board of
Commissioners from establishing independent advisory groups, committees, or
boards to make recommendations on any issue directly to the Council.
   (H)   Supplemental powers and responsibilities.
      (1)   Hearings. In addition to public hearings required by law, the
Planning Board may, at its discretion, hold public hearings when it decides
that such hearings will be in the public interest.
      (2)   Publicity and education. The Planning Board shall have power to
promote public interest in and an understanding of its recommendations, and to
that end, it may publish and distribute copies of its recommendations and may
employ such other means of publicity and education as it may determine.
      (3)   Attendance at conferences. Members or employees of the Planning
Board, when duly authorized by the Planning Board, may attend planning
conferences or meetings of planning institutes or hearings upon pending
planning legislation, and the Planning Board may, by formal and affirmative
vote pay, within the Planning Board's budget, the reasonable traveling expenses
incidental to such attendance.
      (4)   Appropriations. The Fairmont Town Council may appropriate to the
Planning Board such amount as they may deem necessary to carry out the purpose
of its creation and for the improvement of the town.
      (5)   Annual report. The Planning Board shall, in May of each year,
submit in writing to the Fairmont Town Manager, its requested budget of funds
needed for operation during the ensuing fiscal year.
   (I)   Conflict of interest. The conflict of interest provisions outlined in
§
154.066 apply to the Planning Board.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.071 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT - GENERAL AUTHORITY AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Creation. There is hereby created a Board of Adjustment pursuant to
G.S. § 160D-302 to be known as the Town Board of Adjustment and referred to
herein as the Board of Adjustment. For similar state law provisions, refer to
G.S. § 160D-302.
   (B)   Powers and duties. The Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide:
      (1)   Appeals from any final and binding order, decision, requirement, or
interpretation made by the Zoning Officer or his or her authorized agent, in
the enforcement of this chapter.
      (2)   Applications for variances concerning nonconforming uses, lots and
structures. In cases where, due to special conditions, a literal enforcement of
the provisions of this chapter will result in undue hardship, a variance may be
appropriate in order that the spirit of this chapter shall be observed and
substantial justice done.
      (3)   Questions involving interpretations of the zoning map, including
disputed district boundary lines and lot lines.
      (4)   Any other matter the Board is required to act upon by any other
town ordinance.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-302.
   (C)   Membership.
      (1)   Regular members. Board of Adjustment shall have initial terms of
appointment as follows: one member for three years, two members for two years,
and two members for one year.
      (2)   Alternates. Not more than two alternate members may be appointed to
serve in the absence of regular members.
      (3)   Appointment. Members shall be appointed by the Town Board of
Commissioners and shall serve at the pleasure of the Board.
      (4)   Terms. All members and alternates shall be appointed by the Board
of Town Commissioners for overlapping terms of three years.
      (5)   Qualifications. Board of Adjustment members should have basic
knowledge of the town and its physical, social, and economic makeup. In
addition, a basic understanding of the planning process and land-use planning
in particular, are recommended.
      (6)   Service is volunteer. All members of the Board of Adjustment shall
serve without pay, but may be reimbursed for any expense incurred while
representing the Board. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-
302(a).
   (D)   Officers. At the first meeting of each year, the Board shall elect one
of its members as Chairperson, another as Vice-Chairperson, and shall appoint a
Secretary who may be a municipal officer, an employee of the county or a member
of the Planning Board, and such other subordinates as may be authorized by the
Board of Town Commissioners or as the Board of Adjustment deems necessary. The
chairperson and vice-chairperson of the Board of Adjustment may take part in
all deliberations and may vote on all issues.
   (E)   Meetings.
      (1)   Meetings of the Board shall be held at the call of the Chairperson
and at such other times as the Board may determine.
      (2)   All meetings of the Board shall be open to the public and whenever
feasible the agenda for each Board meeting shall be made available in advance
of the meeting.
   (F)   Rules of procedure. Rules of procedure that are consistent with the
provisions of this chapter may be adopted by the Board of Adjustment. In the
absence of action by the Board of Commissioners, the Board of Adjustment is
authorized to adopt its own rules of procedure that are consistent with the
provisions of this chapter. A copy of any adopted rules of procedure shall be
maintained by the Town Clerk. Each Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-308.
   (G)   Minutes of meetings. The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings,
showing the vote of each member upon every question, or if absent or failing to
vote, indicating such fact, and also keep records of its examination and other
official action. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-308.
   (H)   Conflicts of interest. Members of appointed boards shall not vote on
any advisory or legislative decision regarding a development regulation adopted
pursuant to this chapter where the outcome of the matter being considered is
reasonably likely to have a direct, substantial, and readily identifiable
financial impact on the member. An appointed board member shall not vote on any
zoning amendment if the landowner of the property subject to a rezoning
petition or the applicant for a text amendment is a person with whom the member
has a close familial, business, or other associational relationship. For
similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-10(b).
   (I)   Quorum. A quorum is required for the Board of Adjustment to take
official action. A member who has withdrawn from the meeting without being
excused shall be counted as present for purposes of determining whether a
quorum is present.
   (J)   Voting.
      (1)   The concurring vote of four-fifths of the Board shall be necessary
to grant a variance. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-406
(i).
      (2)   A majority of the members shall be required to decide any other
quasi-judicial matter or to determine an appeal made in the nature of
certiorari. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-406(i).
      (3)   For the purposes of this division (J), vacant positions on the
Board and members who are disqualified from voting on a quasi-judicial matter
under G.S. § 160D-109(d) shall not be considered members of the Board for
calculation of the requisite majority if there are no qualified alternates
available to take the place of such members. For similar state law provisions,
refer to G.S. § 160D-406(i).
      (4)   Once a member is physically present at a Board meeting, any
subsequent failure to vote shall be recorded as an affirmative vote unless the
member has excused himself or herself or has been allowed to withdraw from the
meeting.
      (5)   If an objection is raised to a member's participation, and that
member does not recuse himself or herself, the remaining members shall by
majority vote, rule on the objection.
      (6)   A member may be allowed to withdraw from the entire remainder of a
meeting by majority vote of the remaining members present for any good and
sufficient reason other than the member's desire to avoid voting on matters to
be considered at that meeting.
      (7)   A motion to allow a member to be excused from voting or excused
from the remainder of the meeting is in order only if made by or at the
initiative of the member directly affected.
      (8)   A roll call vote shall be taken for each motion. The Board shall
keep minutes of its proceedings showing the vote of each member, the Board's
findings of fact, and the Board's decision.
   (K)   Oath of office. All members appointed to boards under this subchapter
shall, before entering their duties, qualify by taking an oath of office as
required by G.S. §§ 153A-26 and 160A-61. For similar state law provisions,
refer to G.S. § 160D-309.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.072 OTHER ADVISORY BOARDS.
      The Town of Fairmont may establish by ordinance additional advisory
boards as deemed appropriate. The ordinance establishing such boards shall
specify the composition and duties of such board and shall make conflict of
interest regulations applicable to members of such boards. For similar state
law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-306.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
ADMINISTRATIVE PERMITS, ENFORCEMENT AND APPEALS
§ 154.080 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter includes the regulations pertaining to administrative
procedures, permits and appeals of administrative actions regarding zoning in
the Town of Fairmont. Administrative permits include, but are not limited to,
zoning permits, certificates of occupancy, sign permits, and temporary use
permits.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.081 ZONING PERMIT APPROVAL REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall commence or proceed with development within the town's
jurisdiction without first securing a zoning permit from the town. Unless
elsewhere exempted by this chapter, no use may change, and/or no building, sign
or other structure can legally be erected, moved, added lo, or structurally
altered without a zoning permit. The Zoning Official will approve or deny the
zoning permit based on compliance with the zoning ordinance unless evidence
exists that there is a violation of the town's zoning ordinances on the
property.
      (1)   Each application for a zoning permit shall be accompanied by such
building plans or other information as may be necessary to determine whether
the provisions of this chapter are being observed.
      (2)   The town may issue development approvals in print or electronic
form. Any development approval issued exclusively in electronic form shall be
protected from further editing once issued.
      (3)   Applications for development approvals may be made by the
landowner, a lessee or person holding an option or contract to purchase or
lease land, or an authorized agent of the landowner. An easement holder may
also apply for development approval for such development as is authorized by
the easement.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-403(a).
   (B)   No work permitted prior to issuance of permit. No land shall be used
or occupied, and the use of any land shall not be changed, until a zoning
permit and any other applicable permit to be issued by Town of Fairmont for
such work has been issued.
   (C)   No movement of structure prior to issuance of permit. No building or
structure, including a manufactured home, shall be moved from an area outside
the town's zoning jurisdiction to any lot within the town's jurisdiction or
from one lot to another lot, or on the same lot within the town's zoning
jurisdiction unless such building shall subsequently be made to conform to the
then existing building, plumbing, electrical, manufactured home, and zoning
codes of the town. If a building, excluding a manufactured home, is moved from
outside the town's zoning jurisdiction, the zoning permit fee shall include a
mileage fee for each mile of distance from the town hall to the house to be
moved. Any building or manufactured home so moved shall be made to conform to
the required codes of the town within 12 months from the earlier of either:
      (1)   The date of the receipt of a zoning permit issued by the Zoning
Official, or
      (2)   The date the building or manufactured home is moved into the town
limits.
   (D)   Work only as approved in permit. Zoning permits and other development
permits are issued under this chapter only when a review of the application
submitted, including the site plans contained therein, indicates that the
development will comply with the provisions of this chapter if completed as
proposed. Such plans and applications as are finally approved are incorporated
into any permit issued, and except as otherwise provided herein, all
development shall occur strictly in accordance with such approved plans and
applications.
   (E)   Exemption from zoning permit. The following are exempt from zoning
permit requirements:
      (1)   Farm buildings (other than residences and buildings used in animal
feeder/breeder operations) used for bona fide farm purposes;
      (2)   Facilities (other than buildings) of a public utility; and
      (3)   Signs specifically exempted in §§
154.195 through
154.202.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.082 ZONING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The Town Board shall appoint a Zoning Enforcement Officer to enforce
the provisions of this chapter. The assistance of such other persons may be
provided as the Town Board may direct. The chapter shall be enforceable in
accordance with provisions available in G.S. § 160D-403.
   (B)   The Zoning Enforcement Officer is hereby authorized, and it shall be
his or her duty to enforce and administer the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   If the Zoning Enforcement Officer finds that any of the provisions of
this chapter are being violated, he or she shall notify in writing the person
responsible for the violations, indicating the nature of the violation and
ordering the action necessary to correct it. He or she shall order
discontinuance of the illegal use of land, buildings or structures; removal of
illegal buildings or structures or of additions, alterations or structural
changes thereto; discontinuance of any illegal work being done; or shall take
other lawful action to insure compliance with or to prevent violation of this
chapter.
   (D)   If a ruling of the Zoning Enforcement Officer is questioned, the
aggrieved party or parties may appeal the ruling to the Board of Adjustment.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-403.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.083 ZONING PERMIT APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Application form. Requests for a zoning permit shall be submitted by
filing an application with the Zoning Enforcement Officer. Said application
shall be on a form approved by the Town Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   Health Department approval for zoning permits. If on-site wastewater
service is necessary to the building, lot, etc., then the Robeson County Health
Department shall evaluate property (site) in accordance with the “Laws and
Rules for Sewage Treatment, And Disposal Systems” (15A NCAC 1SA.1900) to
determine the overall site suitability for a septic system.
      (1)   If the Robeson County Health Department evaluates the property,
they may issue an improvement permit or advise the applicant accordingly, prior
to the issuance of a zoning permit.
      (2)   The zoning permit which is then secured at the town must be
submitted to the Robeson County Health Department before the county can release
an authorization for wastewater system construction.
   (C)   Minor or major site plan.
      (1)   The zoning permit application shall be accompanied by two sets of
plans drawn to scale, one of which shall be returned to the applicant upon
approval. The determination of whether a minor site plan or major site plan
shall be made by the Zoning Enforcement Officer.
      (2)   Site plan. A scaled drawing which shows what already exists on the
property and shows what is proposed for the property. For example, a
residential site plan depicts everything within the
property lines; namely, a footprint of any existing structures, driveways and
parking areas, pathways, trails and easements, drainage ways, utility lines,
landscaping and other natural features. See §
154.084 for site plan requirements.
         (a)   Minor site plans. As used under this subchapter and consistent
with the definitions contained in §
154.026, the term “Minor Site Plan” shall mean a scaled drawing which shows
what already exists on the property and what is proposed for the property. A
Minor Site Plan shall be reviewed by the Zoning Administrator and include the
following types of development:
            1.   Changes in use.
            2.   New single-building non-residential development or additions
of less than 2,500 square feet in gross floor area.
            3.   New single-building, multi-family development with five to
eight dwelling units.
         (b)   Major site plans. As used under this subchapter and consistent
with the definitions contained in §
154.026, the term “Major Site Plan” shall mean a scaled drawing developed from
a survey of the property which details the structures and conditions existing
on the property and what is proposed for the property. A major site plan shall
be reviewed by the Zoning Administrator and referred to the Planning Board for
their review and approval. Major site plans shall apply to the following:
            1.   New nonresidential or multi-family development with two or
more buildings.
            2.   New single-building nonresidential development or additions
with 2,500 square feet or more in gross floor area.
            3.   New single-building multi-family development with nine or more
dwelling units.
            4.   Development that results in a new street connection with an
existing street or street stub in a single-family residential neighborhood.
            5.   Zero-lot-line developments.
   (D)   Exemption from site plan review. Single-family homes on conforming
lots, temporary uses, and internal construction that does not increase gross
floor area or building height, the density or intensity of use, or affect
parking requirements are exempt from site plan review.
   (E)   Other requirements. The zoning permit application shall also be
accompanied by:
      (1)   The required fee.
      (2)   A deed and survey, provided that with consent of the Zoning
Enforcement Officer, a tax map photocopy may be substituted if a survey has not
been conducted only for a minor site plan.
      (3)   A sedimentation and erosion control plan (if applicable) as
submitted to the land quality section, Department of Environment and Natural
Resources for major site plans.
      (4)   Any other information, which the Zoning Enforcement Officer may
deem necessary for consideration in enforcing all provisions of this chapter.
   (F)   Staff review of minor site plans. The Zoning Enforcement Officer will
verify that the use application and site plan meet the requirements of this
chapter and will verify that the development will be adequately served by
necessary public facilities such as roads, schools, water, emergency services,
and sewage disposal. During review, the Zoning Enforcement Officer may
circulate the plan to relevant governmental agencies and officials. The
agencies and officials may include, but not necessarily be limited to, the
following: Sherriff's Department, Fire Department, Robeson County Building
Inspections Department, and Public Works.
   (G)   Staff review of major site plans.
      (1)   The Zoning Enforcement Officer will circulate the plan to relevant
governmental agencies and officials for comments and recommendations. The
reviewing agencies and officials may include, but not necessarily be limited to
the following: Police Department, Fire Department, Robeson Building Inspections
Department, Public Works, Town Attorney, other utilities providers, Robeson
County Health Department, and the US Army Corps of Engineers. The Zoning
Administrator will prepare a staff recommendation for the proposed development
and forward this to the Planning Board for consideration.
      (2)   Major site plan review may take place in two stages: first, review
of a voluntary preliminary site plan, and second, review of a more detailed
final site plan. there is no requirement to prepare a preliminary site plan,
and applicants may file a site plan application that meets the final site plan
requirements without undergoing the preliminary site plan step.
         (a)   The preliminary site plan is not required to include highly-
detailed, fully-engineered elements. It is intended to show general compliance
with zoning requirements and conditions of approval. Town staff will provide
comments or information to be included on the final site plan as part of the
review of a voluntary preliminary site plan.
         (b)   The final site plan is required to include all details and
required engineering necessary to demonstrate full compliance with the zoning
requirements and other applicable town code, as appropriate.
   (H)   Review by Planning Board of major site plans. Following a complete
review by the staff and preparation of the staff recommendation, the Zoning
Enforcement Officer shall schedule the application
for review by the Planning Board at the next regularly scheduled meeting. The
Planning Board shall review the proposed project and either approve or deny the
proposed project. A written determination from the Planning Board shall be
forwarded to the Town Board of Commissioners within 30 days of application
review. for consideration. If a recommendation is not made within 30 days, the
application shall be forwarded to the Town Board without a recommendation from
the Planning Board.
   (I)   Action by Town Board on major site plans. Once the recommendation of
the Planning Board has been made, or the 30-day period elapses without a
recommendation, the Town Board shall follow the quasi-judicial procedures
outlined in §§
154.105 through
154.116. The Town Board may take the following actions:
      (1)   Approve the application as received;
      (2)   Approve the application with conditions;
      (3)   Deny the application;
      (4)   Table the application for a specific number of days. The Town Board
may also request additional information of the applicant, other governmental
agencies, or interested/affected parties in order to aid in the review of the
request; and
      (5)   Return the application to the Planning Board for further
consideration. This deferral does not restart the initial Planning Board 30-day
review period. The Town Council may direct that the Board return a decision by
a certain date.
   (J)   Approval of minor site plans and zoning permits. If the zoning permit
application is found to meet all of the applicable regulations of this chapter
and is consistent with the requirements of this chapter, then the Zoning
Enforcement Officer shall approve and issue a zoning permit. If approved by the
Zoning Enforcement Officer, such approval shall be evidenced by his or her
signature on the application form as certification of zoning compliance.
   (K)   Provide zoning permit for building permit. The applicant shall provide
a copy of the approved zoning permit from the Zoning Enforcement Officer to the
Robeson County Building Inspector prior to obtaining a building permit from the
county.
   (L)   Denial of zoning permits. If the zoning permit application is found
not to meet all applicable regulations of this chapter, it shall be marked
“denied” and returned to the applicant. If applicable, instructions on changes
necessary to make the compliant shall also be delivered to the applicant.
      (1)   No zoning permit may be processed and/or issued when there is
evidence that there is a violation of any of the above referenced codes on or
in use upon the land and any portion thereof that is subject to the requested
permit/approval. The permit/approval may be issued in cases where the issuance
of the permit and/or approval would resolve the violation.
      (2)   If the permit/approval will not resolve the violation, the permit/
approval shall not be issued until all violations are resolved and any fines
levied are paid.
      (3)   In instances where evidence of a violation is noted after the
acceptance, processing, and/or issuance of a permit/approval, all activity with
regards to the processing of the application and/or inspections will cease
until the property is brought into compliance and all fines levied are paid. No
zoning permit will be issued except in conformity with the provisions of this
chapter, unless the town receives a written order from the Board of Zoning
Adjustment in the form of an administrative appeal or variance as provided by
this chapter.
   (M)   Display of zoning permits. Zoning permits (and building permits) shall
be displayed during all construction and may not be removed until the Zoning
Enforcement Officer and the Building Inspector have issued a certificate of
compliance.
   (N)   As-builts site plan required. For minor site plans, an as-built site
plan shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator by the applicant upon
completion of the building foundation(s) to ensure that setbacks and building
orientation match the approved site plan. If the survey shows that the
placement of the building is incorrect, then the Zoning Administrator shall
issue a stop-work order and all construction shall be halted until the problem
is remedied.
   (O)   Appeal of Town Board decisions on major site plans. Any appeal of the
decision of the Town Board shall be made to Superior Court.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.084 SITE PLAN CONTENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Minor site plan. The minor site plan shall contain the following:
      (1)   A scale;
      (2)   Clear identification of the structure or use proposed;
      (3)   Property boundaries, lot dimension, setbacks, and property
identification number for the subject property;
      (4)   Major physical features including water bodies, creeks, wetlands,
buildings, streets, and the like;
      (5)   The location of adjacent rights-of-way (streets, highways,
easements, etc.);
      (6)   The shape, dimensions, and location of all buildings, existing and
proposed, and required setbacks. This shall include all accessory structures;
      (7)   The location and dimensions of off-street parking and loading space
and means of ingress and egress;
      (8)   The location of all required buffers; and
      (9)   Name, address, and telephone number of applicant, owner, and
persons (firm) preparing the development plan.
   (B)   Major site plan. A major site plan shall be survey grade and shall
include the following:
      (1)   A scale that shall be the same scale as required for development
plan submittal;
      (2)   Property boundaries and total acreage, including NC PINs (Property
Identification Numbers) for all properties;
      (3)   Major topographical and physical features including water bodies,
creeks, wetlands, buildings, streets, and the like;
      (4)   Proposed streets, rights-of-way, buildings, and/or lot
arrangements, including proposed lot sizes, common areas, and the buffers
required;
      (5)   Existing and proposed land use, drawn to scale, with brief project
description including proposed structures, yard setbacks, building sizes, unit
sizes, lot sizes, open space, amenities, the amount of impervious surfaces in
square feet and the percentage of impervious surface of the entire development
and the like;
      (6)   Name, address, and telephone number of applicant, owner, and
persons (firm) preparing the development plan;
      (7)   Adjacent street names, numbers, and right-of-way widths;
      (8)   Zoning district classification of site and surrounding properties,
including any water supply watershed(s) and zoning of properties located across
adjacent streets;
      (9)   The boundaries of any proposed phasing;
      (10)   Sites, if any, for schools, parks, churches, and playgrounds;
      (11)   Acreage in public uses;
      (12)   Approximate number of lots; and
      (13)   Sketch vicinity map showing the relation of the proposed site to
existing uses of the land.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.085 TEMPORARY CERTIFICATE OF ZONING COMPLIANCE.
   The Zoning Enforcement Officer may issue a temporary certificate of zoning
compliance for rallies, carnivals, religious revivals, and similar temporary
uses. Such certificates shall be issued for a fixed period of time, but not to
exceed 15 days, shall be subject to such limitations as the Zoning Enforcement
Officer may impose to protect the character of the district affected, and may
be considered for reapplication. A fee set by the Board of Commissioners shall
be charged for the processing of such application. The adopted fee schedule
shall be posted in the town office.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.086 SIGN PERMIT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to outline the procedure for
issuing a permit for temporary uses which will permit limited use of temporary
signs for commercial and institutional uses, to ensure that temporary signage
of the Town of Fairmont does not constitute a visual blight on the landscape
and character of the town, and to preserve the health, safety, and welfare of
the general public. Consult §§
154.195 through
154.202 for further information on types of signs permissible within the Town
of Fairmont.
   (B)   Application. Requests for a sign permit shall be submitted by filing
an application with the Zoning Enforcement Officer. Said application shall be
on a form approved by the Town Board of Commissioners.
   (C)   Review by Zoning Enforcement Officer. The Zoning Enforcement Officer
shall issue the sign permit unless he or she finds, after reviewing the
application and consulting with the applicant, that:
      (1)   The requested permit is not within his authority to approve
according to the development regulations governing signs as detailed in §§
154.1965 through
154.202;
      (2)   The application is incomplete; or
      (3)   If completed as proposed in the application, the sign will not
comply with one or more requirements of this chapter.
   (D)   Issuance. If approved by the Zoning Enforcement Officer, such approval
shall be evidenced by the signature of the Zoning Enforcement Officer on the
application form. The permit may be picked up at town hall. For similar state
law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-403(b).
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.087 TEMPORARY USE PERMIT PROCEDURE.
   Section
154.276 of this chapter outlines the types of temporary uses permitted in the
zoning jurisdiction of the town. Temporary use permits issued for any such
temporary use shall include the following:
   (A)   Temporary use permit required. Every use that is classified as a
temporary use in the zoning district in which it is to be located shall be
placed or established on the property only after receiving a temporary use
permit.
   (B)   Filing and contents of application.
      (1)   An application for a temporary use permit may be filed only by the
owner of the property, or by an agent, lessee, or contract purchaser
specifically authorized by the owner to file such application.
      (2)   An application for a temporary use permit shall be filed with the
Zoning Administrator. Where appropriate, each application shall be accompanied
by a minor site plan which complies with the standards set forth in §§
154.415 through
154.420 of this chapter.
   (C)   Filing deadline. All applications for temporary use permits shall be
filed at least two weeks prior to the date the temporary use will commence, or
at least four weeks prior to the date the temporary use will commence if public
safety support is requested from the town. The Zoning Administrator may waive
this filing deadline requirement in an individual case, for good cause shown.
   (D)   Approval criteria. The Zoning Administrator shall issue a temporary
use permit if the proposed temporary use satisfies the requirements set forth
in §
154.276.
   (E)   Duration of permit. A temporary use permit shall be valid only for the
time period stated on the permit as included in §
154.276.
   (F)   Temporary structure permit required. No tent, trailer, or other
temporary structure governed by the State Building Code shall be occupied or
used in conjunction with a temporary use until and unless the applicant has
received a tent permit or a building permit from the Inspections and Permits
Department pursuant to the State Building Code.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.088 DURATION OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Cases in which work is not substantially commenced. Unless a different
period is specified by G.S. Chapter 160D or other specific applicable law, or a
different period is provided by a quasi-judicial development approval, a
development agreement, or this chapter, a development approval issued pursuant
to this chapter shall expire one year after the date of issuance if the work
authorized by the development approval has not been substantially commenced.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-403(c).
   (B)   Cases in which work or activity is commenced then discontinued. Where
the development approval is issued for temporary land uses, special events,
temporary signs, and similar development, if the work or activity is
discontinued for a period of 24 months after commencement, the development
approval shall immediately expire. For similar state law provisions, refer to
G.S. §§ 160D-403(c), and 160D-108(d).
   (C)   During appeal. The time periods set out in this section shall be
tolled during the pendency of any appeal. For similar state law provisions,
refer to G.S. §§ 160D-403(c), and 160D- 1111.
   (D)   New development approval required. No work or activity authorized by
any development approval that has expired shall thereafter be performed until a
new development approval has been secured. For similar state law provisions,
refer to G.S. §§ 160D-403(c), and 160D-1111.
   (E)   Vested rights. This section shall not limit any vested rights secured
by G.S. 160D-108. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. §§ 160D-403
(c), and 160D-1111.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.089 CHANGES TO ZONING PERMITS.
   (A)   Written approval of changes required. After a zoning permit has been
issued, no deviations from the terms of the application or the permit shall be
made until written approval of proposed changes or deviations has been
obtained. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-403(d).
   (B)   Minor modifications to development approvals. Minor modifications to
administrative development approvals shall include those that do not change the
use approved or the zoning determination. Examples of minor modification
include, but are not limited to, the correction of a name, address or other
contact information. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-403
(d).
   (C)   Major modification to development approvals. Major modification to
administrative development approvals shall include all other changes. The
process for a major modification shall follow the same development review and
approval process required for issuance of the development approval.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-403(d).
   (D)   The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall determine whether amendments to
and modifications of permits fall within the categories set forth above in
subsections. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-403(d).
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.090 INSPECTIONS BY ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF.
   Administrative staff may inspect work undertaken pursuant to a development
approval to assure that the work is being done in accordance with applicable
state and local laws and of the terms of the approval. In exercising this
power, staff are authorized to enter any premises within the jurisdiction of
the town at all reasonable hours for the purposes of inspection or other
enforcement action, upon presentation of proper credentials, provided the
appropriate consent has been given for inspection of areas not open to the
public or that an appropriate inspection warrant has been secured. For similar
state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-403(e).
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.091 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Violations. If the Zoning Enforcement Officer shall find that any of
the provisions of this chapter are being violated, he or she shall notify in
writing the person responsible for such violations, indicating the nature of
such violation and ordering the action necessary to correct it. He or she shall
order discontinuance of illegal use of land, buildings, or structures or of
additions, alterations or structural changes thereto, discontinuance of any
illegal work being done; or shall take any other action authorized by this
chapter to insure compliance with or to prevent violations of its provisions.
Any of the following shall be a violation of this chapter and shall be subject
to the enforcement remedies and penalties provided by this subchapter and by
state law.
      (1)   Development without permit. A “development without a permit”
violation means to engage in any development, use, construction, remodeling or
other activities of any nature upon the land or improvements thereon subject to
the jurisdiction of this chapter without required permits, certificates or
other forms of authorization as set forth in this chapter.
      (2)   Development inconsistent with permit. A “development inconsistent
with a permit” violation means to engage in any development, use, construction,
remodeling, or other activity of any nature in any way inconsistent with any
approved plan, permit, certificate, or other form of authorization granted for
such activity.
      (3)   Violation by act or omission. A “violation by act or omission”
means to violate, by act or omission, any term, variance or waiver, condition,
or qualification placed by the Board of Commissioners or its authorized boards
upon any required permit, certificate or other form of authorization for the
use, development or other activity upon land or improvements thereon.
      (4)   Use in violation. A “use in violation” means to erect, construct,
reconstruct, alter, repair, convert, maintain or use any building or structure
or to use any land in violation or contravention of this chapter, or any other
regulation made under the authority conferred thereby.
   (B)   Continuation of a violation. Each day's violation of any provision of
this chapter is a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.092 ENFORCEMENT.
   When the Zoning Enforcement Officer or his or her agent finds a violation of
this chapter or receives a complaint alleging a violation of this chapter it
shall be his or her duty to notify the owner or occupant of the land, building,
structure, sign, or use of the violation.
   (A)   Notices of violation. When the Zoning Enforcement Officer determines
work or activity has been undertaken in violation of a development regulation
adopted pursuant to G.S. Chapter 160D or this chapter, or other local
development regulation or any state law delegated to the town for enforcement
purposes in lieu of the state or in violation of the terms of a development
approval, a written notice of violation may be issued.
      (1)   The notice of violation shall be delivered to the holder of the
development approval and to the landowner of the property involved, if the
landowner is not the holder of the development approval, by personal delivery,
electronic delivery, or first class mail and may be provided by similar means
to the occupant of the property or the person undertaking the work or activity.
      (2)   The notice of violation may be posted on the property.
      (3)   The person providing the notice of violation shall certify to the
town that the notice was provided and the certificate shall be deemed
conclusive in the absence of fraud.
      (4)   Except as provided by G.S. § 160D-11-23, § 160D-12-6, or otherwise
provided by law, a notice of violation may be appealed to the Board of
Adjustment pursuant to G.S. § 160D-405.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-404.
   (B)   Stop work orders. Whenever any work or activity subject to regulation
pursuant to G.S. Chapter 160D, this chapter, or other applicable town
regulation or any state law delegated to the town for enforcement purposes in
lieu of the state is undertaken in substantial violation of any state or local
law, or in a manner that endangers life or property, staff may order the
specific part of the work or activity that is in violation or presents such a
hazard to be immediately stopped.
      (1)   The order shall be in writing, directed to the person doing the
work or activity, and shall state the specific work or activity to be stopped,
the reasons therefor, and the conditions under which the work or activity may
be resumed.
      (2)   A copy of the order shall be delivered to the holder of the
development approval and to the owner of the property involved (if that person
is not the holder of the development approval) by personal delivery, electronic
delivery, or first class mail.
      (3)   The person or persons delivering the stop work order shall certify
to the town that the order was delivered and that certificate shall be deemed
conclusive in the absence of fraud.
      (4)   Except as provided by G.S. § 160D-11-12 and 160D-12-8, a stop work
order may be appealed pursuant to G.S. § 160D-4-5.
      (5)   No further work or activity shall take place in violation of a stop
work order pending a ruling on the appeal. Violation of a stop work order shall
constitute a Class 1 misdemeanor.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-404
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.093 REMEDIES.
   (A)   In any case any building is created, constructed, reconstructed,
altered, repaired, converted, or maintained, or any building or land is used in
violation of this chapter, the Zoning Enforcement Officer, or any other
appropriate town authority, or any person who would be damaged by such
violation, in addition to other remedies, may institute an action for
injunction, or mandamus, or other appropriate action or proceeding to prevent
such violation.
   (B)   If the owner or occupant of a property fails to comply with a notice
of violation from which no appeal has been taken, the owner or occupant shall
be subject to such remedies including penalties as may be provided for by state
law. If the owner or occupant fails to comply with the remedies and penalties
prescribed, enforcement shall be sought through an order of a court of
competent jurisdiction.
   (C)   Subject to the provisions of the development regulation, any
development regulation adopted pursuant to authority conferred by G.S. Chapter
160D may be enforced by any remedy provided by G.S. § 160A-175 or G.S. § 153A-
123.
      (1)   If a building or structure is erected, constructed, reconstructed,
altered, repaired, converted, or maintained, or any building, structure or land
is used or developed in violation of G.S. Chapter 160D or this chapter, of any
development regulation or other regulation made under authority of G.S. Chapter
160D, the town, in addition to other remedies, may institute any appropriate
action or proceedings to prevent the unlawful erection, construction,
reconstruction, alteration, repair, conversion,
maintenance use, or development; to restrain, correct or abate the violation;
to prevent occupancy of the building, structure or land; or to prevent any
illegal act, conduct, business or use in or about the premises.
      (2)   Historic landmark. In case any building, structure, site, area or
object designated as a historic landmark or located within a historic district
designated pursuant to this G.S. Chapter 160D is about to be demolished whether
as the result of deliberate neglect or otherwise, materially altered,
remodeled, removed or destroyed, except in compliance with the development
regulation or other provisions of this chapter, the town, the Historic
Preservation Commission, or other party aggrieved by such action may institute
any appropriate action or proceedings to prevent such unlawful demolition,
destruction, material alteration, remodeling or removal, to restrain, correct
or abate such violation, or to prevent any illegal act or conduct with respect
to such building, structure, site, area or object. Such remedies shall be in
addition to any others authorized by G.S. Chapter 160D for violation of an
ordinance. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-404.
   (D)   Any one or all of the following procedures may be used to enforce the
provisions of this chapter.
      (1)   Injunction. Any violation of this chapter or of any condition,
order, or requirement, or remedy adopted pursuant hereto may be restrained,
corrected, abated, mandated, or enjoined by other appropriate proceeding
pursuant to state law.
      (2)   Civil penalties. Any person who violates any provisions of this
chapter shall be subject to the assessment of a civil penalty the maximum civil
penalty allowed by law.
         (a)   Notice. No civil penalty shall be assessed until the person
alleged to be in violation has been notified of the violation in accordance
with §
154.092 of this chapter. If after receiving a notice of violation the owner or
other violator fails to take corrective action, a civil penalty in the amount
of $50 may be imposed under this section in the form of a citation. The
citation shall be served in the manner of a notice of violation. The citation
shall state the nature of the violation, the civil penalty to be imposed upon
the violator and shall direct the violator to pay the civil penalty within 30
days of the date of the notice. In accordance with G.S. § 160A-175, violation
of local ordinances are declared a misdemeanor.
            1.   Except as provided in division 2. or 3. below of this section,
if any person shall violate an ordinance of a county, city, town, or
metropolitan sewerage district created under G.S. Chapter 162A, Article 5, he
or she shall be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor and shall be fined not more
than $500. No fine shall exceed $50 unless the ordinance expressly states that
the maximum fine is greater than $50.
            2.   If any person shall violate an ordinance of a county, city, or
town regulating the operation or parking of vehicles, he or she shall be
responsible for an infraction and shall be required to pay a penalty of not
more than $50.
            3.   A person may not be found responsible or guilty of a local
ordinance violation punishable pursuant to division 1. above of this section
if, when tried for that violation, the person produces proof of compliance with
the local ordinance through any of the following:
               a.   No new alleged violations of the local ordinance within 30
days from the date of the initial alleged violation; or
               b.   The person provides proof of a good-faith effort to seek
assistance to address any underlying factors related to unemployment,
homelessness, mental health, or substance abuse that might relate to the
person's ability to comply with the local ordinance.
For similar state law provisions, refer to GS § 160A-175.
         (b)   Responsible parties. The owner or occupant of any land,
building, structure, sign, or use of land or part thereof and any architect,
builder, contractor, agent or any other person who participates or acts in
concert, assists, directs, creates, or maintains any condition that is in
violation of the requirements of this chapter may be held responsible for the
violation and subject to the civil penalties and remedies herein provided.
         (c)   Continuing violation. For each day the violation is not
corrected, the violator will be guilty of an additional and separate offense
and subject to additional civil penalty.
         (d)   Demand for payment.
            1.   The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall make written demand for
payment upon the property owner or the person in violation, and shall set forth
in detail a description of the violation for which the civil penalty has been
imposed.
            2.   Nonpayment. If payment is not received or equitable settlement
reached within thirty days; after demand for payment is made, the matter shall
be referred to legal counsel for institution of a civil action in the
appropriate division of the General Courts of Justice for recovery of the civil
penalty. Provided however, if the civil penalty is not paid within the time
prescribed, the Zoning Enforcement Officer may have a criminal summons or
warrant issued against the violator. Upon conviction, the violator shall be
subject to any criminal penalty the court may impose pursuant to G.S. § 14-4.
         (e)   Bring court action prior to expiration of statute of
limitations. Be aware that a local government must bring a court action in
advance of the applicable five- and seven-year statutes of limitation.
            1.   Five years. Action by the town against the owner of an
interest in real property for a violation of a land-use statute, ordinance, or
permit or any other official action concerning land use carrying the effect of
law must be brought within five years. The claim for relief accrues upon the
occurrence of the earlier of any of the following:
               a.   The facts constituting the violation are known to the
governing body, an agent, or an employee of the unit of local government.
               b.   The violation can be determined from the public record of
the unit of local government. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S.
Chapter 1-51.
            2.   Seven years. Action by the town against the owner of an
interest in real property for a violation of a land-use statute, ordinance, or
permit or any other official action concerning land use carrying the effect of
law must be brought from the earlier of the following:
               a.   The violation is apparent from a public right-of-way.
               b.   The violation is in plain view from a place to which the
public is invited.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 1-49(3).
         (3)   Denial of permit or certificate. The Zoning Enforcement Officer
may withhold or deny any permit, certificate, occupancy or other form of
authorization on any land, building, sign, structure or use in which there is
an uncorrected violation of a provision of this chapter or of a condition or
qualification of a permit, certificate or other authorization previously
granted.
         (4)   State and common law remedies. In addition to other enforcement
provisions contained in this subchapter, the Board of Commissioners may
exercise any and all enforcement powers granted to it by state law or common
law.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.094 REVOCATIONS (CANCELLATIONS) OF PERMITS.
   In addition to initiation of enforcement actions under G.S. § 160D-404,
development approvals may be revoked by the town by notifying the holder of the
development approval in writing stating the reason for the revocation.
   (A)   The town shall follow the same development review and approval process
required for issuance of the development approval, including any required
notice or hearing, in the review and approval of any revocation of that
approval.
   (B)   Failure to comply with development approval. Development approvals
shall be revoked for any of the following:
      (1)   Substantial departure from the approved application, plans, or
specifications.
      (2)   Refusal or failure to comply with the requirements of any
applicable development regulation or any state law delegated to the local
government for enforcement purposes in lieu of the state.
      (3)   For false statements or misrepresentations made in securing the
approval.
   (C)   Any development approval mistakenly issued in violation of an
applicable state or local law may also be revoked.
   (D)   Appeal. The revocation of a development approval by a staff member may
be appealed pursuant to G.S. § 160D-405. An appeal is filed regarding a
development regulation adopted by a local government pursuant to this chapter,
the provisions of G.S. § 160D-405(e) regarding stays shall be applicable.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-403(f).
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.095 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   No land shall be used or occupied, except for agricultural purposes, and no
building hereafter structurally altered, erected, or moved shall be used or
occupied until a certificate of occupancy shall have been issued by the Zoning
Enforcement Officer stating that the building and/or the proposed use thereof
complies with the provisions of this chaptr and any other appropriate
regulatory codes. A like certificate shall be issued for the purpose of
maintaining, renewing, changing, or extending a nonconforming use. A
certificate of occupancy, either for the whole or part of a building, shall be
applied for coincident with the application for a building permit and shall be
issued within ten days after the erection or structural alterations of such
building, or part, shall have been completed in conformity with the provisions
of this chapter and any other appropriate regulatory codes. A record of all
certificates shall be kept on file in the office of the Zoning Enforcement
Officer and copies shall be furnished, on request, to any person having a
proprietary or tenancy interest in the building erected. No permit for
excavation of, or erection of a building shall be issued until after a
statement of its intended use has been filed by the applicant.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.096 APPEALS OF ADMINISTRATIVE DECISIONS.
   (A)   Appeals of decisions made by the Administrative staff shall be made to
the Board of Adjustment and shall follow the quasi-judicial procedure.
      (1)   Appeal of a decision made pursuant to an erosion and sedimentation
control regulation, a stormwater control regulation, or a provision of the
housing code shall not be made to the Board of Adjustment unless required by a
town ordinance or code provision.
      (2)   The official who made the decision (or his or her successor if the
official is no longer employed) is to appear as a witness in the appeal.
   (B)   Standing. Any person who has standing under G.S. § 160D-1402(c) or the
local government may appeal an administrative decision to the Board. An appeal
is taken by filing a notice of appeal with the local government clerk or such
other local government official as designated by ordinance. The notice of
appeal shall state the grounds for the appeal.
   (C)   Time to appeal. The owner or other party has 30 days from receipt of
the written notice of the determination within which to file an appeal. Any
other person with standing to appeal has 30 days from receipt from any source
of actual or constructive notice of the determination within which to file an
appeal. In the absence of evidence to the contrary, notice given pursuant to
G.S. § 160D-403(b) by first class mail is deemed received on the third business
day following deposit of the notice for mailing with the United States Postal
Service.
   (D)   Record of decision. The official who made the decision shall transmit
to the Board all documents and exhibits constituting the record upon which the
decision appealed from is taken. The official shall also provide a copy of the
record to the appellant and to the owner of the property that is the subject of
the appeal if the appellant is not the owner.
   (E)   Stays.
      (1)   An appeal of a notice of violation or other enforcement order stays
enforcement of the action appealed from and accrual of any fines assessed
during the pendency of the appeal to the Board of Adjustment and any subsequent
appeal in accordance with G.S. § 160D-1402 or during the pendency of any civil
proceeding authorized by law or appeals therefrom, unless the official who made
the decision certifies to the Board after notice of appeal has been filed that,
because of the facts stated in an affidavit, a stay would cause imminent peril
to life or property or, because the violation is transitory in nature, a stay
would seriously interfere with enforcement of the development regulation. In
that case, enforcement proceedings are not stayed except by a restraining
order, which may be granted by a court. If enforcement proceedings are not
stayed, the appellant may file with the official a request for an expedited
hearing of the appeal, and the Board shall meet to hear the appeal within 15
days after such a request is filed.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, appeals of
decisions granting a development approval or otherwise affirming that a
proposed use of property is consistent with the development regulation does not
stay the further review of an application for development approvals to use the
property; in these situations, the appellant or local government may request
and the Board may grant a stay of a final decision of development approval
applications, including building permits affected by the issue being appealed.
   (F)   Alternative dispute resolution. The parties to an appeal that has been
made under this section may agree to mediation or other forms of alternative
dispute resolution. The development regulation may set standards and procedures
to facilitate and manage such voluntary alternative dispute resolution.
   (G)   No estoppel. G.S. § 160D-1403.2, limiting a local government's use of
the defense of estoppel, applies to proceedings under this section.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-405.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
QUASI-JUDICIAL PERMITS, ENFORCEMENT AND APPEALS
(SPECIAL USE PERMITS, VARIANCES AND APPEALS OF ADMINISTRATIVE DECISIONS)
§ 154.105 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter includes the regulations pertaining to quasi-judicial
procedures, permits and appeals of quasi-judicial actions regarding zoning in
the Town of Fairmont. Quasi-judicial permits include, but are not limited to
special use permits, variances, subdivision approvals and certain appeals. The
Board most often involved in these matters is the Board of Adjustment. The
Board of Commissioners will also play a role in certain decisions.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.106 PERMIT APPROVAL REQUIRED.
   (A)   No building or land shall hereafter be used and no building or part
thereof shall be erected, moved, or altered unless it has first secured a
zoning permit as provided in this chapter. No building or land shall hereafter
be used and no building or part thereof shall be erected, moved, or altered
unless it has subsequently acquired a special use permit, variance or
subdivision approval as may be required by this chapter.
   (B)   Work only as approved in permit. Zoning permits and other development
permits are issued under this chapter only when a review of the application
submitted, including the site plans contained therein, indicates that the
development will comply with the provisions of this chapter if completed as
proposed. Such plans and applications as are finally approved are incorporated
into any permit issued, and except as otherwise provided herein, all
development shall occur strictly in accordance with such approved plans and
applications.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.107 SPECIAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Definition. As included in §
154.026 of this chapter, a SPECIAL USE PERMIT means a permit issued to
authorize development or land uses in a particular zoning district upon
presentation of
competent, material, and substantial evidence establishing compliance with one
or more general standards requiring that judgment and discretion be exercised
as well as compliance with specific standards. The term includes permits
previously referred to as conditional use permits or special exceptions. For
similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-102.
   (B)   General. A land use designated as a “special use” in a particular
zoning district is one that because of its nature, extent and external effects,
generally is not appropriate in the district, but might be if subject to
special standards and review that will ensure it is located, designed and
operated in a manner that is in harmony with neighboring development and does
not adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare. Therefore,
development associated with a land use designated as a special use is allowed
only after a special use permit has been granted.
   (C)   Authority. Special use permits shall be granted by the Town Board of
Commissioners as permitted by G.S. § 160D-705 for all special uses enumerated
in the Table of Uses. Special uses may only be established by approval of the
elected Board of Commissioners. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S.
§ 160D-705(c).
   (D)   Conflict of interest. Refer to §
154.066 of this chapter, and to G.S. § 160D-109(d).
   (E)   Process required. The following process shall apply to the
consideration of all special use permits. See Figure 6-1 for Process Flow
Diagram.
      (1)   Filing of application.
         (a)   The owner or owners of all the property included in the petition
for a special use permit shall submit required application information to the
Town Zoning Enforcement Officer at least three weeks prior to the Planning and
Zoning Board meeting at which it is to be heard. Such application shall include
all of the requirements pertaining to it in this chapter.
         (b)   Applications shall include a site plan as required in this
chapter and be accompanied by a fee set according to the town’s adopted fee
schedule. Instructions for site plans can be found at §
154.084 of this chapter.
      (2)   Staff review. The Zoning Enforcement Officer will review the
petition for full compliance with all submittal requirements. If it does not
fully comply, they will notify the petitioner of submittal deficiencies and
allow him or her ten calendar days to submit corrected information.
      (3)   Review by Planning and Zoning Board.
         (a)   No special use permit shall be approved until a review of the
application has been conducted by the Planning and Zoning Board. The Planning
and Zoning Board shall hear all requests for special use permits within 30 days
from submission. However, this requirement is not intended to
prevent the Planning and Zoning Board from delaying action after review. The
Planning and Zoning Board shall make a written recommendation to the Board of
Commissioners.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-301(b).
         (b)   In its review of the application for a special use permit, the
Planning and Zoning Board may consider the following:
            1.   The proposed use will not materially endanger the public
health or safety. Considerations shall include:
               a.   Traffic conditions in the vicinity, including the effect of
additional traffic on streets and street intersections, and sight lines at
street intersection and curb cuts;
               b.   Provision of services and utilities, including sewer,
water, electrical, garbage collections, fire protection;
               c   Soil erosion and sedimentation; and
               d.   Protection of public, community, or private water supplies,
including possible adverse effects on surface waters or groundwater.
            2.   The proposed use will comply with all regulations and
standards generally applicable within the zoning district and any development
regulations applicable to that specific use as included in this chapter.
            3.   The proposed development will not substantially injure the
value of adjoining property, or is a public necessity. Considerations shall
include:
               a.   The relationship of the proposed use and the character of
development to surrounding uses and development, including possible conflicts
between them and how these conflicts will be resolved; and
               b.   Whether the proposed development is so necessary to the
public health, safety, and general welfare of the community or town as a whole
as to justify it regardless of its impact on the value of adjoining property.
            4.   The proposed development will be in harmony with the area in
which it is located. Considerations shall include: the relationship of the
proposed use and the character of development to surrounding uses and
development, including possible conflicts between them and how these conflicts
will be resolved.
            5.   The proposed development will be consistent with the Fairmont
Town Comprehensive Land Use Plan. Considerations shall include: consistency
with the plan's objectives for the various planning areas, its definitions of
the various land use classifications and activity centers, and its locational
standards.
            6.   Adequate utilities, access roads, drainage, sanitation and/or
other necessary facilities have already been provided or being provided in the
proposed development permit application.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-705(c).
      (4)   Review and decision by the Board of Commissioners. A quasi-
judicial, evidentiary hearing shall be held by the Town Board of Commissioners
prior to deciding on approval or denial of the application for a special use
permit in compliance with §
154.107(E)(5) through (E)(15).
      (5)   Notice of hearing. Notice of evidentiary hearings conducted shall
be mailed to:
         (a)   The person or entity whose appeal, application, or request is
the subject of the hearing;
         (b)   The owner of the property that is the subject of the hearing if
the owner did not initiate the hearing;
         (c)   The owners of all parcels of land abutting the parcel of land
that is the subject of the hearing; and
         (d)   Any other persons entitled to receive notice as provided by the
local development regulation. In the absence of evidence to the contrary, the
local government may rely on the town tax listing to determine owners of
property entitled to mailed notice.
         (e)   The notice must be deposited in the mail at least ten days, but
not more than 25 days, prior to the date of the hearing. Within that same time
period, the local government shall also prominently post a notice of the
hearing on the site that is the subject of the hearing or on an adjacent street
or highway right-of-way.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-406(b).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0fa087e7aaf2d1426066c541dcf0227ca59242f9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2352.png]
   Figure 6-1
      (6)     Administrative materials. The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall
transmit to the board all applications, reports, and written materials relevant
to the matter being considered.
         (a)   The administrative materials may be distributed to the members
of the Board prior to the hearing if at the same time they are distributed to
the board a copy is also provided to the appellant or applicant and to the
landowner if that person is not the appellant or applicant.
         (b)   The administrative materials shall become a part of the hearing
record.
         (c)   The administrative materials may be provided in written or
electronic form.
         (d)    Objections to inclusion or exclusion of administrative
materials may be made before or during the hearing. Rulings on unresolved
objections shall be made by the Board at the hearing.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-406(c).
      (7)   Continuations of properly advertised hearings. The Board may
continue an evidentiary hearing that has been convened without further
advertisement. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-406(b).
      (8)   Quorum required for hearing, continuance. If an evidentiary hearing
is set for a given date and a quorum of the board is not then present, the
hearing shall be continued until the next regular board meeting without further
advertisement. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-406(b).
      (9)   Presentation of evidence.
         (a)   Parties in the presentation of evidence.  The applicant, the
town, and any person who would have standing to appeal the decision under G.S.
§ 160D-1402(d) shall have the right to participate as a party at the
evidentiary hearing.
         (b)   Other witnesses. Other witnesses may present competent,
material, and substantial evidence that is not repetitive as allowed by the
Board.
         (c)   Objections. Objections regarding jurisdictional and evidentiary
issues, including but not limited to, the timeliness of an appeal or the
standing of a party, may be made to the Board.
         (d)   Ruling on objections. The Board chair shall rule on any
objections and the chair's rulings may be appealed to the full Board. These
rulings are also subject to judicial review pursuant to G.S. § 160D-1402.
         (e)   Objections on jurisdiction. Objections based on jurisdictional
issues may be raised for the first time on judicial review.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-406(d).
      (10)   Appearance of official/new issues.
         (a)   Town official must be present. The official who made the
decision or the person currently occupying that position if the decision-maker
is no longer employed by the town, shall be present at the evidentiary hearing
as a witness.
         (b)   Content. The appellant shall not be limited at the hearing to
matters stated in a notice of appeal.
         (c)   Continuance. If any party or the town would be unduly prejudiced
by the presentation of matters not presented in the notice of appeal, the Board
shall continue the hearing.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-406(e).
      (11)    Oaths.
         (a)   The chair of the board or any member acting as chair and the
clerk to the board are authorized to administer oaths to witnesses in any
matter coming before the board.
         (b)   Violation of oath. Any person who, while under oath during a
proceeding before the board determining a quasi-judicial matter, willfully
swears falsely is guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-406(f).
      (12)   Subpoenas.
         (a)    Who may issue subpoenas. The Board making a quasi-judicial
decision under G.S. Chapter 160D through the chair, or in the chair's absence
anyone acting as chair, may subpoena witnesses and compel the production of
evidence.
         (b)   Request to be made in writing. To request issuance of a
subpoena, the applicant, the town, and any person with standing under G.S. §
160D-1402(d) may make a written request to the chair explaining why it is
necessary for certain witnesses or evidence to be compelled. The chair shall
issue requested subpoenas he or she determines to be relevant, reasonable in
nature and scope, and not oppressive.
         (c)   Ruling on motions regarding subpoenas. The chair shall rule on
any motion to quash or modify a subpoena. Decisions regarding subpoenas made by
the chair may be immediately appealed to the full Board.
         (d)   Failure to obey. If a person fails or refuses to obey a subpoena
issued pursuant to this division (12), the Board or the party seeking the
subpoena may apply to the General Court of Justice for an order requiring that
its subpoena be obeyed, and the court shall have jurisdiction to issue these
orders after notice to all proper parties. For similar state law provisions,
refer to G.S. § 160D-406(g).
      (13)   Consideration by Town Board of Commissioners. In considering
special use permit applications, reasonable and appropriate conditions and
safeguards may be imposed on these permits.
         (a)   Where appropriate such conditions may include requirements that
street and utility rights-of-way be dedicated to the public and that provision
be made for recreational space and facilities.
         (b)   Conditions and safeguards imposed under this division shall not
include requirements for which the town does not have authority under statute
to regulate nor requirements for which the courts have held to be unenforceable
if imposed directly by the local government nor requirements for which the
courts have held to be unenforceable if imposed directly by the local
government, including, without limitation, taxes, impact fees, building design
elements within the scope of G.S. § 160D-702(b), driveway-related improvements
in excess of those allowed in G.S. § 136-18(29) and G.S. § 160A-307, or other
unauthorized limitations on the development or use of land.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-705(c).
         (c)   Before the Board of Commissioners approves any special use
permit application, it may consider the following:
            1.   The proposed use will not materially endanger the public
health or safety. Considerations shall include:
               a.   Traffic conditions in the vicinity, including the effect of
additional traffic on streets and street intersections, and sight lines at
street intersection and curb cuts;
               b.   Provision of services and utilities, including sewer,
water, electrical, garbage collections, fire protection;
               c.   Soil erosion and sedimentation; and
               d.   Protection of public, community, or private water supplies,
including possible adverse effects on surface waters or groundwater.
            2.   The proposed use will comply with all regulations and
standards generally applicable within the zoning district and any development
regulations applicable to that specific use as included in this chapter.
            3.   The proposed development will not substantially injure the
value of adjoining property, or is a public necessity. Considerations shall
include:
               a.   The relationship of the proposed use and the character of
development to surrounding uses and development, including possible conflicts
between them and how these conflicts will be resolved; and
               b.   Whether the proposed development is so necessary to the
public health, safety, and general welfare of the community or town as a whole
as to justify it regardless of its impact on the value of adjoining property.
            4.   The proposed development will be in harmony with the area in
which it is located. Considerations shall include: the relationship of the
proposed use and the character of development to surrounding uses and
development, including possible conflicts between them and how these conflicts
will be resolved.
            5.   The proposed development will be consistent with the Fairmont
Town Comprehensive Land Use Plan. Considerations shall include: consistency
with the Plan's objectives for the various planning areas, its definitions of
the various land use classifications and activity centers, and its locational
standards.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-705(c).
      (14)   Voting. The Planning and Zoning Board may decide to approve the
application as submitted, modify and approve the application or deny the
application for a special use permit. Reasons for denial shall be clearly
stated in writing by the Board. When issuing or denying special use permits, no
vote greater than a majority vote shall be required for the Board of
Commissioners to issue such permits, and every such decision of the Board shall
be subject to review by the superior court by proceedings in the nature of a
certiorari.
         (a)   Votes needed to determine appeals in nature of certiorari. A
majority of the members shall be required to determine an appeal made in the
nature of certiorari.
         (b)   Votes needed on other quasi-judicial matters. A majority of the
members shall be required to decide any other quasi-judicial matter.
         (c)   Vacancies. For the purposes of this division (14) vacant
positions on the Board and members who are disqualified from voting on a quasi-
judicial matter under G.S. § 160D-1-9(d) shall not be considered members of the
Board for calculation of the requisite majority if there are no qualified
alternates available to take the place of such members.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-406(i)
         (15)   Decisions. The Planning and Zoning Board shall determine
contested facts and make its decision within a reasonable time.
         (a)   Appeals. When hearing an appeal, the Board may reverse or
affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the decision appealed from and shall
make any order, requirement, decision, or determination that ought to be made.
         (b)   Power of the Board. The Board shall have all the powers of the
official who made the decision.
         (c)   Basis for decision. Every quasi-judicial decision shall be based
upon competent, material, and substantial evidence in the record.
         (d)   Decision to be in writing. Each quasi-judicial decision shall be
reduced to writing, reflect the Board's determination of contested facts and
their application to the applicable standards and be approved by the Board and
signed by the chair or other duly authorized member of the Board.
         (e)   When decision is effective. A quasi-judicial decision is
effective upon filing the written decision with the clerk to the Board or such
other office or official as the development regulation specifies.
         (f)   Delivery. The decision of the Board shall be delivered within a
reasonable time by personal delivery, electronic mail, or by first-class mail
to the applicant, landowner, and to any person who has submitted a written
request for a copy prior to the date the decision becomes effective.
         (g)   Provide notice. The person required to provide notice shall
certify to the town that proper notice has been made and the certificate shall
be deemed conclusive in the absence of fraud.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-406(j).
      (16)   Modifications. Minor modifications to special use permits shall be
those that do not involve a change in uses permitted or the density of overall
development permitted may be reviewed and approved administratively. Any
modifications approved shall only be applicable to those properties whose
owners apply for the modification. If the change requested involves a change in
permitted uses or the density of the overall development, these are considered
major changes and shall require a new special use permit process. For similar
state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-705(c).
      (17)   Cancellation by surrender of a special use permit.
         (a)   Any special use permit which has been previously approved may be
offered for surrender by the property owner or his agent by submitting a
written application to the Town Clerk.
         (b)   The town will accept the offer of surrender and cancel the
special use permit if all the following conditions are met:
            1.   There are no existing zoning violations of the special use
permit; and
            2.   The property is undeveloped or the existing use is permitted
in the underlying zoning district.
         (c)   Approval of the application will result in the special use
permit being cancelled and the property becoming subject to the existing
underlying zoning district. Upon the cancellation of a special use permit, any
expansion of an existing use or any new development must conform to all the
requirements of the underlying zoning district.
         (d)   Following the cancellation, the designation of the previously
approved special use permit will be removed from the official zoning map and
the property will be shown to be in the appropriate underlying zoning district.
      (18)   Revocation. Revocation of a special use permit shall follow the
same process for approval as is applicable to the approval of a special use
permit.
         (a)   The Zoning Enforcement Officer or his or her designee, will have
the authority to issue a notice of violation of a special use permit. The
notice of violation will provide 30 days to correct the violation. If the
violation is not corrected to the satisfaction of the Planning Director, then
the Planning Director, or his or her designee, has the authority to send a
letter of revocation of the special use permit. The owner of the property will
have 30 days from receipt of the letter of revocation of the special use permit
to appeal the violation determination to the Zoning Board of Adjustment.
         (b)   Subsequent to the completion of any appeals provided for in
pertaining to the revocation of a special use permit, the special use for which
the special use permit was granted must cease and the future use of the
property must be in conformance with the standards of this chapter for the
district where the property is located. Any use or development of the property
commenced pursuant to the special use permit must conform or be brought into
conformance with the standards of the district where the property is located.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-705(c).
      (19)   Multiple parcels. If multiple parcels of land are subject to a
special use permit, the owners of individual parcels may apply for permit
modification so long as the modification would not result in other properties
failing to meet the terms of the special use permit or regulations. For similar
state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-705(c).
   (F)   Duration.
      (1)   A special use permit issued by the town shall become null and void
if construction or occupancy of the proposed use as specified on the special
use permit has not commenced within one year of the date of issuance.
      (2)   Extension of time for a special use permit, not to exceed one one-
year extension may be granted by the town upon review and recommendation by the
Planning and Zoning Board, provided a request for such extension is submitted
in writing prior to the original expiration date. In granting an extension, the
town shall have no authority to amend the conditions of the special use permit
or approve any major modifications to the approved plan.
      (3)   If the project is vested as prescribed under §§
154.475 through
154.478 of this chapter, the statutory vesting expires for an uncompleted
development project if development work is intentionally and voluntarily
discontinued for a period of not less than 24 consecutive months, and the
statutory vesting period granted by this section for a nonconforming use of
property expires if the use is intentionally and voluntarily discontinued for a
period of not less than 24 consecutive months. The 24-month discontinuance
period is automatically tolled during the pendency of Any Board of Adjustment
proceeding or civil action in a state or federal trial or appellate court
regarding the validity of a development permit, the use of the property, or the
existence of the statutory vesting period granted by this section. The 24-month
discontinuance period is also tolled during the pendency of any litigation
involving the development project or property that is the subject of the
vesting.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-108(d).
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.108 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Purpose. Variances are intended to address practical difficulties or
provide relief from a hardship resulting from strict application of zoning
standards. Variances may not be used to permit a use in a zoning district that
is not otherwise allowed in that district, nor shall variances be used to vary
or waive the subdivision standards of the Fairmont Town Subdivision
Regulations. Variances can be used to provide relief from the dimensional
standards of the zoning ordinance, such as setback requirements, height of
structures, lot coverage and similar standards. Variances and the conditions of
the variance apply to the and run with the property. A transfer of ownership or
occupancy has no impact on the application of a variance to the property.
   (B)   Process required. The Board of Adjustment shall follow quasi-judicial
procedures when deciding on variances. The regulations below apply specifically
to variance decisions. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. §§ 160D-
406(a) and 160D-705.
      (1)   Filing. An application for a variance shall be submitted to the
Board of Adjustment by filing a copy of the application, on a form approved by
the Town Board of Commissioners, and payment of the required filing fee to the
Town Clerk. An agent designated by the property owner may file the application
for a variance and must complete the agent form. Signature(s) of the property
owners are required on that form. An application for a variance shall be
considered filed when delivered to the office of the Town Clerk, the required
filing fee paid, and the date and time of filing entered on the application by
the Town Clerk. The Clerk shall then submit the completed application to the
Zoning Enforcement Officer.
      (2)   Date for hearing. The Town's Board of Adjustment with the Zoning
Enforcement Officer shall establish a date for the evidentiary hearing.
      (3)   Notice of hearing. Notice of evidentiary hearings conducted shall
be mailed to:
         (a)   The person or entity whose appeal, application, or request is
the subject of the hearing;
         (b)   The owner of the property that is the subject of the hearing if
the owner did not initiate the hearing; and
         (c)   The owners of all parcels of land abutting the parcel of land
that is the subject of the hearing;
         (d)   Any other persons entitled to receive notice as provided by the
local development regulation. In the absence of evidence to the contrary, the
local government may rely on the town tax listing to determine owners of
property entitled to mailed notice.
         (e)   The notice must be deposited in the mail at least 15 days, but
not more than 25 days, prior to the date of the hearing. Within that same time
period, the local government shall also prominently post a notice of the
hearing on the site that is the subject of the hearing or on an adjacent street
or highway right-of-way. The board may continue an evidentiary hearing that has
been convened without further advertisement. If an evidentiary hearing is set
for a given date and a quorum of the Board is not then present, the hearing
shall be continued until the next regular Board meeting without further
advertisement.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-406(b).
      (4)   Distribution of materials. The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall
transmit to the Board of Adjustment all documents and exhibits constituting the
record upon which the action appealed from is taken. The Zoning Enforcement
Officer shall also provide a copy of the record to the appellant and to the
owner of the property that is the subject of the appeal if the appellant is not
the owner.
         (a)   The materials may be distributed to the members of the Board
prior to the hearing if at the same time they are distributed to the Board a
copy is also provided to the appellant or applicant and to the landowner if
that person is not the appellant or applicant.
         (b)   The administrative materials shall become a part of the hearing
record.
         (c)   The administrative materials may be provided in written or
electronic form.
         (d)   Objections to inclusion or exclusion of administrative materials
may be made before or during the hearing. Rulings on unresolved objections
shall be made by the Board at the hearing.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-406(c).
      (5)   Zoning Enforcement Officer present at hearing. The Zoning
Enforcement Officer shall be present at the hearing.
      (6)   Continuations of properly advertised hearings. The Planning Board
may continue an evidentiary hearing that has been convened without further
advertisement. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-406(b).
      (7)   Quorum required for hearing, continuance. If an evidentiary hearing
is set for a given date and a quorum of the Board is not then present, the
hearing shall be continued until the next regular Board meeting without further
advertisement. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-406(b).
      (8)   Presentation of evidence.
         (a)   Parties in the presentation of evidence. The applicant, the
town, and any person who would have standing to appeal the decision under G.S.
§ 160D-1402(d) shall have the right to participate as a party at the
evidentiary hearing.
         (b)   Other witnesses. Other witnesses may present competent,
material, and substantial evidence that is not repetitive as allowed by the
Board.
         (c)   Objections. Objections regarding jurisdictional and evidentiary
issues, including but not limited to, the timeliness of an appeal or the
standing of a party, may be made to the Board.
         (d)   Ruling on objections. The Board chair shall rule on any
objections and the chair's rulings may be appealed to the full Board. These
rulings are also subject to judicial review pursuant to G.S. § 160D-1402.
         (e)   Objections on jurisdiction. Objections based on jurisdictional
issues may be raised for the first time on judicial review.
For similar state law provisions, refer to § 160D-406(d).
      (9)   Appearance of official/new issues.
         (a)   Town official must be present. The official who made the
decision or the person currently occupying that position if the decision-maker
is no longer employed by the town, shall be present at the evidentiary hearing
as a witness.
         (b)   Content. The appellant shall not be limited at the hearing to
matters stated in a notice of appeal.
         (c)   Continuance. If any party or the town would be unduly prejudiced
by the presentation of matters not presented in the notice of appeal, the Board
shall continue the hearing.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-406(e).
      (10)   Oaths. The chair of the Board or any member acting as chair and
the clerk to the Board are authorized to administer oaths to witnesses in any
matter coming before the Board.
         (a)   Violation of oath. Any person who, while under oath during a
proceeding before the Board determining a quasi-judicial matter, willfully
swears falsely is guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-406(f).
      (11)   Subpoenas.
         (a)   Who may issue subpoenas. The Board making a quasi-judicial
decision under G.S. Chapter 160D through the chair, or in the chair's absence
anyone acting as chair, may subpoena witnesses and compel the production of
evidence.
         (b)   Request to be made in writing. To request issuance of a
subpoena, the applicant, the town, and any person with standing under G.S. §
160D-1402(d) may make a written request to the chair explaining why it is
necessary for certain witnesses or evidence to be compelled. The chair shall
issue requested subpoenas he or she determines to be relevant, reasonable in
nature and scope, and not oppressive.
         (c)   Ruling on motions regarding subpoenas. The chair shall rule on
any motion to quash or modify a subpoena. Decisions regarding subpoenas made by
the chair may be immediately appealed to the full Board.
         (d)   Failure to obey. If a person fails or refuses to obey a subpoena
issued pursuant to this division (11), the Board or the party seeking the
subpoena may apply to the General Court of Justice for an order requiring that
its subpoena be obeyed, and the court shall have jurisdiction to issue these
orders after notice to all proper parties.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-406(g).
      (12)   Decisions. The Board of Adjustment shall determine contested facts
and make its decision within a reasonable time.
         (a)   Basis for decision. Every quasi-judicial decision shall be based
upon competent, material, and substantial evidence in the record.
         (b)   Decision to be in writing. Each quasi-judicial decision shall be
reduced to writing, reflect the Board's determination of contested facts and
their application to the applicable standards and be approved by the Board and
signed by the chair or other duly authorized member of the Board.
         (c)   When decision is effective. A quasi-judicial decision is
effective upon filing the written decision with the clerk to the Board or such
other office or official as the development regulation specifies.
         (d)   Delivery. The decision of the Board shall be delivered within a
reasonable time by personal delivery, electronic mail, or by first-class mail
to the applicant, landowner, and to any person who has submitted a written
request for a copy prior to the date the decision becomes effective.
         (e)   Provide notice. The person required to provide notice shall
certify to the town that proper notice has been made and the certificate shall
be deemed conclusive in the absence of fraud.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-406(j).
      (13)   Decision basis for variance. When unnecessary hardships would
result from carrying out the strict letter of the zoning ordinance, the Board
of Adjustment may vary any of provisions of the ordinance upon a showing of all
of the following:
         (a)   Unnecessary hardship would result from the strict application of
the regulation. It shall not be necessary to demonstrate that, in the absence
of the variance, no reasonable use can be made of the property.
         (b)   The hardship results from conditions that are peculiar to the
property, such as location, size, or topography. Hardships resulting from
personal circumstances, as well as hardships resulting from conditions that are
common to the neighborhood or the general public, may not be the basis for
granting a variance. A variance may also be granted when necessary and
appropriate to make a reasonable accommodation under the Federal Fair Housing
Act for a person with a disability.
         (c)   The hardship did not result from actions taken by the applicant
or the property owner. The act of purchasing property with knowledge that
circumstances exist that may justify the granting of a variance shall not be
regarded as a self-created hardship.
         (d)   The requested variance is consistent with the spirit, purpose,
and intent of the regulation, such that public safety is secured and
substantial justice is achieved.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. §§ 160D-405(e) and 160D-705(d).
      (14)   No change in permitted uses may be authorized by variance.
Appropriate conditions may be imposed on any variance, provided that the
conditions are reasonably related to the variance. Any other development
regulation that regulates land use or development may provide for variances
from the provisions of those ordinances consistent with the provisions of this
division.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. §§ 160D-405(e) and 160D-705(d).
   (C)   Voting. The concurring vote of four-fifths of the Board of Adjustment
shall be necessary to grant a variance. For the purposes of this division,
vacant positions on the Board and members who are disqualified from voting on a
quasi-judicial matter under G.S. § 160D-109(d) shall not be considered members
of the Board for calculation of the requisite majority if there are no
qualified alternates available to take the place of such members. For similar
state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-406(i).
   (D)   Statute of limitations. A variance may be issued for an indefinite
duration or for a specified duration only. Unless otherwise specified, any
order or decision of the Board of Adjustment granting a variance shall expire
if the applicant does not obtain a building permit or certificate of occupancy
for
such use within 60 days from the date of the decision or if construction of the
use has not commenced within 180 days from the date of the issuance of a
building permit. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. Chapter 1,
subchapter 11.
   (E)   Variance not a site-specific vesting plan. A variance does not
constitute a site-specific vesting plan, and approval of a site-specific
vesting plan with the condition that a variance be obtained does not confer a
vested right unless and until the necessary variance is obtained. If a sketch
plan or other document fails to describe with reasonable certainty the type and
intensity of use for a specified parcel or parcels of property, it may not
constitute a site-specific vesting plan. For similar state law provisions,
refer to G.S. § 160D-108.1(a).
   (F)   Record. A record shall be made of all hearings and such record shall
be kept as provided by state law. Accurate minutes shall also be kept of all
such proceedings, but a transcript need not be made. Whenever practicable, all
documentary evidence presented at a hearing as well as all other types of
physical evidence shall be made a part of the record of the proceedings.
   (G)   Revocation. In addition to initiation of enforcement actions under
G.S. § 160D-404, development approvals may be revoked by the local government
issuing the development approval by notifying the holder in writing stating the
reason for the revocation. The revocation of a development approval by a staff
member may be appealed pursuant to G.S. § 160D-405. The conduct of any activity
or the use, operation, construction, maintenance or removal of any facility in
violation of any of the conditions of a variance shall be grounds for
revocation of said variance. The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall set a date
for public hearing before the Board of Adjustment and at such time said Board
may revoke the variance, citing the reasons therefor. Notice of such hearing
shall be made in the same manner as required for a variance application. The
local government shall follow the same development review and approval process
required for issuance of the development approval, including any required
notice or hearing, in the review and approval of any revocation of that
approval. Development approvals shall be revoked for any substantial departure
from the approved application, plans, or specifications; for refusal or failure
to comply with the requirements of any applicable local development regulation
or any state law delegated to the local government for enforcement purposes in
lieu of the state; or for false statements or misrepresentations made in
securing the approval. Any development approval mistakenly issued in violation
of an applicable state or local law may also be revoked. Unless otherwise
specified by the Board of Adjustment, all activities or facilities permitted by
the variance shall cease and/or be removed not later than sixty calendar days
following the date of determination to revoke the variance. The determination
of the Board of Adjustment shall be deemed final and may not be appealed to the
Board of Commissioners. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-
403(f).
   (H)   Duration of development approval (variance).
      (1)   Unless a different period is provided by a quasi- judicial
development approval, a development agreement, or a local ordinance, a
development approval issued pursuant to this chapter shall expire one year
after the date of issuance if the work authorized by the development approval
has not been substantially commenced.
      (2)   If after commencement the work or activity is discontinued for a
period of 12 months after commencement, the development approval shall
immediately expire. The time periods set out in this subsection shall be tolled
during the pendency of any appeal. No work or activity authorized by any
development approval that has expired shall thereafter be performed until a new
development approval has been secured. Nothing in this subsection shall be
deemed to limit any vested rights secured under G.S. § 160D-108. For similar
state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-403(c).
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.109 APPEALS OF ADMINISTRATIVE DECISIONS; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Purpose. Persons with interests in property zoned by the Town of
Fairmont have the right to appeal decisions of the Zoning Enforcement Officer
as the chief administrative official of the town responsible for administration
of the zoning ordinance. This section outlines the process for taking such
appeal.
   (B)   Process required. The Board of Adjustment for the town shall follow
the quasi-judicial procedures outlined below when hearing and deciding appeals
of administrative decisions. Appeal of a decision made pursuant to an erosion
and sedimentation control regulation, a stormwater control regulation, or a
provision of the housing code shall not be made to the Board of Adjustment
unless required by a local government ordinance or code provision. The
regulations below apply specifically to the appeals of administrative zoning
decisions. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-405(a).
      (1)   Standing and filing of appeal. Any person who has standing under
G.S. § 160D-1402(c) or the local government may appeal an administrative
decision to the Board. The owner or other party has 30 days from receipt of the
written notice of the determination within which to file an appeal. Any other
person with standing to appeal has 30 days from receipt from any source of
actual or constructive notice of the determination within which to file an
appeal. In the absence of evidence to the contrary, notice given pursuant to
G.S. § 160D-403(b) by first-class mail is deemed received on the third business
day following deposit of the notice for mailing with the United States Postal
Service. An appeal is taken by filing with the Town Clerk an application for
appeal of an administrative decision on a form approved by the Town Board of
Commissioners which specifies the grounds therefore. An application for appeal
shall be considered filed when delivered to the office of the Town Clerk, the
required filing fee paid, and the date and time of filing entered on the
application by the Town Clerk. The Clerk shall forward the complete application
to the Zoning Enforcement Officer. For similar state law provisions, refer to
G.S. § 160D-405(b) and (d).
      (2)   Date for hearing. The Town's Board of Adjustment with the Zoning
Enforcement Officer shall establish a date for the evidentiary hearing.
      (3)   Notice of hearing. Notice of evidentiary hearings conducted shall
be mailed to:
         (a)   The person or entity whose appeal, application, or request is
the subject of the hearing;
         (b)   The owner of the property that is the subject of the hearing if
the owner did not initiate the hearing; and
         (c)   The owners of all parcels of land abutting the parcel of land
that is the subject of the hearing;
         (d)   Any other persons entitled to receive notice as provided by the
local development regulation. In the absence of evidence to the contrary, the
local government may rely on the town tax listing to determine owners of
property entitled to mailed notice.
         (e)   The notice must be deposited in the mail at least ten days, but
not more than 25 days, prior to the date of the hearing. Within that same time
period, the local government shall also prominently post a notice of the
hearing on the site that is the subject of the hearing or on an adjacent street
or highway right-of-way. The board may continue an evidentiary hearing that has
been convened without further advertisement. If an evidentiary hearing is set
for a given date and a quorum of the Board is not then present, the hearing
shall be continued until the next regular Board meeting without further
advertisement.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-406(b).
      (4)   Distribution of materials. The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall
transmit to the Board of Adjustment all documents and exhibits constituting the
record upon which the action appealed from is taken. The Zoning Enforcement
Officer shall also provide a copy of the record to the appellant and to the
owner of the property that is the subject of the appeal if the appellant is not
the owner.
         (a)   The materials may be distributed to the members of the Board
prior to the hearing if at the same time they are distributed to the Board a
copy is also provided to the appellant or applicant and to the landowner if
that person is not the appellant or applicant.
         (b)   The administrative materials shall become a part of the hearing
record.
         (c)   The administrative materials may be provided in written or
electronic form.
         (d)   Objections to inclusion or exclusion of administrative materials
may be made before or during the hearing. Rulings on unresolved objections
shall be made by the Board at the hearing.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-406(c).
      (5)   Zoning Enforcement Officer present at hearing. The Zoning
Enforcement Officer shall be present at the hearing.
      (6)   Continuations of properly advertised hearings. The Board may
continue an evidentiary hearing that has been convened without further
advertisement.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-406(b).
      (7)   Quorum required for hearing, continuance. If an evidentiary hearing
is set for a given date and a quorum of the board is not then present, the
hearing shall be continued until the next regular board meeting without further
advertisement. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-406(b).
      (8)   Presentation of evidence.
         (a)   Parties in the presentation of evidence. The applicant, the
town, and any person who would have standing to appeal the decision under G.S.
§ 160D-1402(d) shall have the right to participate as a party at the
evidentiary hearing.
         (b)   Other witnesses. Other witnesses may present competent,
material, and substantial evidence that is not repetitive as allowed by the
Board.
         (c)   Objections. Objections regarding jurisdictional and evidentiary
issues, including but not limited to, the timeliness of an appeal or the
standing of a party, may be made to the Board.
         (d)   Ruling on Objections. The Board chair shall rule on any
objections and the chair's rulings may be appealed to the full Board. These
rulings are also subject to judicial review pursuant to G.S. 160D-1402.
         (e)   Objections on jurisdiction. Objections based on jurisdictional
issues may be raised for the first time on judicial review.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-406(d).
      (9)   Appearance of official/new issues.
         (a)   Town official must be present. The official who made the
decision or the person currently occupying that position if the decision-maker
is no longer employed by the town, shall be present at the evidentiary hearing
as a witness.
         (b)   Content. The appellant shall not be limited at the hearing to
matters stated in a notice of appeal.
         (c)   Continuance. If any party or the town would be unduly prejudiced
by the presentation of matters not presented in the notice of appeal, the Board
shall continue the hearing.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-406(e).
      (10)   Oaths.
         (a)   The chair of the Board or any member acting as chair and the
clerk to the Board are authorized to administer oaths to witnesses in any
matter coming before the Board.
         (b)   Violation of oath. Any person who, while under oath during a
proceeding before the Board determining a quasi-judicial matter, willfully
swears falsely is guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-406(f).
      (11)   Subpoenas.
         (a)   Who may issue subpoenas. The Board making a quasi-judicial
decision under G.S. Chapter 160D through the chair, or in the chair's absence
anyone acting as chair, may subpoena witnesses and compel the production of
evidence.
         (b)   Request to be made in writing. To request issuance of a
subpoena, the applicant, the town, and any person with standing under G.S. §
160D-1402(d) may make a written request to the chair explaining why it is
necessary for certain witnesses or evidence to be compelled. The chair shall
issue requested subpoenas he or she determines to be relevant, reasonable in
nature and scope, and not oppressive.
         (c)   Ruling on motions regarding subpoenas. The chair shall rule on
any motion to quash or modify a subpoena. Decisions regarding subpoenas made by
the chair may be immediately appealed to the full Board.
         (d)   Failure to obey. If a person fails or refuses to obey a subpoena
issued pursuant to this division (11), the Board or the party seeking the
subpoena may apply to the General Court of Justice for an order requiring that
its subpoena be obeyed, and the court shall have jurisdiction to issue these
orders after notice to all proper parties.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-406(g).
      (12)   Decisions. The Board of Adjustment shall determine contested facts
and make its decision within a reasonable time.
         (a)   Appeals. When hearing an appeal, the Board may reverse or
affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the decision appealed from and shall
make any order, requirement, decision, or determination that ought to be made.
         (b)   Power of the Board. The Board shall have all the powers of the
official who made the decision.
         (c)   Basis for decision. Every quasi-judicial decision shall be based
upon competent, material, and substantial evidence in the record.
         (d)   Decision to be in writing. Each quasi-judicial decision shall be
reduced to writing, reflect the Board's determination of contested facts and
their application to the applicable standards and be approved by the Board and
signed by the chair or other duly authorized member of the Board.
         (e)   When decision is effective. A quasi-judicial decision is
effective upon filing the written decision with the clerk to the Board or such
other office or official as the development regulation specifies.
         (f)   Delivery. The decision of the Board shall be delivered within a
reasonable time by personal delivery, electronic mail, or by first-class mail
to the applicant, landowner, and to any person who has submitted a written
request for a copy prior to the date the decision becomes effective.
         (g)   Provide notice. The person required to provide notice shall
certify to the town that proper notice has been made and the certificate shall
be deemed conclusive in the absence of fraud.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-406(j)
   (C)   Stays.
      (1)   An appeal of a notice of violation or other enforcement order stays
enforcement of the action appealed from and accrual of any fines assessed
during the pendency of the appeal to the Board of Adjustment and any subsequent
appeal in accordance with G.S. § 160D-1402 or during the pendency of any civil
proceeding authorized by law or appeals therefrom, unless the official who made
the decision certifies to the board after notice of appeal has been filed that,
because of the facts stated in an affidavit, a stay would cause imminent peril
to life or property or, because the violation is transitory in nature, a stay
would seriously interfere with enforcement of the development regulation. In
that case, enforcement proceedings are not stayed except by a restraining
order, which may be granted by a court. If enforcement proceedings are not
stayed, the appellant may file with the official a request for an expedited
hearing of the appeal, and the Board shall meet to hear the appeal within 15
days after the request is filed.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, appeals of
decisions granting a development approval or otherwise affirming that a
proposed use of property is consistent with the development regulation does not
stay the further review of an application for development approvals to use the
property; in these situations, the appellant or local government may request
and the Board may grant a stay of a final decision of development approval
applications, including building permits affected by the issue being appealed.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-405(f).
   (D)   Alternative dispute resolution. The parties to an appeal that has been
made under this section may agree to mediation or other forms of alternative
dispute resolution. The development regulation may set standards and procedures
to facilitate and manage such voluntary alternative dispute resolution.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-405(g).
   (E)   No estoppel. G.S. § 160D-1403.2, limiting a local government's use of
the defense of estoppel, applies to proceedings under this section. For similar
state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-405(h).
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.110 APPEALS OF VARIANCES, SPECIAL USE PERMITS,A ND OTHER QUASI- JUDICIAL
DECISIONS.
   (A)   Judicial review. Every quasi-judicial decision shall be subject to
review by the superior court by proceedings in the nature of certiorari
pursuant to G.S. § 160D-1402. Appeals shall be filed within the times specified
in G.S. 160D-1405(d). For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-
406(k).
   (B)   Appeals in the Nature of Certiorari.
      (1)   Applicability. This section applies to appeals of quasi-judicial
decisions of decision-making boards when that appeal is to superior court and
in the nature of certiorari as required by this subchapter.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-1402(a).
      (2)   Filing the petition. An appeal in the nature of certiorari shall be
initiated by filing a petition for writ of certiorari with the superior court.
The petition shall do all of the following:
         (a)   State the facts that demonstrate that the petitioner has
standing to seek review.
         (b)   Set forth allegations sufficient to give the court and parties
notice of the grounds upon which the petitioner contends that an error was
made.
         (c)   Set forth with particularity the allegations and facts, if any,
in support of allegations that, as the result of an impermissible conflict as
described in G.S. § 160D-1-9, or locally adopted conflict rules, the decision-
making body was not sufficiently impartial to comply with due process
principles.
         (d)   Set forth the relief the petitioner seeks.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-1402(b).
      (3)   Standing. A petition may be filed under this section only by a
petitioner who has standing to challenge the decision being appealed. The
following persons have standing to file a petition under this section:
         (a)   Any person meeting possessing any of the following criteria:
            1.   Has an ownership interest in the property that is the subject
of the decision being appealed, a leasehold interest in the property that is
the subject of the decision being appealed, or an
interest created by easement, restriction, or covenant in the property that is
the subject of the decision being appealed.
            2.   Has an option or contract to purchase the property that is the
subject of the decision being appealed.
            3.   Was an applicant before the decision-making board whose
decision is being appealed.
         (b)   Any other person who will suffer special damages as the result
of the decision being appealed.
         (c)   An incorporated or unincorporated association to which owners or
lessees of property in a designated area belong by virtue of their owning or
leasing property in that area, or an association otherwise organized to protect
and foster the interest of the particular neighborhood or local area, so long
as at least one of the members of the association would have standing as an
individual to challenge the decision being appealed, and the association was
not created in response to the particular development or issue that is the
subject of the appeal.
         (d)   A local government whose decision-making board has made a
decision that the governing board believes improperly grants a variance from or
is otherwise inconsistent with the proper interpretation of a development
regulation adopted by that governing board.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-1402(c).
      (4)   Respondent. The respondent named in the petition shall be the local
government whose decision-making board made the decision that is being
appealed, except that if the petitioner is a local government that has filed a
petition pursuant to division (B)(3)(d) above, then the respondent shall be the
decision-making board. If the petitioner is not the applicant before the
decision-making board whose decision is being appealed, the petitioner shall
also name that applicant as a respondent. Any petitioner may name as a
respondent any person with an ownership or leasehold interest in the property
that is the subject of the decision being appealed who participated in the
hearing, or was an applicant, before the decision-making board. For similar
state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-1402(d).
      (5)   Writ of certiorari. Upon filing the petition, the petitioner shall
present the petition and a proposed writ of certiorari to the clerk of superior
court of the town in which the matter arose. The writ shall direct the
respondent local government, or the respondent decision-making board if the
petitioner is a local government that has filed a petition pursuant to division
(B)(3)(d) above, to prepare and certify to the court the record of proceedings
below within a specified date. The writ shall also direct the petitioner to
serve the petition and the writ upon each respondent named therein in the
manner provided for service of a complaint under Rule 4(j) of the Rules of
Civil Procedure, except that, if the respondent is a decision-making board, the
petition and the writ shall be served upon the chair of that decision-making
board. Rule 4(j)(5) d. of the Rules of Civil Procedure applies in the event the
chair of a decision- making board cannot be found. No summons shall be issued.
The clerk shall issue the writ
without notice to the respondent or respondents if the petition has been
properly filed and the writ is in proper form. A copy of the executed writ
shall be filed with the court. Upon the filing of a petition for writ of
certiorari, a party may request a stay of the execution or enforcement of the
decision of the quasi-judicial board pending superior court review. The court
may grant a stay in its discretion, and on such conditions that properly
provide for the security of the adverse party. A stay granted in favor of a
city or town shall not require a bond or other security. For similar state law
provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-1402(e).
      (6)   Response to the petition. The respondent may, but need not, file a
response to the petition, except that, if the respondent contends for the first
time that any petitioner lacks standing to bring the appeal, that contention
must be set forth in a response served on all petitioners at least 30 days
prior to the hearing on the petition. If it is not served within that time
period, the matter may be continued to allow the petitioners time to respond
pursuant to division (B)(10) of this section. For similar state law provisions,
refer to G.S. § 160D-1402(f).
      (7)   Intervention. Rule 24 of the Rules of Civil Procedure governs
motions to intervene as a petitioner or respondent in an action initiated under
this section with the following exceptions:
         (a)   Any person described in division (B)(3)(a) above has standing to
intervene and shall be allowed to intervene as a matter of right.
         (b)   Any person, other than one described in division (B)(3)(a) above
who seeks to intervene as a petitioner must demonstrate that the person would
have had standing to challenge the decision being appealed in accordance with
divisions (B)(3)(b) through (d) above.
         (c)   Any person, other than one described in division (B)(3)(a) of
this section, who seeks to intervene as a respondent must demonstrate that the
person would have had standing to file a petition in accordance with divisions
(B)(3)(b) through (d) above. If the decision-making board had made a decision
that is consistent with the relief sought by the petitioner. For similar state
law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-1402(g).
      (8)   The record. The record shall consist of the decision and all
documents and exhibits submitted to the decision-making board whose decision is
being appealed, together with the minutes of the meeting or meetings at which
the decision being appealed was considered. Upon request of any party, the
record shall also contain an audio or videotape of the meeting or meetings at
which the decision being appealed was considered if such a recording was made.
Any party may also include in the record a transcript of the proceedings, which
shall be prepared at the cost of the party choosing to include it. The parties
may agree, or the court may direct, that matters unnecessary to the court's
decision be deleted from the record or that matters other than those specified
herein be included. The record shall be bound and paginated or other- wise
organized for the convenience of the parties and the court. A copy of the
record shall be served by the local government respondent, or the respondent
decision-making board, upon all petitioners within three days after it is filed
with the court. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-1402(h).
      (9)   Hearing on the record. The court shall hear and decide all issues
raised by the petition by reviewing the record submitted in accordance with
division (B)(8) above. The court shall allow the record to be supplemented with
affidavits, testimony of witnesses, or documentary or other evidence if, and to
the extent that, petition raises any of the following issues, in which case the
rules of discovery set forth in the North Carolina Rules of Civil Procedure
apply to the supplementation of the record of these issues:
         (a)   Whether a petitioner or intervener has standing.
         (b)   Whether, as a result of impermissible conflict as described in
G.S. § 160D-1-9 or locally adopted conflict rules, the decision-making body was
not sufficiently impartial to comply with due process principles.
         (c)   Whether the decision-making body erred for the reasons set forth
in division (B)(10)(a)1. and 2. below. For similar state law provisions, refer
to G.S. § 160D-1402(i).
      (10)   Scope of review.
         (a)   When reviewing the decision of a decision-making board under the
provisions of this section, the court shall ensure that the rights of
petitioners have not been prejudiced because the decision-making body's
findings, inferences, conclusions, or decisions were:
            1.   In violation of constitutional provisions, including those
protecting procedural due process rights.
            2.   In excess of the statutory authority conferred upon the local
government, including preemption, or the authority conferred upon the decision-
making board by ordinance.
            3.   Inconsistent with applicable procedures specified by statute
or ordinance.
            4.   Affected by other error of law.
            5.   Unsupported by competent material and substantial evidence in
view of the entire record.
            6.   Arbitrary or capricious.
         (b)   When the issue before the court is one set forth in divisions
(a)1. through (a)4. above of this division (10), including whether the
decision-making board erred in interpreting an ordinance, the court shall
review that issue de novo. The court shall consider the interpretation of the
decision-making board, but is not bound by that interpretation, and may freely
substitute its judgment as appropriate. Whether the record contains competent,
material, and substantial evidence is a conclusion of law, reviewable de novo.
         (c)   The term “competent evidence,” as used in this division does not
preclude reliance by the decision-making board on evidence that would not be
admissible under the rules of evidence as applied in the trial division of the
General Court of Justice if (i) except for the items noted in subdivisions
(c)1., (c)2. and (c)3. below of this division (10) that are conclusively
incompetent, the evidence was admitted without objection or (ii) the evidence
appears to be sufficiently trustworthy and was admitted under such
circumstances that it was reasonable for the decision-making board to rely upon
it. The term “competent evidence,” as used in this division shall, regardless
of the lack of a timely objection, not be deemed to include the opinion
testimony of lay witnesses as to any of the following:
            1.   The use of property in a particular way would affects the
value of other property.
            2.   The increase in vehicular traffic resulting from a proposed
development would poses a danger to the public safety.
            3.   Matters about which only expert testimony would generally be
admissible under the rules of evidence.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-1402(j).
      (11)   Action not rendered moot by loss of property. Subject to the
limitations in the state and federal constitutions and state and federal case
law, an action filed under this section is not rendered moot, if during the
pendency of the action, the aggrieved person loses the applicable property
interest as a result of the local government action being challenged and
exhaustion of an appeal described herein is required for purposes of preserving
a claim for damages under G.S. § 160D-1403.1. For similar state law provisions,
refer to G.S. § 160D-1402(j).
         (12)   Decision of the Court. Following its review of the decision-
making board in accordance with division (10) above of this section, the court
may affirm the decision, reverse the decision and remand the case with
appropriate instructions, or remand the case for further proceedings. If the
court does not affirm the decision below in its entirety, then the court shall
be guided by the following in determining what relief should be granted to the
petitioners:
         (a)   If the court concludes that the error committed by the decision-
making board is procedural only, the court may remand the case for further
proceedings to correct the procedural error.
         (b)   If the court concludes that the decision-making board has erred
by failing to make findings of fact such that the court cannot properly perform
its function, then the court may remand the case with appropriate instructions
so long as the record contains substantial competent evidence that could
support the decision below with appropriate findings of fact. However, findings
of fact are not necessary when the record sufficiently reveals the basis for
the decision below or when the material facts are undisputed and the case
presents only an issue of law.
         (c)   If the court concludes that the decision by the decision-making
board is not supported by competent, material, and substantial evidence in the
record or is based upon an error of law, then the court may remand the case
with an order that directs the decision-making board to take whatever action
should have been taken had the error not been committed or to take such other
action as is necessary to correct the error. Specifically:
            1.   If the court concludes that a permit was wrongfully denied
because the denial was not based on competent, material, and substantial
evidence or was otherwise based on an error of law, the court shall remand with
instructions that the permit be issued, subject to any conditions expressly
consented to by the permit applicant as part of the application or during the
Board of Adjustment appeal or writ of certiorari appeal.
            2.   If the court concludes that a permit was wrongfully issued
because the issuance was not based on competent, material, and substantial
evidence or was otherwise based on an error of law, the court may remand with
instructions that the permit be revoked.
            3.   If the court concludes that a zoning board decision upholding
a zoning enforcement action was not supported by substantial competent evidence
or was otherwise based on an error of law, the court shall reverse the
decision.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-1402(k).
      (13)   Effect of appeal and ancillary injunctive relief.
         (a)   If a development approval is appealed, the applicant shall have
the right to commence work while the appeal is pending. However, if the
development approval is reversed by a final decision of any court of competent
jurisdiction, the applicant shall not be deemed to have gained any vested
rights on the basis of actions taken prior to or during the pendency of the
appeal and must proceed as if no development approval had been granted.
         (b)   Upon motion of a party to a proceeding under this section, and
under appropriate circumstances, the court may issue an injunctive order
requiring any other party to that proceeding to take certain action or refrain
from taking action that is consistent with the court's decision on the merits
of the appeal. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-1402(l).
      (14)   Joinder. A declaratory judgment brought under G.S. § 160D-14-1 or
other civil action relating to the decision at issue may be joined with the
petition for writ of certiorari and decided in the same proceeding. For similar
state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-1402(m).
      (15)   Stays. An appeal under this section is stayed as provided in G.S.
§ 160D-405. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-1402(n).
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.111 SUBDIVISION APPROVALS.
   The Board of Commissioners shall follow quasi-judicial procedure when
deciding on subdivision approvals. See §§
154.375 through
154.460 for procedures for review and approval of subdivision plats. For
similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. §§ 160D-405(a) and 160D-406(a).
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.112 APPEAL OF DECISIONS ON SUBDIVISION PLATS.
   (A)   Appeal of decisions made by the Fairmont Town Board of Commissioners
on preliminary or final subdivision plats shall be subject to review by the
superior court by proceedings in the nature of certiorari. The provisions of
Chapter 160D-406 and this section shall apply to those appeals. For similar
state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-1403(a).
   (B)   When a subdivision regulation adopted under this chapter provides that
the decision whether to approve or deny a preliminary or final subdivision plat
is administrative, then that decision of the board shall be subject to review
by filing an action in superior court seeking appropriate declaratory or
equitable relief within 30 days from receipt of the written notice of the
decision, which shall be made as provided in G.S. § 160D-403(b). For similar
state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-1403(b).
   (C)   For purposes of this section, a subdivision regulation shall be deemed
to authorize a quasi-judicial decision if the decision-making entity under G.S.
§ 160D-803(c) is authorized to decide whether to approve or deny the plat based
not only upon whether the application complies with the specific requirements
set forth in the regulation, but also on whether the application complies with
one or more generally stated standards requiring a discretionary decision to be
made. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-1403(c).
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.113 CIVIL ACTION FOR DECLARATORY RELIEF, OTHER REMEDIES; JOINDER OF
COMPLAINT AND PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI IN CERTAIN CASES.
   (A)   Civil action. Except as otherwise provided in this section for claims
involving questions of interpretation, in lieu of any remedies available under
G.S. § 160D-405 or 160D-108(h), a person with standing, as defined in division
(B) of this section, may bring an original civil action seeking declaratory
relief, injunctive relief, damages, or any other remedies provided by law or
equity, in superior court or federal court to challenge the enforceability,
validity, or effect of a local land development regulation for any of the
following claims:
      (1)   The ordinance, either on its face or as applied, is
unconstitutional.
      (2)   The ordinance, either on its face or as applied, is ultra vires,
preempted, or otherwise in excess of statutory authority.
      (3)   The ordinance, either on its face or as applied, constitutes a
taking of property.
      (4)   If the decision being challenged is from an administrative official
charged with enforcement of a local land development regulation, the party with
standing must first bring any claim that the ordinance was erroneously
interpreted to the applicable board of adjustment pursuant to G.S. § 160D-405.
An adverse ruling from the board of adjustment may then be challenged in an
action brought pursuant to this subsection with the court hearing the matter de
novo together with any of the claims listed in this division. For similar state
law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-1403.1(a).
   (B)   Standing. Any of the following criteria provide standing to bring an
action under this section:
      (1)   The person has an ownership, leasehold, or easement interest in, or
possesses an option or contract to purchase the property that is the subject
matter of a final and binding decision made by an administrative official
charged with applying or enforcing a land development regulation.
      (2)   The person was a development permit applicant before the decision-
making board whose decision is being challenged.
      (3)   The person was a development permit applicant who is aggrieved by a
final and binding decision of an administrative official charged with applying
or enforcing a land development regulation.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-1403.1(b).
   (C)   Time for commencement of action. Any action brought pursuant to this
section shall be commenced within one year after the date on which written
notice of the final decision is delivered to the aggrieved party by personal
delivery, electronic mail, or by first-class mail. For similar state law
provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-1403.1(c).
   (D)   Joinder. An original civil action authorized by this section may, for
convenience and economy, be joined with a petition for writ of certiorari and
decided in the same proceedings. The Rules of Civil Procedure govern the
parties for the claims raised in the original civil action. The record of
proceedings in the appeal pursuant to G.S. § 160D-1402 shall not be
supplemented by discovery from the civil action unless supplementation is
otherwise allowed under G.S. § 160D-1402(i). The standard of review in the
original civil action for the cause or causes of action pled as authorized by
division (A) of this section is de novo. The standard of review of the petition
for writ of certiorari is the standard established in G.S. § 160D-1402(j). For
similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-1403.1(d).
   (E)   Action not rendered moot by loss of property. Subject to the
limitations in the State and federal
constitutions and State and federal case law, an action filed under this
section is not rendered moot, if during the pendency of the action, the
aggrieved person loses the applicable property interest as a result
of the local government action being challenged and exhaustion of an appeal
described herein is required for purposes of preserving a claim for damages
under this section. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-
1403.1(e).
   (F)   Stays. An appeal under this section is stayed as provided in G.S. §
160D-405. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-1403.1(f).
   (G)   Definitions. The definitions in G.S. § 143-755 apply in this section.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-1403.1(g).
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.114 NO ESTOPPEL EFFECT WHEN CHALLENGING DEVELOPMENT CONDITIONS.
   A local government may not assert before a Board of Adjustment or in any
civil action the defense of estoppel as a result of actions by the landowner or
permit applicant to proceed with development authorized by a development permit
as defined in G.S. § 143-755 if the landowner or permit applicant is
challenging conditions that were imposed and not consented to in writing by a
landowner or permit applicant. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S.
§ 160D-1403.2.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.115 OTHER CIVIL ACTIONS.
   Except as expressly stated, Chapter 160D does not limit the availability of
civil actions otherwise authorized by law or alter the times in which they may
be brought. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-1404.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.116 STATUTES OF LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Zoning map adoption or amendments. A cause of action as to the
validity of any regulation adopting or amending a zoning map adopted under this
chapter or other applicable law or a development agreement adopted under §§
154.230 through
154.284 of this chapter accrues upon adoption of the ordinance and shall be
brought within 60 days as provided in G.S. § 1-54.1. For similar state law
provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-1405(a).
   (B)   Text adoption or amendment. Except as otherwise provided in division
(A) above, an action challenging the validity of a development regulation
adopted under this chapter or other applicable law shall be brought within one
year of the accrual of such action. Such an action accrues when the party
bringing such action first has standing to challenge the ordinance. A challenge
to an ordinance on the
basis of an alleged defect in the adoption process shall be brought within
three years after the adoption of the ordinance. For similar state law
provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-1405(b).
   (C)   Enforcement defense. Nothing in this section or in G.S. § 1-54(10) or
G.S. § 1-54.1 bars a party in an action involving the enforcement of a
development regulation G.S. § 160D-1403.1 or in an action under G.S. Chapter
160D from raising as a claim or defense in the proceedings the enforceability
or the invalidity of the ordinance. Nothing in this section or in G.S. 1-54(10)
or G.S. 1-54.1 bars a party who files a timely appeal from an order,
requirement, decision, or determination made by an administrative official
contending that the party is in violation of a development regulation from
raising in the judicial appeal the invalidity of the ordinance as a defense to
the order, requirement, decision, or determination. A party in an enforcement
action or appeal may not assert the invalidity of the ordinance on the basis of
an alleged defect in the adoption process unless the defense is formally raised
within three years of the adoption of the challenged ordinance. For similar
state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-1405(c).
   (D)   Termination of grandfathered status. When a use constituting a
violation of a zoning or unified development ordinance is in existence prior to
adoption of the zoning or unified development ordinance creating the violation,
and that use is grandfathered and subsequently terminated for any reason, a
local government shall bring an enforcement action within ten years of the date
of the termination of the grandfathered status, unless the violation poses an
imminent hazard to health or public safety. For similar state law provisions,
refer to G.S. § 160D-1405(d).
   (E)   Quasi-judicial decisions. Unless specifically provided otherwise, a
petition for review of a quasi- judicial decision shall be filed with the clerk
of superior court by the later of 30 days after the decision is effective or
after a written copy thereof is given in accordance with G.S. § 160D-406(j).
When first-class mail is used to deliver notice, three days shall be added to
the time to file the petition.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-1405(e).
   (F)   Others. Except as provided by this section, the statutes of
limitations shall be as provided in G.S. Chapter 1, subchapter 11. For similar
state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-1405(f).
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
LEGISLATIVE PERMITS, ENFORCEMENT, AND APPEALS
(TEXT AMENDMENTS AND REZONING)
§ 154.125 DEVELOPMENT APPROVAL REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall commence or proceed with development within the town's
jurisdiction without first securing any development approvals from the town.
This subchapter includes the regulations for amendments to the text of the
Town's Zoning Ordinance or an amendment to the Official Zoning Map required by
a rezoning of property within the town's jurisdiction.
   (B)   A development approval shall be in writing and shall contain a
provision that the development work done shall comply with all applicable state
and local laws.
   (C) The town may issue development approvals in print or electronic form.
Any development approval issued exclusively in electronic form shall be
protected from further editing once issued.
   (D)   Applications for development approvals may be made by the landowner, a
lessee or person holding an option or contract to purchase or lease land, or an
authorized agent of the landowner. An easement holder may also apply for
development approval for such development as is authorized by the easement.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-403(a).
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.126 PROCEDURE FOR ORDINANCE TEXT AND ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS (REZONING).
   (A)   Purpose. From time to time, both the text of the zoning ordinance and
the zoning map will need to be updated to reflect new decisions by the elected
Board. Both of these types of changes require action by the elected Board to
approve. The procedure for securing a text amendment and a rezoning (zoning map
amendment) is outlined below.
   (B)   Initiation. The Town Board of Commissioners may change the text
regulations and zoning district lines in response to requests initiated by:
      (1)   The owner(s), or their agent, of property within the area proposed
to be changed;
      (2)   The Board of Commissioners;
      (3)   The Planning Board; or
      (4)   The Board of Adjustment.
   (C)   Procedure. The procedure for an amendment to the text of this chapter
or to the zoning map shall include:
      (1)   Application. The application for any zoning district change or text
amendment shall be filed with the Town Clerk at least 25 days prior to the
Planning Board meeting at which the application is to be considered. The
application shall be on a form approved by the Board of Commissioners and shall
contain items including a description of the proposed amendment, the names and
contact information of property owners filing the request or affected by the
proposed action, and the metes and bounds of the property in question.
      (2)   Payment of fee. The Town Board of Commissioners shall set a fee
payable to the Town of Fairmont, North Carolina, to cover the necessary
administrative costs and advertising of each application for a change or
amendment. The set fee shall be posted in the Town Clerk's Office.
      (3)   Planning Board review and recommendation.
         (a)   1.   Upon receipt of a petition (application) for a zoning
district change or text amendment, the Town Clerk shall forward the request to
the Planning and Zoning Board for its consideration.
            2.   All proposed amendments to the zoning ordinance or zoning map
shall be submitted to the Planning Board for review and comment. If no written
report is received from the Planning Board within 30 days of referral of the
amendment to that board, the Board of Commissioners may proceed in its
consideration of the amendment without the Planning Board report. The Board of
Commissioners is not bound by the recommendations, if any, of the Planning
Board.
         (b)   The Planning Board may, at its discretion, hold a separate
public hearing from that held by the Board of Commissioners. Public hearings
held by the Planning Board need not adhere to the hearing requirements outlined
in this subchapter for public hearings held by the Board of Commissioners.
         (c)   1.   The Planning Board shall advise and comment on whether the
proposed amendment (text or map) is consistent with any comprehensive plan or
land development/use plan that has been adopted, and any other officially
adopted plan that is applicable. The Planning Board shall provide a written
recommendation to the Board of Commissioners that addresses plan consistency
and other matters as deemed appropriate by the Planning Board; however, a
comment by the Planning Board that a proposed amendment is inconsistent with
the comprehensive plan or land development/use plan shall not preclude
consideration or approval of the proposed amendment by the Board of
Commissioners.
            2.   In making their review and comment, the following policy
guidelines shall be followed by the Planning Board concerning zoning amendments
and no proposed zoning amendment will receive favorable recommendation unless:
               a.   The proposal will place all property similarly situated in
the area in the same category, or in appropriate complementary categories.
               b.   There is convincing demonstration that all uses permitted
under the proposed district classification would be in the general public
interest and not merely in the interest of an individual or small group.
               c.   There is convincing demonstration that all uses permitted
under the proposed district classification would be appropriate in the area
included in the proposed change. (When a new
district designation is assigned, any use permitted in the district is
allowable, so long as it meets district requirements, and not merely uses which
applicants state they intend to make of the property involved.)
               d.   There is convincing demonstration that the character of the
neighborhood will not be materially and adversely affected by any use permitted
in the proposed change.
               e.   The proposed change is in accord with a comprehensive plan
and sound planning principles.
      (4)   Conflict of interest. In accordance with the requirements of G.S. §
160D-109, members of Planning Board shall not vote on recommendations regarding
any zoning map or text amendment where the outcome of the matter being
considered is reasonably likely to have a direct, substantial, and readily
identifiable financial impact on the member. An appointed Board member shall
not vote on any zoning amendment if the landowner of the property subject to a
rezoning petition or the applicant for a text amendment is a person with whom
the member has a close familial, business, or other associational relationship.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-109(b).
      (5)   Hearing for text amendments. Before adopting, amending, or
repealing any ordinance or development regulation authorized by G.S. Chapter
160D, the Town Board of Commissioners shall hold a legislative hearing.
         (a)   A notice of the hearing shall be given once a week for two
successive calendar weeks in a newspaper having general circulation in the
area. The notice shall be published the first time not less than ten days nor
more than 25 days before the date scheduled for the hearing. In computing such
period, the day of publication is not to be included but the day of the hearing
shall be included.
         (b)   The notice required or authorized by this section shall:
            1.   State the date, time, and place of the public hearing;
            2.   Summarize the nature and character of the proposed change;
            3.   If the proposed amendment involves a change in zoning district
classification, reasonably identify the property whose classification would be
affected by the amendment; and
            4.   State that the full text of the amendment can be obtained from
the Town Clerk.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-601(a).
         (c)   In addition to the newspaper notice, notice shall also be made
by posting the property concerned with a poster indicating the proposed change
and date of hearing when the application is for a change to a district
boundary.
         (d)   Notice to military bases. If the adoption or modification would
result in changes to the zoning map or would change or affect the permitted
uses of land located five miles or less from the perimeter boundary of a
military base, the local government shall provide written notice of the
proposed changes by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the commander
of the military base not less than ten days nor more than 25 days before the
date fixed for the hearing. If the commander of the military base provides
comments or analysis regarding the compatibility of the proposed development
regulation or amendment with military operations at the base, the governing
board of the local government shall take the comments and analysis into
consideration before making a final determination on the ordinance.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-601(b).
      (6)   Decision by Board of Commissioners.
         (a)   Before taking such lawful action as it may deem advisable, the
Town Board shall consider the planning board's recommendation on each proposed
zoning amendment. If no recommendation is received from the planning board
within 30 days after public hearing by the Town Board, the proposed amendment
shall be deemed to have been approved by the Planning Board.
         (b)   At the conclusion of a public hearing on the proposed amendment,
the Board of Commissioners may proceed to vote on the proposed amendment, refer
it to a committee for further study, or take any other action consistent with
its usual rules of procedure.
         (c)   The Board of Commissioners is not required to take final action
on a proposed amendment within any specific period of time, but it should
proceed as expeditiously as practicable on petitions for amendments since
inordinate delays can result in the petitioner incurring unnecessary costs.
         (d)   Prior to adopting or rejecting any zoning amendment, the Board
of Commissioners shall adopt a statement describing whether its action is
consistent with an adopted comprehensive plan, land development/use plan, or
other officially adopted plan, and explaining why the Board considers the
action taken to be reasonable and in the public interest. The statement is not
subject to judicial review.
         (e)   A majority vote, excluding vacant seats and disqualified members
as indicated in subsection (2), shall be sufficient for the purpose of taking
any official action excluding vacant seats and disqualified members.
         (f)   Adoption by ordinance required. A development regulation adopted
pursuant to this Chapter shall be adopted by ordinance.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-601(c).
      (7)   Hearing for zoning map amendments (rezonings). Before amending the
zoning map as authorized by G.S. Chapter 160D, the Town Board of Commissioners
shall hold a legislative hearing.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-602(a).
         (a)   Published notice.
            1.   Before amending the zoning map the governing board shall hold
a legislative hearing. Notice of the hearing shall be given once a week for two
successive calendar weeks in a newspaper having general circulation in the
area. The notice shall be published the first time not less than ten days nor
more than 25 days before the date scheduled for the hearing. In computing such
period, the day of publication is not to be included but the day of the hearing
shall be included.
            2.   The notice required or authorized by this section shall:
               a.   State the date, time, and place of the public hearing;
               b.   Summarize the nature and character of the proposed change;
               c.   If the proposed amendment involves a change in zoning
district classification, reasonably identify the property whose classification
would be affected by the amendment; and
               d.   State that the full text of the amendment can be obtained
from the Town Clerk.
         (b)   Mailed notice.
            1.   The owner of affected parcels of land and the owners of all
parcels of land abutting that parcel of land shall be mailed a notice of the
hearing on a proposed zoning map amendment by first class mail at the last
addresses listed for such owners on the town tax abstracts.
            2.   For the purpose of this section, properties are "abutting"
even if separated by a street, railroad, or other transportation corridor.
            3.   This notice must be deposited in the mail at least ten but not
more than 25 days prior to the date of the hearing.
            4.   If the zoning map amendment is being proposed in conjunction
with an expansion of municipal extraterritorial planning and development
regulation jurisdiction under G.S. § 160D-202, a single hearing on the zoning
map amendment and the boundary amendment may be held. In this instance the
initial notice of the zoning map amendment hearing may be combined with the
boundary hearing notice and the combined hearing notice mailed at least 30 days
prior to the hearing. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-
602(a).
         (c)   Option to mailed notice for large-scale zoning map amendments.
The first class mail notice required shall not be required if the zoning map
amendment proposes to change the zoning designation of more than 50 properties,
owned by at least 50 different property owners, and the town elects to use the
expanded published notice provided for in this subsection. In this instance,
the town may elect to make the mailed notice or as an alternative, elect to
publish notice of the hearing as required by
G.S. 160D-6-1 provided that each advertisement shall not be less than one-half
of a newspaper page in size. The advertisement shall only be effective for
property owners who reside in the area of general circulation of the newspaper
that publishes the notice. Property owners who reside outside of the newspaper
circulation area, according to the address listed on the most recent property
tax listing for the affected property, shall be notified. For similar state law
provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-602(b).
         (d)   Posted notice. When a zoning map amendment is proposed, the town
shall prominently post a notice of the hearing on the site proposed for the
amendment or on an adjacent public street or highway right-of-way.
            1.   The notice shall be posted within the same time period
specified for mailed notices of the hearing.
            2.   When multiple parcels are included within a proposed zoning
map amendment, a posting on each individual parcel is not required, but the
town shall post sufficient notices to provide reasonable notice to interested
persons. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-602(c).
         (e)   Notice to military bases. If the adoption or modification would
result in changes to the zoning map or would change or affect the permitted
uses of land located five miles or less from the perimeter boundary of a
military base, the local government shall provide written notice of the
proposed changes by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the commander
of the military base not less than ten days nor more than 25 days before the
date fixed for the hearing. If the commander of the military base provides
comments or analysis regarding the compatibility of the proposed development
regulation or amendment with military operations at the base, the governing
board of the local government shall take the comments and analysis into
consideration before making a final determination on the ordinance.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-601(b).
         (f)   Optional communication requirements. When a zoning map amendment
is proposed, a zoning regulation may require communication by the person
proposing the map amendment to neighboring property owners and residents and
may require the person proposing the zoning map amendment to report on any
communication with neighboring property owners and residents. For similar state
law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-602(e).
      (8)   Decision by Board of Commissioners.
         (a)   At the conclusion of a public hearing on the proposed amendment,
the Board of Commissioners may proceed to vote on the proposed amendment, refer
it to a committee for further study, or take any other action consistent with
its usual rules of procedure.
         (b)   The Board of Commissioners is not required to take final action
on a proposed amendment within any specific period of time, but it should
proceed as expeditiously as practicable on petitions for amendments since
inordinate delays can result in the petitioner incurring unnecessary costs.
         (c)   Prior to adopting or rejecting any zoning amendment, the Board
of Commissioners shall adopt a statement describing whether its action is
consistent with an adopted comprehensive plan, land development/use plan, or
other officially adopted plan, and explaining why the Board considers the
action taken to be reasonable and in the public interest. The statement is not
subject to judicial review.
         (d)   A majority vote, excluding vacant seats and disqualified members
as indicated in subsection (2), shall be sufficient for the purpose of taking
any official action excluding vacant seats and disqualified members.
         (e)   Conflict of interest. In accordance with the requirements of
G.S. § 160D-109(a) and §
154.066 of this chapter, a member of the Board of Commissioners shall not vote
on any legislative decision regarding a development regulation adopted pursuant
to this chapter where the outcome of the matter being considered is reasonably
likely to have a direct, substantial, and readily identifiable financial impact
on the member. A governing board member shall not vote on any zoning amendment
if the landowner of the property subject to a rezoning petition or the
applicant for a text amendment is a person with whom the member has a close
familial, business, or other associational relationship. This shall include any
zoning map or text amendment. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. §
160D-109(a).
         (f)   Adoption by ordinance required. A development regulation adopted
pursuant to this chapter shall be adopted by ordinance. For similar state law
provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-601(c).
   (D)   Withdrawal. The petitioner shall have the right to withdraw, in
writing, a zoning amendment petition at any time prior to a final decision by
the Board of Commissioners. However, petitions that have been withdrawn shall
be reconsidered only as a new petition.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.127 LEGISLATIVE DECISIONS: CITIZEN COMMENTS.
   Subject to the limitations of this subchapter, zoning regulations may from
time to time be amended, supplemented, changed, modified, or repealed. If any
resident or property owner in the local government submits a written statement
regarding a proposed amendment, modification, or repeal to a zoning regulation,
including a text or map amendment that has been properly initiated as provided
in G.S. § 160D-601, to the clerk to the board at least two business days prior
to the proposed vote on such change, the clerk to the board shall deliver such
written statement to the governing board. If the proposed change is the subject
of a quasi-judicial proceeding under G.S. § 160D-705 or any other statute, the
clerk shall provide only the names and addresses of the individuals providing
written comment, and the provision of such names and addresses to all members
of the board shall not disqualify any member of the board from voting. For
similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-603.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.128 LEGISLATIVE DECISIONS: PLANNING BOARD REVIEW AND COMMENTS.
   (A)   Initial zoning. In order to exercise zoning powers conferred by G.S.
Chapter 160D for the first time, the town shall create or designate a Planning
Board under the provisions of this subchapter or of a special act of the
General Assembly.
      (1)   The Planning Board shall prepare or shall review and comment upon a
proposed zoning regulation, including the full text of such regulation and maps
showing proposed district boundaries. The planning board may hold public
meetings and legislative hearings in the course of preparing the regulation.
      (2)   Upon completion, the Planning Board shall make a written
recommendation regarding adoption of the regulation to the Town Board. The Town
Board shall not hold its required hearing or take action until it has received
a recommendation regarding the regulation from the Planning Board.
      (3)   Following its required hearing, the Town Board may refer the
regulation back to the Planning Board for any further recommendations that the
Board may wish to make prior to final action by the governing board in
adopting, modifying and adopting, or rejecting the regulation. For similar
state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-604(a).
   (B)   Zoning amendments. After the initial adoption of a proposed amendment
to a zoning regulation, all proposed amendments to the zoning regulation or
zoning map shall be submitted to the Planning Board for review and comment. If
no written report is received from the Planning Board within 30 days of
referral of the amendment to that Board, the governing board may act on the
amendment without the Planning Board report. The governing board is not bound
by the recommendations, if any, of the Planning Board. For similar state law
provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-604(b).
      (1)   Every proposed amendment, supplement, change, modification or
repeal of this chapter shall be referred to the Planning Board for its written
comments, recommendation, and report. The Planning Board shall consider and
make written comments and recommendations to the Board of Commissioners
concerning each proposed zoning amendment.
      (2)   The Planning Board shall follow policy guidelines for all zoning
amendments. A proposed zoning amendment will not receive favorable
recommendation unless:
         (a)   The proposal will place all property similarly situated in the
area in the same category, or in appropriate complementary categories.
         (b)   There is convincing demonstration that all uses permitted under
the proposed district classification would be in the general public interest
and not merely in the interest of an individual or small group.
         (c)   There is convincing demonstration that all uses permitted under
the proposed district classification would be appropriate in the area included
in the proposed change. (When a new district designation is assigned, any use
permitted in the district is allowable, so long as it meets district
requirements, and not merely uses which applicants state that they intend to
make of the property involved.)
         (d)   There is convincing demonstration that the character of the
neighborhood will not be materially or adversely affected by any use permitted
in the proposed change.
         (e)   The proposed change is in accord and consistent with the Land
Use Plan, any other officially adopted plan that is applicable, and sound
planning principles.
      (3)   The Planning Board shall render its decision on any properly filed
petition within 30 days after the introduction of such petition and shall
transmit its written comments, recommendation, and report, including the
reasons for its determinations, to the Board of Town Commissioners. A comment
by the Planning Board that a proposed amendment is inconsistent with the Land
Use Plan shall not preclude consideration or approval of the proposed amendment
by the Board of Town Commissioners.
   (C)   Review of other ordinances and actions. Any development regulation
other than a zoning regulation that is proposed to be adopted pursuant to G.S.
Chapter 160D may be referred to the Planning Board for review and comment.
      (1)   Any development regulation other than a zoning regulation may
provide that future proposed amendments of that ordinance be submitted to the
Planning Board for review and comment.
      (2)   Any other action proposed to be taken pursuant to G.S. Chapter 160D
may be referred to the Planning Board for review and comment. For similar state
law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-604(c).
   (D)   Plan consistency. When conducting a review of proposed zoning text or
map amendments pursuant to this section, the Planning Board shall advise and
comment on whether the proposed action is consistent with any Comprehensive
Plan that has been adopted and any other officially adopted plan that is
applicable.
      (1)   The Planning Board shall provide a written recommendation to the
governing board that addresses plan consistency and other matters as deemed
appropriate by the Planning Board, but a comment by the Planning Board that a
proposed amendment is inconsistent with the comprehensive plan shall not
preclude consideration or approval of the proposed amendment by the governing
board.
      (2)   If a zoning map amendment qualifies as a "large-scale rezoning"
under G.S. § 160D-6-2(b), the Planning Board statement describing plan
consistency may address the overall rezoning and describe how the analysis and
polices in the relevant adopted plans were considered in the recommendation
made.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-604(d).
   (E)   Separate board required. Notwithstanding the authority to assign
duties of the Planning Board to the governing board as provided by this
chapter, the review and comment required by this section shall not be assigned
to the governing board and must be performed by a separate board. For similar
state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-604(e).
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.129 LEGISLATIVE DECISIONS; GOVERNING BOARD STATEMENT.
   (A)   Plan consistency. When adopting or rejecting any zoning text or map
amendment, the Town Board shall approve a brief statement describing whether
its action is consistent or inconsistent with an adopted Comprehensive Plan.
      (1)   The requirement for a plan consistency statement may also be met by
a clear indication in the minutes of the Town Board that at the time of action
on the amendment the Town Board was aware of and considered the Planning
Board's recommendations and any relevant portions of an adopted comprehensive
plan.
      (2)   If the amendment is adopted and the action was deemed inconsistent
with the adopted plan, the zoning amendment shall have the effect of also
amending any future land use map in the approved plan and no additional request
or application for a plan amendment shall be required.
      (3)   A plan amendment and a zoning amendment may be considered
concurrently.
      (4)   The plan consistency statement is not subject to judicial review.
      (5)   If a zoning map amendment qualifies as a "large-scale rezoning"
under G.S. § 160D-6-2(b), the governing board statement describing plan
consistency may address the overall rezoning and describe how the analysis and
polices in the relevant adopted plans were considered in the action taken. For
similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-605(a).
   (B)   Statement of reasonableness. When adopting or rejecting any petition
for a zoning text or map amendment, a brief statement explaining the
reasonableness of the proposed rezoning shall be approved by the Board of
Commissioners. The statement of reasonableness may consider, among other
factors:
      (1)   The size, physical conditions, and other attributes of any area
proposed to be rezoned.
      (2)   The benefits and detriments to the landowners, the neighbors, and
the surrounding community.
      (3)   The relationship between the current actual and permissible
development and the development permissible under the proposed amendment.
      (4)   Why the action taken is in the public interest.
      (5)   Any changed conditions warranting the amendment.
      (6)   If a zoning map amendment qualifies as a “large-scale rezoning”
under G.S. § 160D-6-2(b), the governing board statement on reasonableness may
address the overall rezoning. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. §
160D-605(b).
   (C)   Single statement permissible. The statement of reasonableness and the
plan consistency statement required by this section may be approved as a single
statement. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-605(c).
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.130 LEGISLATIVE DECISIONS: DURATION.
   (A)   Duration of development approval. Unless a different period is
specified by this chapter or other specific applicable law, including for a
development agreement, a development approval issued pursuant to this chapter
expires one year after the date of issuance if the work authorized by the
development approval has not been substantially commenced. Local development
regulations may provide for development approvals of shorter duration for
temporary land uses, special events, temporary signs, and similar development.
Local development regulations may also provide for development approvals of
longer duration for specified types of development approvals. Nothing in this
section limits any vested rights secured under G.S. § 160D-108 or G.S. § 160D-
108.1.
   (B)   If after commencement the work or activity is discontinued for a
period of 12 months after commencement, the development approval shall
immediately expire. The time periods set out in this section shall be tolled
during the pendency of any appeal. No work or activity authorized by any
development approval that has expired shall thereafter be performed until a new
development approval has been secured. Nothing in this section shall be deemed
to limit any vested rights secured under G.S. § 160D-108. For similar state law
provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-403(c).
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.131 LEGISLATIVE DECISIONS: REVOCATION.
   In addition to initiation of enforcement actions under G.S. § 160D-404,
development approvals may be revoked by the local government issuing the
development approval by notifying the holder in writing stating the reason for
the revocation. The revocation of a development approval by a staff member may
be appealed pursuant to G.S. § 160D-405. The conduct of any activity or the
use, operation, construction, maintenance or removal of any facility in
violation of any of the conditions of a variance shall be grounds for
revocation of said variance. The Zoning Officer shall set a date for public
hearing before the Board of Adjustment and at such time said Board may revoke
the variance, citing the reasons therefor. Notice of such hearing shall be made
in the same manner as required for a variance application. The local government
shall follow the same development review and approval process required for
issuance of the development approval, including any required notice or hearing,
in the review and approval of any revocation of that approval. Development
approvals shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the approved
application, plans, or specifications; for refusal or failure to comply with
the requirements of any applicable local development regulation or any state
law delegated to the local government for enforcement purposes in lieu of the
state; or for false statements or misrepresentations made in securing the
approval. Any development approval mistakenly issued in violation of an
applicable state or local law may also be revoked. Unless otherwise specified
by the Board of Adjustment, all activities or facilities permitted by the
variance shall cease and/or be removed not later than sixty calendar days
following the date of determination to revoke the variance. The determination
of the Board of Adjustment shall be deemed final and may not be appealed to the
Board of Commissioners. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. 160D-
403(f).
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.132 LEGISLATIVE DECISIONS: STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Zoning map adoption or amendments. A cause of action as to the
validity of any regulation adopting or amending a zoning map adopted under this
chapter or other applicable law or a development agreement adopted under §§
154.185 through
154.218 of this chapter accrues upon adoption of the ordinance and shall be
brought within 60 days as provided in G.S. § 1-54.1. For similar state law
provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-1405(a).
   (B)   Text adoption or amendment. Except as otherwise provided in division
(A) of this section, an action challenging the validity of a development
regulation adopted under this chapter or other applicable law shall be brought
within one year of the accrual of such action. Such an action accrues when the
party bringing such action first has standing to challenge the ordinance. A
challenge to an ordinance on the basis of an alleged defect in the adoption
process shall be brought within three years after the adoption of the
ordinance. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-1405(b).
   (C)   Enforcement defense. Nothing in this section or in G.S. § 1-54(10) or
G.S. 1-54.1 bars a party in an action involving the enforcement of a
development regulation G.S. § 160D-1403.1 or in an action under G.S. Chapter
160D from raising as a claim or defense in the proceedings the enforceability
or the invalidity of the ordinance. Nothing in this section or in G.S. § 1-54
(10) or G.S. § 1-54.1 bars a party who files a timely appeal from an order,
requirement, decision, or determination made by an administrative official
contending that the party is in violation of a development regulation from
raising in the judicial appeal the invalidity of the ordinance as a defense to
the order, requirement, decision, or determination. A party in an enforcement
action or appeal may not assert the invalidity of the ordinance on the basis of
an alleged defect in the adoption process unless the defense is formally raised
within three years of the adoption of the challenged ordinance. For similar
state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-1405(c).
   (D)   Termination of grandfathered status. When a use constituting a
violation of a zoning or unified development ordinance is in existence prior to
adoption of the zoning or unified development ordinance creating the violation,
and that use is grandfathered and subsequently terminated for any reason, a
local government shall bring an enforcement action within ten years of the date
of the termination of the grandfathered status, unless the violation poses an
imminent hazard to health or public safety. For similar state law provisions,
refer to G.S. § 160D-1405(a).
   (E)   Quasi-judicial decisions. Unless specifically provided otherwise, a
petition for review of a quasi-judicial decision shall be filed with the clerk
of superior court by the later of 30 days after the decision is effective or
after a written copy thereof is given in accordance with G.S. § 160D-406(j).
When first-class mail is used to deliver notice, three days shall be added to
the time to file the petition.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 60D-1405(e).
   (F)   Others. Except as provided by this section, the statutes of
limitations shall be as provided in G.S. Chapter 1, subchapter 11. For similar
state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-1405(f).
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.133 LEGISLATIVE DECISIONS: JUDICIAL REVIEW AND APPEAL.
   Declaratory judgments. Challenges of legislative decisions of Town of
Fairmont, including the validity and constitutionality of development
regulations adopted pursuant to this chapter, and actions authorized by G.S. §
160D-108(h) or (i) and G.S. § 160D-1403.1, may be brought pursuant to G.S.
Chapter 1, Article 26. The governmental unit making the challenged decision
shall be named a party to the action. For similar state law provisions, refer
to G.S. § 160D-1401.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.134 LEGISLATIVE DECISIONS: DOWN-ZONING.
   Down-zoning. No amendment to zoning regulations or a zoning map that down-
zones property shall be initiated nor is it enforceable without the written
consent of all property owners whose property is the subject of the down-zoning
amendment, unless the down-zoning amendment is initiated by the local
government. For purposes of this section, DOWN-ZONING means a zoning ordinance
that affects an area of land in one of the following ways:
   (A)   By decreasing the development density of the land to be less dense
than was allowed under its previous usage.
   (B)   By reducing the permitted uses of the land that are specified in a
zoning ordinance or land development regulation to fewer uses than were allowed
under its previous usage. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. §
160D-601(d).
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.135 RECONSIDERATION: ONE-YEAR LIMITATION.
   Whenever an application requesting an amendment has been acted on and denied
by the Planning Board and the Town Board, such application, or one
substantially similar, shall not be reconsidered sooner than one year after the
previous denial.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
ZONING DISTRICTS AND TABLE OF USES
§ 154.145 PURPOSE AND BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   In order to regulate and limit the height and size of buildings, to
regulate and limit the intensity of the use of lot areas; to regulate and
determine the areas of open spaces surrounding buildings; to classify, regulate
and restrict the location of trades and industries and the location of
buildings designed for specified industrial, business, residential and other
uses of the Town of Fairmont, the Town of Fairmont is hereby divided into zones
of which there shall be several known as:
      (1)   R-A rural-agricultural residential;
      (2)   R-20 residential;
      (3)   R-15 residential;
      (4)   R-10 residential;
      (5)   R-8 residential;
      (6)   R-5 residential;
      (7)   R-MH mobile home park residential;
      (8)   C-B central business;
      (9)   G-B general business;
      (10)   N-B neighborhood business;
      (11)   G-M general manufacturing;
      (12)   H-D Historic Business District.
   (B)   Uniformity within districts. Except as authorized by the foregoing,
all regulations shall be uniform for each class or kind of building throughout
each district, but the regulations in one district may differ from those in
other districts. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-703(c).
   (C)   Standards applicable regardless of district. This chapter also
includes development standards that apply uniformly jurisdiction-wide rather
than being applicable only in particular zoning districts.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-703(d).
   (D)   Boundaries.
      (1)   The boundaries of the districts are shown on the map accompanying
this chapter and made a part hereof entitled "Official Zoning Map, Fairmont,
North Carolina." The zoning map and all the notations, references and
amendments thereto, and other information shown thereon are hereby made a part
of this chapter the same as if the information set forth on the map were all
fully described and set out herein. The zoning map properly attested is posted
at the office of the Town Clerk, and is available for inspection by the public.
      (2)   In the creation by this chapter of the respective districts,
careful consideration is given to the peculiar suitability of each and every
district for the particular uses and regulations applied thereto and the
necessary and proper grouping and arrangement of various uses and densities of
population in accordance with a well-considered comprehensive plan for the
physical development of the community.
   (E)   Interpretation of district boundaries. When uncertainty exists as to
the boundaries of any aforesaid districts as shown on the zoning map, the
following rules shall apply: (Uncertainty shall be determined by the Board of
Adjustment.)
      (1)   Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately following
the center lines of streets or highways, street lines or railroad right-of-way
lines or lines extended, center lines, street lines or railroad right-of-way
lines shall be construed to be boundaries.
      (2)   Where district boundaries are so indicated that they approximately
follow lot lines the lot lines shall be construed to be the boundaries.
      (3)   Where district boundaries are so indicated that they are
approximately parallel to the center lines of streets, highways or railroads or
rights-of-way of same, the district boundaries shall be construed as being
parallel thereto and at a distance therefrom as indicated on the zoning map. If
no distance is given, the dimension shall be determined by use of the scale
shown on the zoning map.
      (4)   Where a district boundary line divides a lot in single ownership,
the district requirements for the least restricted portion of the lot shall be
deemed to apply to the whole thereof, provided that the extensions shall not
include any part of a lot more than 35 feet beyond the district boundary line.
The term "least restricted" shall refer to zoning restrictions, not lot or
tract size.
      (5)   Split-zoned parcels. Where a district boundary line divides a lot
in single ownership, the requirements for the district in which the greater
portion of the lot lies shall be extended to the balance of the lot, provided
that such extension shall not include any part of such lot which lies more than
50 feet beyond the district boundary, and further provided that the remaining
parcel shall not be less than the minimum required for the district in which it
is located. Following adoption of this chapter, split zoning of parcels will
not be permitted.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.146 TYPES OF USES WITHIN DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Regulations for each district shall be enforced and interpreted
according to the following rules:
      (1)   Uses by right. All uses listed as permitted uses are permitted by
right according to the terms of this chapter.
      (2)   Uses with conditions. Uses with conditions are permitted subject to
compliances with standards outlined in §§
154.230 through
154.284 of this chapter.
      (3)   Special uses. Special uses are permitted only as reviewed by the
Planning and Zoning Board and approved by the Board of Commissioners. See §
154.107 for further information on special uses.
   (B)   Minimum regulations. Regulations set forth by this chapter shall be
minimum requirements. If the requirements set forth in this chapter are at
variance with the requirements of any other lawfully adopted rules, regulations
or chapters, the more restrictive or higher standards shall govern.
   (C)   Restrictive covenants. Unless restrictions established by covenants
running with the land are prohibited by the provision of this chapter,
contained herein shall be construed to render such covenants inoperative.
   (D)   Bona fide farms. Nothing in this chapter shall in any way regulate,
restrict, prohibit or otherwise deter any bona fide farms within the
jurisdiction of this chapter, except that any use of such property for non-farm
purposes shall be subject to these regulations.
   (E)   Permanent and temporary dwellings. DWELLING UNIT is defined in G.S. §
160D-102 as, “Any building, structure, manufactured home or mobile home, or
part thereof, used and occupied for human habitation or intended to be so used,
and includes any outhouses and appurtenances belonging thereto or usually
enjoyed therewith.” Dwellings are further classified as either “Permanent” or
“Temporary” and specific zoning district can permit these based on district
regulations. The most useful distinction between these terms is that permanent
dwellings are built to the NC Building Code Standards and temporary dwellings,
which are most often recreational vehicles, are not and are not meant for use
as permanent residences. The Figure 8-1 and Figure 8-2 provide a visual
representation of typical permanent and temporary dwelling types.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0fa087e7aaf2d1426066c541dcf0227ca59242f9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2356.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0fa087e7aaf2d1426066c541dcf0227ca59242f9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2354.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0fa087e7aaf2d1426066c541dcf0227ca59242f9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2358.png]
 
§ 154.147 Rural Agriculture District (R-A).
   (A )    District description and dimensional standards.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0fa087e7aaf2d1426066c541dcf0227ca59242f9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2364.png]
 
DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS
Requirements Public Water and No Public Sewer No Public Water, No Public Sewer
DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS
Requirements              Public Water and No Public No Public Water, No Public
                          Sewer                      Sewer
Minimum Lot Area in       20,000 Sq. Ft.                20,000 Sq. Ft.
Square Feet
Minimum Lot Width in Feet 110 ft.                       100 ft.
   Minimum Setback Lines in Feet:
Front                     40 ft.                     40 ft.
Side                      15 ft.                     15 ft.
Minimum Side Setback for  20 ft.                     20 ft.
Corner Lot
Rear                      30 ft.                     30 ft.
Maximum Building Height   35 ft.                     35 ft.
 
   (B)   Parking and loading. Refer to §§
154.185 through
154.189.
   (C)   Signs. Refer to §§
154.195 through
154.202.
   (D)   Landscaping and buffering. Refer to §§
154.205 through
154.213.
   (E)   Outdoor lighting. Refer to §§
154.215 through
154.218.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.148 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT R-20.
   (A)   District description and dimensional standards. (See next page)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0fa087e7aaf2d1426066c541dcf0227ca59242f9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2366.png]
 
DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS
Requirements Public Water and No Public Sewer No Public Water, No Public Sewer
DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS
Requirements              Public Water and No Public No Public Water, No Public
                          Sewer                      Sewer
Minimum Lot Area in       15,000 Sq. Ft.             20,000 Sq. Ft.
Square Feet
Minimum Lot Width in Feet 80 ft.                     100 ft.
   Minimum Setback Lines in Feet:
Front                     40 ft.                     40 ft.
Side                      15 ft.                     15 ft.
Minimum Side Setback for  20 ft.                     Not Specified
Corner Lot
Rear                      30 ft.                     30 ft.
Maximum Building Height   35 ft.                     35 ft.
 
   (B)   Parking and loading. Refer to §§
154.185 through
154.189.
   (C)   Signs. Refer to §§
154.195 through
154.202.
   (D)   Landscaping and buffering. Refer to §§
154.205 through
154.213.
   (E)   Outdoor lighting. Refer to §§
154.215 through
154.218.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.149 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT R-15.
   ( A )    District description and dimensional standards.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0fa087e7aaf2d1426066c541dcf0227ca59242f9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2368.png]
 
DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS
Requirements Standards (Must have both public water and sewer)
DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS
Requirements                        Standards (Must have both public water and
                                    sewer)
Minimum Lot Area in Square Feet     15,000 Sq. Ft.      
Minimum Lot Width in Feet           80 ft. (at the front building line)
   Minimum Setback Lines in Feet:
Front                               35 ft.
Side                                12 ft.
Minimum Side Setback for Corner Lot 15 ft.
Rear                                25 ft.
Maximum Building Height             35 ft.
 
   (B)   Parking and loading. Refer to §§
154.185 through
154.189.
   (C)   Signs. Refer to §§
154.195 through
154.202.
   (D)   Landscaping and buffering. Refer to §§
154.205 through
154.213.
   (E)   Outdoor lighting. Refer to §§
154.215 through
154.218.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.150 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT R-10.
(A )    District description and dimensional standards.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0fa087e7aaf2d1426066c541dcf0227ca59242f9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2370.png]
 
DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS
Requirements Standards
DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS
Requirements                        Standards
Minimum Lot Area in Square Feet     10,000 Sq. Ft.      
Minimum Lot Width in Feet           70 ft. (at the front building line)
   Minimum Setback Lines in Feet:
Front                               25 ft.
Side                                12 ft.
Minimum Side Setback for Corner Lot 15 ft.
Rear                                25 ft.
Maximum Building Height             35 ft.
 
   (B)   Parking and loading. Refer to §§
154.185 through
154.189.
   (C)   Signs. Refer to §§
154.195 through
154.202.
   (D)   Landscaping and buffering. Refer to §§
154.205 through
154.213.
   (E)   Outdoor lighting. Refer to §§
154.215 through
154.218.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.151 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT R-8.
   (A )    District description and dimensional standards.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0fa087e7aaf2d1426066c541dcf0227ca59242f9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2372.png]
 
DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS
Requirements Standards
DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS
Requirements                        Standards
Minimum Lot Area in Square Feet     8,000 Sq. Ft.      
Minimum Lot Width in Feet           60 ft. (at the front building line)
   Minimum Setback Lines in Feet:
Front                               20 ft.
Side                                8 ft.
Minimum Side Setback for Corner Lot 10 ft.
Rear                                25 ft.
Maximum Building Height             35 ft.
 
   (B)   Parking and loading. Refer to §§
154.185 through
154.189.
   (C)   Signs. Refer to §§
154.195 through
154.202.
   (D)   Landscaping and buffering. Refer to §§
154.205 through
154.213.
   (E)   Outdoor lighting. Refer to §§
154.215 through
154.218.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.152 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT R-5.
   (A )    District description and dimensional standards.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0fa087e7aaf2d1426066c541dcf0227ca59242f9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2374.png]
 
DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS
Requirements Standards
DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS
Requirements                        Standards
Minimum Lot Area in Square Feet     5,000 Sq. Ft.
Minimum Lot Width in Feet           50 ft. (at the front building line)
   Minimum Setback Lines in Feet:
Front                               20 ft.
Side                                8 ft.
Minimum Side Setback for Corner Lot 10 ft.
Rear                                25 ft.
Maximum Building Height             35 ft.
 
   (B)   Parking and loading. Refer to §§
154.185 through
154.189.
   (C)   Signs. Refer to §§
154.195 through
154.202.
   (D)   Landscaping and buffering. Refer to §§
154.205 through
154.213.
   (E)   Outdoor lighting. Refer to §§
154.215 through
154.218.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.153 MOB ILE HOM E PAR K RESI DENTI AL (R- MH).
   (A)     District description and dimensional standards.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0fa087e7aaf2d1426066c541dcf0227ca59242f9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2376.png]
 
DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS
Requirements Standards: MH Park Standards: MH Individual Lot
DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS
Requirements               Standards: MH Park   Standards: MH Individual Lot
Minimum Lot Area in Square 5,000 Sq. Ft.        10,000 Sq. Ft.
Feet
Minimum Lot Width in Feet  45 ft. (at the front 70 ft. (at the front building
                           building line)       line)
   Minimum Setback Lines in Feet:
Front                      20 ft.
Side                       10 ft.               12 ft.
Minimum Side Setback for   15 ft.               15 ft.
Corner Lot
Rear                       15 ft.               25 ft.
Maximum Building Height    35 ft.               35 ft.
 
   (B)   Parking and loading. Refer to §§
154.185 through
154.189.
   (C)   Signs. Refer to §§
154.195 through
154.202.
   (D)   Landscaping and buffering. Refer to §§
154.205 through
154.213.
   (E)   Outdoor lighting. Refer to §§
154.215 through
154.218.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.154 CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT (C-B).
   ( A)   District description and dimensional standards.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0fa087e7aaf2d1426066c541dcf0227ca59242f9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2378.png]
 
   DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS
   RequiremenStandards
   DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS
   Requirements                  Standards
Minim um Lot Area in Square Feet    None Required
Minim um Lot Width in Feet          None Required
   Minim um Setback Lines in Feet:
Front                               None Required
Side                                None Required
Minimum Side Setback for Corner Lot 15 ft.
Rear                                10 ft.
Maximum Building Height             35 ft.
 
   (B)   Residential uses must meet the dimensional requirements of the R-10
District.
   (C)   Parking and loading. Banks and other establishments with drive-in
windows shall file a circulation plan providing adequate off-street waiting
lanes for drive-in customers. Refer to §§
154.185 through
154.189.
   (D)   Signs. Refer to §§
154.195 through
154.202.
   (E)   Landscaping and buffering. Refer to §§
154.205 through
154.213.
   (F)   Outdoor lighting. Refer to §§
154.215 through
154.218.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.155 GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT (G-B).
   ( A)    District description and dimensional standards.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0fa087e7aaf2d1426066c541dcf0227ca59242f9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2380.png]
 
DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS
Requirements Standards
DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS
Requirements                        Standards
Minimum Lot Area in Square Feet     None Required
Minimum Lot Width in Feet           None Required
   Minimum Setback Lines in Feet:
Front                               10 ft.
Side                                10 ft.
Minimum Side Setback for Corner Lot 15 ft.
Rear                                10 ft.
Maximum Building Height             35 ft.
 
   (B)   Residential uses must meet the dimensional requirements of the R-10
District.
   (C)   Parking and loading. Banks and other establishments with drive-in
windows shall file a circulation plan providing adequate off-street waiting
lanes for drive-in customers. Refer to §§
154.185 through
154.189.
   (D)   Signs. Refer to §§
154.195 through
154.202.
   (E)   Landscaping and buffering. Refer to §§
154.205 through
154.213.
   (F)   Outdoor lighting. Refer to §§
154.215 through
154.218.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.156 NEIGHBORHOOD BUSINESS DISTRICT N-B.
   ( A)    District description and dimensional standards.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0fa087e7aaf2d1426066c541dcf0227ca59242f9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2382.png]
 
DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS
Requirements Standards
DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS
Requirements                        Standards
Minimum Lot Area in Square Feet     None Required
Minimum Lot Width in Feet           None Required
   Minimum Setback Lines in Feet:
Front                               20 ft.
Side                                10 ft.
Minimum Side Setback for Corner Lot 15 ft.
Rear                                10 ft.
Maximum Building Height             35 ft.
 
   (B)   Parking and loading. Refer to §§
154.185 through
154.189.
   (C)   Signs. Refer to §§
154.195 through
154.202.
   (D)   Landscaping and buffering. Refer to §§
154.205 through
154.213.
   (E)   Outdoor lighting. Refer to §§
154.215 through
154.218.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.157 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT L-1.
   (A)    District description and dimensional standards.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0fa087e7aaf2d1426066c541dcf0227ca59242f9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2384.png]
 
DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS
Requirements Public Water and Sewer
DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS
Requirements                        Public Water and Sewer
Minimum Lot Area                    None Required
Minimum Lot Width in Feet           100 ft.
   Minimum Setback Lines in Feet:
Front                               50 ft.
Side                                20 ft.
Minimum Side Setback for Corner Lot 25 ft.
Rear                                25 ft.
Maximum Building Height             35 ft.
 
   (B)   Development guidelines.
      (1)   Buildings erected or manufactured homes located in the L-I zone for
dwelling purposes exclusively shall comply with the requirements of the R-
6 residential zone or with the requirements for a manufactured home park.
      (2)   Where a building is erected for mixed use, namely, for both
dwelling and business purposes each story of such building used in any part for
dwelling purposes shall, if more than two rooms in depth, be provided with two
side yards, one on each side of the building, neither of which shall be less
than six feet in width; provided, however, that this regulation shall not apply
to the side of a corner lot adjacent to the street.
      (3)   Where a lot abuts upon the side of a lot zoned residential, there
shall be a side yard of not less ten feet in width.
   (C)   Parking and loading. Refer to §§
154.185 through
154.189.
   (D)   Signs. Refer to §§
154.195 through
154.202.
   (E)   Landscaping and buffering. Refer to §§
154.205 through
154.213.
   (F)   Outdoor lighting. Refer to §§
154.215 through
154.218.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.158 HISTORIC BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   ( A )    District description and dimensional standards .
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0fa087e7aaf2d1426066c541dcf0227ca59242f9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2386.png]
 
DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS
Requirements Public Water and Sewer
DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS
Requirements                        Public Water and Sewer
Minimum Lot Area                    None Required
Minimum Lot Width in Feet           None Required
   Minimum Setback Lines in Feet:
Front                               None Required
Side                                None Required
Minimum Side Setback for Corner Lot None Required
Rear                                10 ft.
Maximum Building Height             35 ft.
 
   (B)   Development guidelines:
      (1)   Parking and loading. Refer to §§
154.185 through
154.189.
      (2)   Signs are only allowed as follows:
         (a)   Directional signs, directing the public to off-street parking
areas, provided not more than two signs shall be permitted per lot, provided
further that the size of each such sign shall not exceed four square feet in
area; and
         (b)   Business signs, provided that signs projecting at right angles
from the building shall, for on-going business establishments only, be allowed
when suspended from above a canopy, provided the sign is at least 15 feet above
the sidewalk, otherwise, signs must be mounted flat with building walls and
must not project more than four inches from the walls. Businesses no longer in
operation must remove signs.
   (C)   Specifically not permitted within the H-D Historic Downtown Business
District are storefront churches and light manufacturing.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.159 SUMMARY DIMENSIONS MATRIX (EXISTING AND PROPOSED ORDINANCES).
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0fa087e7aaf2d1426066c541dcf0227ca59242f9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2392.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0fa087e7aaf2d1426066c541dcf0227ca59242f9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2394.png]
 
§ 154.160 TABLE OF USES.
 
TABLE OF USES 
TABLE OF USES 
                  Key:      P = Permitted Use      C = Permitted Use with
Conditions      S = Special Use Permit Required
Use Type        Zoning Districts                              Specific Regulation
                   R- R- R- R- R- R-  C- G- N-    H-
               RA 20 15 10 8  5  MHP B  B  B  HD D        LI  
                                                  Business
AGRICULTURAL USES
Agricultural
Uses (including
Agritourism
Uses, the sale
of products at
a retail stand,
Greenhouses,
Plant
Nurseries, Turf                                   
Farms, and      p                                          P
Field Crops)
Does not
include
commercial
production of
swine, poultry
or poultry
products.
Bona Fide Farms P                               P   
Farmer's                                                      §
Markets/Open    C               C  C  C              154.254
Air Markets
Forestry and
Forestry        P                               P   
Support
Services
RESIDENTIAL USES
Cluster         S  S  S  S  S  S                       § 
Developments                                                  154.281
Dwelling,
Duplex (Two-    P  P  P  P  P  P                        
Family) on
individual lots
Dwelling,
Single Family
(incl. Modular  P  P  P  P  P  P                        
Homes) on
individual lots
Dwelling, Mixed
Uses (buildings
used for both   S               S  S  S              §
dwelling and                                                  154.251 
business
purposes)
Dwelling,
Multi-Family,
including
structures with                                               §
three or more   S  S  S  S  S                         154.252
units such as
apartments,
condominiums,
and townhouses
Granny Pods
(See Temporary                                    
Health Care
Structures)
Manufactured                                                
Home, Class A   P        P  P                       (
(Doublewide),                                                 154.010)
on Individual
Lots (see
Definitions
Section for
requirements)
Manufactured                                               
Home, Class B   P        P  P  P                     (
(Singlewide) on                                               154.010)
Individual Lot
or in MHP (see
Definitions
Section for
requirements)
Manufactured
Home, Class C   PROHIBITED                                     
on Individual
Lot or in MHP
Manufactured                                                  See §§ 
Home Park       S            P                     154.295 through
                                                              154.304
Planned Unit
Development-    S  S  S  S  S                         §
Residential                                                   154.284
Uses
Residential                                                   See §§ 
Subdivision     S  S  S  S  S  S                       154.375 -
                                                              154.460
Tiny Houses                                                   § 
(permanent      C      C  C  C                       154.280
dwellings only)
CIVIC AND INSTITUTIONAL USES
Ambulance                                                     §
Service, Public                  C              C  154.236
or Private
Animal Shelter                   C              C  §
                                                              154.238
Arenas,
Assembly
Venues, Clubs,                                                §
Lodges,                        C  C                154.239
Exhibition
Halls - Public
or Private
Cemeteries,
Public and                                                    §
Private;        S  S  S                             154.246
Includes Family
Cemeteries
Church,
Synagogue and
Other Places of
Worship and                                       No store
their customary                           front
uses-           P  P  P  P  P  P       P  P    churches    
playgrounds,                                      allowed
fellowship
halls,
childcare and
cemeteries
Day Care Center
Adult (facility C      C  C  C       C  C              §
with more than                                                154.247
eight persons)
Day Care
Center, Child                                                 §
(facility with  C      C  C  C       C  C              154.248
more than eight
children)
Family Child
Care Home/Day
Care Home (two
to eight
children. A                                                    
family child                                     §
care home is    C           C  C            C                 154.249
licensed by the
NC Div. of
Child
Development and
Early Ed.)
Day Care Home,                                                §
Adult (seven or C        C  C         C              154.250
more beds)
Family Care
Home (no more   C        C  C         CP             §
than six                                                      154.253
residents)
Fire and Rescue
Station/Law                    P  P              P   
Enforcement
Station
Government
Office/Facility
(such as a Post
Office,                                           
Veteran's                             P  P  P     P
Affairs or
Social Security
Office)
Industrial
trade schools                    P              P   
and research
labs
Nature
Observation
Points and      P                                  
Nature
Preserves
Nursing
centers, rest                                                 §
homes and       C      C           C  C              154.269
convalescent
centers
Offices -
Business,                      P  P  P    P           
professional
and medical
Public or
Private utility
facilities such
as transformer                                                 
stations,                                        §
pumping         C  C  C  C  C  C  C   C  C  C     P        C  154.272
stations, water
towers, and
telephone
exchanges
Radio and
Television                                                    §
Studios,        S                 S              S  154.273
including
towers
Recreation,
Outdoor -
including but
not limited to
athletic
fields, parks,
swimming pools,                
(horseback      P  P  P  P      P                      
riding trails
and equestrian
facilities
limited to RA)
(mobile home
parks may have
swimming pools)
Schools (Public
or Private) -
K-12; Colleges
and                                               
Universities;   P  P  P  P               P
Technical,
Trade and
Business
Solid Waste
Convenience     P  P  P             P              P   
Sites and
Recycling Sites
Urgent Care
Facility/
Medical Care                                                  §
Clinics/                         C      P        C  154.278
Hospitals -
Public or
Private
Wireless
Communication                                                 See §§ 
Towers and      S                 S              S  154.340 -
other steel                                                   154.362
framework
towers
COMMERCIAL AND RECREATIONAL USES
Adult
Businesses and
Entertainment                                  S  §
Establishments                                                154.235
( including
bookstores)
Airports and
Airstrips,      S                                 §
Public and                                                    154.282
Private
Animal Kennels
(outdoor) and
Boarding and                                                  §
Grooming        C                               P  154.237
Facilities;
Veterinary
Clinics
Auction House,  C                 C                §
no livestock                                                  154.240
Auction/sales
barn for                                       P   
livestock
Auto (Vehicle)
Sales , new and S               P  P                 
used
Auto Leasing                     P              P   
establishments
Auto (Vehicle)
Repair and
Services -
including but
not limited to
body shops,                                               
engine repair,                 C  C              C   
garages,
wrecker
services. Does
not include
junk vehicle
storage.
Auto Service
Station, no                    P  P              P   
storage, no
junk vehicles
Auto Service
Station,                                                      §
including                                      S  154.242
storage of junk
vehicles
Auto Supply                    P  P      P           
Store
Bakery
Products,
Candy,                         P  P  P    P           
Confectionary
Shops
Bank, Savings
and Loan, or
Credit Union                   P  P  P    P           
(with or
without drive-
in)
Barber or                      P  P  P    P           
Beauty Shop
Bed and                        P                   
Breakfast Inns
Bicycle sales
and repair                     P  P  P    P           
shops
Billiard and                   P  P                 
Pool Halls
Boat and
Trailer Works                    P                 
(not
manufacturing)
Bowling Alleys,
Batting Cages,
Indoor Soccer,
skating rinks,                   P                 
and similar
indoor
recreational
establishments
Building
Materials Sales                  P                 
and Storage
Cabinet,
casket,
woodworking and                  P              P   
upholstery
shops
Campground,
Public or
Private,                                                      §
Including       S                                 154.243
Recreational
Vehicles and
Travel Trailers
Car Wash                         P              P   
Clubs and
Lodges, Public                   P                 
and Private
Contractors/
Construction
Business -
including but
not limited to
general
contractors,                                      
subcontractors/                       P  P                 P
trades
(grading,
landscaping,
tree services,
equipment
services) etc.)
Convenience
Store with or   P               P  P              P   
without gas
pumps
Drive-In                         P                 
Restaurant
Drive-In                         P                 
Theatre
Drugstores and                 P  P  P    P           
Pharmacies
Dry Cleaners
and dry-                       P  P      P        P   
cleaning pick-
up stations
Eating and
Drinking
Establishments                 P  P  P    P        P   
without drive-
through
Eating and
Drinking
Establishments,                P  P              P   
including
drive-through
Electrical
supply houses                  P  P      P        P   
and repair
shops
Extermination
and Pest                       P  P              P   
Control
Services
Farm Equipment
Sales and                        P              P   
Service
Feed and Seed
Sales, with or  P                 P      P        P   
without outdoor
storage
Firing Ranges                                  S  §
                                                              154.255
Flea Market -
Permanent                                                      
Location (See                                    §
Temporary Uses                           C                    154.256
for Temporary
Flea Markets)
Florists and                   P  P  P    P           
Gift Shops
Fuel Oil Sales                   C              C  §
(Retail)                                                      154.257
Funeral Home,                  C  C  C              §
no Crematorium                                                154.258
Funeral Home                                                  §
with                                           S  154.259
Crematorium
Golf Course,
excluding                                                     §
miniature golf  C  C                               154.260
- Public or
Private
Golf Course,    P                 P                 
Miniature Golf
Golf Driving    P                 P                 
Range
Golf Course,    P                 P                 
Par 3
Grocery Stores                 P  P  P               
Hardware Store                 P  P      P           
Heating and
refrigeration                  P  P              P   
shops
Hotels and                     P  P                 
Motels
Ice Vending and
Other Vending                                                 §
Machines,                        C              C  154.262
unmanned, stand
alone, outdoors
Jewelry and
Jewelry Repair                 P  P      P           
Shops
Laundries,                       P  P               
Laundromats
Locksmiths                     P  P  P    P           
Lumber Yards;
Building
materials
storage and                      P              P   
sales yards
including
storage
Machine and                      P                 
Welding Shops
Manufactured/
Modular Home                     C                 
Sales Lots
Manufactured                                                  §
Home Storage    C                               S  154.266
and Repair Yard
Mini-Warehouse/                                               §
Storage                                        C  154.268
Facility
Mixed Use
Development                    P  P  P               
(commercial is
primary use)
Off-Premise                                                   See §
Advertising     C                               C  154.200
(Billboards)
Other vehicle
and equipment
sales and
services,
including farm                                    
equipment,                               P                 P
trucks,
motorcycles,
motor homes and
campers, boats.
Parking lots
and structures                 P  P              P   
as principal
uses
Plumbing and
heating supply                   P              P   
houses
Recreation,
Indoor
including                        P                 
bowling alleys,
skating rinks,
etc.
Real Estate                    P  P      P           
Offices
Recreational                     P              P   
Vehicle Sales
Shopping                         S                §
Centers                                                       154.275
Sign painting
and                              P              P   
manufacturing
establishments
Tax Preparation                P  P      P           
Offices
Tire recapping                                 P   
establishment
Tobacco and                    P  P                 
Vape Shops
Vehicle Towing                   P              P   
Services
Vehicle Parts
and Supply                     P  P              P   
Sales
Transportation
and Freight                                    S  §
Terminals/Truck                                               154.277
Stop
Wholesale Trade
such as
building
supplies, farm
equipment, feed
and seed,
office
equipment and
supplies, large                                   
household                                P                 P
appliances,
plumbing and
electrical
fixtures,
wholesale
businesses,
lumberyards,
etc.)
INDUSTRIAL AND MANUFACTURING USES
Air
conditioning
and heating                                    P   
equipment
manufacturing
Amusement,
recreational
and sporting                                   P   
goods
manufacturing
Apparel and
clothing
manufacturing,                                 P   
including
hosiery
Bakeries and
other
establishments                                             
manufacturing                    P              P   
food products
for wholesale
distribution
Belting and
brake lining                                   P   
manufacturing
Book Binding                                   P   
establishments
Bottling Plants                                P   
Commercial or                                                 §
industrial                                     S  154.244
incineration
Concrete and                                   S  §
asphalt plants                                                154.245
Dairy products
processing and                                 P   
distributing
facilities
Drugs,
medicines and                                  P   
cosmetics
manufacturing
Dry Cleaning
and laundry                                    P   
plants
Electrical
appliances and
electronic                                     P   
equipment
manufacturing
Extraction
Operations (See                                   
Mining and
Quarrying)
Farm machinery
assembly,                                      P   
sales, storage
and repairs
Feed Processing                                P   
and Packaging
Fertilizer
Manufacturing                                  S   
and Sales
Hardware and
housewares                                     P   
manufacturing
Home
furnishings                                    P   
manufacturing
Industrial
Research                                       P   
Laboratories
Industrial                                                    §
Supplies and                                   P  154.263
Equipment Sales
Light machine
and tool                                       P   
manufacturing
Machine and                                    P   
welding shops
Manufactured
homes
manufacturing                                  P   
and onsite
display and
sales
Manufacturing
or Industrial                                                 §
Use not                                        S  154.267
elsewhere
listed
Monument works                                 P   
and sales
Motorcycle,
lawn mower and
power equipment                                P   
sales and
service
Musical
Instrument                                     P   
Manufacturing
Offices
pertaining to
any permitted                    P              P   
use in the
Industrial
District
Precision
instruments and                                P   
jewelry
Manufacturing
Printing,
engraving and                                  P   
publishing
establishments
Sheet metal,
roofing and
plumbing                                       P   
materials
manufacturing
Textile
Products                                       P   
Manufacturing
Wholesale and
warehousing
establishment
not including                                  P   
the storage of
volatile
chemicals and
explosives
WASTE MANAGEMENT, STORAGE AND UTILITY USES
Automobile and
other junk,                                    S  §
wrecking or                                                   154.241
salvage yards
Junk Yards/
Salvage Yards                                  S  §
and Auto                                                      154.264
Graveyards
                                                              See §§
Solar Farms     S                               S  154.315 -
                                                              154.327
ACCESSORY USES
Outdoor Sales                                                 §
and Display                    C  C              C  154.270
Areas
Customary
accessory
structures
including
detached
garages,                                                       
swimming pools,                                  §
etc. when       C        C  C  C  C      C  C              C  154.234
located in the
rear yard where
they shall not
cover more than
30% of said
rear yard area.
Home Occupation C  C  C  C  C  C  C                     §
                                                              154.261
Metal Shipping
Containers                       C              C  §
which have been                                               154.283
repurposed
Outdoor Storage C                 C  C              §
                                                              154.271
Satellite Dish  C  C  C  C         C  C  C            C  §
Antenna                                                       154.274
Manufactured                                                  §
Home as a       C  C    C           C              C  154.265
Temporary Use
TEMPORARY STRUCTURES AND USES
Temporary                                                     §
Structures and  C      C         C  C              C  154.276
Uses
USES NOT COVERED ELSEWHERE
Any Use not
otherwise                                                     §
prohibited by   S      S         S  S              S  154.279
law or by this
chapter
 
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7- 18-2023)
OTHER DESIGN STANDARDS FOR ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 154.170 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter, including the following dimensional and
other design standards, to promote the public health, safety, and general
welfare of the residents of the Town of Fairmont. In accordance with G.S.
Chapter 160D, the Town of Fairmont may adopt zoning regulations to regulate and
restrict the following:
   (A)   Number of stories, and size of buildings and other structures;
   (B)   The percentage of lots that may be occupied;
   (C)   The size of yards, courts, and other open spaces;
   (D)   The density of population;
   (E)   The location and use of buildings, structures, and land.
   (F)   The height, bulk, orientation, or location of a structure on a zoning
lot; and
   (G)   The use of buffering or screening to minimize visual impacts, to
mitigate the impacts of light and noise, or to protect the privacy of
neighbors.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-702.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.171 BUILDING DESIGN ELEMENTS WHICH CANNOT BE REGULATED.
   G.S. § 160D-702 prohibits the regulation by the Town of Fairmont any of the
building design elements listed below. However, nothing in this state law
prevents the voluntarily consent by the owners of all the property to which
building design elements may be applied as part of and in the course of the
process of seeking and obtaining a zoning amendment or a zoning, subdivision,
or development approval. Additionally, this state law shall not affect the
validity or enforceability of private covenants or other contractual agreements
among property owners relating to building design elements.
   (A)   The exterior building color;
   (B)   The type or style of exterior cladding material;
   (C)   The style or materials of roof structures or porches;
   (D)   The exterior nonstructural architectural ornamentation;
   (E)   The location or architectural styling of windows and doors, including
garage doors;
   (F)   The number and types of rooms; and the interior layout of rooms.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-702.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.172 REGULATION OF LAND OR STRUCTURES SUBJECT TO THE NC RESIDENTIAL CODE
FOR ONE- AND TWO-FAMILY DWELLINGS.
   Pursuant to G.S. § 160D-702, the Town of Fairmont has not set a minimum
square footage of any structures subject to regulation under the North Carolina
Residential Code for One- and Two- Family Dwellings. This state adopted code
applies exclusively to one- and two-family dwellings and townhouses and makes
possible the incorporation of new materials and building designs, and
provisions that do not give preferential treatment to particular types or
classes of materials, products or methods of construction.
   (A)   A zoning regulation shall not set a minimum square footage of any
structures subject to regulation under the North Carolina Residential Code for
One- and Two- Family Dwellings. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S.
§ 160D-702.
   (B)   Any regulation relating to building design elements adopted under this
chapter may not be applied to any structures subject to regulation under the
North Carolina Residential Code for One- and Two-Family Dwellings except under
one or more of the following circumstances:
      (1)   The structures are located in an area designated as a local
historic district pursuant to §§
154.145 to
154.160 of this chapter.
      (2)   The structures are located in an area designated as a historic
district on the National Register of Historic Places.
      (3)   The structures are individually designated as local, state, or
national historic landmarks.
      (4)   The regulations are directly and substantially related to the
requirements of applicable safety codes adopted under G.S. 143-138.
      (5)   Where the regulations are applied to manufactured housing in a
manner consistent with G.S. 160D-908 and federal law. For similar state law
provisions, refer to G.S. Chapter 160D Article 72.
      (6)   Where the regulations are adopted as a condition of participation
in the National Flood Insurance Program. For similar state law provisions,
refer to G.S. § 160D-702.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.173 STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO ALL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Minimum lot area.
      (1)   The minimum lot sizes set forth in this subchapter are permissible
only if and to the extent that adequate water and sewer facilities are or can
be made available to serve the lots. Where public water and sewer services are
not available, a greater lot area may be required. The designation of "C" (use
with conditions) or "S" (Special Use Permit required) will indicate this as may
be required.
      (2)   Deviations from the applicable lot size requirements of this
subchapter may be made under special circumstances, for nonconforming lots in
accordance with §§
154.510 through
154.516.
   (B)   Minimum lot width.
      (1)   The lot width shall be measured along a straight line connecting
the points at which a line that demarcates the required setback from the street
intersects with side property lines.
      (2)   No lot created after the effective date of this chapter that is
less than the recommended width shall be entitled to a variance from any
building setback requirement.
      (3)   Deviations from the applicable lot width requirements of this
section may be made for nonconforming lots in accordance with §§
154.510 through
154.516.
      (4)   Minimum lot width requirements for individual units in a
condominium or townhouse project are waived. However, the development parcel
must adhere to the minimum lot width requirements of the zoning district in
which it is located.
   (C)   Building Height.
      (1)   The vertical distance measured from the average elevation of the
proposed finished grade at the front of the structure to one of the following
(see Figure 9.1: Building Height Measurement):
         (a)   The midpoint between eave and ridgeline on a simple sloped roof
(e.g., gable or hip roof) or curved roof (e.g., barrel roof);
         (b)   Where there are multiple roof planes (e.g., gambrel or mansard
roof), the highest midpoint on a sloped or curved roof surface or the highest
flat roof plane, whichever is highest; or
      (2 )    The highest roof plane on a flat roof (not including any parapet
wall). Appurtenances usually required to be placed above the roof level and not
intended for human occupancy (e.g., antennas, chimneys, solar panels) shall not
count toward the building height.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0fa087e7aaf2d1426066c541dcf0227ca59242f9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2483.png]
 
   (D)   Lot access requirements.
      (1)   Subject to the remaining provisions of this section, every lot or
parcel to be built upon shall abut a public or private street or a private
easement and no structure shall be built upon a lot which does not about a
public or private street or a private easement.
      (2)   Every lot or parcel shall have a driveway access that meets or
exceeds the requirements of the NCDOT.
NOTE: Current NCDOT Requirement: A driveway with two-way operations shall have
a minimum 20 foot and a maximum of 36-foot width. A driveway with one-way
operation shall have a minimum 12 foot and a maximum 24- foot width. The need
for wider driveways will be considered on a case-by-case basis only after
justification of actual necessity, but should not exceed 50 feet. Policy on
Street and Driveway Access to North Carolina Highways, July 2003.
      (3)   Lot access requirements for individual units in condominium and
townhouse projects are waived. However, the individual units shall have right
of access through common areas containing private streets and/or private
drives.
   (E)   Building setback requirements.
      (1)   Setback distances shall be measured from the street right-of-way
line, street centerline, or property line to a point on the lot that is the
nearest extension of any part of the building that is
substantially a part of a building itself and not a mere appendage to it nor a
building part allowed to encroach into a setback.
      (2)   Building setbacks from approved private streets shall be measured
from the private street right-of-way, private street easement, or the boundary
line of the common area reserved for the private street.
      (3)   Setbacks for flag lots and lots served by access easements shall
comply with the requirements of the district in which they are located.
      (4)   Where 50% or more of the lots in a recorded subdivision on the same
side of the block as the lot in question are developed with less than the
required street setbacks, the average setback of the two principal buildings
nearest that lot shall be observed as the required minimum setback.
      (5)   Deviations from the applicable setback requirements of this section
may be made for nonconforming lots.
   (F)   Dimensional requirements for accessory buildings, structures and uses.
      (1)   Lots 20,000 sq. ft. or less. Only one accessory structure/building
shall be permitted on lots of 20,000 sq. ft. or less.
      (2)   Lots greater than 20,000 sq. ft. Larger lots are allowed an extra
accessory building/structure for each additional 30,000 sq. ft. provided that
such accessory buildings/structures are a minimum of 30 feet apart from any
other principal or secondary building/structures.
      (3)   Minimum setbacks. The following shall apply to accessory buildings,
structures and uses:
         (a)   Minimum side setback: 10 feet.
         (b)   Minimum rear setback: 10 feet.
         (c)   Minimum setback from principal structure: 10 feet.
         (d)   Maximum building height shall not exceed 20 feet from mean roof
height.
      (4)   Pump houses. Accessory buildings not exceeding 50 sq. ft. and used
exclusively to house well and pump equipment may be permitted in front, side or
rear yards, provided such accessory buildings are at least five feet from any
property lines and do not encroach into any required easements or other site
angles.
      (5)   Location on contiguous lot. An accessory building may be located on
another contiguous or non-contiguous lot from the principal use with which it
is associated, only to the extent that the principal use itself would also be
permitted on such lot.
      (6)   Use for commercial purposes. Accessory structures shall not be used
for commercial purposes unless properly permitted.
      (7)   Accessory structures and uses in residential districts. In all
residential zoning districts, accessory structures and uses must be placed in
back of or on the side of the principal structure on the lot and must meet the
setback requirements for the applicable zoning district.
      (8)   Lot coverage. Accessory structures to a residential use shall not
have a ground floor area which exceeds 50% of the ground floor area of the
principal building.
      (9)   Expansion of nonconforming use not permitted. If a property is
nonconforming under the zoning ordinance, then the addition of an accessory use
or structure must not violate and restriction concerning the expansion or
change involving the nonconforming features of the site.
   (G)   Encroachments into setbacks. The following encroachments, examples
depicted in Figure 9-2 are permitted in required setbacks provided there is no
interference with any sight area:
      (1)   Landscaping features, including but not limited to, ornamental
pools, planting boxes, sculptures, arbors, trellises, and birdbaths;
      (2)   At grade patios, play equipment or outdoor furniture, ornamental
entry columns and gates, flag poles, lamp posts, address posts, HVAC equipment,
mailboxes, outdoor fire places, public utility wires and poles, pumps or wells,
and fences or retaining walls; and
      (3)   Handicapped ramps.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0fa087e7aaf2d1426066c541dcf0227ca59242f9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2485.png]
 
   (H)     Visibility at intersections . No building, structure, wall, fence,
shrub or tree shall be erected, maintained, or planted on any lot which will
allow an obstruction in the horizontal or vertical sight distance area.
   (I)     Principal building per lot. No more than one principal building
shall be permitted on a buildable lot or parcel unless otherwise specified in
this chapter.
OFF- STREET PARKING AND LOADING, SIGNS, LANDSCAPING AND BUFFERING, OUTDOOR
LIGHTS
Part I. Off-Street Parking, Stacking and Loading Requirements
§ 154.185 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Off-street parking required. There shall be provided at the time of
the erection of any building, or at the time any principal building is enlarged
or increased in capacity by adding dwelling units, guest
rooms, seats or floor area; or before conversion from one type of use of
occupancy to another, permanent off-street parking space in the amount
specified by this section. A parking space may be provided in a parking garage
or properly graded open space. No public right-of-way shall be used in
determining or providing required off-street parking.
   (B)   Certification of minimum parking requirements. Each application for a
zoning permit submitted to the Zoning Enforcement Officer as provided for in
this chapter shall include information as to the location and dimensions of
off-street parking and loading space and the means of entrance and exit to the
space. This information shall be in sufficient detail to enable the Zoning
Enforcement Officer to determine whether or not the requirements of this
section are met.
   (C)   Joint use of required parking space. The required parking space for
any number of separate uses may be combined in one lot but the required space
assigned to one use may not be assigned to another use, except that one-half of
the parking space required for churches, theaters, or assembly halls whose peak
attendance will be at night or on Sundays may be assigned to a use which will
be closed at night and on Sundays.
   (D)   Remote parking space. If the off-street parking space required by this
chapter cannot be reasonably provided on the same lot on which the principal
use is located, such space shall be provided on any lot a substantial portion
of which is within 500 feet of the main entrance of such principal use,
provided such land is in the same ownership as the principal use or leased on a
long-term basis for the specific purpose to serve as parking space for the
aforesaid principal use.
      (1)   In such cases, the applicant for a permit for the principal use
shall submit with his or her application for a zoning permit or a certificate
of occupancy an instrument duly executed and acknowledged, which subjects said
land to parking use in connection with the principal use for which it is made
available.
      (2)   Such instrument shall become a permanent record and be attached to
the zoning permit or certificate of occupancy application.
      (3)   In the event such land is ever used for other than off-street
parking space for the principal use to which it is encumbered and no other off-
street parking space meeting the terms of this chapter is provided for the
principal use, the certificate of occupancy or zoning permit for such principal
use shall become void.
   (E)   Interpretation by Zoning Enforcement Officer. The number of off-street
parking spaces required shall be as follows:
      (1)   All land uses in all zoning districts shall provide a sufficient
number of parking spaces to accommodate the number of vehicles that ordinarily
are likely to be attracted to the development in question.
      (2)   The Table of Parking Requirements below may be flexibly
administered.
      (3)   The Board of Commissioners recognizes that the parking requirements
set forth in Figure 10-1 cannot and does not cover every possible situation
that may arise. Therefore, in cases not specifically covered, the Zoning
Enforcement Officer is authorized to determine the parking requirements using
this table as a guide. The Zoning Enforcement Officer may also require more
parking or allow less parking whenever he or she finds that such a deviation is
more likely to satisfy the standard set forth in the Table of Parking
Requirements.
   (F)   Improvement and location standards.
      (1)   All off-street parking, including entrances, exits, and maneuvering
and parking areas shall:
         (a)   Have the access drive(s) paved from the existing street paving
to a point at least 15 feet beyond the public right-of-way, except that
residential uses requiring less than five spaces shall be exempt from this
paving requirement.
         (b)   Be permanently maintained by the owners.
      (2)   In addition, all parking lots that are used regularly (at least
five days per week), except as provided below, shall be paved up to the
required paved driveway. This paving requirement shall not apply to:
         (a)   Parking lots used only by churches, private clubs, or similar
organizations on an irregular schedule, and
         (b)   Parking lots for residential uses where less than five spaces
are required.
      (3)   A strip of land five feet wide adjoining any street line or any
zoned for residential uses shall be preserved as open space and may be planted
in shrubbery.
 
Figure 10-1    Table of Parking Requirements - Number of Spaces Required
Residential Uses Maximum Minimum
Residential Uses           Maximum                   Minimum
                                                     0-1 bedroom 1.5; 2
                                                     bedrooms 2; 3 bedrooms or
                                                     more 2.25. If the town
                                                     determines that the
                                                     parking requirements of
Residential housing        2.5                       the anticipated resident
                                                     population requires
                                                     additional parking, the
                                                     town may require up to 2.5
                                                     spaces per unit. Elderly
                                                     housing may be reduced up
                                                     to 1 space per 2 units.
Day care, adult or child                            1 per 8 participants
Dwellings, duplex                                   2 parking spaces per
                                                     dwelling unit
Dwellings, multi-family                             2 parking spaces per
                                                     dwelling unit
                                                     1 per 4 beds and 1 per
Family care home                                    supervisor and staff
                                                     person
                                                     2 plus 1 per 4 beds and 1
Group home residential                              per supervisor and staff
                                                     person
Nursing homes/convalescent                           1 per 4 beds and 1 per
home                                                supervisor and staff
                                                     person
Nonresidential Uses        Maximum                   Minimum
Amusement and recreation   1 per 200 square feet of  1 per 400 sq. ft. gross
services, indoor           gross floor area          floor area
Assembly halls, exhibit    1 per 100 sq. ft. gross   1 per 400 sq. ft. gross
halls and similar places   floor area or 1 per every floor area or 1 per every
of public assembly         3 seats, whichever is     4 seats, whichever is
                           greater                   greater
Automobile renting,                                 1 per 400 sq. ft. gross
leasing and sales                                    floor area N
                                                     1 per 600 sq. ft. gross
Automobile repair shop     1 per 400 sq. ft. gross   floor area and 1 per 2,000
                           floor area max            sq. ft. gross floor area
                                                     of display area
Automotive services,                                 1 per 600 sq. ft. gross
except repair and towing   1 per 400 sq. ft. gross   floor area and 1 per 2,000
see also Service Stations  floor area max            sq. ft. gross floor area
                                                     of display area
Banking services           1 per 200 sq. ft. gross   1 per 400 sq. ft. gross
                           floor area                floor area
                                                     1 per alley plus
Bowling alleys and pool                              requirements for any other
halls                                               use associated with the
                                                     establishment, such as a
                                                     restaurant
Building material dealers  1 per 250 sq. ft. gross   1 per 400 sq. ft. gross
                           floor area                floor area
Business services          1 per 250 sq. ft. gross   1 per 400 sq. ft. gross
                           floor area                floor area
Churches and other         1 per 3 seats             1 per 4 seats
religious institutions
                                                     4 spaces for every doctor
Clinics                                             or physician's assistant;
                                                     plus 2 spaces for each 3
                                                     employees
Communications facilities  1 per 250 sq. ft. gross   1 per 400 sq. ft. gross
                           floor area                floor area
Contractor's equipment and 1 per 200 sq. ft. gross   1 per 300 sq. ft. gross
supply dealers and service floor area                floor area
Contractor, general or     1 per 200 sq. ft. gross   1 per 300 sq. ft. gross
special trade              floor area                floor area
Contractor's storage yard  1 per 200 sq. ft. gross   1 per 300 sq. ft. gross
                           floor area                floor area
Cultural arts center,      1 per 250 sq. ft. gross   1 per 400 sq. ft. gross
library, museum            floor area                floor area
                           In addition to residence requirements, 1 parking
Customary home occupations space per 100 square feet devoted to the home
                           occupation use
                           1 per 1,000 sq. ft. gross 1 per 1,500 sq. ft. gross
Drive-in theater           floor area                floor area or 1 per 1.5
                                                     employees
Electric motor repair shop 1 per 250 sq. ft. gross   1 per 400 sq. ft. gross
                           floor area                floor area
Farmer's market, open air  1 per 200 sq. ft. gross   1 per 400 sq. ft. gross
market                     floor area                floor area
Fire station, EMS                                    1 parking spaces per
stations, law enforcement                           employee on duty at one
operations                                           time
Existing says Rescue                                 
Buildings and Armories
                                                     1 parking space for each 4
Funeral Homes                                       seats in the chapel or
                                                     parlor
Golf course, private or    25 spaces                 50 per 18 holes
public
Government offices
including municipal        1 space per employee plus 1 space for every 100 sq.
buildings/ veteran's       ft. of gross floor area.
affairs/ social security/
post offices
Home occupations           1 parking space per home occupation in addition to
                           residence requirements
Hospitals, except animal   1 per each 4 licensed beds intended for patient use,
hospitals                  plus 1 per each staff person, including medical and
                           support staff based on the largest employee shift
                           1 parking space for each 2 rooms to be rented, plus
                           1 additional parking space for each 2 employees,
Hotels and motels          plus additional parking spaces as may be required
                           for any commercial or business uses located in the
                           same building
Industrial                 1 per 1,000 sq. ft. gross 1 per 1,500 sq. ft. gross
                           floor area                floor area
Kennels, commercial        1 per 250 sq. ft. gross   1 per 400 sq. ft. gross
boarders and breeders      floor area                floor area
                                                     1 per 600 sq. ft. gross
Laboratories               1 per 400 sq. ft. gross   floor area and 1 per 2,000
                           floor area                sq. ft. gross floor area
                                                     of display area
Libraries                  1 per 200 sq. ft. gross   1 per 300 sq. ft. gross
                           floor area                floor area
Marinas                                             1 per 4 dry slips, plus 1
                                                     per 2 wet slips
                                                     1 space for each 2
Manufacturing and                                   employees at maximum
wholesale operations                                 employment on a single
                                                     shift
Manufactured housing                                1 per 100 sq. ft. gross
dealers                                              floor area
                                                     1 per 400 sq. ft. gross
                                                     floor area of office space
                                                     and 1 per 5,000 sq. ft.
                                                     gross floor area of
                                                     additional indoor area.
Mini-warehousing                                    When calculating required
                                                     parking for single-story
                                                     mini-warehousing, internal
                                                     drive aisles adjacent to
                                                     units with exterior access
                                                     may be included
Mobile homes               Two spaces for each mobile home
                                                     1 per 1,000 sq. ft. gross
                                                     floor area of non-office
Motor freight companies                             floor area plus 1 per 300
                                                     sq. ft. gross floor area
                                                     office floor area
Movers, van lines and                               1 per 1,000 sq. ft. gross
storage                                              floor area
Movie theaters, except                              1 per 4 seats
drive-in
Offices, medical           1 per 170 sq. ft. gross   1 per 250 sq. ft. gross
                           floor area                floor area
Offices, professional      1 per 200 sq. ft. gross   1 per 300 sq. ft. gross
                           floor area                floor area
Parks and recreation       1 per 200 sq. ft. gross   1 per 400 sq. ft. gross
areas, municipal           floor area                floor area
Personal services          1 per 225 sq. ft. gross   1 per 400 sq. ft. gross
                           floor area                floor area
Public utility buildings                            1 parking space for each
                                                     employee.
Recreation facility,       1 per 200 sq. ft. gross   1 per 400 sq. ft. gross
wellness center            floor area                floor area
                                                     1 parking space for each
Recreational facilities                              employee plus 1 parking
not otherwise listed,                               space for every 2
without spectator seating                            participants at full
                                                     capacity
                                                     Same as recreational
Recreational facilities                              facilities without
not otherwise listed, with                          spectators plus 1 parking
spectator seating                                    space for every 4
                                                     spectator seats
Repair shops, not          1 per 250 sq. ft. gross   1 per 400 sq. ft. gross
elsewhere classified       floor area                floor area
                           1 per 2.5 seats or 1 per  1 per 4 seats or 1 per 80
Restaurant: standard and   65 sq. ft. gross floor    sq. ft. gross floor area
fast food carry-out        area exclusive of kitchen exclusive of kitchen
                           and restroom facilities   restroom facilities
Restaurants, drive-in      Parking space equivalent to 5 times the floor space
                           in the main building
                           1 space for each 6 patient beds, plus 1 space for
Rest homes                 each staff or visiting doctor, plus 1 space for each
                           4 employees
Retail sales establishment 1 per 200 sq. ft. gross   1 per 400 sq. ft. gross
                           floor area                floor area
Rooming and boarding       1 space for each 3 guest rooms, plus 1 additional
houses                     space for the owners or managers
                           1 per 1,000 sq. ft. gross 1 per 1,500 sq. ft. gross
Sales office, off-premises floor area                floor area or 1 per 1.5
                                                     employees
Schools: high schools,     1 per 5 students, or 1 per 3 seats in auditoriums
colleges and universities; and other places of assembly or facilities available
industrial trade schools   to the public, whichever is greater plus 1 per
Schools: Elementary and    1 space for each employee
Junior High
Service stations           1 per 200 sq. ft. gross   1 per 400 sq. ft. gross
                           floor area                floor area
                                                     6 parking spaces for each
                                                     1,000 square feet of gross
Shopping centers                                    floor space in the center,
                                                     plus 1 space per business,
                                                     provided collectively
Skating rink, roller or    1 per 200 sq. ft. gross   1 per 400 sq. ft. gross
ice                        floor area                floor area
Small engine repair,       1 per 200 sq. ft. gross   1 per 400 sq. ft. gross
except automotive          floor area                floor area
Social services, not       1 per 200 sq. ft. gross   1 per 300 sq. ft. gross
elsewhere classified       floor area                floor area
Swimming pool, private     1 per 200 sq. ft. gross   1 per 400 sq. ft. gross
                           floor area                floor area
Telecommunication facility 1 per 1,000 sq. ft. gross 1 per 1,500 sq. ft. gross
unattended                 floor area                floor area
Tire dealers and service                            1 per 500 sq. ft. gross
                                                     floor area
                                                     1 per 600 sq. ft. gross
Towing services,           1 per 400 sq. ft. gross   floor area and 1 per 2,000
automobile and truck       floor area                sq. ft. gross floor area
                                                     of display area
Used merchandise stores,   1 per 225 sq. ft. gross   1 per 400 sq. ft. gross
except automotive goods    floor area                floor area
Utility stations and       1 per 1,000 sq. ft. gross 1 per 1,500 sq. ft. gross
plants outside public      floor area                floor area or 1 per 1.5
rights-of-way                                        employees
Veterinary services with   1 per 170 sq. ft. gross   1 per 250 sq. ft. gross
kennels                    floor area                floor area
Warehousing general                                 1 per 1,000 sq. ft. gross
                                                     floor area
Welding, repair            1 per 250 sq. ft. gross   1 per 400 sq. ft. gross
                           floor area                floor area
Wholesale trade, durable                            1 per 1,000 sq. ft. gross
goods                                                floor area
Wholesale trade,                                    1 per 1,000 sq. ft. gross
nondurable goods                                     floor area
 
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7- 18-2023)
§ 154.186 PARKING LOTS.
    Where parking lots for more than five cars are permitted or required, the
following provisions shall also be applied.
   (A)   The lot may be used only for parking and not for any type of loading,
sales, dead storage, repair work, dismantling or servicing, but shall not
preclude convention exhibits or parking of rental vehicles.
   (B)   All entrances, exits, barricades at sidewalks, and drainage plans
shall be approved and constructed before occupancy.
   (C)   A strip of land five feet wide adjoining any street line or any lot
zoned for residential uses shall be preserved as open space, guarded with wheel
bumpers and planted in grass and/or shrubs or trees.
   (D)   Any parking lot of more than five cars which is adjacent, along the
side or rear property lines, to property used or zoned for residential uses,
shall be provided with screening. Only one entrance and one exit sign no larger
than two square feet prescribing parking regulations may be erected at each
entrance or exit.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.187 PARKING AND STORAGE OF MANUFACTURED HOMES AND VEHICLES.
   (A)   Manufactured home parking and storing. It shall be unlawful to park or
otherwise store for any purpose whatsoever any manufactured home within any
zoning district except as follows:
      (1)   At a safe, lawful, and non-obstructive location on a street, alley
highway, or other public place, providing that the trailer or mobile home shall
not be parked overnight;
      (2)   Within a mobile home park, provided, however, the mobile home shall
either have a North Carolina or HUD label of compliance permanently attached
thereto; and,
      (3)   On any other lot or plot provided that trailers shall be stored in
a garage or carport or in the rear or side yard.
      (4)   Junk or dilapidated mobile home/manufactured home storage or repair
yards must obtain a special use permit.
   (B)   Vehicle storage.
      (1)   Only vehicles intended for personal use shall be parked or stored
on any property zoned Residential. No storage of commercial inventory
whatsoever shall be permitted and no inoperative or
unlicensed vehicles shall be permitted to be parked or stored longer than 14
days. Commercial trucks or vans driven home by employees or owners must be
parked in the side or rear yard.
      (2)   Customer and employee parking is permitted along with the parking
and storing of governmental or commercial vehicles, in any public and
conservation, commercial, or industrial district. Inoperative vehicles shall
only be permitted to be parked or stored while undergoing repairs at a
commercial garage or automobile service station or if stored in an approved
junk or wrecking yard where a special use permit has been secured.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.188 DESIGN REQUIREMENTS FOR PARKING SPACES AND DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   Design requirements for parking spaces. All parking spaces shall have
minimum dimensions of nine in width and 18 feet in length. All access or backup
aisles shall conform to the following minimum dimensions in Figure 10-2:
Figure 10-2
Parking Space Dimensional Requirements
 
Parking Angle Aisle Dimension
90 degrees    24 feet
60 degrees    18 feet
45 degrees    14 feet
30 degrees    12 feet
0 degrees     12 feet
 
      (1)   The use of streets, sidewalks, alleys or other public rights-of-way
for parking or maneuvering to and from off-street parking spaces is prohibited,
except where such maneuvering is necessary in the use of driveways for access
to and from single-family and two-family dwellings. All off-street parking
areas shall be so arranged that ingress and egress is by forward motion of the
vehicle.
      (2)   Parking area edges shall be protected by suitable curbing, wheel
guards, or other means to prevent vehicular encroachment on a public right-of-
way or on adjacent property, and to protect the public right-of-way and
adjoining properties from the damaging effects from surface drainage from
parking lots.
      (3)   Where two or more driveways are located on the same lot, other than
a mobile home park, the minimum distance between such drives shall be 30 feet
or one third of the lot frontage, whichever is greater; however, this provision
shall not apply to any commercial or industrial planned development. Driveway
locations in such developments shall be approved by the North Carolina
Department of Transportation.
      (4)   No driveway shall be located closer than 25 feet to any street
intersection.
       (5)   All applicable ADA (American Disabilities Act) standards shall
apply.
      (6)   Vehicle accommodation areas of all developments shall be designed
so that sanitation, emergency, and other public service vehicles can serve such
developments without the necessity of backing unreasonable distances or making
other dangerous or hazardous turning movements.
      (7)   Vehicle accommodation areas that include lanes for drive-in
windows, or contain parking areas that are required to have more than ten
parking spaces and that are used regularly at least five days per week shall be
graded and surfaced with asphalt, concrete or other material that will provide
equivalent protection against potholes, erosion, and dust.
      (8)   Vehicle accommodation areas that are not provided with the type of
surface specified in division (A)(7) above of this section shall be graded and
surfaced with crushed stone, gravel, or other suitable material to provide a
surface that is stable and will help to reduce dust and erosion. The perimeter
of such parking areas shall be defined by bricks, stones, railroad ties, or
other similar devices. In addition, whenever such a vehicle accommodation area
abuts a paved street, the driveway leading from such a street to such area (or
if there is no driveway, the portion of the vehicle accommodation area that
opens onto such streets) shall be paved as provided in division (A)(7) above
for a distance of 15 feet back from the edge or the paved street. This division
shall not apply to single-family or two-family residences or other uses that
are required to have only one or two parking spaces.
      (9)   Vehicle accommodation areas shall be properly maintained in all
respects. In particular, and without limiting the foregoing,vehicle
accommodation area surfaces shall be kept in good condition (free from
potholes, etc.) and parking space lines or markings shall be kept clearly
visible and distinct.
   (B)   Number of spaces required for off-street parking. The number of off-
street spaces required by this Part I. shall be provided on the same lot with
the principal unless otherwise specified and the required number of off-street
parking spaces specified for each use shall be considered as the absolute
minimum. In addition, a developer shall evaluate his or her own needs to
determine if they are greater than the minimum specified by this chapter.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.189 DESIGN REQUIREMENTS FOR OFF-STREET LOADING SPACE.
   Off-street loading shall be provided and maintained as specified in the
following:
   (A)   Uses which normally handle large quantities of goods, including but
not limited to industrial plants, wholesale establishments, storage warehouses,
freight terminals, hospitals and retail sales establishments shall provide off-
street loading facilities in the amounts shown on Figure 10-3.
Figure 10-3    Off-Street Loading
Gross Floor Area (Square Feet) Minimum Number of Spaces Required
Gross Floor Area (Square Feet) Minimum Number of Spaces Required
5,000-20,000                   1
20,001-50,000                  2
50,001-80,000                  3
80,001-125,000                 4
125,001-170,000                5
170,001-215,000                6
215,001-260,000                7
For each additional 45,000     1 - Additional
 
   (B)   Uses which do not handle large quantities of goods, including but not
limited to office buildings, restaurants, funeral homes, hotels, motels,
apartment buildings, and places of public assembly, shall provide off-street
loading facilities in the following amounts:
Figure 10-4    Off-Street Loading
 
Gross Floor Area (Square Feet) Minimum Number of Spaces Required
5,000-80,000                   1
80,001-200,000                 2
200,001-320,000                3
320,001-500,000                4
For each additional 180,000    1 - Additional
 
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
Part II. Signs
§ 154.195 PURPOSE OF SIGN REGULATIONS.
   It is the purpose of this Part II. to permit signs of a commercial,
industrial, and residential nature and to regulate the size and placement of
signs, which are visible from any public way. These regulations shall apply to
all districts. No exterior sign may be erected, painted, repainted, posted,
placed, replaced or hung in any district, except in compliance with these
regulations. These regulations are intended to establish standards which
recognize the rights of all citizens to protection under the First Amendment to
the US Constitution while also supporting public safety and the natural
attractiveness of the area.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.196 GENERAL SIGN REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Permit required. With the exception of those signs specifically
authorized in §
154.197 below, no sign may be erected without a permit from the Zoning
Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   Permit application. Application for permits shall be submitted on
forms obtainable at the office of the Zoning Enforcement Officer.
      (1)   Each application shall be accompanied by plan, which shall:
         (a)   Indicate the proposed site by identifying the property by
ownership, location and use;
         (b)   Show the location of the sign on the lot in relation to property
lines and building, zoning district boundaries, right-of-way lines, and
existing signs; and
         (c)   Show size, character, complete structural specifications and
methods of anchoring and support.
      (2)   If conditions warrant, the Zoning Enforcement Officer may require
such additional information as will enable him or her to determine if such sign
is to be erected in conformance with this chapter.
   (C)   Structural requirements. Structural requirements for signs shall be
those requirements found in the North Carolina State Building Code.
   (D)   Sign area computation. Sign area shall be measured by the smallest
square, rectangle, triangle, circle or combination thereof, which will
encompass the entire advertising copy area, excluding
architectural trim and structural members. In computing area, only one side of
a double-faced sign shall be considered.
   (E)   Fees.
      (1)   No permit shall be issued until the exact dimensions and area of
the sign have been filed with the Zoning Enforcement Officer and the fees
posted in the planning office are paid accordingly.
      (2)   Exempt from this fee requirement shall be those signs specified in
§
154.197 below.
   (F)   Maintenance. All signs, together with all their supports and braces,
shall be kept in a state of good repair and in a neat and clean condition. No
sign shall be continued which becomes, in the opinion of the Zoning Enforcement
Officer, structurally unsafe and endangers the safety of the public or
property. The Zoning Enforcement Officer may order the removal of any sign that
is not maintained in accordance with the provisions of this section. Such
removal shall be at the expense of the owner or lessee and shall occur within
ten days after written notification thereof by the Zoning Enforcement Officer.
If such order is not complied with in 30 days, the Zoning Enforcement Officer
shall remove such at the expense of the owner or lessee thereof.
   (G)   Location Restrictions.
      (1)   No sign shall be permitted on any public right-to-way except as
specifically authorized herein.
      (2)   No sign shall be attached to or painted on any telephone pole,
telegraph pole, power pole, or other man-made object not intended to support a
sign, nor on any tree, rock or other natural object except as specifically
authorized herein.
      (3)   Sign shall not obstruct any window, door, fire escape, stairway,
ladder, or opening intended to provide light, air, ingress or egress for any
building, structure, or lot.
   (H)   Setback and height requirements.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided herein, signs are required to observe
the same yard setback and height regulations as the principal structures or
buildings.
      (2)   If the lot on which a ground sign is to be located is zoned other
than residential, but is immediately adjacent to a lot zoned for residential
use, then a distance of at least fifty feet shall intervene between the closest
part of such sign and the adjacent lot line of the property in the residential
district. Provided further, that all out-door advertising signs shall conform
to §
154.200.
   (I)   Nonconforming signs. No nonconforming sign erected before the adoption
of this chapter shall be moved or replaced, without complying with the
provisions of this chapter. All signs existing on the
effective date of this subchapter which do not conform to the requirements set
forth herein shall be removed or brought into compliance within 36 months from
the effective date of this chapter. However, an existing nonconforming business
or industry shall, after the three-year period, be allowed one sign not
exceeding 12 square feet on a side or a total of 20 square feet, which sign
shall be affixed to the building and have only non-flashing illumination.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.197 SIGNS NOT REQUIRING A PERMIT FROM THE ZONING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   The signs listed below shall not require a permit from the Zoning
Enforcement Officer. However, all signs using electrical wiring and connection
shall have an electrical permit.
   (A)   Direction/informational signs. Directional and information signs,
erected and maintained by public agencies and governmental bodies.
   (B)   Public/quasi-public name signs. Quasi-public signs, not to exceed four
square feet in area. Such signs shall only be used for the purpose of stating
or calling attention to:
      (1)   The name of location of the town, hospital, community center,
public or private school, church, synagogue, or other place of worship;
      (2)   The name of a place of meeting or an official or civil body such as
the Chamber of Commerce, service club, or fraternal organization.
      (3)   An event of public interest such as public hearing, rezoning,
announcement, general election, church or public meeting; local or town fair;
and other similar community activities and campaigns;
      (4)   Soil conservation, 4-H and similar projects; and zoning and
subdivision jurisdiction boundaries.
   (C)   Professional and home occupations signs.
      (1)   One sign per lot not to exceed two square feet attached to the
principal structure.
      (2)   One sign per lot not to exceed two square feet located at least ten
feet from the street line and side property lines. Where side yards are
required, no such sign shall be permitted in the required side yards.
      (3)   No such signs shall be illuminated in the residential district.
   (D)   Temporary subdivision sign. Subdivision development signs, not over 64
square feet in area which direct attention to the opening of a new subdivision
may be erected on the site of such new subdivision. Only indirect illumination
with white light will be permitted, such sign shall be removed when 75% of the
subdivision is sold.
   (E)   Bulletin board. One bulletin board for each school or other public
building and for each church, synagogue or place of worship, provided that it
be located on the same premises and shall not exceed 50 square feet, such
bulletin board may be free standing or attached. In residential districts,
illumination of bulletin boards shall be white, non-flashing lights.
   (F)   Temporary signs.
      (1)   Real estate. One temporary real estate sign not exceeding four
square feet in area may be placed on a property that is for sale, lease, rent,
or barter; however, when the property on which said sign is placed fronts on
more than one street, one sign shall be allowed on each street frontage. Such
signs shall not be illuminated.
      (2)   Other temporary advertising signs. Temporary advertising signs
shall be permitted providing that such signs shall not exceed six square feet
in area in residential districts and shall be spaced no closer than 100 feet
apart.
      (3)   Temporary construction sign. One temporary construction sign may be
erected on the site during the period of construction or reconstruction to
announce the name of the owner and/or developer, the name of the structure and
its use or occupants to be, contractor, subcontractor, architect, and engineer;
however, when the property on which said sign is placed fronts on more than one
street, one sign shall be allowed on each street frontage. Such signs shall be
removed when the building has been approved for occupancy by the Zoning
Enforcement Officer. Maximum size of construction signs in the residential zone
shall be 24 square feet; in all other zones, 72 square feet.
   (G)   Setback requirements for signs not requiring a building permit. Signs
which do not require a permit from the Zoning Enforcement Officer shall be set
back at least ten feet any public right-of-way line or property line and shall
be setback at least 25 feet from any road intersection. No illumination is
permitted.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.198 PERMANENT SIGNS FOR SUBDIVISIONS AND MULTI-FAMILY DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   One permanent subdivision sign per major entrance is permitted.
Exception: if a subdivision name sign is incorporated into gateposts, brick
walls, or similar structures making the entrance, the name may appear on both
sides of the entrance as a substitute for other subdivision identification
signs.
   (B)   Total area per entrance is 64 square feet.
   (C)   Signs shall be placed on private property no closer than ten feet to
any property line.
   (D)   Illumination is restricted to white indirect lighting.
   (E)   Content of sign is limited to the name of the subdivision.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.199 BUSINESS AND INDUSTRIAL SIGNS.
   (A)   Districts where allowed. Commercial and Industrial Districts.
   (B)   Business and industrial signs shall be permitted on the premises in
districts in which the principal use is permitted subject to the following
limitations:
      (1)   They shall not project more than one foot from any building wall or
canopy.
      (2)   If suspended from a canopy, the sign must be at least eight feet
above the sidewalk level.
      (3)   Non-illuminated signs shall have a total surface area in square
feet per establishment no greater than two times the street frontage of the
lot, in feet, but in no case shall the total for all signs be greater than 100
square feet.
      (4)   Illuminated signs shall have a total sign surface area in square
feet per establishment, no greater than two times the street frontage of the
lot, in feet, but in no case shall the total for signs be greater than 50
square feet. Display lighting shall be shielded so as to prevent a direct view
of the light source form a residence in a residential district. No intermittent
lighting effect may be utilized.
      (5)   Freestanding signs shall be located not less than 12 feet from the
street lot line or behind the setback line, whichever is greater. No
freestanding sign shall be located in a required side yard or within ten feet
of the side property line.
      (6)   One freestanding shopping center identification sign is permitted
per shopping center. The maximum area per sign is 200 square feet for centers
having up to 15 businesses and 300 square feet for centers having more than 15
businesses.
      (7)   One manufactured home park sign is permitted per major entrance to
a manufactured home park. Area of each sign shall not be more than one-half
square foot per manufactured home space, but not to exceed 50 square feet.
Setback shall be at least ten feet from the front property line; illumination
is restricted to indirect white lighting.
      (8)   Business signs, provided that signs projecting at right angles from
the building shall be allowed when suspended from a canopy, provided the sign
is at least eight feet above the sidewalk. Otherwise, signs must be mounted
flat with building walls and must not project more than 18 inches from the
walls.
      (9)   Business signs and billboards, provided they are not located within
50 feet of any residential district, provided further, that not more than one
billboard structure shall be allowed per 100 feet or less of lot frontage in
single ownership, with one additional billboard structure allowed per
additional 100 feet of lot frontage.
      (10)   Business signs, provided that signs projecting at right angles
from the building shall, for on-going business establishments only, be allowed
when suspended from above a canopy, provided the sign is at least 15 feet above
the sidewalk, otherwise, signs must be mounted flat with building walls and
must not project more than four inches from the walls. Businesses no longer in
operation must remove signs in accordance with §§
96.57 through
96.60 of this Code.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.200 OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGNS.
   (A)   Districts where allowed. Industrial District as a use with conditions.
   (B)   Defined. OUTDOOR ADVERTISING, OFF-PREMISES. The use of land consisting
of a sign erected and maintained for the purpose of (i) displaying,
advertising, identifying, or directing attention to business products,
operations, or services sold or offered at a site other than the site where the
sign is erected or (ii) promoting an attraction, activity, idea, opinion, or
other noncommercial messaging that is unrelated to the site where the sign is
erected. A sign meeting this definition is commonly known as a billboard, where
space is commonly made available or rented to advertisers to display their
messages to the traveling public. For the purposes of this section, the term
“off-premises outdoor advertising” includes off-premises outdoor advertising
visible from the main-traveled way of any road. For similar state law
provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-912(a).
   (C)   General requirements.
      (1)   No outdoor advertising sign may exceed 600 square feet in area and
fifty (50) feet in height.
      (2)   Attached signs, side by side signs and two sign structures facing
in the same direction shall be prohibited.
      (3)   Rooftop billboard signs are prohibited.
      (4)   No part of any outdoor advertising sign shall be located within 800
feet of another outdoor advertising sign.
      (5)   The backs of all outdoor advertising sign shall be painted in a
neutral color to blend with the surrounding area and to prevent the reflection
of car lights and sunlight.
      (6)   No part of any outdoor advertising sign shall be located within 300
feet of any residential structure.
      (7)   No sign shall be affixed to trees without the written permission of
the property owner.
      (8)   Allowed along designated state routes (highways) only.
      (9)   An NCDOT outdoor advertising permit shall be required. For similar
state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-912(b).
   (D)   Nonconforming off-premises advertising signs.
      (1)   Removal of nonconforming off-premises outdoor advertising signs.
The town may require the removal of an off-premises outdoor advertising sign
that is nonconforming under a local ordinance and may regulate the use of off-
premises outdoor advertising within its planning and development regulation
jurisdiction in accordance with the applicable provisions of this chapter and
subject to G.S. §§ 136-131.1 and 136-131.2. For similar state law provisions,
refer to G.S. § 160D-912(b).
      (2)   Written notice of intent required. The town shall give written
notice of its intent to require removal of off-premises outdoor advertising by
sending a letter by certified mail to the last known address of the owner of
the outdoor advertising and the owner of the property on which the outdoor
advertising is located. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-
912(c).
      (3)   The town may not enact or amend an ordinance of general
applicability to require the removal of any nonconforming, lawfully erected
off-premises outdoor advertising sign without the payment of monetary
compensation to the owners of the off-premises outdoor advertising, except as
provided below. The payment of monetary compensation is not required if:
         (a)   The town and the owner of the nonconforming off-premises outdoor
advertising enter into a relocation agreement pursuant to division (D)(6) of
this section.
         (b)   The town and the owner of the nonconforming off-premises outdoor
advertising enter into an agreement pursuant to division (D)(11) of this
section.
         (c)   The off-premises outdoor advertising is determined to be a
public nuisance or detrimental to the health or safety of the populace.
         (d)   The removal is required for opening, widening, extending or
improving streets or sidewalks, or for establishing, extending, enlarging, or
improving any of the public enterprises listed in G.S. § 160A-311, and the
local government allows the off-premises outdoor advertising to be relocated to
a comparable location.
         (e)   The off-premises outdoor advertising is subject to removal
pursuant to statutes, ordinances, or regulations generally applicable to the
demolition or removal of damaged structures. This division shall be construed
subject to and without any reduction in the rights afforded owners of outdoor
advertising signs along interstate and federal aid primary highways in this
state as provided in G.S. Chapter 136, Article 13. For similar state law
provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-912(d).
      (4)   Monetary compensation is the fair market value of the off-premises
outdoor advertising in place immediately prior to its removal and without
consideration of the effect of the ordinance or any diminution in value caused
by the ordinance requiring its removal. Monetary compensation shall be
determined based on:
         (a)   The factors listed in G.S. § 105-317.1(a); and
         (b)   The listed property tax value of the property and any documents
regarding value submitted to the taxing authority. For similar state law
provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-912(e).
      (5)   If the parties are unable to reach an agreement under division (D)
(4) above of this section on monetary compensation to be paid by the town to
the owner of the nonconforming off-premises outdoor advertising sign for its
removal, and the town elects to proceed with the removal of the sign, the town
may bring an action in superior court for a determination of the monetary
compensation to be paid. In determining monetary compensation, the court shall
consider the factors set forth in division (D)(4) above of this section. Upon
payment of monetary compensation for the sign, the town shall own the sign. For
similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-912(f).
      (6)   In lieu of paying monetary compensation, the town may enter into an
agreement with the owner of a nonconforming off-premises outdoor advertising
sign to relocate and reconstruct the sign. The agreement shall include the
following:
         (a)   Provision for relocation of the sign to a site reasonably
comparable to or better than the existing location. In determining whether a
location is comparable or better, the following factors shall be taken into
consideration:
            1.   The size and format of the sign.
            2.   The characteristics of the proposed relocation site, including
visibility, traffic count, area demographics, zoning, and any uncompensated
differential in the sign owner's cost to lease the replacement site.
            3.   The timing of the relocation.
         (b)   Provision for payment by the town of the reasonable costs of
relocating and reconstructing the sign including:
            1.   The actual cost of removing the sign.
            2.   The actual cost of any necessary repairs to the real property
for damages caused in the removal of the sign.
            3.   The actual cost of installing the sign at the new location.
            4.   An amount of money equivalent to the income received from the
lease of the sign for a period of up to 30 days if income is lost during the
relocation of the sign. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-
912(g).
      (7)   For the purposes of relocating and reconstructing a nonconforming
off-premises outdoor advertising sign pursuant to division (D)(6) above of this
section, the town consistent with the welfare and safety of the community as a
whole, may adopt a resolution or adopt or modify its ordinances to provide for
the issuance of a permit or other approval, including conditions as
appropriate, or to provide for dimensional, spacing, setback, or use variances
as it deems appropriate. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. §
160D-912(h).
      (8)   If the town has offered to enter into an agreement to relocate a
nonconforming off- premises outdoor advertising sign pursuant to division (D)
(6) above of this section, and within 120 days after the initial notice by the
town the parties have not been able to agree that the site or sites offered by
the town for relocation of the sign are reasonably comparable to or better than
the existing site, the parties shall enter into binding arbitration to resolve
their disagreements. Unless a different method of arbitration is agreed upon by
the parties, the arbitration shall be conducted by a panel of three
arbitrators. Each party shall select one arbitrator and the two arbitrators
chosen by the parties shall select the third member of the panel. The American
Arbitration Association rules shall apply to the arbitration unless the parties
agree otherwise. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-912(i).
      (9)   If the arbitration results in a determination that the site or
sites offered by the town for relocation of the nonconforming sign are not
comparable to or better than the existing site, and the twn elects to proceed
with the removal of the sign, the parties shall determine the monetary
compensation under division (D)(4) of this section to be paid to the owner of
the sign. If the parties are unable to reach an agreement regarding monetary
compensation within 30 days of the receipt of the arbitrators' determination,
and the town elects to proceed with the removal of the sign, then the town may
bring an action in superior court for a determination of the monetary
compensation to be paid by the town to the owner for the removal of the sign.
In determining monetary compensation, the court shall consider the factors set
forth in division (D)(4) of this section. Upon payment of monetary compensation
for the sign, the town shall own the sign. For similar state law provisions,
refer to G.S. § 160D-912(j).
      (10)   Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, the town and an
off-premises outdoor advertising sign owner may enter into a voluntary
agreement allowing for the removal of the sign after a set period of time in
lieu of monetary compensation. The town may adopt an ordinance or resolution
providing for a relocation, reconstruction, or removal agreement. For similar
state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-912(k).
      (11)   The town has up to three years from the effective date of an
ordinance enacted under this section to pay monetary compensation to the owner
of the off-premises outdoor advertising provided the affected property remains
in place until the compensation is paid. For similar state law provisions,
refer to G.S. § 160D-912(l).
      (12)   This section does not apply to any ordinance in effect on July 1,
2004. The town may amend an ordinance in effect on July 1, 2004 to extend
application of the ordinance to off-premises outdoor advertising located in
territory acquired by annexation or located in the extraterritorial
jurisdiction of the town. The town may repeal or amend an ordinance in effect
on July 1, 2004 so long as the amendment to the existing ordinance does not
reduce the period of amortization in effect on the effective date of this
section. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-912(m).
      (13)   The provisions of this section shall not be used to interpret,
construe, alter or otherwise modify the exercise of the power of eminent domain
by an entity pursuant to G.S. Chapter 40A or Chapter 136. For similar state law
provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-912(n).
      (14)   Nothing in this section shall limit the town authority to use
amortization as a means of phasing out nonconforming uses other than off-
premises outdoor advertising. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. §
160D-912(o).
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.201 SIGNS ON TOWN PROPERTY.
   (A)   Posting of signs required. The Town Board of Commissioners is hereby
ordered to post appropriate signage on each park, building or portion of a
building now or hereafter owned, leased as lessee, operated, occupied, managed
or controlled by the town, as well as the appurtenant premises to such
buildings, indicating that concealed handguns are prohibited therein.
   (B)   Location of signs. Said signs shall be visibly posted on the exterior
of each entrance by which the general public can access the building,
appurtenant premise, or park. The Town Board of Commissioners shall exercise
discretion in determining the necessity and appropriate location for other
signs posted on the interior of the building, appurtenant premise, or park.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.202 SIGN PERMITS.
   See §
154.086 of this chapter for regulations to issue a sign permit.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
Part III. Landscaping, Buffering and Screening 
 § 154.205 PURPOSE OF BUFFERING AND SCREENING.
   The purpose of this Part III. is to establish minimum landscaping and
screening requirements that provide:
   (A)   A visual buffer between parking and loading areas and public streets;
   (B)   A visual buffer between parking and loading areas and adjoining
residential land uses;
   (C)   Screening of solid waste collection dumpsters; and
   (D)   Screening between certain incompatible land uses.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.206 LANDSCAPING OF PARKING AND LOADING AREAS.
   (A)   Street side buffer yard requirements. (See Figure 10-5).
      (1)   All parking lots containing ten or more parking spaces shall
include a minimum ten-foot perpetually maintained natural or planted buffer
yard to screen the parking lot from all adjoining public street rights-of-way
(where such parking lot is not screened visually by an intervening building).
      (2)   The required streetside buffer yard shall contain at least one
canopy tree for each sixty linear feet of street frontage and each tree shall
be a minimum of eight feet in height and shall have a minimum caliper of two
inches (measured six inches above grade) at the time of planting. Each tree
shall be a species which can be expected to attain a minimum height of 40 feet
and have a crown width of 30 feet or greater at maturity. No tree shall be
planted within 20 feet of the edge of a driveway at its intersection with the
street right-of-way.
      (3)   The required buffer yard shall also contain evergreen shrubs,
planted four feet on center, which are of a species which can be expected to
reach a minimum height of 36 inches and a minimum spread of 30 inches within
three years of planting.
      (4)   All portions of the streetside buffer yard not planted with trees
or shrubs or covered by a wall or other barrier shall be planted with grass,
ground cover, or natural mulch of a minimum depth of three inches.
   (B)   Property line buffer yard requirements. (See Figure 10-5)
      (1)   Any parking lot and loading area (i) which contains ten or more
parking spaces, (ii) which is located on a commercially-, industrially-,
institutionally-used lot, and (iii) which abuts a residentially zoned lot shall
include a minimum ten-foot perpetually maintained natural or planted buffer
yard along all adjoining property lines that do not coincide with street
rights-of-way.
      (2)   The required property line buffer yard shall comply with the
planting standards set out in division (B)(1) above for streetside buffer yards
except that there shall be one canopy tree for each 60 LF of property line
adjoining a residentially zoned lot rather than for each 60 LF of street
frontage.
   Figure 10-5
Planting Requirements for Buffer Yards
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0fa087e7aaf2d1426066c541dcf0227ca59242f9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2573.png]
 
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7- 18- 2023)
§ 154.207 SCREENING OF DUMPSTERS.
   Solid waste collection dumpsters which are (i) located on sites used for
multi-family residential, townhouse, condominium, commercial, institutional, or
industrial purposes and (ii) abutting a residence, residentially zoned lot, or
street right-of-way shall be screened from the view of adjoining residences,
residentially zoned lots, or street rights-of-way. Such screening may consist
of natural vegetation, fences, walls, or berms and shall be installed, located,
or constructed so as to create an effective screen.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.208 SCREENING OF MULTI-FAMILY, INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL USES.
   (A)   Multi-family residential uses. (See Figure 10-6). Whenever four or
more multi-family residential, townhouse, or condominium dwelling units are
proposed to be located directly abutting property which is used for single-
family residential purposes or which is zoned for single-family residential
use, the multi-family, townhouse, or condominium use shall provide screening in
accordance with the following standards:
      (1)   A minimum 15-foot perpetually maintained natural or planted buffer
yard shall be provided along all property lines directly abutting a single-
family used or zoned lot.
      (2)   The buffer yard shall contain two canopy trees and three understory
tress per 100 linear feet of buffer yard. Canopy trees shall be a minimum of
eight feet in height and two inches in caliper (measured six inches above
grade) when planted. When mature, a canopy tree should be at least 40 feet high
and have a crown width of 30 feet or greater. Understory trees shall be a
minimum of four feet high and one inch in caliper (measured six inches above
grade) when planted.
      (3)   The buffer yard shall also contain 17 shrubs per 100 linear feet of
buffer yard. All shrubs shall be of a species which can be expected to reach a
minimum height of 36 inches and a minimum spread of 30 inches within three
years of planting.
      (4)   All portions of the buffer yard not planted with trees or shrubs or
covered by a wall or other barrier shall be planted with grass, ground cover,
or natural mulch of a minimum depth of three inches.
   (B)   Industrial and commercial uses. (See Figure 10-6)
      (1)   Whenever an industrial or commercial (business) use is proposed to
be located so that the principal building, accessory building(s), outdoor use
areas, or parking and loading areas are within 100 feet of a lot which is used
for residential purposes or which is zoned for residential use, the industrial
or commercial use shall provide screening in accordance with the following
standards:
         (a)   A minimum 25-foot perpetually maintained natural or planted
buffer yard shall be provided along all property lines directly abutting a
residentially used or zoned lot.
         (b)   The buffer yard shall contain three canopy trees and five
understory trees per 100 linear feet of buffer yard. Canopy trees shall be a
minimum of eight feet in height and two inches in caliper (measured six inches
above grade) when planted. When mature, a canopy tree should be at least 40
feet high and have a crown width of 30 feet or greater. Understory trees shall
be a minimum of four feet high and one inch in caliper (measured six inches
above grade) when planted.
         (c)   The buffer yard shall also contain 25 shrubs per 100 linear feet
of buffer yard. All shrubs shall be of a species which can be expected to reach
a minimum height of 36 inches and a minimum spread of 30 inches within three
years of planting.
         (d)   All portions of the buffer yard not planted with trees or shrubs
or covered by a wall or other barrier shall be planted with grass, groundcover,
or natural mulch of a minimum depth of three inches.
      (2)   Whenever an industrial or commercial (business) use is proposed on
a parcel zoned for Industrial or Commercial uses, a minimum ten-foot buffer on
the side and rear property lines shall be required. This may be achieved
through a combination of a wall, fence or screen as detailed in §
154.209.
 
   Figure 10-6
Example of the Application of Buffers and Screens
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0fa087e7aaf2d1426066c541dcf0227ca59242f9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2575.png]
 
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18- 2023)
§ 154.209 WALLS, FENCES, AND PLANTED SCREENS.
   A fence, wall, or planted screen for the purposes of privacy and/or security
may be located in any required yard provided:
   (A)    The activities of the principal use may not extend into a front yard
that is screened by a solid fence, wall, or shrubbery screen (e.g., a
restaurant shall not enclose the front yard with a solid fence for the purpose
of providing customers a lounge, a bar or an eating area).
   (B)   No open wire fence of a type that could inflict injury from casual
contact (such as barbed wire fence) is permitted below a height of six feet in
any district. Other types of open wire fencing (such as hurricane and chain
link fencing) may be erected in any yard.
   (C)   The height of a fence, wall, or screen shall be measured from the
average undisturbed grade of the adjacent property.
   (D)   Within residential zoning districts, the following fence, wall, and
screen height limits shall apply. Within front yards, the height for fences,
walls, or screens shall be limited to four feet except that the Board of
Adjustment shall hear and decide requests for variances to allow height up to
six feet within front yards adjacent to thoroughfares. The variance request
application shall include information on the factors set forth below, other
requirements of this section and chapter, and any other information pertinent
to granting the variance.
      (1)   The fence, wall or screen shall be set back a minimum of one-half
the distance of the required front yard setback for the district or 15 feet,
whichever is greater;
      (2)   At least 50% of the area of the fence, wall, or screen above four
feet shall be open along the entire length such that clear vision is possible
from one side to the other; and
      (3)   Additional conditions may be specified to maintain safe access,
ingress, and egress to and from the subject and surrounding properties.
         (a)   Within any side or rear yard, the maximum height for any fence
shall be eight feet.
         (b)   Fence height limits shall not apply to electric/gas substations,
water/sewer treatment plants or facilities, municipal water storage facilities,
waste treatment facilities, or government facilities.
         (c)   Fence height limits shall not apply to chain link fences
surrounding tennis courts or ball field backstops. Fences for private tennis
courts shall be within the required setbacks for accessory uses in that zoning
district.
         (d)   In all zoning districts, chain link, woven wire, and electric
and barbed wire fences shall be prohibited in front yards, except on bona fide
farms, electric and gas substations, and government facilities. Fences and
walls of exposed concrete block, tires, junk or other discarded materials shall
be prohibited.
         (e)   A fence, wall, or screen shall not impede access by emergency
services to the subject and surrounding properties.
         (f)   A fence, wall, or screen shall be installed with the finished
side facing adjoining properties and rights-of-way.
         (g)   A fence, wall, or screen shall be maintained in a sturdy upright
position free from any broken or missing parts, slats or boards. Finishes shall
be maintained in good condition.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.210 LINE OF SIGHT.
   (A)   In order to maintain an acceptable and safe line of sight for motor
vehicle drivers, no parking spaces, fences, walls, posts, lights, shrubs, trees
or other type of obstructions not specifically exempted shall be permitted in
the space between 30 inches and above ground level and ten feet above ground
level within a triangular sight distance.
   (B)   The required triangular sight distance for any street intersections
with thoroughfares shall be provided in compliance with the American
Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials sight distance
standards for roadway of similar classifications, intersections signalization/
signage, and rated speeds.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.211 ALTERNATIVE SCREENING METHODS.
   (A)   When screening is required by this Part III. or by other provisions of
this chapter, and the site design, topography, unique relationships to other
properties, lot configuration, spatial separation, natural vegetation, or other
special considerations exist relative to the proposed development, the
applicant may submit a specific plan for screening to the Zoning Enforcement
Officer. This plan must demonstrate how the purposes and standards of this
chapter will be met by measures other than those listed in Sections §§
154.206 through
154.209. If approved by the Zoning Enforcement Officer, the alternative
screening plan may be utilized to meet the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   A combination of natural vegetation, fences, walls and berms may be
utilized to achieve the screening requirements of §§
154.206 through
154.209 provided that the following standards are met:
      (1)   Walls (a minimum of five feet in height and constructed of masonry,
stone or pressure treated lumber) or an opaque fence (a minimum of five feet in
height) may be used to reduce the widths of the buffer yards by ten feet.
      (2)   Understory trees may be substituted for canopy trees if, in the
opinion of the Zoning Inspector upon conferring with the electrical utility
provider, a conflict exists with overhead utility lines.
      (3)   Wall planters shall be constructed of masonry, stone or pressure
treated lumber and shall have a minimum height of 30 inches. The minimum height
of shrubs in wall planters shall be six inches. The effective planting area of
the wall planter shall be four feet in width (seven feet if the wall planter
contains trees).
      (4)   Any berm utilized for screening purposes shall have a minimum
height of three feet, a minimum crown width of three feet, and a side slope no
greater than 3:1.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.212 USE OF EXISTING SCREENING.
   When a lot is to be developed so that screening is required and that lot
abuts an existing hedge, fence or other screening material on the adjoining
lot, then that existing screen may be used to satisfy the requirements of this
chapter. The existing screen must meet the minimum standards for screening
established by this chapter and it must be protected from damage by pedestrians
or motor vehicles. However, the burden to provide the necessary screening
remains with the use to be screened and is a continuing obligation that runs
with the land so long as the original use continues in operation. Consequently,
should the screening on the adjoining lot be removed, the use required to be
screened shall, at that time, provide screening in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.213 GUARANTEE IN LIEU OF IMMEDIATE INSTALLATION.
   It is recognized that land development occurs continuously and that
vegetation used in landscaping or screening should be planted at certain times
of the year to ensure the best chance of survival. In order to ensure
compliance with this chapter and reduce the potential expense of replacing
landscaping or screening materials which were installed in an untimely or
improper fashion, the developer may provide an adequately secured performance
bond or other security to ensure that all of the requirements of this
subchapter will be fulfilled.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
Part IV. Outdoor Lighting
§ 154.215 PURPOSE.
    Sufficient outdoor lighting at night increases safety, enhances the town's
night time character, and helps provide security. New lighting technologies
have produced lights that are extremely powerful, and these types of lights may
be improperly installed so that they create problems of excessive glare, light
trespass, and higher energy use. Appropriately regulated, and properly
installed, outdoor lighting will contribute to the safety and welfare of the
residents of the town.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.216 DEFINITIONS.
   As found in §
154.026 of this chapter, the following definitions are used in this section:
   DIRECT LIGHT. Light emitted directly from the lamp, off of the reflector or
reflector diffuser, or through the refractor or diffuser lens, of a luminaire.
   FIXTURE. The assembly that houses the lamp or lamps and can include all or
some of the following parts: a housing, a mounting bracket or pole socket, a
lamp holder, a ballast, a reflector or mirror, and/or a refractor or lens.
   FLOOD OR SPOT LIGHT. Any light fixture or lamp that incorporates a reflector
or a refractor to concentrate the light output into a directed beam in a
particular direction.
   FULLY-SHIELDED LIGHTS. Outdoor light fixtures shielded or constructed so
that no light rays are emitted by the installed fixture at angles above the
horizontal plane as certified by a photometric test report.
   GLARE. Light emitting from a luminaire with an intensity great enough to
reduce a viewer's ability to see, and in extreme cases causing momentary
blindness.
   GRANDFATHERED LUMINAIRES. Luminaires not conforming to this code that were
in place at the time this code was voted into effect. When an ordinance
“grandfathers” a luminaire, it means that such already-existing outdoor
lighting does not need to be changed unless a specified period is specified for
adherence to the code.
   HEIGHT OF LUMINAIRE. The height of a luminaire shall be the vertical
distance from the ground directly below the centerline of the luminaire to the
lowest direct-light-emitting part of the luminaire.
   INDIRECT LIGHT. Direct light that has been reflected or has scattered off of
other surfaces.
   LAMP. The component of a luminaire that produces the actual light.
   LIGHT TRESPASS.  The shining of light produced by a luminaire beyond the
boundaries of the property on which it is located.
   LUMEN. A unit of luminous flux. One foot-candle is one lumen per square
foot. For the purposes of this chapter, the lumen-output values shall be the
INITIAL lumen output ratings of a lamp.
    LUMINAIRE. This is a complete lighting system, and includes a lamp or lamps
and a fixture.
   OUTDOOR LIGHTING. The night-time illumination of an outside area or object
by any man-made device located outdoors that produces light by any means.
   TEMPORARY OUTDOOR LIGHTING. The specific illumination of an outside area of
object by any man-made device located outdoors that produces light by any means
for a period of less than seven days, with at least 180 days passing before
being used again.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.217 OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGNS.
   (A)   Top mounted fixtures required. Lighting fixtures used to illuminate an
outdoor advertising sign shall be mounted on the top of the sign structure. All
such fixtures shall comply with the shielding requirements below. Bottom-
mounted outdoor advertising-sign lighting shall not be used.
      (1)   All outdoor lighting fixtures shall be placed to prevent light
trespass or glare beyond the property line.
      (2)   Flood or spot lamps shall be fully shielded and aimed no higher
than 45 degrees above straight down when the source is visible from any offsite
residential property or public roadway.
   (B)   Outdoor advertising signs of the type constructed of translucent
materials and wholly illuminated from within do not require shielding. Dark
backgrounds with light lettering or symbols are preferred, to minimize
detrimental effects. Unless conforming to the above dark background preference,
total lamp wattage per property shall be less than 41 watts.
   (C)   Prohibitions. Electrical illumination of outdoor advertising off-site
signs between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and sunrise is prohibited.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.218 RECREATIONAL FACILITIES.
   Any light source permitted by this chapter may be used for lighting of
outdoor recreational facilities (public or private), such as, but not limited
to, football fields, soccer fields, baseball fields, softball fields, tennis
courts, or show areas, provided all of the following conditions are met:
   (A)   All fixtures used for event lighting shall be fully shielded or be
designed or provided with sharp cut-off capability, so as to minimize up-light,
spill-light, and glare.
   (B)   All events shall be scheduled so as to complete all activity before or
as near to 10:30 p.m. as practical, but under no circumstances shall any
illumination of the playing field, court, or track be
permitted after 11:00 p.m. except to conclude a scheduled event that was in
progress before 11:00 p.m. and circumstances prevented concluding before 11:00
p.m.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
REGULATIONS FOR SPECIFIC USES
§ 154.230 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to regulate and guide the establishment of
uses and structures which are not permitted by right in the assigned zoning
districts. To promote the public health, safety and general welfare of the
citizens of the town and the extraterritorial jurisdiction, the uses and
structures contained in this subchapter will require the application of
specific and supplemental development regulations. This subchapter contains
supplemental development regulations for those uses and structures which are
accessory to primary uses, permitted under defined conditions, or permitted by
special use permit, as required in individual zoning districts.
   (A)   Uses with conditions. Means a use or structure to which specific
regulations are applied in order for that use to be located within a certain
zoning district. Application for these proposed uses are made with the Zoning
Enforcement Officer and may be approved or denied by the Zoning Enforcement
Officer in accordance with the provisions in §§
154.080 through
154.096 - Administrative Permits, Enforcement and Appeals.
   (B)   Uses requiring a special use permit. A land use designated as a
“special use” in a particular zoning district is one that because of its
nature, extent and external effects, generally is not appropriate in the
district, but might be if subject to special standards and review that will
ensure it is located, designed and operated in a manner that is in harmony with
neighboring development and does not adversely affect the public health, safety
and general welfare. Therefore, development associated with a land use
designated as a special use is allowed only after a special use permit has been
granted as detailed further in §§
154.105 -
154.116 - Quasi-Judicial Permits, Enforcement and Appeals.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.231 APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   No person shall commence or proceed with development within the town's
jurisdiction without first securing a zoning permit from the town. Unless
elsewhere exempted by this chapter, no use may change, and/or no building, sign
or other structure can legally be erected, moved, added lo, or structurally
altered without a zoning permit. The Zoning Official will approve or deny the
zoning permit based on compliance with the zoning ordinance unless evidence
exists that there is a violation of the town's zoning ordinances on the
property.
   (A)   Each application for a zoning permit shall be accompanied by such
building plans or other information as may be necessary to determine whether
the provisions of this chapter are being observed.
   (B)   The town may issue development approvals in print or electronic form.
Any development approval issued exclusively in electronic form shall be
protected from further editing once issued.
   (C)   Applications for development approvals may be made by the landowner, a
lessee or person holding an option or contract to purchase or lease land, or an
authorized agent of the landowner. An easement holder may also apply for
development approval for such development as is authorized by the easement. For
similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-403(a).
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.232 SITE PLAN REQUIRED WITH APPLICATION.
   A site plan must always be submitted with the application for uses with
conditions and those requiring a special use permit. Site plans may be either
minor or major, as determined by application of regulations contained in §§
154.083 and
154.084.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.233 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL USES WITHIN ALL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Screening and buffering. If the applicant chooses to locate any
structure allowed as a use with prescribed conditions within 30 feet to 100
feet of the adjacent property line of an existing residential occupied
property, he/she must provide screening and buffering in accordance with §§
154.205 through
154.213.
   (B)   Lighting. Lighting must be directed away from adjacent property and
roadways. Lighting shall be directed onto the applicant's site only. See §§
154.215 through
154.218.
   (C)   Outdoor storage. Outdoor storage must meet the requirements of §
154.271 of this subchapter.
   (D)   Access. Adequate space must be provided on the site that allows
vehicles to exit onto the street without backing into the road, highway, or
street.
   (E)   Hours of operation. Hours of operation are limited to 7:00 am - 10:00
pm with the exception of any use that may require overnight stay, such as a bed
and breakfast or campground, unless otherwise specified.
   (F)   Commercial building code. If applicant desires to construct a business
on his or her property or convert part of their dwelling to a business, the
commercial building code for rehabilitation will apply.
   (G)   Home occupations. Home occupations may not occupy more than 25% of the
home and shall not change the character of the dwelling or its surroundings.
   (H)   Parking and loading. See §§
154.185 through
154.189.
   (I)   Signage. See §§
154.195 through
154.202.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.234 ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES.
    (A)   Where. All districts as a use with conditions.
   (B)   Definitions.
      (1)   ACCESSORY BUILDING/STRUCTURE. A detached subordinate building
operated and maintained under the same ownership, the use of which is
customarily incidental to that of the main building and which is located on the
same lot as the main building. Accessory buildings include the following but
are not limited to: detached garages, storage buildings, playhouses, and
workshops, all of which are totally for personal use. Accessory buildings
cannot be a manufactured home.
      (2)   ACCESSORY USE. A use incidental to and customarily associated with
the use by right, and located on the same zone lot with the use by right, and
operated and maintained under the same ownership with the operation of the use
by right.
      (3)   Some examples of accessory structures and uses include but are not
limited to free standing carports, detached garages, storage buildings and
detached mother-in-law suites or granny pods. Manufactured homes, tractor-
trailers or containers are not considered accessory uses or structures.
Accessory structures with any side dimension greater than 12 feet require a
building permit from the Robeson County Building Inspections Department and
must meet the technical provisions of the current North Carolina Residential
Code.
   (C)   Number of accessory structures. For residential lots less than 40,000
square feet, two accessory uses shall be allowed; for residential lots 40,000
square feet or more, three accessory uses are allowed; for every additional
20,000 square feet (over 40,000), one additional accessory building shall be
allowed.
   (D)   Location.
      (1)   All accessory buildings shall have an eight-foot setback from side
and rear yard lot lines.
      (2)   In all residential zoning districts, accessory structures and uses
may be placed only in back of the principal structure on the lot and must meet
the setback requirements for the zoning district.
      (3)   No accessory structure or building except utility substations shall
be erected in any easement.
      (4)   On any lot in residential zoning districts, all accessory
structures and uses shall be at least five feet from any other building on the
same lot, and at least 12 feet from any buildings used for human habitation on
adjoining lots. No accessory structure or use except utility substations shall
be erected in any easement.
   (E)   Height restrictions. The height of all accessory structures and
buildings shall conform to the height limitations of the zoning district in
which it is located.
   (F)   Lot coverage. Accessory structures to a residential use shall not have
a ground floor area which exceeds 50% of the ground floor area of the principal
building.
   (G)   Expansion of nonconforming use not permitted. If a property is
nonconforming under the zoning ordinance, then the addition of an accessory use
or structure must not violate and restriction concerning the expansion or
change involving the nonconforming features of the site.
   (H)   Limitation on construction features of accessory buildings. No
accessory building that involves or requires any construction features which
are commercial or industrial in nature or character shall be permitted.
   (I)   Timing of buildout. No accessory building shall be constructed on a
lot until the construction of the principal building has commenced.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.235 ADULT BUSINESS AND ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENTS (INCLUDING
BOOKSTORES).
   (A)   Where. Light Industrial District - special use permit required.
   (B)   Defined. An ADULT ESTABLISHMENT/SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS means any
business or enterprise that has as one of its principal business purposes or as
a significant portion of its business an emphasis on matter and conduct
depicting, describing, or related to anatomical areas and sexual activities
specified in G.S. § 14-202.10. This includes, but it not limited to, adult
bookstores, adult motion picture theaters, adult mini motion picture theaters,
adult live entertainments, or massage businesses. This provision shall not
pertain to massage therapists who are licensed or registered medical
professionals or other persons certified by a state or nationally recognized
organization; nor shall this apply to any private or public fitness center or
nonprofit community recreational fitness and service organization, either of
which provides massage therapy as a service incidental to the operation of a
fitness center. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-902.
   (C)   General requirements/conditions. Shall at a minimum meet the
requirements of §
154.233 as applicable to the district in which the use is located.
   (D)   Additional requirements/conditions. Use separation:
      (1)   Within 250 feet of any lot upon which a residential use is legally
occurring or within 250 feet of any property located in a zone permitting
residential uses at the time of an application for an adult business permit,
whether or not the other use is located within the town;
      (2)   Within 500 feet of any church, chapel or other publicly recognized
place of worship whether or not the other use is located within the town;
      (3)   Within 500 feet of any public or private school (kindergarten
through twelfth grade) or child care center whether or not the other use is
located within the town;
      (4)   Within 500 feet of any park owned by a public entity whether or not
the other use is located within the town; or
      (5)   Within 200 feet of any existing adult business whether or not the
other use is located within the town.
      (6)   The distances specified in this section shall be measured in a
straight line, without regard to intervening structures, from the nearest point
of the property line of the premises in which the proposed adult business is to
be established to the nearest point of the property line of a use or zoning
classification listed above.
   (E)   Hours of operation. No sexually oriented business may remain open at
any time between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. on weekdays and
Saturdays, or during the period from 11:00 p.m. Saturday until 8:00 a.m.
Monday.
   (F)   Development standards. The following development standards shall apply
to adult businesses.
      (1)   No adult business shall be located in any temporary or portable
structure.
      (2)   Trash dumpsters shall be enclosed by a screening enclosure so as
not to be accessible to the public.
      (3)   No exterior door or window on the premises shall be propped or kept
open at any time while the business is open, and all exterior windows shall be
covered with opaque covering at all times.
      (4)   Permanent barriers shall be installed and maintained to screen the
interior of the premises from public view for each door used as an entrance or
exit to the business.
      (5)   No landscaping shall exceed 30 inches in height, within 50 feet of
any portion of the business except trees with foliage not less than six feet
above the ground.
      (6)   The entire exterior grounds, including the parking lot, shall be
lighted in a manner that all areas are clearly visible at all times.
      (7)   Signage shall conform to the standards established for the zone and
shall not contain sexually oriented photographs, silhouettes or other sexually
oriented pictorial representations.
      (8)   All entrances to adult businesses shall be clearly and legibly
posted by a notice indicating that minors are prohibited from entering the
premises.
      (9)   No residential structure or any other nonconforming structure shall
be converted for use as an adult business.
      (10)   The adult business shall not conduct or sponsor any activities
that create a demand for parking spaces beyond the number of spaces required by
this code for the business.
      (11)   No adult business shall be operated in any manner that permits the
observation of any persons or material depicting, describing or related to
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, inside the premises,
from any public way or from any location outside the building or area of the
establishment. This provision shall apply to any merchandise, display,
decoration, sign, show window or other opening.
      (12)   All exterior areas of the adult business, including buildings,
landscaping and parking areas shall be maintained in a clean and orderly manner
at all times.
      (13)   Any business license or permit required by this code shall be kept
current at all times.
      (14)   Each adult business shall conform to all applicable laws and
regulations.
      (15)   The adult business shall not operate or be open between the hours
of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
      (16)   The adult business will not conduct any massage, acupuncture,
tattooing, acupressure or escort services, and will not allow those activities
on the premises.
      (17)   At least one security guard shall be on duty outside the premises,
patrolling the premises, grounds and parking areas, at all times while the
business is open. The security guard shall be charged with preventing
violations of law, with enforcing compliance by patrons with the requirements
of this chapter and with notifying the sheriff of any violations of law
observed. Security guard(s) required by this division shall be uniformed in a
manner so as to be readily identifiable as a security guard by the
public and shall be duly licensed as a security guard as required by applicable
provisions of state or local law. No security guard required pursuant to this
division shall act as a doorperson, ticket seller, ticket taker or admittance
person while acting as a security guard hereunder.
   (G)   Screening and buffering. See §§
154.205 through
154.213.
   (H)   Application required.
      (1)   No adult business shall be established until an application for an
adult business permit is approved by the Planning Board pursuant to the
procedures set forth in this chapter.
      (2)   An application for an adult business permit shall contain the
following information; A written site plan, outlining the following shall be
submitted with conditional use permit application.
         (a)   Owner of the parcel, including address and phone contact;
         (b)   Lessee: all parties to the lease;
         (c)   Length of lease;
         (d)   Hours of operation;
         (e)   Number of employees;
         (f)   Floor plan depicting location of proposed uses within the
structure;
         (g)   Maximum number of people that will be occupying the structure at
one time; and
         (h)   A statement listing mechanism(s) that will be used to detect
fire arms.
      (3)   When an adult business permit application is filed, it shall be
accompanied by a filing fee in the amount of $250.
      (4)   When an application has been accepted as complete, the Planning
Director shall set the application for a public hearing before the Board of
Commissioners within 60 days from the date on which the application was
accepted as complete. The Planning Board shall approve or disapprove the
application within 90 days from the date on which the application was accepted
as complete by the Planning Director.
      (5)   In considering an application for a permit pursuant to this
chapter, the Planning Board shall approve the permit if it makes the following
findings:
         (a)   The adult business is consistent with the location and
development standards contained in this chapter;
         (b)   The adult business is located in a zone classification which
lists the adult business as a permitted use; and
         (c)   Except as specifically provided in this chapter, the adult
business complies with the development requirements prescribed in this chapter.
      (6)   Issuance or denial of the permits is subject to administrative
appeal as set forth in this chapter.
   (I)   Existing adult businesses.
      (1)   Any adult business lawfully operating or permitted on the effective
date of the chapter codified in this chapter shall be deemed to be a complying
use provided they are in compliance with all conditions imposed upon them as a
condition of the issuance of their operating permit.
      (2)   Except with respect to the violation of any condition imposed upon
the issuance of an existing operating permit, any adult business lawfully
operating or permitted on the effective date of the chapter codified in this
chapter shall not be subject to the abatement provisions by virtue of
noncompliance with any of the provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   An adult business lawfully operating as a conforming use is not
rendered nonconforming by the subsequent location of a residence, or a
residential or agricultural zone, within 250 feet of the adult business or the
subsequent location of a church, chapel or other publicly recognized place of
worship, public park, public or private school or child care center, within 500
feet of the adult business.
   (J)   Special use permit required. The uses listed above shall be subject to
special use permit procedures and requirements as set forth in §
154.107. This shall also include those previously licensed and existing when
one enumerated use is being applied for in lieu of or supplementary to another
enumerated use requiring or for which a special use permit has been previously
issued.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.236 AMBULANCE SERVICES (PUBLIC AND PRIVATE).
   (A)   Where. GB and L-I Districts as a use with conditions.
   (B)   General requirements. Shall at a minimum meet the requirements of §
154.233 as applicable to the district in which the use is located except for
hours of operation.
   (C)   Specific development requirements. In the R-A District, all vehicles
and equipment shall be stored indoors; provided further that all buildings
shall be set back at least 20 feet from all property lines and shall be
designed and landscaped in a way as to blend in with the surrounding area.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.237 ANIMAL KENNELS, OUTDOOR; BOARDING AND GROOMING FACILITIES; VET
CLINICS.
   (A)   Where. R-A District as a use with conditions; permitted use in the L-
I District.
   (B)   General requirements. Shall meet the requirement of §
154.233 as applicable to the district
in which the use is located
   (C)   Specific development requirements.
      (1)   Minimum setback from any street right-of-way to buildings or other
such structures associated with the operation, including outdoor pens and runs,
but not including accessory storage buildings shall be the same as the setbacks
for the principal structures within said district.
      (2)   No buildings or other such structures associated with the
operation, including outdoor pens and runs, but not including accessory storage
buildings shall be located less than 50 feet from any property used or zoned
for residential purposes.
      (3)   Minimum setback from any other property line shall be the same as
the setbacks for the principal structures within said district.
      (4)   Noise. Noise must be mitigated so as not to create a public
nuisance for adjoining properties and must comply with all local noise
regulations. This excludes typical noise from exercise or training while
outdoors during the daytime during hours of operation.
      (5)   Exterior enclosures. Exterior enclosures and runs must provide
protection against weather extremes. Floors of runs must be made of impervious
material to permit proper cleaning and disinfecting. All exterior enclosures
must be surrounded by an eight-foot high solid continuous wall and door(s).
      (6)   Sanitation. All animal quarters and runs are to be kept in a clean,
dry, and sanitary condition.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.238 ANIMAL SHELTERS.
   (A)   Where permitted. GB and L-I Districts as a use with conditions.
   (B)   General requirements. Shall meet the requirement of §
154.233 as applicable to the district in which the use is located.
   (C)   Specific development requirements.
      (1)   Minimum setback from any street right-of-way to buildings or other
such structures associated with the operation, including outdoor pens and runs,
but not including
accessory storage buildings shall be the same as the setbacks for the principal
structures within said district.
      (2)   No buildings or other such structures associated with the
operation, including outdoor pens and runs, but not including accessory storage
buildings shall be located less than 50 feet from any property used or zoned
for residential purposes.
      (3)   Minimum setback from any other property line shall be the same as
the setbacks for the principal structures within said district.
      (4)   Noise. Noise must be mitigated so as not to create a public
nuisance for adjoining properties and must comply with all local noise
regulations. This excludes typical noise from exercise or training while
outdoors during the daytime during hours of operation.
      (5)   Exterior enclosures. Exterior enclosures and runs must provide
protection against weather extremes. Floors of runs must be made of impervious
material to permit proper cleaning and disinfecting. All exterior enclosures
must be surrounded by an eight-foot high solid continuous wall and door(s).
      (6)   Sanitation. All animal quarters and runs are to be kept in a clean,
dry, and sanitary condition.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.239 ASSEMBLY USES - ARENAS, EXHIBITION HALLS, CLUBS, AND LODGES, CLUBS,
LODGES.
   (A)   Where permitted. CBD, GB and GB-1 Districts as a use with conditions.
   (B)   General requirements. Shall meet the requirement of §
154.233 as applicable to the district in which the use is located.
   (C)   Specific development requirements.
      (1)   Street access. The lot shall have direct access to an arterial or
collector street. Vehicles may not exit the site by backing into the road,
highway, or street.
      (2)   Buffering. A buffer shall be installed along the property line
adjacent to residentially zoned or used property as required in §§
154.205 through
154.213.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.240 AUCTION HOUSES, NO LIVESTOCK.
   (A)   Where permitted. R-A and GB Districts as a use with conditions.
   (B)   General requirements. Shall meet the requirement of §
154.233 as applicable to the district in which the use is located.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.241 AUTOMOBILE AND OTHER JUNK, WRECKING OR SALVAGE YARDS.
   (A)   Where permitted. Light Industrial District - special use permit
required.
   (B)   General requirements. Shall meet the requirement of §
154.233 as applicable to the district in which the use is located.
   (C)   Specific development requirements.
      (1)   Dimensional requirements.
         (a)   Minimum setback from any street right-of-way to any outdoor
storage area shall be at least 100 feet.
         (b)   Minimum setback from any other property line shall be at least
50 feet.
         (c)   All junk, salvage, or wrecking yard shall be located at least
500 feet from any property used or zoned for residential purposes.
      (2)   Screening and buffering. Open storage of wrecked vehicles is not
permitted. See §§
154.205 through
154.213.
      (3)   Gates. Any gates allowing for access must meet the same height
requirement and must be kept closed and locked after dark and at any time when
not open for business.
   (D)   Special use permit required. The uses listed above shall be subject to
special use permit procedures and requirements as set forth in §
154.107. This shall also include those previously licensed and existing when
one enumerated use is being applied for in lieu of or supplementary to another
enumerated use.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.242 AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION - INCLUDING STORAGE OF JUNKED VEHICLES OR
VEHICLE PARTS.
   (A)   Where permitted. Light Industrial District - special use permit
required.
   (B)   General requirements. Shall meet the requirement of §
154.233 as applicable to the district in which the use is located.
   (C)   Specific development requirements.
      (1)   Dimensional requirements.
         (a)   Minimum setback from any street right-of-way to any outdoor
storage area shall be at least 100 feet.
         (b)   Minimum setback from any other property line shall be at least
50 feet.
      (2)   All repair work or lubrication shall be conducted within the
principal building. All permanent storage of materials, merchandise, or repair
and servicing equipment shall be contained within the principal building.
      (3)   No operator shall permit the storage of motor vehicles for a period
in excess of 24 hours unless the vehicles are enclosed in the principal
building.
      (4)   Service or customer vehicles shall be parked on the premises in a
manner that will not create traffic hazards or interfere with the vehicular
maneuvering area necessary to enter or exit the site.
      (5)   The premises shall not be used for the sale of vehicles.
      (6)   No outdoor work shall be performed except in areas designated for
such activity on an approved site plan.
      (7)   Screening and buffering. Open storage of wrecked vehicles is not
permitted. Wrecked vehicles may be stored in a properly enclosed area. See §§
154.205 through
154.213.
      (8)   Gates. Any gates allowing for access must meet the same height
requirement and must be kept closed and locked after dark and at any time when
not open for business.
   (D)   Special use permit required. The uses listed above shall be subject to
special use permit procedures and requirements as set forth in §
154.107. This shall also include those previously licensed and existing when
one enumerated use is being applied for in lieu of or supplementary to another
enumerated use requiring or for which a special use permit has been previously
issued.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.243 CAMP GROUNDS, PUBLIC AND PRIVATE, INCLUDING RECREATIONAL VEHICLE
PARKS AND TRAVEL TRAILER PARKS.
   (A)   Where permitted. R-A District; special use permit required.
   (B)   General requirements. Shall meet the requirement of §
154.233 as applicable to the district in which the use is located.
   (C)   Specific development requirements.
      (1)   Dimensional requirements.
         (a)   In areas with developed campsites, separate sanitary facilities
for both sexes (including showers) shall be available within 400 feet of each
campsite and drinking water shall be available within 100 feet of each
campsite.
         (b)   In primitive camping areas, drinking water and sanitary
facilities shall be available within 1200 feet.
         (c)   In areas with developed campsites, each campsite shall have a
minimum of parking for two vehicles.
      (2)   Service building required. Pursuant to the N.C. State Building
Code, each campground shall have at least one service building to provide
necessary sanitation and laundry tray. This structure may also contain a retail
sales counter and/or coin-operated machine for the campground residents use,
provided there is no exterior advertising. Vending machines also may be
permitted in a sheltered area. All service buildings shall be provided and
maintained in a clean and sanitary condition and kept in good repair at all
times. They shall be safely and adequately lighted. Facilities shall be ADA
accessible and conveniently located. All buildings and structures shall be
constructed in accordance with the N.C. State Building Code, and all applicable
requirements of the town code.
      (3)   Limit on recreational vehicles per campsite space. No more than one
recreational vehicle may be parked on any one space. Recreational vehicles
shall not be permitted on parcels, lots, or other areas not approved through
these regulations.
      (4)   Refuse collection. The campground owner/operator is responsible for
providing a central location for refuse collection and shall adequately screen
and buffer such location from campground residents and campsites. Storage,
collection and disposal of refuse shall be managed as not to create health
hazards, rodent harborage, insect-breeding areas, accident, fire hazards, or
air pollution. The location of on-site refuse facilities and collection
schedule shall be approved by the Town Public Works Department prior to zoning
approval.
      (5)   Access to wastewater and drinking water for all campsites. Each
campground shall have reasonable access to a source of potable water and
adequate wastewater disposal approved by the applicable health authority and
building codes.
      (6)   No permanent camping. No permanent camping shall be permitted. It
is not intended that any structure, mobile or permanent, be used as a permanent
residence except for the owner or operator.
      (7)   Lighting. Adequate lighting shall be provided for all common areas,
including interior lighting in any building open at night. All sanitary
facilities and dumping areas, water faucets, parking areas (other than at each
campsite), recreation areas, and other service buildings and general use sites
shall be lit at night, either with a light mounted on the building or as a pole
light. In developed camping areas, lights will be installed along walkways to
water and sanitary facilities and at roadway or driveway intersections. All
outdoor lighting shall have a total cutoff at 90 degrees.
      (8)   Fire pits. Each campsite space may provide a fire pit or ring if
burning is permitted within campground. No trash burning is allowed other than
in fire pit or ring and no burning other than paper and wood is allowed. Fires
shall be extinguished before leaving or retiring.
      (9)   Picnic tables. Permanently affixed picnic tables may be provided at
campsites spaces.
      (10)   Public street access. No campsite space within a campground resort
shall directly access a road from the exterior of the campground. Access to all
structures within the campground shall be made using internal streets. All
campground entrances/driveways shall be approved by the North Carolina
Department of Transportation as required by NC state law.
      (11)   Street maintenance. Maintenance of all internal streets and
drainage facilities shall be the responsibility of the owner of the campground
if not approved by NCDOT. Streets shall be maintained in a manner to be free
from pot holes, breaks in the pavement, rough surfaces, ponding of water and
associated problems which would impede or cause hazards to motor vehicles.
Speed reduction bumps on paved internal streets are permissible, but they shall
be painted and appropriate signs indicating the bump shall be placed along the
street. These requirements are subject to inspection anytime by the town.
      (12)   Camp stores. In areas with developed campsites, a camp store may
be provided, for the use of campground users only, which may sell camping
supplies, e.g. food, ice, personal supplies, etc.
      (13)   Signs.
         (a)   Signs may be placed within campground for purposes of public
direction and safety.
         (b)   One freestanding sign for the purposes of advertising the
campground shall be constructed at the entrance(s) of the campground and shall
comply with the sign regulations contained in §§
154.195 through
154.202.
         (c)   There shall be a maximum of three off-premise signs which must
comply with the regulations contained in §§
154.195 through
154.202.
      (14)   Flood plains. Campgrounds proposed to be developed in whole or in
part in flood plains shall demonstrate compliance with the Flood Damage
Prevention Regulations contained in the County Code.
      (15)   Emergency evacuation. The application for a special use permit
shall contain an emergency evacuation plan which is adequate to protect the
safety of those utilizing the campground.
      (16)   Animals. Animals traveling with campers shall be kept on a leash
or tethered within their campsite at all times.
   (D)   Additional site plan requirements.
      (1)   Topography of the site, at contour interval no greater than five
feet.
      (2)   Natural features such as streams, lakes or ponds, rocky outcrops,
wooded areas, marshes, meadow land, or any other site in interest.
      (3)   Historic sites and cemeteries.
      (4)   Location and approximate size of all buildings and structures
within 500 feet.
      (5)   Proposed layout of the campground, both primitive and developed
camping areas, including individual sites, cabins, recreation areas, drinking
water outlets, sanitary disposal facilities, comfort stations and other service
buildings.
   (E)   Additional operational requirements.
      (1)   Responsible party. The person to whom a permit for a campground is
issued shall be the party responsible to comply with the conditions of the
operating permit and shall operate the resort campground in compliance with
this section and shall provide adequate supervision to maintain the campground,
its facilities and equipment in good repair and in a clean and sanitary
condition. Failure to comply with this section may result in revocation of the
zoning permit by the Zoning Officer.
      (2)   Manager on duty. In developed camping areas, an attendant will be
on the site 24 hours a day while the campground is open for business.
      (3)   A public phone in working order shall be available.
      (4)   A fire extinguisher shall be available at each service building and
at the office.
      (5)   Individual campsites and general use areas shall be kept clean and
free from garbage, refuse, litter, and other conditions, which can lead to the
transmission of disease, breeding of rodents and insects, and which may present
a fire hazard or contribute to the spread of fire.
      (6)   All sanitary, laundry, and drinking water facilities shall be
maintained in a clean, sanitary condition and kept in good repair at all times.
      (7)   A camp store may be permitted, but no alcoholic beverages may be
sold on the site.
      (8)   Registration records. Every campground owner or operator shall
maintain an accurate register containing a record of all occupants in the
campground. The register shall be available for inspection at all times by
authorized town representatives. The register shall contain the following
information.
         (a)   Name and permanent address of the occupants of each space.
         (b)   Campsite space number and/or appropriate quarter within a
shelter.
         (c)   Date when occupancy within the campground begins and date when
occupancy within the campground ceases.
         (d)   Upon request, park records shall be made available to the town.
         (e)   Time of stay each year. No recreational vehicle or park tenant
shall stay a length of time which exceeds 60 days of the time during which the
resort campground is approved to operate.
      (9)   Inspections.
         (a)   Any representative acting in official capacity on behalf of the
town as determined by town, is hereby authorized and directed to make such
inspections as are necessary to determine satisfactory compliance with this
subchapter. It shall be the duty of the owners of campgrounds to give the town
free access to such premises for inspections.
         (b)   The person to whom an operating permit for a campground is
issued shall operate the campground in compliance with this chapter and shall
provide adequate supervision to maintain the campground, its facilities and
equipment in good repair and in a clean and sanitary condition.
         (c)   The campground owner shall notify campground visitors of all
applicable provisions of this subchapter and inform them of their
responsibilities under this subchapter.
      (10)   Special use permit required. The uses listed above shall be
subject to special use permit procedures and requirements as set forth in §
154.107. This shall also include those previously licensed and existing when
one enumerated use is being applied for in lieu of or supplementary to another
enumerated use requiring or for which a special use permit has been previously
issued.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.244 COMMERCIAL OR INDUSTRIAL INCINERATION.
   (A)   Where permitted. Light Industrial District; special use permit
required.
   (B)   General requirements. Shall meet the requirement of §
154.233 or §
154.234 as applicable to the district in which the use is located.
   (C)   Specific development requirements. Shall secure an air quality permit
as required by NCDEQ Division of Air Quality.
   (D)   Special use permit required. The uses listed above shall be subject to
special use permit procedures and requirements as set forth in §
154.107. This shall also include those previously licensed and existing when
one enumerated use is being applied for in lieu of or supplementary to another
enumerated use requiring or for which a special use permit has been previously
issued.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.245 CONCRETE AND ASPHALT PLANTS.
   (A)   Where permitted. Light Industrial District; special use permit
required.
   (B)   General requirements. Shall meet the requirement of §
154.233 or §
154.234 as applicable to the district in which the use is located.
   (C)   Special use permit required. The uses listed above shall be subject to
special use permit procedures and requirements as set forth in §
154.107. This shall also include those previously licensed and existing when
one enumerated use is being applied for in lieu of or supplementary to another
enumerated use requiring or for which a special use permit has been previously
issued.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.246 CEMETERIES - INDEPENDENT AND FAMILY CEMETERIES; RELIGIOUS
INSTITUTIONS WITH CEMETERY.
   (A)   Where permitted. R-A, R-20, R-15 and GB Districts - special use permit
required.
   (B)   General requirements. Shall meet the requirement of §
154.233 as applicable to the district in which the use is located.
   (C)   Specific development requirements.
      (1)   North Carolina Cemetery Act. All cemeteries shall meet the
requirements set forth by the North Carolina Cemetery Act, and if applicable,
shall obtain a license from the North Carolina Cemetery Commission.
      (2)   Minimum lot size. A minimum of three contiguous acres shall be
required to establish a cemetery, columbarium or mausoleum not located on the
same tract of land as a church. A minimum of one acre shall be required for
free-standing cemeteries.
      (3)   Setbacks. The minimum setback for structures, graves and burial
plots from any exterior property line shall be 100 feet.
      (4)   Cemeteries as an accessory use to a church. Cemeteries, including a
columbarium, located on the same property as a church shall be subject to the
following criteria.
         (a)   The cemetery shall not encroach on any yard setbacks.
         (b)   The requirements of accessory uses shall apply.
      (5)   Initial citing or expansion request. The following conditions shall
apply.
         (a)   Whenever it is proposed to establish a cemetery or to extend the
boundaries of an existing cemetery, the party that is proposing shall make
written application to the Planning Board for a special use permit, the
requirements for which are outlined in §§
154.105 through
154.116.
         (b)   All “plots” are to be setback a minimum of 20 feet from the
property line of the cemetery; and the new cemetery property lines are to be a
minimum of 20 feet from the original property line.
         (c)   A 20-foot easement ingress, egress, and regress granted to
person(s) shall be reasonable and limited to the purposes of visiting graves,
maintaining the gravesite or cemetery, or conducting genealogy research. The
right of ingress and egress shall not be constructed to provide a right to
operate motor vehicles on the property for accessing a cemetery or gravesite
unless there is a road or adequate
right-of-way that permits access by motor vehicle and the owner has given
written permission to use the road or right-of way of necessity.
         (d)   The cemetery is to be continuously maintained by the church
organization, corporation or non-profit corporation.
         (e)   A sign not to exceed 32 square feet (4' x 8'), identifying the
cemetery is to be erected at the entrance of the cemetery a minimum of 70 feet
from the center of a state-maintained highway.
         (f)   A plat map & deed must be recorded before the special use permit
can be recorded.
         (g)   Only one person may be in a burial space except for a parent and
infant or two infants buried at the same time.
         (h)   All plots/graves shall be located in an orderly and neat
appearing manner within the confines of the burial space involved.
   (D)   Family cemeteries. R-A District only as a special use.
      (1)   Must be surveyed and recorded with mapping and register of deeds.
      (2)   The Cemetery is to be continuously maintained by the heirs of the
family and everyone buried there is to be an heir.
      (3)   Must be named.
      (4)   Must have a minimum ten ft. ingress and egress.
      (5)   Must not exceed 100 ft. × 200 ft. area.
      (6)   Gravesites must be at least 100 feet from any water supply.
      (7)   Cemetery boundaries must be at least 100 feet from existing
dwelling.
      (8)   A fence is to be erected around the perimeter of the cemetery or
once established (body placed).
      (9)   All markers or memorials must be of durable compositions. Markers
may not be homemade.
      (10)   Only one person may be in a burial space.
      (11)   Back-yard burials are not permitted; and it shall be unlawful to
bury a dead body outside of a registered cemetery in the town.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.247 DAY CARE CENTER, ADULT (FACILITY SERVING FOUR OR MORE CLIENTS).
   (A)   Where permitted. R-A, R-10, R-8, R-5, GB, and N-B as a use with
conditions.
   (B)   General requirements. Shall meet the requirement of §
154.233 as applicable to the district in which the use is located.
   (C)   Specific development requirements.
      (1)   State requirements. The construction and operation of such
facilities shall comply with the provisions of the General Statutes of the
State of North Carolina and any other applicable federal, state, and local
laws, including, but not limited to, any licensing or certification
requirement.
      (2)   Signs. In any residential district, all signs shall be non-
illuminated and shall not exceed four
square feet in area.
      (3)   Minimum lot size. The minimum lot size shall be 3,000 square feet.
      (4)   Fencing. The entire play area at a day care center or home shall be
enclosed by a fence having a minimum height of at least four feet and
constructed in such a manner that maximum safety to the adults is ensured.
      (5)   Minimum space per participant. Adult day care centers shall have 40
square feet of indoor space for each participant in the portion of the building
used for adult day care, excluding hallways, offices, and restrooms.
      (6)   Proximity to other care centers. In any residential district,
whether contiguous or not, adult day care centers shall not be located closer
than a one-half-mile radius from any existing permitted adult day care center
in a residential district.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.248 DAY CARE CENTER - CHILD.
   (A)   Where permitted. R-A, R-10, R-8, R-5, GB, and N-B as a use with
conditions.
   (B)   General requirements. Shall meet the requirement of §
154.233 as applicable to the district in which the use is located.
   (C)   Specific development requirements.
      (1)   State requirements. The construction and operation of such
facilities shall comply with the provisions of the General Statutes of the
State of North Carolina and any other applicable federal, state, and local
laws, including, but not limited to, any licensing or certification
requirement.
      (2)   Outdoor play area.
         (a)   Centers with 6-29 Children. Child day care centers licensed for
six to 29 children, inclusive, shall have 75 square feet per child of outdoor
play area for the total number of children for which the center is licensed. In
addition, the total number of children on the playground shall not exceed the
number the space will accommodate at 75 square feet per child.
         (b)   Centers with 30 or more children. Child day care centers
licensed for 30 or more children shall have 75 square feet per child of outdoor
play area for at least one-half of the total number for which the center is
licensed, provided that the minimum amount of space on the outdoor play area
must be enough to accommodate at least 30 children. In addition, the total
number of children on the playground shall not exceed the number the space will
accommodate at 75 square feet per child.
         (c)   Outdoor play space may not include driveways, parking areas, or
land otherwise unsuitable for children's play space.
         (d)   Outdoor play space may not be in the established front yard.
         (e)   Outdoor play area shall provide an area that is shaded by a
building, awnings, trees, or other methods.
         (f)   The outdoor area shall be designed so that staff are able to see
and easily supervise the entire area.
      (3)   Street access. Centers on a site greater than three acres shall
have access to a collector or thoroughfare street.
      (4)   Hours. The special use permit shall establish the hours of
operation.
      (5)   Parking for employees. Parking for employees must be off-street and
the minimum number of paved off-street parking spaces shall be two spaces plus
one for each employee.
      (6)   Off-street loading and unloading. In addition to the off-street
parking area, there shall be sufficient paved driveway to accommodate at least
two autos at one time for the purpose of loading and unloading passengers.
      (7)   Signs. All signs shall comply with the sign ordinance in §§
154.195 through
154.202.
      (8)   Minimum lot size. The minimum lot size shall be 3,000 square feet.
      (9)   Fencing. The entire play area at an adult day care center or home
shall be enclosed by a fence having a minimum height of at least four feet and
constructed in such a manner that maximum safety to the adults is ensured.
      (10)   Minimum space per participant. Adult day care centers shall have
40 square feet of indoor space for each participant in the portion of the
building used for adult day care, excluding hallways, offices, and restrooms.
      (11)   Proximity to other care centers. In any residential district,
whether contiguous or not, adult day care centers shall not be located closer
than a one-half-mile radius from any existing permitted adult day care center
in a residential district.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.249 DAY CARE HOME - CHILD (TWO TO EIGHT CHILDREN); FAMILY CHILD CARE
HOME.
   (A)   Where permitted. R-A, R-8, R-5, N-B as a use with conditions.
   (B)   General requirements. Shall meet the requirement of §
154.233 as applicable to the district in which the use is located.
   (C)   Specific development requirements.
      (1)   State requirements. A Family Child Care Home (FCCH) is a child care
arrangement located in a residence where, at any one time, more than two
children, but less than nine children, receive child care. A family child care
home must be licensed by the Division of Child Development and Early Education
(DCDEE). Of those eight children, no more than five children may be of pre-
school age. Pre-school age children are children who have not yet reached an
age to attend school (i.e. kindergarten). Child day care homes providing
service to three or less children or providing care less than four hours per
day and who are otherwise not subject to the regulation of the North Carolina
Department of Health and Human Services Division of Child Development or other
licensing agencies, are still subject to the regulations contained herein.
      (2)   Residency requirement. The primary care provider must reside in the
child day care home. no additional employees are permitted in the operation of
the child day care home with the exception of a substitute who provides care
during planned absences of the primary caregiver, as allowed by the North
Carolina Department of Health and Human Services Division of Child Development.
      (3)   Fencing. All rear yards for a child day care home shall be fenced
or walled. The minimum height for such walls or fences shall be four feet.
      (4)   Restrictions on use of yard area. All equipment pertaining to the
operation of a child day care home, to include toys, shall be stored in the
rear yard. Front yards shall not be used as playground areas.
      (5)   Building and fire inspections required. A building inspection and a
fire safety inspection shall be completed for all child day care homes prior to
zoning approval by the town.
      (6)   Hours. Hours of operation for a child day care home shall be
permitted from 6.00 a.m. until 8.00 p.m.
      (7)   Proximity to similar facilities. A child day care home, required to
be licensed by the State of North Carolina, may not be located within one-half
mile radius of an existing child day care home.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.250 DAY CARE HOME - ADULT (SEVEN OR MORE BEDS).
   (A)   Where permitted. R-A, R-8, R-5, and N-B as a use with conditions.
   (B)   General requirements. Shall meet the requirement of §
154.233 as applicable to the district in which the use is located.
   (C)   Specific development requirements.
      (1)   Licensing. An adult care home shall be licensed by the Division of
Health Service Regulation of the NC Department of Health and Human Services.
      (2)   Definition. ADULT CARE HOME is an assisted living residence in
which the housing management provides 24-hour scheduled and unscheduled
personal care services to two or more residents, either directly or, for
scheduled needs, through formal written agreement with licensed home care or
hospice agencies. Some licensed adult care homes provide supervision to people
with cognitive impairments whose decisions, if made independently, may
jeopardize the safety or well-being of themselves or others and therefore
require supervision. Medication in an adult care home may be administered by
designated, trained staff. Adult care homes that provide care to two to six
unrelated residents are commonly called family care homes. Adult care homes and
family care homes are subject to licensure by the Division of Health Service
Regulation.
      (3)   Adult care home structural requirements. In addition to applicable
building code requirements, adult care homes must meet requirements of the
adult care home licensure rules which
address arrangement and size of rooms, lighting, water and air temperature,
entrances and exits, and service and fire safety equipment. Annual sanitation
and fire and building safety inspection reports by the appropriate authorities
are required. Fire safety requirements address fire extinguisher
specifications, smoke and heat detectors, fire alarm system, meeting fire
safety requirements of town ordinance or town building inspectors, written fire
and disaster plans, and fire rehearsals (at least four a year on each shift).
      (4)   Residency requirement. The primary care provider must reside in the
adult day care home. No additional employees are permitted in the operation of
the adult day care home with the exception of a substitute who provides care
during planned absences of the primary caregiver.
      (5)   Fencing. All rear yards for an adult day care home shall be fenced
or walled. The minimum height for such walls or fences shall be four feet.
      (6)   Restrictions on use of yard area. All equipment pertaining to the
operation of an adult day care home, to include toys, shall be stored in the
rear yard. Front yards shall not be used as playground areas.
      (7)   Building and fire inspections required. A building inspection and a
fire safety inspection shall be completed for all adult day care homes prior to
zoning approval by the town.
      (8)   Hours. Hours of operation for an adult day care home shall be
permitted from 6.00 a.m. until 8.00 p.m.
      (9)   Proximity to similar facilities. An adult day care home, required
to be licensed by the State of North Carolina, may not be located within one-
half mile radius of an existing adult day care home.
See Family Care Home when caring for two - six resident persons.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.251 DWELLING, MIXED USE.
   (A)   Where permitted. R-A, C-B, G-B and N-B Districts as a use with
conditions.
   (B)   General requirements. Shall meet the requirement of §
154.233 as applicable to the district in which the use is located.
   (C)   Specific development requirements.
      (1)   The dwelling unit and the commercial use shall occupy the same
principal structure.
      (2)   Lot and yard requirements (setbacks, etc.) for this use shall be
the same as those for the nonresidential use.
      (3)   Nonresidential uses shall be limited to those allowed in the zoning
district in which the structure is located.
      (4)   In the General Business District, the structure must contain a
commercial use for a dwelling to also be located in the structure
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.252 DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY.
   (A)   Where permitted. R-A, R-10, R-8 and R-5 Districts - special use permit
required.
   (B)   General requirements. Shall meet the requirement of §
154.233 as applicable to the district in which the use is located.
   (C)   Number of individual family units. “Multifamily dwellings” means three
or more family units.
   (D)   Specific development requirements.
      (1)   Side and rear yard minimum setbacks shall be increased to one and
one-half times the minimum for the applicable zoning district.
      (2)   One or more parking lots shall be constructed to accommodate all
required parking. Individual parking spaces shall not have direct access to the
street. Automobile parking space and drives shall not be located closer than 20
feet to the front or 20 feet to the rear of any dwelling or ten feet to any
side.
      (3)   Any playground equipment must be located in the rear yard at least
20 feet from any property line.
      (4)   The following space requirements between building walls having
window or door opening shall be maintained within a multi-family housing
development.
         (a)   A building wall having both window and door openings shall not
be located any closer than 50 feet to another building.
         (b)   A building wall having only window or door openings shall not be
located any closer than 25 feet to another building.
         (c) Any group of buildings forming a courtyard shall have at least 25%
of the perimeter of such courtyard open and for access by emergency vehicles.
      (5)   Units and minimum buildable area. Multifamily dwellings such as
apartments, condominiums, and townhouses shall be constructed on a lot area of
at least two acres.
      (6)   Minimum dwelling size. Multifamily units shall be no less than
1,250 square feet in livable space.
      (7)   Fire protection. Every multifamily development shall be equipped at
all times with fire extinguishing equipment in good condition, of such size,
type, and number and so located as to meet all regulations of the Town Fire
Inspector.
      (8)   Review by Fire Inspector. Building plans for all building areas
intended for public use shall be reviewed and approved by the Fire Inspector
and the applicant shall submit documentation of site approval to the Zoning
Officer prior to commencing the operation.\
      (9)   Emergency access telephone. For the purpose of safety and meeting
emergencies, one telephone for each 25, or fraction thereof, dwellings shall
continuously be provided to the entire occupancy of the development at
convenient locations.
      (10)   Animal and pets. No owner or persons in charge of any dog, cat, or
other pet animal shall permit it to run at large or to commit any nuisance
within the limits of the development and its surrounding area.
      (11)   Streets. All dwelling units shall have shared rights of access
along private streets and/or along private drives at least twenty-four feet in
width leading to a publicly maintained street. Maintenance of all private
streets and private drives shall be a mandatory responsibility, running with
the land, exercised by a single entity which shall be composed of one
landowner, an Owners' Association, or all owners acting collectively pursuant
to a binding agreement.
      (12)   Signs. Entrance and other signs within the multifamily development
shall be in compliance with §§
154.195 through
154.202 - Signs.
      (13)   Landscaping, buffering and screening. Shall be in compliance with
§§
154.205 -
154.213 - Landscaping, Buffering and Screening.
      (14)   Lighting Requirements. All streets and parking areas within the
development shall be adequately illuminated from sunset to sunrise. All
lighting shall be in compliance with the requirements of §§
154.215 through
154.218 - Outdoor Lighting.
      (15)   Utility requirements.
         (a)   Water supply. Connection to a public water supply is required.
         (b)   Sewage disposal. Connection to a public wastewater system is
required.
         (c)   Solid waste disposal and sanitation requirements. Individual
garbage cans that adhere to town specifications shall be provided for each
manufactured home.
      (16)   Management. In each multifamily development, a manager/operator
shall be designated and shall be in charge at all time to keep the development,
its facilities and equipment in a clean, orderly, safe, and sanitary condition.
The manager/operator is to be registered with the Zoning Officer.
      (17)   Plans and declarations. Multifamily developments shall be subject
to major site plan as outlined in §§
154.375 through
154.460. Together with the application for zoning permit there shall be
submitted a tentative, over-all development plan which shall show:
         (a)   A tabulation of the total number of acres in the proposed
project and the percentage thereof designated for each of the proposed dwelling
types, off-street parking, streets, parks, schools, and other reservations;
         (b)   A tabulation of over-all density per gross acre;
         (c)   Preliminary plans and elevations of the several dwelling types.
      (18)   Condominiums. Plans and declarations for condominium developments
shall comply with the requirements of the North Carolina Condominium Act (NCGS
Chapter 47C).
      (19)   Special use permit required. The uses listed above shall be
subject to special use permit procedures and requirements as set forth in §
154.107. This shall also include those previously licensed and existing when
one enumerated use is being applied for in lieu of or supplementary to another
enumerated use requiring or for which a special use permit has been previously
issued.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.253 FAMILY CARE HOME/GROUP HOME FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES.
   (A)   Where permitted. All Residential Districts as a use with conditions.
   (B)   General requirements. Shall meet the requirement of §
154.233 as applicable to the district in which the use is located.
   (C)   Specific development requirements.
      (1)   Defined.
         (a)   FAMILY CARE HOME. A home with support and supervisory personnel
that provides room and board, personal care, and habilitation services in a
family environment for not more than six resident persons with disabilities.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-907.
         (b)   PERSON WITH DISABILITIES. A person with a temporary or permanent
physical, emotional, or mental disability, including, but not limited to,
mental retardation, cerebral palsy, epilepsy, autism, hearing and sight
impairments, emotional disturbances, and orthopedic impairments but not
including mentally ill persons who are dangerous to others as defined in G.S. §
122C-3(11)b. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-907.
      (2)   A family care home shall be deemed a residential use of property
for zoning purposes and shall be a permissible use in all residential
districts. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-907(b).
      (3)   Separation of uses. No group care facility may be located closer to
another such facility than one-half mile measured by a straight line, and not
street distances, in order to prevent the creation of a de facto social service
district and to avoid affecting the surround neighborhood. “Affecting” means
the point at which the number of group care facilities or residents therein
might become so large that it may alter the character of a neighborhood. This
division is also intended to protect existing group care facilities from the
possibility that an over-concentration of such facilities might inadvertently
create an institutional setting and hinder or negate the purposes of such
facilities. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-907(c).
      (4)   Charges and assessments. A family care home shall be deemed a
residential use of property for the purposes of determining charges or
assessments imposed by the Town for water, sewer, garbage and trash collection,
repairs or improvements to roads, streets, and sidewalks, and other services,
utilities, and improvements. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. §
160D-907(d).
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.254 FARMER’S MARKET/OPEN AIR MARKET.
   (A)   Where permitted. R-A, C-B, G-B and N-B Districts as a use with
conditions.
   (B)   General requirements. Shall meet the requirement of §
154.233 as applicable to the district in which the use is located.
   (C)   Specific development requirements.
      (1)   Certain sales prohibited. There shall be no sales of fuel and
related products, tobacco products, alcoholic beverages, vehicles or related
products. Food franchises are prohibited.
      (2)   Parking. Open air market uses shall be required to have off-street
parking with adequate ingress and egress with an area for turn-around. A
minimum of one parking space per 200 square feet of selling and display area
shall be provided, with a minimum of two spaces provided. For the purpose of
calculating the required number of parking spaces, production facilities,
garden plots, planting beds and outdoor storage area opened to the public are
excluded. Overflow parking shall, at a minimum, be grass covered.
      (3)   Area size. The minimum gross land area shall be 40,000 square feet.
      (4)   Setbacks. All display areas shall be at least 40 feet from any
street or road right-of-way.
      (5)   Display area. The amount of gross land area utilized for display
area shall not exceed forty percent of the gross land area.
      (6)   Code requirement. Any building, plumbing, electrical, or mechanical
installation shall conform with all state and local codes.
      (7)   Signs. Seasonal signs are allowed, but cannot be placed anywhere it
would create a traffic hazard. All other town signage regulations may apply. No
rotating or flashing lights on advertising signage shall be permitted.
      (8)   Lighting. No outdoor lighting shall produce glare beyond the
boundary of the property.
      (9)   Water service. Potable water is required on-site.
      (10)   Items for sale shall be removed from the site or placed in a
secured building at the end of each business day.
      (11)   Public restrooms. Adequate restroom facilities shall be provided.
These facilities shall be located a minimum of 50 feet from the street right-
of-way and shall meet the side and rear setbacks for the district in which the
outdoor market is located.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.255 FIRING RANGE.
   (A)   Where. Light Industrial District - special use permit required.
   (B)   Purpose. This section is intended to regulate the establishment and
operation of shooting range facilities. Such recreational and training
complexes, due to their potential noise impacts and safety concerns, merit
careful review to minimize adverse effects on adjoining properties. This
section does not otherwise apply to the general discharge of firearms including
target practice on privately-owned
property, or events such as turkey shoots, or the use of bows and arrows in
accordance with all other applicable laws or regulations. Further, the
regulations of this section have been made with reasonable consideration among
other things, as to the character of the town and its areas and their peculiar
suitability for these businesses and recreational facilities.
   (C)   Intent. It is the intent of this section to accomplish the following.
      (1)   Permitting, registration and compliance. New shooting range
facilities shall only be established and operated in accordance with a valid
permit issued by the town. In addition, existing ranges shall be registered and
shall comply with the provisions of this section within one year.
      (2)   Shot containment. Each shooting range facility shall be designed to
contain the bullets, shot or arrows on the range facility within the safety fan
zone.
      (3)   Noise mitigation. Each shooting range facility shall be designed to
minimize offsite noise impacts generated by the activities conducted on the
range facility.
   (D)   Authority and jurisdiction. The provisions of this section are adopted
by the Town Council under authority granted by the general assembly of the
state, in G.S. § 153A-121 (Delegation of Police Power) and further, G.S. §
153A-129 (Firearms). From and after the effective date hereof, this section
shall apply to every building, lot, tract or parcel of land which is currently
being used by a private or public shooting range and which may be used in the
future for a private or public shooting range, within the town's planning
jurisdiction.
   (E)   Interpretations of terms and definitions. For the purpose of this
section, the following definitions shall apply. Words used in the present tense
include the future tense. Words used in the singular number include the plural
and words used in the plural number include the singular.
      (1)   The word BUILDING includes the word “structure.”
      (2)   The word DWELLING shall mean a structure or portion thereof which
is used exclusively for human habitation.
      (3)   The word FIREARM is defined to describe any gun from which a bullet
is propelled by means of hot gases generated by burning powder (smokeless or
black powder).
      (4)   The words “LOCATED,” “USED” or “OCCUPIED” as applied to any land or
building shall be construed to include the words “intended, arranged or
designed to be located, used or occupied.”
      (5)   The word LOT includes the words “plot” or “parcel.”
      (6)   The word OWNER when applied to a building or land, shall include
any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant by entirety of the
whole or part of such building or land.
      (7)   The word PERSON includes an owner, firm, joint venture,
association, organization, partnership, corporation, trust and company, as well
as an individual.
      (8)   The word SHALL is always mandatory and not merely directory.
      (9)   The word SHOOTING RANGE shall mean a facility designed for the
purpose of providing a place on which to discharge firearms. Noncommercial
firearms training ranges and complexes operated by and for municipal, county
and state law enforcement officers are exempt from this definition. Nonprofit
or charitable organizations engaging in fundraising activities by use of a
shotgun using number four-shot through number nine-shot for a period not to
exceed six consecutive weeks are exempt from this definition. A shotfall zone
consisting of 900 feet of unencumbered space shall be required.
   (F)   Specific development requirements.
      (1)   Compliance. All new shooting facilities shall be designed,
constructed and operated in strict compliance with National Rifle Association
(herein referred to as the N.R.A.) standards, specifically The Range Manual, A
Guide to Planning and Construction, Section 1. Chapters 1 through 7, Section 2.
Chapters 1 through 18, Section 3. Chapters 1 through 12; and Section 4. In
addition, construction standards shall comply with all appurtenant North
Carolina Building and Fire Codes.
      (2)   Setbacks. All outdoor shooting stations on a range facility shall
be located a minimum of 150 feet from any property line.
      (3)   Warning signs. Warning signs meeting N.R.A. guidelines for shooting
ranges shall be posted at 100-foot intervals along the entire perimeter of the
shooting range facility.   
      (4)   Distance from residentially zoned property. All outdoor shooting
range stations shall be located at least 500 feet from any residentially zoned
property, excluding those dwellings occupied by the range owner and staff of
the range. A shooting range lawfully operating as a conforming use shall not be
rendered nonconforming by the subsequent location of a residence within 500
feet of the shooting station.
      (5)   Buffering. Shall comply with §§
154.205 through
154.213.
      (6)   Access. Any gates allowing for access must meet the same height
requirement and must be kept closed and locked after dark and at any time when
not open for business
   (G)   Operational requirements.
      (1)   Hours of operation. Outdoor shooting ranges shall be allowed to
operate between 8:00 a.m. and sunset, except that the hours may be extended
after sunset for purposes of subdued lighting certification of law enforcement
officers, or may be extended for other purposes by notification to the
Town's Police Department. On Sundays, outdoor shooting shall not commence
before 11:30 a.m. and all outdoor shooting activity shall cease at 6:00 p.m.,
or at sunset, whichever occurs first.
      (2)   Liability insurance. The permittee shall be required to carry a
minimum of $500,000 of liability insurance. Such insurance shall name the town
as an additional insured party and shall save and hold the town, its elected
and appointed officials and employees acting within the scope of their duties
harmless from and against all claims, demands and causes of action of any kind
or character, including the cost of defense thereof, arising in favor of a
person or group's members or employees or third parties on account of any
property damage arising out of use of the range, or in any way arising out of
the acts or omissions of the permittee, his/her group, club or its agents or
representatives. The town shall be notified of any policy changes or lapses in
coverage.
   (H)   Procedure for securing approval for new ranges.
      (1)   Special use permit required. The uses listed above shall be subject
to special use permit procedures and requirements as set forth in §
154.107. This shall also include those previously licensed and existing when
one enumerated use is being applied for in lieu of or supplementary to another
enumerated use requiring or for which a special use permit has been previously
issued.
         (a)   Permit application. An application for a permit to establish and
operate a shooting range facility shall be submitted by the legal property
owner(s) or owner's agent to the town Planning Department. Such permit shall be
secured prior to issuance of any other building or improvement permit by the
town.
         (b)   Fees. The application shall be accompanied by an application fee
of $100.
         (c)   Required information. The applicant shall provide sufficient
information as required by these provisions in order to properly evaluate the
permit application. In addition, copies of any written agreements from
adjoining property owners and a letter from the insurance company to provide
liability insurance shall accompany the permit application.
         (d)   Site plan. A site plan prepared by a professional engineer and/
or a registered land surveyor for the entire range facility which shows the
following applicable information drawn to an appropriate scale, shall accompany
the permit application.
            1.   Property lines for any parcel upon which the range facility is
to be located, north arrow, plan scale, date and ownership information for the
site;
            2.   Complete layout of each range, including shooting stations or
firing lines, target areas, shotfall zones or safety fans, backstops, berms and
baffles, when necessary;
            3.   Projected noise contours;
            4.   Existing and proposed structures; occupied dwellings within
500 feet; roads, streets or other access areas; buffer areas; and parking areas
for the range facility; and
            5.   Any other appropriate information related to the specific type
of range(s) being proposed.
         (e)   Action. Within 30 working days or at the next regular meeting,
whichever is sooner, the Planning Board shall consider the application for
permit and shall take one of the following actions.
            1.   Reject the application as incomplete; or
            2.   Approve the issuance of the permit; or
            3.   Deny the permit request.
            4.   In any case, the written findings to support the action taken
shall be provided to the applicant.
      (2)   Permit display. Permits shall be kept and displayed in a readily
visible location on the shooting range facility and at all times be available
for public inspection.
      (3)   Permit transferability. A permit issued pursuant to this section
may not be transferred to another operator without the written approval and
consent of the Town Planning Department.
      (4)   Changes or expansions. If any shooting range facility is intended
to be substantially changed or expanded to include types of ranges, operations
or activities not covered by an approved permit or otherwise cause
nonconformance with this section, a new permit for the entire facility shall be
secured in accordance with all of the provisions of this section.
   (I)   Discontinuance. Abandonment and discontinuance: When an existing
shooting range is discontinued without the intent to reinstate the range use,
the property owner shall notify the town of such intent by providing written
notice to the Planning Department.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.256 FLEA MARKETS - PERMANENT LOCATION.
    (A)   Where permitted. G-B District as a use with conditions.
   (B)   General requirements. Shall at a minimum meet the requirements of §
154.233 as applicable to the district in which the use is located.
   (C)   Specific development requirements.
      (1)   Size. Flea markets shall not exceed one acre in size.
      (2)   Days and hours of operation. Days and hours of operation shall be
established by the special use permit.
      (3)   Food sales. The sale of food for consumption on or off the premises
will require approval by the Department of Health.
      (4)   Fencing for permanent locations. Permanent outdoor flea markets are
required to install and maintain fencing or landscaping along three sides of
the open market. A landscape plan describing both fencing and landscaping must
be reviewed and approved by the Zoning Officer.
      (5)   Buffering. Screening and buffering of a permanent site when
adjacent to residential properties may be required as part of the special use
permit.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.257 FUEL OIL SALES.
   (A)   Where permitted. G-B and Light Industrial Districts as a use with
conditions.
   (B)   General requirements. Shall at a minimum meet the requirements of §
154.233 as applicable to the district in which the use is located.
   (C)   Specific development requirements.
      (1)   Location. Principal access must be from a collector or higher
capacity street.
      (2)   Fire code. The use must meet the requirements established by the
fire prevention code of the National Board of Fire Underwriters and the latest
edition of the “Flammable and Combustible Liquids Code, NFPA 30" of the
National Fire Protection Association.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.258 FUNERAL HOME, NO CREMATORIUM.
   (A)   Where permitted. C-B, G-B and N-B Districts as a use with conditions.
   (B)   General requirements. Shall meet the requirement of §
154.233 as applicable to the district in which the use is located.
   (C)   Specific development requirements.
      (1)   License. Any funeral home shall have and maintain a licensed
manager on staff, keep in
force and effect all other licenses required and provide proof of continued re-
licensing.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.259 FUNERAL HOME WITH CREMATORIUM.
   (A)   Where permitted. Light Industrial Districts - special use permit
required.
   (B)   General requirements. Shall meet the requirement of §
154.233 as applicable to the district in which the use is located.
   (C)   Specific development requirements. Crematory or crematorium are
subject to the following requirements.
      (1)   Use. No crematory shall be established except as an accessory use
or structure to a North Carolina licensed funeral home in the RA, General
Business and Light Industrial Districts.
      (2)   License. Any funeral home operating a crematory shall have and
maintain a licensed crematory manager on staff, keep in force and effect all
other licenses required under the North Carolina Crematory Act, and provide
proof of continued re-licensing.
      (3)   Air Quality. Prior to issuance of a zoning permit, the applicant
shall provide a certification from the North Carolina Division of Air Quality
that the applicant complies with all air quality regulations or that the
Division of Air Quality does not require permit.
      (4)   Building. The maximum footprint of the crematory shall not exceed
400 square feet. The exterior/veneer must be of similar material and design as
the principle structure.
      (5)   Size. Crematory operations shall not contain more than one
cremation chamber.
      (6)   Location. No crematory shall be established on a funeral home lot
within 200 feet of any existing residential dwelling on adjacent parcels or
within 150 feet of any property line.
      (7)   Other. A crematory must comply with and be maintained in compliance
with all applicable public health and environmental laws and rules and meet all
of the standards established by the North Carolina Crematory Act, as amended or
superseded, and any additional rules and regulations issued by the North
Carolina State Board of Funeral Services.
      (8)   Special use permit required. The uses listed above shall be subject
to special use permit procedures and requirements as set forth in §
154.107. This shall also include those previously licensed and existing when
one enumerated use is being applied for in lieu of or supplementary to another
enumerated use requiring or for which a special use permit has been previously
issued.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.260 GOLF COURSE, PUBLIC OR PRIVATE (EXCLUDING MINIATURE GOLF).
   (A)   Where permitted. R-A, R-20 and G-B Districts as a use with conditions.
   (B)   General requirements. Shall at a minimum meet the requirements of §
154.233 as applicable to the district in which the use is located.
   (C)   Specific development requirements.
      (1)   In the AR District there shall be no miniature golf.
      (2)   Use separation. A 50-foot minimum distance shall be provided
between the clubhouse or other principal building(s) and any adjacent
residentially-zoned property.
      (3)   Parking area. All parking and loading areas shall be graded and
drained so as to dispose of all surface water.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.261 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   (A)   Where permitted. All Residential Districts as a use with conditions.
   (B)   General requirements. Shall at a minimum meet the requirements of §
154.233 as applicable to the district in which the use is located.
   (C)   Defined. Any profession or occupation carried on entirely within a
dwelling providing that such use is clearly incidental and secondary to the use
of the dwelling for dwelling purposes, that no more than 25% of the total floor
area of the dwelling is used for such purposes, and that there is no outside or
window display. No mechanical equipment shall be installed or used other than
is normally used for domestic or home occupation purposes.
   (D)   Specific development requirements.
      (1)   That such use is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the
dwelling for dwelling purposes;
      (2)   That no more than 25% of the total floor area of the dwelling is
used for such purposes;
      (3)   That there is no outside or window display;
      (4)   That no mechanical or electrical equipment is installed or used
other than is normally used for domestic, professional, or hobby purposes, or
for infrequent consultation or emergency treatment; and,
      (5)   That not more than one person not a resident of the dwelling is
employed in connection with the home occupation.
      (6)   Outside storage. No outside storage or display of items associated
with the home occupation is permitted.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.262 ICE VENDING ESTABLISHMENT, UNMANNED.
   (A)   Where permitted. G-B and Light Industrial Districts as a use with
conditions.
   (B)   General requirements. Shall at a minimum meet the requirements of §
154.233 as applicable to the district in which the use is located.
   (C)   Specific development requirements.
      (1)   Signage. Signage shall be limited to no more than 10% of the
building facade up to eight square feet and limited to two signs.
      (2)   Paved access required. Machines will have paved access.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.263 INDUSTRIAL SUPPLIES AND EQUIPMENT SALES.
   (A)   Where permitted. Light Industrial District as a use with conditions.
   (B)   General requirements. Shall at a minimum meet the requirements of §
154.233 as applicable to the district in which the use is located.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.264 JUNKYARDS/SALVAGE YARDS/AUTOMOBILE GRAVEYARDS.
   (A)   Where. Light Industrial District - special use permit required.
   (B)   General requirements. Shall at a minimum meet the requirements of §
154.233 as applicable to the district in which the use is located.
   (C)   Junkyard Control Act. Junkyards along interstate and primary highways
shall meet the requirements of G.S. Chapter 136, Article 12, Junkyard Control
Act.
   (D)   Specific development requirements.
      (1)   Screening. Automobile graveyards, salvage yards, and similar types
of used material industries must be conducted within a structure or on a lot
enclosed by a solid fence at least six feet in height, provided that the Town
Council finds that such yard will not have injurious effect on the public
interest or welfare. The finished side of the fence shall face the property
line.
      (2)   Special use permit required. The uses listed above shall be subject
to special use permit procedures and requirements as set forth in §
154.107. This shall also include those previously licensed and existing when
one enumerated use is being applied for in lieu of or supplementary to another
enumerated use requiring or for which a special use permit has been previously
issued.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.265 MANUFACTURED HOME AS A TEMPORARY USE.
   (A)   Where Permitted. R-A, R-20, and G-B as a use with conditions.
   (B)   General requirements. Shall at a minimum meet the requirements of §
154.233 as applicable to the district in which the use is located.
   (C)   Specific development requirements.
      (1)   Manufactured homes may be used for temporary purposes and uses for
a period of 12 months. These include:
         (a)   Temporary emergency, construction, and repair residence;
         (b)   Real estate sales office and model sales home;
         (c)   Temporary emergency, construction, and repair residence; or
         (d)   Temporary farmworker housing.
      (2)   Temporary use permits may be issued in such cases for 12 months,
but may be renewed for successive 12-month periods for so long as the hardship
exists. Application for renewal of a temporary use permit shall be made 30 days
prior to the expiration date of said permit. All applications shall be made to
the Zoning Official and shall be reviewed by the Board of Zoning Adjustment to
determine relative need. All such mobile homes must have access to water and
sewer systems approved by the Robeson County Health Department and said mobile
homes must be maintained in such a way as not to create nuisance conditions.
      (3)   In any zoning district not more than one manufactured home may be
permitted on a property on a temporary basis provided that the primary purpose
is to house an individual or individuals to provide security for surrounding
properties. Temporary use permits may be issued in such cases for 12 months,
but may be renewed for successive 12-month periods for as long as the need can
be justified. Application for renewal or a temporary use permit shall be made
to the Zoning Official to determine relative need. All such manufactured homes
must have access to water and sewer systems approved by the Robeson County
Health Department and said manufactured homes must be maintained in such way as
not to create nuisance conditions.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.266 MANUFACTURED HOME STORAGE AND REPAIR YARD.
   (A)   Where permitted. R-A and Light Industrial District - special use
permit required.
   (B)   General requirements. Shall at a minimum meet the requirements of §
154.233 as applicable to the district in which the use is located.
   (C)   Special use permit required. The uses listed above shall be subject to
special use permit procedures and requirements as set forth in §
154.107. This shall also include those previously licensed and existing when
one enumerated use is being applied for in lieu of or supplementary to another
enumerated use requiring or for which a special use permit has been previously
issued.
   (D)   Specific development requirements.
      (1)   Location.
         (a)   Minimum setback from any street right-of-way to any outdoor
storage area shall be at least 100 feet.
         (b)   Minimum setback from any other property line shall be at least
50 feet.
         (c)   No manufactured home storage and or repair yard shall be located
less than 500 feet from any property used or zoned for residential purposes.
      (2)   Screening/fencing/gates.
         (a)   Screening is required which completely screens from view the
stored items. Such screening shall be a durable wall or fence at least six feet
high in addition to a minimum 15-foot wide vegetated strip around the entire
perimeter of any outdoor storage area. This vegetated strip shall consist of a
naturally wooded area or planted with a mixture of evergreen and deciduous
trees and shrubs to simulate a naturally wooded area within three years.
      (b)   Any gates allowing for access must meet the same height requirement
and must be kept closed and locked after dark and at any time when not open for
business.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.267 MANUFACTURING AND INDUSTRIAL USES NOT LISTED.
   (A)   Where permitted. Light Industrial District; special use permit
required.
   (B)   General requirements. Shall at a minimum meet the requirements of §
154.233 or §
154.234 as applicable to the district in which the use is located.
   (C)   Specific development requirements. Any unlisted use should be treated
the same as the most nearly similar use. In making this evaluation, the town
shall consider the following factors. type of use, density and intensity of
adjacent development, environmental effects, and the anticipated amount
traffic, noise, light, vibration, odor, and other impacts on neighbors and the
community.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.268 MINI-WAREHOUSE STORAGE FACILITY.
   (A)   Where permitted. Light Industrial as a use with conditions.
   (B)   General requirements. Shall at a minimum meet the requirements of §
154.233 as applicable to the district in which the use is located.
   (C)   Specific development requirements.
      (1)   Storage buildings in the mini-warehouse/storage facility may not
cover more than 60% of the lot.
      (2)   Maximum height of units is 20 feet.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.269 NURSING HOMES, REST HOMES AND CONVALESCENT CENTERS.
    (A)   Where. R-A, R-10, G-B and N-B as a use with conditions.
   (B)   General requirements. Shall at a minimum meet the requirements of §
154.233 as applicable to the district in which the use is located.
   (C)   Specific development requirements.
      (1)   Side and rear yard minimum setbacks shall be increased to one and
one-half times the minimum for the applicable zoning district.
      (2)   One or more parking lots shall be constructed to accommodate all
required parking. Individual parking spaces shall not have direct access to the
street. Automobile parking space and drives shall not be located closer than 20
feet to the front or 20 feet to the rear of any dwelling or ten feet to any
side.
      (3)   Any playground equipment must be located in the rear yard at least
20 feet from any property line.
      (4)   The following space requirements between building walls having
window or door opening shall be maintained within a multi-family housing
development.
         (a)   A building wall having both window and door openings shall not
be located any closer than 50 feet to another building.
         (b)   A building wall having only window or door openings shall not be
located any closer than 25 feet to another building.
         (c)   Any group of buildings forming a courtyard shall have at least
25% of the perimeter of such courtyard open and for access by emergency
vehicles.
      (5)   Evidence of effort to secure a valid license from the Nursing Home
Licensure and Certification Section of the NC Department of Health and Human
Services shall be submitted with the application.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.270 OUTDOOR SALES AND DISPLAY AREAS.
   (A)   Where permitted. C-B, G-B and Light Industrial as a use with
conditions.
   (B)   General requirements. Shall at a minimum meet the requirements of §
154.233 as applicable to the district in which the use is located.
   (C)   Specific development requirements.
      (1)   Nonconforming uses. Any nonconforming outdoor display existing on
the effective date of this chapter which does not conform to the requirements
of this subchapter shall be removed and/or brought into compliance within 12
months from the effective date of this chapter.
      (2)   Location.
         (a)   Outside primary structure. Outside sales must be clearly
secondary to the primary use of the associated permanent structure and shall
generally be located to the side or rear of the principal structure. Display of
merchandise for sale outdoors in the front yard shall not exceed a maximum of
12 feet from the front face of the building.
         (b)   Displays on public sidewalks. Merchandise for sale may be placed
on the public sidewalk in front of the shop where the building is directly
adjacent to the sidewalk provided that adequate pedestrian clearance on the
sidewalk is maintained (minimum of five feet). Such sales may also be subject
to other town ordinances.
      (3)   Restaurants with outside seating/sales. Restaurants having outdoor
seating (including, but not limited to, seating for dining or listening to live
or recorded acoustic or amplified entertainment outside of the building) shall
comply with the following standards.
         (a)   The outdoor seating area shall be located no closer than 100
feet from any residential zoning district.
         (b)   The outdoor portions of the restaurant shall not operate after
11.00 p.m.
         (c)   The outdoor seating area shall not obstruct the movement of
pedestrians along sidewalks or through areas intended for public use.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.271 OUTDOOR STORAGE.
   (A)   Where permitted. R-A, G-B, and N-B and Light Industrial as a use with
conditions.
   (B)   Requirements. Shall at a minimum meet the requirements of §
154.233 as applicable to the district in which the use is located.
   (C)   Definition. The placement or storage of goods, equipment, motor
vehicles or materials outside of an enclosed building for a period of more than
48 consecutive hours shall be considered OUTSIDE STORAGE. Outdoor storage does
not refer to operable motor vehicles is use by the person occupying the
property, or other minor and incidental storage, which would not have a
negative impact on the health, safety and general welfare of adjacent property
owners and land uses.
   (D)   Specific development requirements.
      (1)   Buffer. In the interest of safety to children and adjacent property
owners, any approved outdoor storage shall maintain a buffer that conceals the
storage from public view. The buffer shall be compact evergreen hedge or other
type of evergreen foliage screening which shall reach the height of at least
eight feet within three years, or shall be a combined fence and shrubbery
screen. The buffer shall be maintained at a minimum of eight feet in height and
at least 15 feet in width thereafter. Earth-berms, other topographical features
and existing wooded areas may be accepted in lieu of the above requirements, if
they conceal the use from public view. Fences shall be at least six feet, but
no greater than 12 feet, must be opaque, and made of materials that are
normally accepted in the fencing industry.
The placement or storage of goods, equipment, motor vehicles or materials
outside of any enclosed building for a period of up to three months (90 days)
within the Central Business, General Business, Neighborhood Business or Light
Industrial Zoning Districts is permitted. After this period, these items are to
be stored within the required buffer.
      (2)   Nonconforming uses. All nonconforming outdoor storage existing on
the effective date of this chapter which does not conform to the requirements
of this section, shall be removed and/or brought into compliance within 12
months from the effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.272 PUBLIC OR PRIVATE UTILITY FACILITIES.
   (A)   Where permitted. Use with conditions in all districts.
   (B)   General requirements. Shall at a minimum meet the requirements of §
154.233 as applicable to the district in which the use is located.
   (C)   Specific development requirements for substations.
      (1)   Location.
         (a)   No accessory structure or building except utility substations
shall be erected in any easements.
         (b)   Must be located 500 feet from a legal conforming residential
use.
      (2)   Noise. Equipment-producing noise or sound in excess of 70 decibels
shall be located no closer than 100 feet to the nearest residence.
      (3)   Security fencing. Security fencing, a minimum of six feet in
height, shall be provided around hazardous operations, as determined by the
town, involved with the use.
      (4)   Screening. Any outdoor storage area shall be screened from an
abutting residentially used or zoned lot by a buffer yard which complies with
the requirements of Section 11-3.3(B).
      (5)   Dust. All unpaved outdoor use areas shall be maintained in a manner
which prevents dust from adversely impacting adjacent properties.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.273 RADIO AND TELEVISION STUDIOS, INCLUDING TOWERS.
   (A)   Where permitted. R-A, G-B, and Light Industrial Districts - special
use permit required.
   (B)   General requirements. Shall at a minimum meet the requirements of §
154.233 as applicable to the district in which the use is located.
   (C)   Specific development requirements.
      (1)   Setback. Transmission towers shall be setback a minimum distance
that equals half the towers height.
      (2)   Special use permit required. The uses listed above shall be subject
to special use permit procedures and requirements as set forth in §
154.107. This shall also include those previously licensed and existing when
one enumerated use is being applied for in lieu of or supplementary to another
enumerated use requiring or for which a special use permit has been previously
issued.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.274 SATELLITE DISH ANTENNA.
   (A)   Where permitted. All districts but Historic District as a use with
conditions.
   (B)   General requirements. Shall at a minimum meet the requirements of §
154.233 as applicable to the district in which the use is located.
   (C)   Specific development requirements.
      (1)   Installation. All satellite dishes shall be installed in compliance
with FCC regulations.
      (2)   Size. Residential satellite dishes shall not exceed 24 inches in
diameter and nonresidential satellite dishes shall not exceed 36 inches x 22
inches (oval). If possible, satellite dishes shall not be located in a front
yard and shall be hidden from view of the public right-of-way.
      (3)   Location.
         (a)   All supporting cables and anchors shall be contained on the
property.
         (b)   In residential districts, satellite dish antennas shall not be
located or placed within any street right-of-way building setback or side
building setback.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.275 SHOPPING CENTERS.
   (A)   Where permitted. C-B and G-B Districts - special use permit required.
   (B)   General requirements. Shall at a minimum meet the requirements of §
154.233 as applicable to the district in which the use is located.
   (C)   Specific development requirements.
      (1)   Minimum lot area shall be not less than two acres.
      (2)   The site shall be immediately adjacent to a major or minor
thoroughfare.
      (3)   The total ground area occupied by all buildings shall not exceed
40% of the gross land area.
      (4)   All existing trees shall be saved to the maximum extent possible.
   (D)   Special use permit required. The uses listed above shall be subject to
special use permit procedures and requirements as set forth in §
154.107. This shall also include those previously licensed and existing when
one enumerated use is being applied for in lieu of or supplementary to another
enumerated use requiring or for which a special use permit has been previously
issued.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.276 TEMPORARY STRUCTURES AND USES.
   (A)   Where. All Districts as a use with conditions.
   (B)   Purpose. This section allows for the establishment of certain
temporary uses of limited duration and special events, provided that such uses
do not negatively affect adjacent land, and provided that such uses or events
are discontinued upon the expiration of a set time period. Temporary uses shall
not involve the construction or alteration of any permanent building or
structure.
   (C)   Permitted temporary uses and structures. The following table
summarizes the uses and structures that are allowed by the town on a temporary
basis. If a use or structure is not listed in the table below then the use or
structure is not allowed by this chapter.
   TABLE 11-1 Temporary Structures and Uses
Temporary Structures Allowable Time Frame
Temporary Structures                    Allowable Time Frame
Expansion or replacement of existing
facilities (including temporary offices No more than three years
for construction and/or security
personnel)
New real estate sales office/New model  No more than three years
sales home
New temporary construction offices and
new temporary project office other than No more than three years
a construction office
Temporary Storage Structure - in a      Such structures may be in place for no
portable shipping container (storage    more than 30 days per calendar year,
unit)                                   and no more than three occurrences per
                                        parcel, per year
Temporary Emergency, Construction, and  Six months after issuance
Repair Residence
New Granny Pod or Temporary Health Care The structure must be removed within 60
Structures                              days after care-giving on the site
                                        ceases
Temporary Farm Worker Housing           120 days from issuance of permit.
Garage, Yard, Auction and Estate Sales  Three per parcel per year
                                        Such sales are limited to a maximum of
Outdoor Seasonal Sales                  30 days per calendar year and no more
                                        than three occurrences per parcel, per
                                        year.
Temporary Flea Markets                  Two per parcel per year
Special Events - Indoor or Outdoor      Such events are limited to a maximum of
(such as carnivals, fairs, concerts)    10 days per calendar year, per parcel.
 
   (D)   Prohibited temporary uses. Without limiting the standards of this
chapter, the following activities are prohibited in all districts.
      (1)   Retail or display of goods, products, or services in public right-
of-way. Retail sales or display of goods, products, or services within the
public right-of-way except as part of an authorized not-for-profit, special, or
City-recognized event.
      (2)   Retail sales or display of goods from vehicles. Except as part of a
permitted seasonal sale, retail sales or display of goods, products, or
services from a motor vehicle, trailer, or shipping container.
   (E)   Temporary use permits. All temporary uses and structures required to
obtain a temporary use permit.
   (F)   General standards for temporary uses and structures. All temporary
uses, structures, or special events shall comply with the following general
standards, unless otherwise specified in this chapter.
      (1)   Obtain the appropriate permit from the town (if required);
      (2)   Not be detrimental to property or improvements in the surrounding
area or to the public health, safety, or general welfare;
      (3)   Be compatible with the principal uses taking place on the site;
      (4)   Not have substantial adverse effects or noise impacts on any
adjoining permanent uses or nearby residential neighborhoods;
      (5)   Not include permanent alterations to the site;
      (6)   Meet all the setbacks of the underlying base and overlay zoning
districts;
      (7)   May not block ingress and egress to the site or in any way impede
emergency vehicle access.
      (8)   Comply with the maximum signage size for temporary signs;
      (9)   Not maintain temporary signs associated with the use or structure
after the activity ends;
      (10)   Not violate the applicable conditions of approval that apply to a
site or use on the site;
      (11)   Not interfere with the normal operations of any permanent use
located on the property; and
      (12)   Contain sufficient land area to allow the temporary use,
structure, or special event to occur, as well as adequate land to accommodate
the parking and traffic movement associated with the temporary use, without
disturbing environmentally sensitive lands.
   (G)   Specific regulations for certain temporary uses and structures.
      (1)   Expansion or replacement of existing facilities.
         (a)   Where. All districts as a use with conditions.
         (b)   Purpose. Factory-fabricated, transportable buildings that are
designed to arrive at the site ready for occupancy (except for minor unpacking
and connection to utilities), and designed for relocation to other sites, may
be placed on land to serve as the following.
            1.   Expansion space for existing religious institutions, health
care facilities, and government offices, provided plans for the permanent
expansion of the existing facilities have been submitted to and been approved
by the town.
            2.   Temporary classroom space to augment an existing public
educational facility.
            3.   Temporary quarters for recreational facilities that are being
provided in conjunction with a new residential development, provided the town
has approved a site plan or subdivision plan for the development.
            4.   Temporary quarters for other nonresidential uses when the
permanent building has been destroyed by a fire or other physical catastrophe,
provided a building permit for the permanent facility is obtained within four
months after approval of the temporary quarters. Failure to obtain a building
permit within the time frame allowed will revoke approval for the temporary
quarters.
            5.   One temporary office per site to include but not be limited
to, the following uses: hiring, membership solicitation, multi-family
development office/ leasing, and other general office uses. The number of
modular buildings housing such uses shall be limited to one, in addition to
those already allowed by this section. Such modular buildings shall not be
placed on the property prior to the issuance of a building permit.
            6.   A temporary residence used for housing occupants of an on-site
existing principal dwelling unit subject to casualty damage.
         (c)   Conditions. In addition to meeting the general standards for all
temporary uses and structures, all temporary structures approved in accordance
with this section shall meet the following conditions:
            1.   The structure shall be placed to avoid obstructing emergency
access and pedestrian and vehicular circulation; disturbing or damaging
required landscaping or buffer areas being retained, including heritage or
specimen trees being retained; or impacting future open space or areas to be
landscaped.
            2.   The temporary structure shall be factory-fabricated and
transportable.
            3.   Adequate off-street parking shall be provided for the
temporary use.
            4.   All permits required by applicable building, electrical,
plumbing, and mechanical codes shall be obtained prior to installation of the
temporary structure.
            5.   The temporary structure shall be compatible with the existing
buildings on the site in terms of exterior color, design, and placement, to the
maximum extent practicable.
         (d)   Duration.
            1.   Temporary structures under this subsection may remain on the
site for no more than 12 months. This period may be renewed for two 12-month
periods, for good cause shown, upon approval of a written request for such
extension, submitted to the Zoning Officer, 30 days prior to the expiration of
the temporary use permit. Except for temporary classrooms, in no event, shall
the extension allow the temporary structure to remain on the site for more than
three years. Temporary structures shall be removed within ten days of the
issuance of a certificate of occupancy for the permanent structure.
            2.   Temporary classrooms for use as part of an existing public
educational facility may be allowed to remain on the site for longer than three
years.
      (2)   New real estate sales office and model sales home.
         (a)   Where. R-A, R-1 and R-2 Districts as a use with conditions.
         (b)   General standards. One temporary real estate sales office or
model sales home may be allowed as incidental to a new residential or
nonresidential development, provided that:
            1.   The use is located on a lot approved by the town as part of a
development.
            2.   Signage complies with the standards.
            3.   The temporary use is aesthetically compatible with the
character of surrounding development in terms of exterior color, predominant
exterior building materials, and landscaping.
            4.   The temporary use complies with the minimum yard and setback
standards of the zoning district in which it is located.
            5.   Off-street parking provided for the temporary use complies
with the standards.
            6.   Upon termination of the temporary real estate sales office or
model sales home, the structure shall be converted into, or removed and
replaced with, a permanent use.
            7.   In approving or renewing approval of a real estate sales
office, the Zoning Officer may impose other conditions as is deemed necessary
to avoid adverse impacts that the use as a sales office may have on adjacent
properties or the community as a whole.
            8.   All temporary trailers shall be removed from the site prior to
the issuance of the last certificate of occupancy for the site.
         (c)   Duration.
            1.   Temporary real estate sales offices may be approved for a
period of up to one year. This period may be renewed for two additional 12-
month periods, for good cause shown, upon approval of a written request for
such an extension, submitted to the Zoning Officer, 30 days prior to the
expiration of the permit. In no event shall the extension allow the temporary
structure to remain on the site for more than three years.
            2.   Model sales homes may be approved for a period of up to three
years. This period may be renewed for additional six-month periods, for good
cause shown, upon approval of a written request for such an extension submitted
to the Zoning Officer, 30 days prior to the expiration of the permit. There is
no time limit on the use of model sales units for rental housing.
      (3)   New temporary construction-related or project offices/activities.
         (a)   Where. All districts as a use with conditions.
         (b)   General. Temporary construction-related activities including
construction offices, storage buildings, outdoor storage, and employee parking
areas, may occur in all zones subject to the issuance of a temporary use
permit.
         (c)   Duration. Temporary use permits for construction-related
activities may be approved for a period of up to one year. This period may be
extended in six-month periods, for good cause shown, upon approval of a written
request for such an extension, submitted to the Zoning Officer, 30 days prior
to the expiration of the permit. Such extension may include additional or
revised conditions. In no event shall the extension allow the temporary use to
remain on the site for more than two years. All such uses shall be removed and
the site restored to its previous condition within 30 days after issuance of a
final certificate of occupancy or certificate of completion.
      (4)   Temporary storage in a portable shipping container. Except for
containers actively being used for construction purposes associated with a
building permit, temporary storage in a portable shipping container shall be
permitted subject to the following:
         (a)   Where. All districts as a use with conditions.
         (b)   Size. Storage containers may not exceed 160 square feet in size
or be taller than eight feet.
         (c)   Location. Containers shall be located within a driveway,
parking, or loading area. In cases where the driveway, parking, or loading area
extends behind the front or corner side façade of a building, the container
shall be placed behind the front or corner side façade. In cases where improved
driveways, parking, or loading areas are not present, containers shall be
located so as to minimize their visibility from streets or adjacent residential
areas.
         (d)   Duration. Containers shall not be located on an individual
parcel or site for more than 30 consecutive days per site per occurrence. This
time period may be extended for a maximum period of 30 days by the Zoning
Officer for good cause shown. Storage containers may be placed on a residential
site a maximum of two occurrences per year.
      (5)   Temporary emergency, construction, and repair residence.
         (a)   Where permitted. All districts as a use with conditions.
         (b)   Dimensional requirements. A temporary emergency, construction/
repair residence shall comply with the dimensional requirements for an
accessory structure.
         (c)   Duration. A permit for temporary emergency, construction/repair
residence to be occupied pending the construction, repair, or renovation of a
permanent single-family dwelling on a site or a non-residential/commercial
development shall expire within six months after the date of the issuance,
except that the Zoning Officer may renew such permit if it is determined that:
            1.   Substantial construction, repair work, renovation or
restoration work has been done; and
            2.   Such renewal is reasonably necessary to complete the necessary
work to make such residence habitable.
         (d)   A Class A manufactured home may be used as a temporary
residence.
      (6)   Granny pods/temporary health care structures.
         (a)   Where. R-A, R-1 and R-2 Districts as a use with conditions.
         (b)   Purpose. Granny pods, also called temporary health care
structures, are permitted under the authority of G.S. § 160A-383.5. Granny pods
shall be permitted as an accessory use subject to the following standards:
            1.   Structures must be transportable residential units assembled
off-site and built to the standards of the State Building Code. It must be no
more than 300 gross square feet and must not be placed on a permanent
foundation.
            2.   The accessory structure must comply with all setbacks and any
maximum floor area ratio limits that apply to the primary residential
structure. The structure shall be connected to any public water, sewer, and
electric utilities serving the property or water and/or sewer systems approved
by the town, as applicable.
            3.   Only one accessory temporary family care structure is allowed
per lot.
            4.   No signage regarding the presence of the structure is allowed.
            5.   The structure must be removed within 60 days after care-giving
on the site ceases.
            6.   A zoning permit is required to be obtained prior to
installation. Evidence of compliance may be required as part of the permitting
and annual permit renewal, including an annual renewal of the doctor's
certification of impairment. The town may make periodic inspections at times
convenient to the caregiver to assure on-going compliance.
            7.   The caregiver must be at least 18 years old and must be a
first or second degree relative of the impaired person (a spouse, parent,
grandparent, child, grandchild, aunt, uncle, nephew, or niece). A legal
guardian of the impaired person also qualifies.
            8.   Granny pods shall only be permitted for single-family
residentially used property.
      (7)   Temporary farm worker housing.
         (a)   Where. R-A as a use with conditions.
         (b)   Building area. Rooms or compartments for sleeping shall contain
not less than 39 square feet of floor space for each person.
         (c)   Duration. 120 from issuance of permit.
         (d)   Health and safety.
            1.   Not more than ten people shall be housed in any one room or
compartment for sleeping purposes.
            2.   Separate toilet and shower facilities shall be provided for
male and female workers. A minimum of one toilet and one shower shall be
provided for each ten workers.
            3.   A laundry room shall be required with one wash sink of at
least ten gallon capacity for each ten workers. Adequate clothes drying lines
shall be provided.
            4.   Dining and food service facilities shall be provided and shall
contain at least 12 square feet of floor space per worker and shall be approved
by the Robeson County Health Department.
            5.   All water, sewer, and sanitary facilities shall be approved by
the town or the Robeson County Health Department, as applicable.
            6.   All garbage and refuse shall be stored in water-tight and fly-
tight receptacles and it shall be the responsibility of the owner of the
property to ensure that all garbage and refuse is regularly disposed of in a
sanitary manner acceptable to the town or the Robeson County Health Department,
as applicable.
      (8)   Garage, yard, auction and estate sales.
         (a)   Where. All districts as a use with conditions.
         (b)   Permit required. No person shall conduct any garage, yard,
auction or estate sale without first obtaining a temporary use permit from the
town.
         (c)   Signs. Two off-site directional signs may be permitted for each
sale, but only during the hours the sale is actively being conducted. Off-site
signs must be removed at the close of the sale activities, or by the end of
daylight, whichever first occurs, each day of the sale. No freestanding signs
may be placed in the public right-of-way.
         (d)   Number limited. Not more than three such sales per year shall be
held at the premises if occupied by the same family or any member of such
family. No single sale shall be conducted for longer than two consecutive
weekends, or more than 72 hours in a single week.
         (e)   Hours. Sales may be conducted during daylight hours only.
         (f)   Unowned premises. No sale shall be permitted on premises not
owned or controlled by the person holding the sale. Any violation of this
requirement shall be referred to the Zoning Officer for investigation of
possible violation of the zoning ordinance, and to the tax collector for
investigation of possible violation of the business license taxation ordinance.
         (g)   Streets and sidewalks. No person shall obstruct entirely or in
part any sidewalk or street in the town by selling or offering for sale at
auction or otherwise any goods, wares or merchandise.
      (9)   Outdoor seasonal sales.
         (a)   Applicability. Merchants may display and/or sell goods in the
town on a temporary basis without establishing a permanent place of business,
subject to the standards of this section.
         (b)   Where. C-1 and HC Districts as a use with conditions.
         (c)   Standards. A temporary use for the display and/or sale of
products shall comply with the following standards:
            1.   The property contains an area not actively used that will
support the proposed temporary sale of products without encroaching into or
creating a negative impact on existing vegetated areas, open space,
landscaping, traffic movements, or parking-space availability.
            2.   The display or sale of goods, products, and/or services shall
not occur in the public right-of-way or within 200 feet of an existing
residential use.
            3.   The display or sale of products, goods and/or services shall
be limited in scope to similar or complementary products, goods, and/or
services to those offered by the existing principal use located on the same
site. The temporary sale of non-agricultural products, goods, and/or services
that differ from the normal range of those offered by an existing principal use
shall be prohibited.
            4.   Tents and other temporary structures shall be located so as
not to interfere with the normal operations of any permanent use located on the
property.
            5.   Off-street parking shall be adequate to accommodate the
proposed sale of products.
            6.   The temporary display or sale of products shall not cause
interference with the movement of emergency vehicles to such an extent that
adequate police, fire, or other emergency services cannot be provided.
            7.   The hours of operation of the temporary sale of products shall
be from no earlier than 7.00 a.m. to no later than 8.00 p.m., or the same as
the hours of operation of the principal use.
         (d)   Duration; sales per year.
            1.   The temporary sale of non-agricultural products shall be
allowed on an individual parcel or site for no more than 30 total days per
calendar year.
            2.   The number of temporary sales of products per site per
calendar year shall not exceed three.
      (10)   Temporary flea markets.
         (a)   Permit required. No person shall conduct any garage, yard,
auction or estate sale without first obtaining a temporary use permit from the
town.
         (b)   Signs. Two off-site directional signs may be permitted for each
sale, but only during the hours the sale is actively being conducted. Off-site
signs must be removed at the close of the sale activities, or by the end of
daylight, whichever first occurs, each day of the sale. No freestanding signs
may be placed in the public right-of-way.
         (c)   Number limited. Not more than two such sales per year - each a
maximum of two days in direction - shall be held at the premises if occupied by
the same family or any member of such family.
         (d)   Hours. Sales may be conducted from 9:00 am until 5:00 pm.
         (e)   Unowned premises. No sale shall be permitted on premises not
owned or controlled by the person holding the sale. Any violation of this
requirement shall be referred to the Zoning Officer for investigation of
possible violation of the zoning ordinance, and to the tax collector for
investigation of possible violation of the business license taxation ordinance.
         (f)   Streets and sidewalks. No person shall obstruct entirely or in
part any sidewalk or street in the town by selling or offering for sale at
auction or otherwise any goods, wares or merchandise.
      (11)   Special events.
         (a)   Applicability. The procedures and standards outlined in this
section shall apply to all special events (including, but not limited to,
cultural events, musical events, celebrations, festivals, fairs, carnivals,
circuses, and communal camping) held on private property within the town,
unless exempted in accordance with division (d) below.
         (b)   Where permitted. R-A, C-1 and HC Districts as a use with
conditions.
         (c)   Temporary use permit required. All special events subject to
this subsection shall have a temporary use permit for a special event reviewed
and approved or approved by the Zoning Officer before conducting the special
event.
         (d)   Exemptions. The following events or activities are exempt from
the standards and procedures outlined here (i.e., may occur without a temporary
use permit for a special event). Such activities may be subject to all other
applicable procedures and standards of this chapter.
            1.   On grounds of private residence. Special events or activities
occurring within, or on the grounds of, a private residence or on the common
areas of a single-family attached, two- to four-family, or multi-family
residential development.
            2.   Event sponsored by town, county or state. Any event sponsored
in whole or in part by the town, the county, or the state.
            3.   Event or activity at site intended for such event or activity.
Any organized activities conducted at sites or facilities typically intended
and used for such activities. Examples of such exempt activities include, but
are not limited to, sporting events such as golf, soccer, softball, and
baseball tournaments conducted on courses or fields intended and used for such
activities; fairs and carnivals at fairgrounds; wedding services conducted at
reception halls, or similar facilities; funeral services conducted at funeral
homes or cemeteries; religious services, wedding services, and funeral services
conducted at religious institutions.
         (e)   Conditions. In approving the temporary use permit for the
special event, the Zoning Officer is authorized to impose such conditions upon
the premises as may be necessary to reduce or minimize any potential adverse
impacts upon other property in the area, as long as the condition relates to a
situation created or aggravated by the proposed special event. The Zoning
Officer is authorized, where appropriate, to require:
            1.   Provision of temporary parking facilities, including vehicular
access and egress.
            2.   Control of nuisance factors, such as but not limited to, the
prevention of glare or direct illumination of adjacent properties, noise,
vibrations, smoke, dust, dirt, odors, gases, and heat.
            3.   Regulation of temporary buildings, structures and facilities,
including placement, height and size, location of equipment and open spaces,
including buffer areas and other yards.
            4.   Provision of sanitary and medical facilities.
            5.   Provision of solid waste collection and disposal.
            6.   Provision of security and safety measures.
            7.   Use of an alternative location or date for the proposed
special event.
            8.   Modification or elimination of certain proposed activities.
            9.   Regulation of operating hours and days, including limitation
of the duration of the special event to a shorter time period than that
requested or specified in this subsection.
            10.   Submission of a performance guarantee to ensure that any
temporary facilities or structures used for such proposed special event will be
removed from the site within a reasonable time following the event and that the
property will be restored to its former condition.
         (f)   Duration. A temporary use permit for a special event authorized
in accordance with this section shall be limited to a maximum duration of ten
days per site per calendar year, unless otherwise specifically authorized by
the Zoning Officer.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.277 TRANSPORTATION AND FREIGHT TERMINALS/TRUCK STOP.
   (A)   Where permitted. Light Industrial District - special use permit
required.
   (B)   General requirements. Shall at a minimum meet the requirements of §
154.233 as applicable to the district in which the use is located.
   (C)   Specific development requirements. Special use permit required: The
uses listed above shall be subject to special use permit procedures and
requirements as set forth in §
154.107. This shall also include those previously licensed and existing when
one enumerated use is being applied for in lieu of or supplementary to another
enumerated use requiring or for which a special use permit has been previously
issued.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.278 URGENT CARE FACILITIES/MEDICAL CARE CLINICS/HOSPITALS - PUBLIC AND
PRIVATE.
   (A)   Where permitted. G-B as a use with conditions.
   (B)   General requirements. Shall at a minimum meet the requirements of §
154.233 as applicable to the district in which the use is located with the
exception of hours of operation.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.279 ANY USE NOT OTHERWISE PROHIBITED BY LAW OR BY THIS CHAPTER.
   (A)   Where permitted. Should be considered for the district where uses most
closely approximate the requested use. Allowable in the R-A, R-10, C-B, G-B and
L-I Districts - special use permit required.
   (B)   General requirements. Shall at a minimum meet the requirements for
development as outlined in for the district in which it is located.
   (C)   Specific development requirements.  
      (1)   Any unlisted use should be treated the same as the most nearly
similar use. In making this evaluation, the town shall consider the following
factors: type of use, density and intensity of adjacent development,
environmental effects, and the anticipated amount traffic, noise, light,
vibration, odor, and other impacts on neighbors and the community.
      (2)   Special use permit required. The uses listed above shall be subject
to special use permit procedures and requirements as set forth in §
154.107. This shall also include those previously licensed and existing when
one enumerated use is being applied for in lieu of or supplementary to another
enumerated use requiring or for which a special use permit has been previously
issued.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.280 TINY HOUSES ON PERMANENT FOUNDATIONS.
   (A)   Where permitted. All Residential Districts as a use with conditions.
   (B)   Definition. The definition of a TINY HOUSE is a building less than 600
square feet in gross floor area constructed to accommodate one dwelling unit on
a single lot.
   (C)   General requirements. Shall at a minimum meet the requirements for
development as outlined in for the district in which it is located.
   (D)   Specific development requirements.
      (1)   All tiny homes must be placed on a permanent foundation. No wheels
allowed. tiny houses on wheels are classified as recreational vehicles.
      (2)   Tiny homes must comply with the North Carolina Building Codes.
         (a)   Tiny homes must, at a minimum contain at least one habitable
space which is a minimum of 200 square feet of gross floor area. Each
additional habitable room cannot be less than 70 square feet, and no less than
seven feet in any horizontal direction, excluding kitchens, which have no size
minimum. A bathroom, closet, hall, or storage area is not considered a
habitable space.
         (b)   Plumbing fixtures must be connected to an approved sewage
disposal method. North Carolina does not allow storage tanks.
         (c)   Ceiling heights must be a minimum of seven feet in habitable
spaces, hallways, and bathrooms.
         (d)   The home must contain a toilet, bathtub or shower, kitchen area,
and sink.
         (e)   The home must have a heating facility compliant with Building
Codes.
         (f)   The home must meet code-compliant egress requirements (this
refers to windows and fire exits).
         (g)   The home must meet requirements regarding energy conservation
and foundations.
      (3)   For any lot developed with a tiny house used for single-unit living
or an attached house used for two-unit living, one accessory dwelling unit is
permitted per lot.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.281 CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Where permitted. All Residential Districts - special use permit
required.
   (B)   General requirements. Shall meet the requirement of §
154.233 as applicable to the district in which the use is located.
   (C)   Specific development requirements.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of cluster development regulations is to
provide an optional land development procedure which results in the
preservation of open space; protection of streams, floodplain areas and
significant existing tree cover; promotion of more efficient subdivision street
and infrastructure networks; and encouragement of a variety of styles or types
of residences. Cluster development should provide a total living environment
for residential purposes that is in compliance with the Comprehensive Plan and
other applicable local, state or federal laws or regulations.
      (2)   Permitted uses. Residential cluster developments may have as
permissible uses single- family detached dwelling units, duplexes, residential
townhouse dwelling units, tiny houses and residential condominium dwelling
units or any combination thereof so long as the permitted density is not
exceeded.
      (3)   General requirements.
         (a)   Cluster developments shall be developed on tracts of five acres
or more.
         (b)   Should clustering be selected as a design alternative, the
density requirements (for residential) and built upon area (open space)
requirements for the zone in which the development is located shall apply.
Clustering shall not increase the density of development.
         (c)   Public sanitary sewer and water connections shall be required
for every lot or dwelling unit in a cluster development, except in the R-
A district, where the Robeson County Health Department may approve a shared
private sanitary sewer and water system.
         (d)   A master plan shall be required to be submitted if the cluster
development is to be the initial phase of a larger project. Final plat approval
procedures according to the requirements of the subdivision ordinance (§§
154.375 through
154.460) shall apply to all cluster developments.
         (e)   Each individual cluster development lot shall have public or
private street access according to the criteria listed in applicable sections
of the subdivision ordinance.
         (f)   A homeowner's association shall be established to own and
maintain all property or facilities held in common private ownership. Documents
regarding the homeowner's association shall be submitted to the town for
approval with the final plat and shall be duly recorded with the final plat in
the Robeson County Register of Deeds Office by the applicant.
         (g)   Design of cluster developments will be reviewed by the Planning
Board based upon accepted general design principles, and appropriate
requirements of the ordinance. Where possible, appropriate information on floor
plans, building areas, building elevations (materials colors) and landscape
provisions should be furnished along with all required information with the SUP
application. Restrictive covenants may be submitted to address the above
related matters with the SUP application.
      (4)   Dimensional standards.
         (a)   Cluster developments containing single-family development may
use the minimum dimensional standards shown in the table below. (See next page)
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0fa087e7aaf2d1426066c541dcf0227ca59242f9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2580.png]
 
         (b)   No garage door shall be located closer than the lesser of the
minimum setback or 20 feet back from the right-of-way line, or rear edge of the
adjacent sidewalk, whichever is greater, in order to ensure that vehicles
parked on the driveway do not hinder pedestrian access.
      (5)   Open space standards. Open space in cluster development shall be no
less than 25% of the gross area of the cluster development tract. All open
space provided in a cluster development shall meet the following criteria in
addition to the requirements of zoning and subdivision ordinances.
         (a)   Open space shall be well distributed throughout the development
so as to achieve the requirement herein.
         (b)   All open space areas shall be at least 20 feet in width, except
the open space that is provided around the perimeter of a cluster development.
Such open space areas shall be undisturbed.
         (c)   All open space shall be linked, either directly or across street
rights-of-way.
      (6)   Parking standards. Each dwelling unit in a cluster development
shall have two off-street parking space. In addition, there shall be one space
for every two dwelling units set aside in an auxiliary off-street parking area
in a cluster development.
      (7)   Homeowner's association.
         (a)   Homeowner's association declaration and by-law documents shall
be submitted to the town for acceptance.
         (b)   Such homeowner's association documents shall have adequate
provisions to insure proper maintenance of all privately-owned areas such as,
but not limited to, open space, recreational facilities and areas, parking lot
areas and private drives.
         (c)   Applicants are encouraged to submit homeowner's association
documents which contain provisions addressing exterior appearance and
maintenance standards according to a set of architectural design criteria.
      (8)   Interior roads.
         (a)   Determination of whether interior roads shall be constructed as
public streets or private drives or a combination of public streets and private
drives shall be based upon recommendations from the Planning Department.
Consideration shall be given to the any adopted transportation plan, existing
and proposed neighborhood streets and circulation needs, to the relationship of
the site to adjoining lands, the size and shape of the tract to be developed,
to the number of ultimate dwelling units to be constructed on the tract and on
adjoining lands and to anticipated traffic volumes.
         (b)   The determination of whether interior roads shall be public or
private will consider only the minimum needs of the public for the public
streets and will recognize the privacy, security and safety advantages of
private drives. All public streets shall have curb and gutter according to town
standards. Private drives are interior circulation roads designed and
constructed to carry vehicular traffic from a public street within or adjoining
the site to terminal parking areas and service areas, or back to said public
street.
         (c)   The design and arrangement of private streets shall be subject
to review and approval by the Planning Board.
            1.   When there is a distance of 150 feet or more between an
existing public street and points of refuse collection, a private drive shall
be required.
            2.   All portions of such private drives shall not be more than
1,000 feet from their point of public access.
            3.   When the development is required to have a private drive, the
private drive shall be paved to a minimum width of at least 27 feet, measured
from edge of pavement. Concrete curb and gutter sections may be required, if
determined necessary by the Planning Board.
            4.   A base course shall be applied to the entire required paved
width of private drives and parking lots and shall consist of at least eight
inches of compacted crushed stone.
            5.   A surface course shall be applied to the entire required paved
width of private drives and parking lots and shall consist of at least two
inches of 1-2 asphalt paved surface.
            6.   Cul-de-sac or dead-end streets shall be provided with a
vehicular turning circle at least 80 feet in diameter, measured on the center
line of the street or other acceptable design criteria for dead-end streets.
            7.   A permanent street address approved by the Planning Department
shall be assigned to the private drives.
      (9)   Maintenance required. Homeowner's association documents shall
include adequate provisions to ensure proper maintenance by the homeowner's
association of private drives, units, their structural components and
exteriors, yard spaces and other commonly owned property and shall be recorded
with the final plat.
      (10)   Special use permit required. The uses listed above shall be
subject to special use permit procedures and requirements as set forth in §
154.107. This shall also include those previously licensed and existing when
one enumerated use is being applied for in lieu of or supplementary to another
enumerated use requiring or for which a special use permit has been previously
issued.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.282 AIRPORTS AND AIR STRIPS, PUBLIC AND PRIVATE.
   (A)   Where. Special use in R-A and Light Industrial Districts.
   (B)   General requirements. Shall at a minimum meet the requirements of §
154.233 as applicable to the district in which the use is located.
   (C)   Specific development requirements. 
      (1)   An airstrip, whether public or private, is considered an accessory
use and must also follow the provisions of §
154.234.
      (2)   Additional requirements/conditions.
         (a)   Airport size and layout. Shall conform to current FAA design
standards.
         (b)   Overlay district applies. All standards for the AO (Airport
Overlay) also apply.
         (c)   Use separation. There shall be a minimum of 300 feet between any
runway or taxiway and to the nearest property used or zoned for residential
purposes, except that a residence may be located on the property of a small
private airfield.
         (d)   Screening and buffering. See §§
154.205 through
154.213.
         (e)   Additional site plan requirements.
            1.   Scaled drawings of location and size of landing strips and the
location of landing lights.
            2.   Map of all property within 500 feet of proposed airfield or
airstrip property line and within 1,500 feet of each end of the runway,
including names and addresses of property owners and type of land use for each
property, as given in the tax listings.
            3.   A map depicting the location, type, and height of any
structure, including towers, over 200 feet in height and within a five-mile
radius.
            4.   A copy of the current FAA design, approach, and airspace
obstruction standards. Documentation showing FAA permits and design approval.
   (D)   Additional requirements. An airport, whether public or private, is
considered a principal structure on a parcel of land. Development or airports
must comply with all Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) regulations and the
North Carolina General Statues including G.S. § 63-31.
   (E)   Special use permit required. The uses listed above shall be subject to
special use permit procedures and requirements as set forth in §
154.107. This shall also include those previously licensed and existing when
one enumerated use is being applied for in lieu of or supplementary to another
enumerated use requiring or for which a special use permit has been previously
issued.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.283 REPURPOSED METAL SHIPPING CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Where permitted. General Business and Light Industrial Districts as a
Use with Conditions.
   (B)   General requirements. Shall at a minimum meet the requirements of
Section 11.4 as applicable to the district in which the use is located.
   (C)   Specific development requirements.
      (1)   Metal shipping containers shall not be used as either temporary or
permanent housing.
      (2)   Metal shipping containers may be used as temporary storage subject
to the conditions defined in §
154.276(G)(4) Temporary Storage in a Portable Shipping Container.
      (3)   Shipping containers shall only be permitted as permanent storage
buildings when each of the following conditions are met:
         (a)   Permanent use is restricted to the General Business and Light
Manufacturing Districts.
         (b)   Permanent shipping containers shall not be permitted as a
principal building.
         (c)   A maximum of one permanent shipping container per site shall be
permitted on parcels of one acre or less. One additional permanent shipping
container per acre may be permitted for lots greater than one acre.
         (d)   Permanent shipping containers shall not be stacked vertically.
         (e)   Permanent shipping containers shall be maintained in good
condition free from structural damage, rust, and deterioration. Containers
shall be painted tan, brown, dark forest green, or light gray.
         (f)   Permanent shipping containers shall be used for storage purposes
only.
         (g)   No signs or lettering shall be permitted on permanent shipping
containers.
         (h)   All permanent shipping containers shall be screened from view
from any public right-of-way or private street, and any residential use or
residential zoning district. Screening shall be accomplished by a wooden
privacy fence or a brick or stucco screen wall at a height no greater than or
less than seven feet. The exterior of the fence or wall shall be lined with
foundation plantings that reach a minimum of three feet in height at maturity
and spaced appropriately for the species which must be listed in the “Approved
Plantings List” in the city's Technical Standards [and Specifications Manual].
         (i)   Permanent shipping containers shall meet all building setback
requirements and shall be located on the rear half of the lot.
         (j)   Permanent shipping containers shall not be permitted in any
parking areas, required buffers or setbacks.
         (k)   No permanent off-chassis shipping containers shall be permitted
in loading areas.
         (l)   Permanent shipping containers shall not be permitted to be
rented or leased to a use not located on the same lot.
         (m)   Permanent shipping containers shall not exceed the dimensions of
40 feet in length, eight feet in width, and ten feet in height.
         (n)   Businesses shall submit a site plan showing any permanent
container and its relationship to the overall site. The plan shall indicate how
the container meets all permanent requirements, including stormwater, traffic
circulation, screening requirements, other development codes and technical
standards, and inspection requirements.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.284 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   Where. Special Use in the R-A, R-20 R-15, R-10 and R-8 Districts.
   (B)   General requirements. Shall at a minimum meet the requirements of §
154.233 as applicable to the district in which the use is located.
   (C)   Specific development requirements.
      (1)   PUDs shall be permitted only when requested as a special use and
accompanied by a rezoning request to one of the following zoning districts: RA,
R-20. R-15, R-10 and R-8.
      (2)   Application for PUD shall be approved only if the all following
findings are made:
         (a)   Application of planned unit development requirements to the
property will produce a development of equal or higher quality than otherwise
required by the strict application of district regulations that would otherwise
govern;
         (b)   Application of planned unit development requirements to the
property will encourage innovative arrangement of buildings and open spaces to
provide efficient, attractive, flexible, and environmentally sensitive design;
         (c)   Application of planned unit development requirements to the
property will produce a development functioning as a cohesive, unified project;
and
         (d)   Application of planned unit development requirements to the
property will not substantially injure or damage the use, value, and enjoyment
of surrounding property, nor hinder or prevent the development of surrounding
property in accordance with the adopted plans and policies of the town.
      (3)   An approved PUD special use permit and the approved verified
development plan shall govern all uses and development activities in a PUD.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided by this section, a PUD shall be
subject to all the applicable standards, procedures and regulations of the
other parts of this chapter.
      (5)   No PUD shall be approved for a site of less than that shown in the
following schedule. The site must be contiguous property under unified
ownership or control.
 
Districts Minimum Number of Acres
RA        8 acres
R-20      8 acres
R-15      6 acres
R-10      5 acres
R-8       5 acres
 
      (6)   Uses permitted in a PUD shall be in accordance with the uses
allowed in the district in which the PUD is to be located.
      (7)   Development in a PUD shall be exempt from the minimum required lot
width, front yard, side yard and rear yard requirements of the underlying
district. These distances shall be established in the special use permit for
the PUD.
      (8)   The density of structures and the residential building types of the
corresponding principal district shall apply in a PUD provided that a density
bonus may be permitted as stated in division (15) below of this section. No lot
for a single family detached dwelling shall be less that the minimum lot size
for a single-family dwelling in the zoning district in which the PUD is
located.
      (9)   Cluster developments and zero lot line developments are permitted
subject to the special requirements for such developments.
      (10)   Areas between structures shall be covered by easements where
necessary for access and to provide for off street vehicle parking,
maintenance, and utility service.
      (11)   Local streets shall be located and designed so that they do not
encourage through access by traffic with origins and destinations outside of
the development.
      (12)   PUDs shall be designed and developed and uses so arranged to
promote pedestrian access within the development.
      (13)   Boundary treatment. The scale and setbacks of development in a PUD
within 150 feet of the perimeter of the PUD shall be in harmony with the
development on adjacent lands.
      (14)   Environmentally sensitive areas. One of the principal purposes of
the PUD procedure is to protect environmentally sensitive areas through the use
of innovative arrangement of buildings and spaces. It is the intent of the PUD
process that significant consideration in planning and design of PUDs shall be
given to the following elements such as but not limited to:
         (a)   Floodway and floodway fringe areas;
         (b)   Steep slopes and knolls;
         (c)   Wetlands;
         (d)   Water supply watersheds;
         (e)   Rock outcrops;
         (f)   Soil erosion and storm water management;
         (g)   Tree and foliage preservation;
         (h)   Habitat for threatened or endangered species;
         (i)   Areas of historical, archaeological or architectural
significance; and
         (j)   Useable open space; recreation area.
      (15)   In any case where the Board of Commissioners finds in its opinion
that the PUD provides for significant protection or enhancement of any one or
more of the above elements, or a similar element as determined by the Board of
Commissioners, the Board may award a bonus of up to 10% increase in residential
dwelling units for a PUD and may permit such additional dwelling units to be of
a development type not otherwise permitted in the PUD. The determination by the
Board of Commissioners of the significant protection or enhancement of
particular element shall be based upon a comparison between the type of
development that could be placed on the property under the current zoning and
other regulations and the proposed development scheme for the PUD.
      (16)   Phased development. A PUD may be developed in phases in the same
manner as a subdivision and subject to the phasing requirement for subdivision.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS
§ 154.295 IN GENERAL.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this subchapter is to regulate and guide the
establishment of manufactured home parks in order to promote the public health,
safety and general welfare of the citizens of the town. This subchapter is
designed to accomplish the following specific objectives:
      (1)   To further the orderly layout of manufactured home parks;
      (2)   To secure safety from fire, panic, and other danger;
      (3)   To provide adequate light and air; and
      (4)   To ensure that facilities for transportation, parking, water,
sewage, and recreation are provided for manufactured home park residents and
visitors.
   (B)   Jurisdiction. These regulations shall govern the establishment of
every new manufactured home park and the continuance, alteration, and expansion
of existing manufactured home parks lying within the jurisdiction of the town
and its extraterritorial jurisdiction.
   (C)   Authority. The Town of Fairmont hereby exercises its authority to
adopt and enforce a manufactured home park ordinance pursuant to the authority
granted to the town by GS § 160D-801 and any other relevant part of that
statute. This subchapter shall be known and cited as the Manufactured Home
Parks Ordinance of the Town of Fairmont, North Carolina.
   (D)   Definitions. Refer to §§
154.020 through
154.026 - Interpretations and Definitions.
   (E)   General. Manufactured home parks are a special use in the R-A District
and a permitted use by right in the R-MH District of the Town of Fairmont.
Existing mobile home parks will be allowed to continue operation only by
complying with the standards outlined in §
154.301.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.296 MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The following standards and regulations shall be considered to be the
minimum requirements for all new, continued and altered or expanded
manufactured home parks.
   (A)   Alterations. Alterations to existing manufactured home parks which
require a building permit shall first be permitted by a zoning permit issued by
the Town of Fairmont.
   (B)   Designated operator required. Every existing and newly permitted
manufactured home park shall have a designated operator and that operator shall
have an operations permit for the manufactured home park issued by the Town of
Fairmont.
   (C)   Annual inspection. Every manufactured home park within the
jurisdiction of the town shall be subject to an annual inspection.
   (D)   Sale of home. Manufactured homes shall not be sold within a
manufactured home park, except that an individual manufactured home owner shall
be allowed to sell the manufactured home in which he or she resides.
   (E)   Deed transfer to lot. The transfer of a deed to a manufactured home
space or spaces either by sale or by any other manner shall be prohibited
within a manufactured home park as long as the manufactured home park is in
operation.
   (F)   Prohibited in floodplain. No manufactured home parks shall be allowed
in a floodplain area.
   (G)   Additions. No living compartment or structure other than a porch, or
other prefabricated structure designed for manufactured home use or extension
shall be added to any manufactured home parked within the jurisdiction of this
chapter.
   (H)   Office. Within a manufactured home park, one manufactured home may be
used as an administrative office and shall be labeled as such.
   (I)   Signs. A manufactured home park shall have no more than two park
identification signs. Only indirect, non-flashing lighting shall be used for
illumination.
   (J)   Buffer. A manufactured home park shall provide and maintain a ten-foot
buffer strip along the park boundary consistent with §§
154.205 through
154.213 of this chapter.
   (K)   Convenience establishments. Convenience establishments of a commercial
nature shall be limited to food stores and coin-operated laundromats. These may
be permitted in manufactured home parks subject to the following restrictions:
      (1)   Such establishments shall be subordinate to the residential use and
character of the park.
      (2)   Such establishment shall present no visible evidence of their
commercial character from any portion of any residential district outside the
park.
      (3)   Such establishment shall be designed to serve the trade and service
needs of the park residents only.
   (L)   Overnight travel trailers and other recreational vehicles prohibited.
Manufactured home spaces shall not be used for accommodation of overnight
travel trailers and other recreational vehicles, and facilities such as
washrooms and toilets for travel trailers shall not be located within the
manufactured home area.
   (M)   Class C homes. Class C manufactured homes shall not be permitted in
manufactured home parks unless they are an existing nonconforming use at the
time of adoption of this chapter.
   (N)   Fire protection. Every manufactured home park shall be equipped at all
times with fire extinguishing equipment in good condition, of such size, type,
and number and so located as to meet all regulations of the Fire Inspector.
   (O)   Animal and pets. No owner or persons in charge of any dog, cat, or
other pet animal shall permit it to run at large or to commit any nuisance
within the limits of the manufactured home park and its surrounding area.
   (P)   Parking. No automobile parking shall be permitted in areas other than
specified parking areas at any time.
   (Q)   Solid waste disposal. All applicable solid waste regulations shall
apply to manufactured home parks within the jurisdiction of the town except
where such regulations are in conflict with the provisions of this subchapter,
in which case the more restrictive provisions shall apply.
   (R)   Water and wastewater service. Potable water and wastewater service
shall be provided to every lot within the park, including and common areas and
the office unit.
   (S)   Health regulations. All applicable health regulations shall apply to
manufactured home parks within the jurisdiction of the town except where such
regulations are in conflict with the provisions of this subchapter, in which
case the more restrictive provisions shall apply.
   (T)   Skirting. Each manufactured home shall be properly installed with
skirting that is anchored down and of the type that is manufactured
specifically for such use. The skirting shall be made of a material compatible
with the siding of the manufactured home.
   (U)   Numbering and park signs. The park operator shall be required to
provide numbers which are minimum of four inches in size and to supervise the
placement of these numbers to clearly identify each manufactured home lot from
the street. These numbers shall be displayed either on each manufactured home
or on a post placed within the lot area.
   (V)   Interior to park - informational sign. The park operator shall also be
required to provide a park sign which identifies the name of the park and a
telephone number at which the park owner may be contacted. These signs must be
visible from the road adjacent to the park. The park operator will provide
address information to E-911 Addressing Office. All streets will be named and
display a street sign visible from entranceways.
   (W)   Minimum number of spaces. No permit shall be issued for the initial
establishment of any section of a manufactured home park with less than five
spaces.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.297 PROCEDURE FOR SECURING APPROVAL OF A NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK.
   (A)   Zoning permit required. No person shall commence or proceed with
development within the town's jurisdiction without first securing a zoning
permit from the town. Unless elsewhere exempted by this ordinance, no use may
change, and/or no building, sign or other structure can legally be erected,
moved, added lo, or structurally altered without a zoning permit. The Zoning
Official will approve or deny the zoning permit based on compliance with this
chapter unless evidence exists that there is a violation of this chapter on the
property. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-403(a).
   (B)   Special use permit required. No person shall construct or engage in
the construction of any manufactured home park or make any addition or
alteration to a manufactured home park that either alters the number of lots
for manufactured homes within the park or affects the facilities required
therein until a special use permit has been granted for the proposed project/
use by the Fairmont Planning Board. The procedures for special use permits are
outlined in §§
154.105 through
154.116 of this chapter.
      (1)   In considering the special use permit, the Planning and Zoning
Board shall review the following to determine if the proposed park plan is in
accordance with the design standards set forth in this chapter:
         (a)   Title information.
         (b)   Location map.
         (c)   Recreation areas.
         (d)   Street and lot design.
         (e)   Surface water drainage.
         (f)   Plans of all utilities, including electrical, gas, telephone,
water, street lights, and sewage.
         (g)   Other features of the park.
         (h)   Operational permit requirements.
      (2)   Preliminary plan.
         (a)   The park plan shall be drawn at a scale no smaller than one inch
equals 200 feet. The plan must be drawn by a registered engineer or licensed
surveyor. All plans shall include the following:
            1.   The name of the park, the names and addresses of the owner or
owners, and the designer or surveyor;
            2.   Date, scale and approximate north arrow;
            3.   Boundaries of the tract shown with bearing and distances;
drawn to scale and the area of the park in square feet or acres;
            4.   Site plan showing streets/roads, entrances and exits, off-
street parking areas, buffers, traffic circulation, walkways, driveways,
recreation areas, service buildings, watercourses, easements, manufactured home
lots, lot numbers, all structures to be located on the park site and total
acreage on the park, topography and contours of all areas where major grading
will occur;
            5.   Vicinity map showing the location of the park and the
surrounding land usage, with a scale of no less than one inch equals 1,000
feet;
            6.   Names of adjoining property owners;
            7.   The existing and proposed utility system for surface water
drainage, streetlights, electrical service, water supply, and solid waste and
sewage disposal facilities.
         (b)   The preliminary plan shall be reviewed and approved by the
Planning Board as follows:
            1.   Submission procedure. The owner shall submit a preliminary
plan which shall be reviewed and approved by the Planning Board before any
construction or installation of improvements may begin. Five copies of the
preliminary plan (as well as any additional copies which the subdivision
administrator determines are needed to be sent to other agencies) shall be
submitted to the Zoning Official at least ten working days prior to the
Planning Board meeting at which the subdivider desires the review of the
preliminary plan.
            2.   Review. The Planning Board shall review the preliminary plan
at or before its next regularly scheduled meeting which follows it after the
Zoning Official receives the preliminary plan and the comments from the
appropriate agencies. The Planning Board shall, in writing, recommend approval,
conditional approval with recommended changes to bring the plan into
compliance, or disapproval with reasons within 45 days of its first
consideration of the plan.
            3.   Decision on park plan.
               a.   If the Planning Board approves the preliminary plan, such
approval shall be noted on two copies of the plan. One copy of the plan shall
be retained by the Planning Board and one copy shall be returned to the owner.
If the Planning Board approves the preliminary plan with conditions, approval
shall by noted on two copies of the plan along with a reference to the
conditions. One copy of the plan along with the conditions shall be returned to
the subdivider. The other copy shall be filed with the documents for the
manufactured home park.
               b.   If the Planning Board recommends conditional approval of
the preliminary plan it shall keep one copy of the plan for its minutes,
transmit one copy of the plan and its recommendation to the Zoning Official,
and return the remaining copy of the plan and its recommendation to the owner.
               c.   If the Planning Board recommends disapproval of the
preliminary plan, it shall retain one copy of the plan for its minutes,
transmit one copy of the plan and its recommendation to the Zoning Official,
and return the remaining copy of the plan and its recommendation to the owner.
The reasons for such disapproval shall be specified in writing. If the
preliminary plan is disapproved, the subdivider may make the recommended
changes and submit a revised preliminary plan, or appeal the decision to the
Board of Town Commissioners.
            4.   If the Planning Board does not make a written recommendation
within 45 days after its first consideration of the plan, the subdivider may
apply to the Board of Town Commissioners for approval or disapproval.
      (3)   Final plan.
         (a)   Applications to the Town Board for a special use permit to
construct, alter, or enlarge a manufactured home park shall be accompanied by a
plan for the park, prepared by a registered engineer
or architect, drawn to a scale of not less than one inch equals 200 feet nor
more than one inch equals 50 feet. Three copies shall be submitted. The final
plan shall show the following:
            1.   The name of the park, the names and addresses of the owner or
owners, and the designer or surveyor;
            2.   Date, scale and approximate north arrow;
            3.   Boundaries of the tract shown with bearing and distances;
drawn to scale and the area of the park in square feet or acres;
            4.   Site plan showing streets, traffic circulation, walkways,
driveways, recreation areas, parking spaces, service buildings, watercourses,
easements, manufactured home lots, lot numbers, all structures to be located on
the park site and total acreage on the park, topography and contours of all
areas where major grading will occur;
            5.   Vicinity map showing the location of the park and the
surrounding land usage, with a scale of no less than one inch equals 1,000
feet;
            6.   Names of adjoining property owners;
            7.   The existing and proposed utility system for surface water
drainage, streetlights, electrical service, water supply, and solid waste and
sewage disposal facilities.
               a.   The storage, collection, and disposal of solid waste in the
manufactured home park shall be so conducted as to create no health hazards,
rodent harboring, insect breeding areas, accident or fire hazards, or
pollution.
               b.   All solid waste containing garbage shall be stored in
standard fly tight, watertight, rodent-proof containers, with a capacity not
less than 32 gallons which shall be located on the manufactured home space.
Containers shall be provided in sufficient number and capacity to properly
store all solid waste containing garbage. The manufactured home park management
may wish to install additional solid waste 15 collection bins and shall be
responsible for the proper storage, collection, and disposal of all solid
waste.
               c.   Stands shall be provided for all containers. Such container
stands shall be so designed as to prevent containers from being tipped, to
minimize spillage and container deterioration, and to facilitate cleaning
around them.
               d.   All solid waste containing garbage shall be collected at
least once weekly. Where suitable, collection service is not available from
municipal or private agencies, the manufactured home park operator shall
provide this service. All solid waste containing garbage shall be collected and
transported in covered vehicles or covered containers.
               e.   Where municipal or private disposal service is not
available, the manufactured home park operator shall dispose of the solid waste
by transporting to a disposal site approved by the town. A detailed plan for
electrical installations prepared to meet the National Electrical Code and
state and local codes or ordinances;
               f.   All streets in the manufactured home park shall be
adequately illuminated from sunset until sunrise. The minimum size street light
shall be a 175-watt mercury vapor (approximately 7,000 lumen class), or its
equivalent, spaced at intervals of not more than 300 feet.
               g.   All utility lines for local distribution of electric power
and telephone service shall be installed underground. Primary electrical,
street lighting, and telephone lines should be underground wherever feasible.
               h.   In order to control erosion, all disturbed land areas shall
be protected by a vegetative ground cover as defined in the State of North
Carolina Erosion and Sedimentation Control Regulations. The manufactured home
park must be designed and graded in such a manner as to provide for the
adequate runoff of stormwater. Storm drains must be provided with sufficient
inlets located at points of surface water accumulation to adequately intersect
surface flow. All other requirements of the State of North Carolina Soil and
Erosion and Sedimentation Control Regulations shall also be applicable.
Protected water supply watershed standards may also be applicable.
            8.   A detailed drawing to scale of not less than one inch equals
ten feet shall be prepared of a typical manufactured home space showing the
location of the manufactured home stand, all utilities, the patio, concrete
footing, walks.
            9.   No more than one manufactured home shall be parked in a
manufactured home space at one time. See §
154.298 of this chapter for lot requirements in new manufactured home parks.
            10.   Each manufactured home space shall be clearly defined by
means of concrete or iron pipe markers placed at all comers, or by fences, or
by trees or shrubbery planted on lot lines.
            11.   Each manufactured home space shall be located on ground not
susceptible to flooding and grades so as to prevent any water from ponding or
accumulating on the premises.
            12.   Each manufactured home shall be located at least 25 feet from
any other manufactured home, at least 20 feet from any building within the
manufactured home park, at least 20 feet from park boundary line, at least 15
feet from the edge of the right-of-way of any street, and 100 feet from any
community well.
            13.   With respect to anchors and tie-downs, each manufactured home
space shall comply with standards specified by the State of North Carolina
regulations for manufactured homes.
            14.   Each manufactured home space shall have two off-street
parking spaces. The manufactured home park owner shall provide additional off-
street parking for tenants with more than two vehicles, or for guests.
            15.   Each manufactured home space may be equipped with a storage
building not to exceed 10 feet x 10 feet provided all such buildings in the
park are located in a uniform manner at rear of the manufactured home space.
            16.   Every manufactured home park shall provide the following
certifications:
               a.   Certification of approval of water supply system plans by
the appropriate state agency or county health department;
               b.   Certification of approval of sewage collection systems by
the appropriate state agency or county health department;
               c.   Certification of solid waste storage, collection, and
disposal shall be approved by the town solid waste department.
         (b)   1.   The final plans shall be reviewed first by the Planning
Board. If the Planning Board should disapprove the proposed park plan, the
reasons for such action and recommended changes shall be given to the park
developer or his or her agent in writing and the park developer shall have an
opportunity to resubmit changed materials for review by the Planning and Zoning
Board without additional fee. If the Planning Board approves the final plans, a
recommendation shall be made to the Town Board noting this approval in a letter
from the Planning Board Chairman to the Mayor and presenting the plans for Town
Board consideration.
            2.   The Planning Board may make recommendations for conditions to
be applied to the development of the manufactured home park which may be
considered by the Town Board in their review of the application for a special
use permit. Such conditions shall be in keeping with the requirements of §
154.107(C) of this chapter.
         (c)   The Board of Commissioners shall proceed with the required steps
for completion of the special use permit application process as outlined in §
154.107.
   (C)   Certificate of occupancy.
      (1)   When the developer of the manufactured home park is satisfied that
construction has been completed in accordance with the terms of the special use
permit granted by the Town Board, certification of the completion shall be
made, and the site shall be inspected by the Zoning Enforcement Officer or his
or her representative. After completion of the manufactured home park in
compliance with the approved plan and other application regulations has been
ascertained, the certificate of occupancy shall be issued by the Zoning
Enforcement Officer.
      (2)   The manufactured home park shall be maintained in compliance with
the terms of the conditional use permit. In the event of violation of the
conditional use permit, the certificate of occupancy may be revoked for a
specific section of a manufactured home park which is in violation or for the
manufactured home park in its entirety if necessary.
   (D)   Issuance of operator's license. When the owner has completed the
construction of the manufactured home park, the owner/operator shall apply to
the Zoning Official for an operating permit.
      (1)   The Zoning Official and a representative of the County Health
Department shall make an on-site inspection of the park.
         (a)   If the plan conforms to the park plan approved by the Planning
and Zoning Board and other agencies, the Zoning Official shall issue the
developer an operating permit.
         (b)   If the plan does not conform with the approved plan, the Zoning
Official shall delay issuance of the operating permit until it comes into
conformity.
      (2)   The manufactured home park owner/operator(s) is required to provide
adequate supervision to maintain the park in compliance with the requirements
of this chapter. Further, the manufactured home park owner/operator(s) shall
keep all park-owned facilities, improvements, equipment and all common areas in
good repair and maintained at all times. The accumulation or storage of
materials which would constitute a fire or other safety hazard or would cause
insect or rodent breeding and harborage is prohibited.
      (3)   Owner/operators of manufactured home parks shall be required to
supervise the placement of all manufactured homes on the site/space.
      (4)   Each manufactured home park owner/operator shall submit to the Town
of Fairmont Zoning Official the tenancy rules and regulations governing the
operation of the manufactured home park.
   (E)   Annual inspection. All manufactured home parks in the town shall be
inspected by the town at least once every year in compliance with G.S. § 105-
316(a)(1). The operator’s license of parks with sewerage problems based on
current state sanitation regulations may be revoked upon request from the
county health department.
   (F)   Additional requirements. No manufactured home Class C shall be placed
in a new manufactured home park.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.298 LOT REQUIREMENTS FOR NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS.
   (A)   Access. Each space shall have access to an interior roadway with a
width of at least 18 feet. No space shall have direct access to a public
street.
   (B)   Clearance. Each space shall be designed so that at least 20 feet
clearance will be maintained between units and other structures within the
park. Manufactured homes shall not be located closer than 15 feet to the
exterior boundary of the park or any street right-of-way.
   (C)   Dimensional requirements. The following dimensional requirements will
be met:
Minimum manufactured home park area 2 acres
Minimum manufactured home park area 2 acres
Minimum park width                  100 feet
Maximum density                     4 units per acre
Minimum lot size:                    
   Singlewide                    5,000 square feet
   Doublewide                    7,500 square feet
Minimum setbacks (any attached structure, such as room extensions, porches,
carports, etc. shall be considered to be part of the manufactured home):
   Front yard                    20 feet from the road right-of-way line
   Side yard                     10 feet
   Rear yard                     15 feet
Maximum building height             35 feet
 
   (D)   Parking. Parking spaces sufficient to accommodate at least two
automobiles shall be constructed within each manufactured home space and they
shall be graveled or covered with four inches of crushed stone. No manufactured
home shall have direct access to a public street.
   (E)   Grading. Each manufactured home space shall be graded and graded areas
grassed to prevent erosion and provide adequate storm drainage away from the
manufactured home.
   (F)   Utilities. Each space shall have hook-up facilities for water, sewer,
electricity and telephone services. All occupied manufactured home units shall
have and use sanitary facilities within the manufactured home unit.
   (G)   Common recreation space. At least 8% of the total gross acreage of the
park shall be reserved and developed as a common recreation space for the
residents of the park. This recreation space shall be identified on all plans
and approved by the Planning Board and the Town Board. Such areas shall be
adequately lighted for safety.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.299 INTERIOR STREET SYSTEM - APPLIES TO NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS.
   (A)   All manufactured home parks shall be provided with a network of
streets, roads or driveways that will allow safe and convenient vehicular
access to an improved public street from each manufactured home lot, but no
individual manufactured home within a park may have direct-driveway access to
an abutting public street.
   (B)   The intersection of the public street with the entrance way or private
access road to the manufactured home park shall be designed to facilitate the
free movement of traffic on the public street and to minimize the hazards
caused by traffic entering or leaving the park development. All driveways shall
be of an improved surface and the minimum width of such driveways shall be well
marked and lighted in the manufactured home parks. All manufactured home lots
must enter and exit the park through the use of the interior road network of
the park; no direct access to public roads from a lot shall be allowed.
   (C)   All park roads shall comply with the minimum construction standards
for subdivision roads developed by the NC Department of Transportation. (See
Figure 12-1 below) The Planning Board shall require that the street layout of
the proposed park plan be approved by the district highway department.
   ( D)    Convenient access to each mobile home space shall be provided by
streets or drives with a minimum right-of-way of 50 feet, of which 20 feet
shall be graded and drained for automobile circulation within the park.
Maintenance of such streets shall be provided by the owner or operator of the
park.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0fa087e7aaf2d1426066c541dcf0227ca59242f9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2582.png]
 
   (E)   Permanent dead-end streets or cul-de-sacs shall not exceed 1,000 feet
in length and shall be provided with a turnaround of at least 80 feet in
diameter.
   (F)   Streets or drives within the mobile home park shall intersect as
nearly as possible at right angles, and no street shall intersect at less than
60 degrees. Where a street intersects a public street or road, the design
standards of the state highway commission shall apply.
   (G)   New street names shall not duplicate or be similar to existing street
names in the town and shall be subject to approval by the Town Planning Board.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.300 OPERATING STANDARDS FOR NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS.
   (A)   Area.   The lot area of the manufactured home park shall be a minimum
of two acres.
   (B)   Density. There shall be a maximum of four manufactured homes per acre.
   (C)   Utilities. The manufactured home park and all occupied units located
in it must be connected to the municipal water and sewerage systems or other
systems approved by the Robeson County Health Department or the North Carolina
Division of Health and Human Services and the North Carolina Division of Water
Quality.
   (D)   Other permitted uses. Service buildings, recreation buildings and
other areas or structures providing laundry, sanitation and managerial
facilities are permitted and shall serve only the park in which they are
located. No such facility shall have direct access to a public street but shall
be served by the privately maintained roadway.
   (E)   Screening and landscaping. The manufactured home park shall have a
screening strip of plant material adjacent to and within the park boundary
extending along the entire perimeter of the park. This requirement may be
waived by the Town Board upon the recommendation of the Planning Board along
any boundary which is naturally screened by evergreen plant materials or
topography. Screening strips shall not be a portion of any manufactured home
space, street, or private drive. The park shall be completely screened at a
height of four feet or more from the view of adjacent properties. Landscaping
shall be provided throughout the park with ample trees and shrubs to provide
shade and break up open area. All banks and open areas shall be grassed.
   (F)   One manufactured home per lot. No more than one manufactured home may
be parked on any manufactured home lot.
   (G)   Common recreation space. At least 8% of the total gross acreage of the
park shall be reserved and developed as a common recreation space for the
residents of the park. The minimum size of any recreation area shall be 2,500
square feet. Lakes, ponds, rivers, streams, swamps, and marsh lands shall not
be considered as meeting, in part or in whole, the recreation area requirements
of this section. This recreation space shall be identified on all plans and
approved by the Planning Board and the Board of Commissioners. Such areas shall
be adequately lighted for safety.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.301 PROCEDURES AND STANDARDS FOR EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS.
   Manufactured home parks which are existing when this chapter is adopted
shall be considered nonconforming manufactured home parks and shall be subject
to the following.
   (A)   Zoning permit required. No person shall commence or proceed with
development within the town's jurisdiction without first securing a zoning
permit from the town. Unless elsewhere exempted by this chapter, no use may
change, and/or no building, sign or other structure can legally be erected,
moved, added to, or structurally altered without a zoning permit. The Zoning
Official will approve or deny the zoning permit based on compliance with the
zoning ordinance unless evidence exists that there is a violation of the town's
zoning ordinances on the property. For similar state law provisions, refer to
G.S. § 160D-403(a).
   (B)   Issuing a temporary operating permit. Within 30 days of the date on
which this chapter is adopted, each existing manufactured home park shall be
issued a temporary operating permit. The procedure for issuing this temporary
operating permit shall include:
      (1)   The Zoning Official shall issue the temporary operating permit.
      (2)   The temporary operating permit will allow the park owner/operator a
six-month period to develop a compliance plan.
      (3)   The compliance plan shall be approved by the Town Board of
Commissioners.
         (a)   If approved, a manufactured home park operating permit shall be
issued within ten days of the Board's approval. Said permit shall be valid for
one year. At the same time the temporary operating permit, if not already
expired, shall be terminated.
         (b)   If not approved, the owner/operator may return a corrected
version of the compliance plan to the Town Board in time to be received for the
next scheduled meeting without paying an additional fee.
         (c)   If the compliance plan is not approved and the owner/operator
fails to return a corrected copy as outlined in division (B)(3)(b) above, the
park owner shall be considered to have chosen not to
comply with the standards set forth in this section and will be considered to
have chosen the alternative of ceasing operation upon the expiration of his
temporary manufactured home park operating permit.
   (C)   Contents of the compliance plan. The compliance plan shall detail how
the owner/operator shall address the following:
      (1)   How the park presently complies or will, within a three-year
period, comply with all standards listed below:
         (a)   Underpinning. All manufactured homes within a manufactured home
park shall meet underpinning requirements within 90 days of placement of the
home on the lot. Requirements include:
            1.   Continuous permanent skirting from the bottom of the home to
the ground that fully encloses the area beneath the home.
            2.   A crawl space door that is a minimum of 18 inches by 24
inches.
            3.   Skirting made of suitable materials of brick, masonry, vinyl,
metal, or wood.
         (b)   Utilities. The manufactured home park and all occupied units
located in it must be connected to the municipal water and sewerage systems or
other systems approved by the Robeson County Health Department or the North
Carolina Division of Health and Human Services and the North Carolina Division
of Water Quality. Each manufactured home park space shall have hook-up
facilities for water, sewer, electricity and telephone services. All occupied
manufactured home units shall have and use sanitary facilities within the
manufactured home unit.
         (c)   Other permitted uses. Service buildings, recreation buildings
and other areas or structures providing laundry, sanitation and managerial
facilities are permitted and shall serve only the park in which they are
located. No such facility shall have direct access to a public street but shall
by the privately maintained roadway.
         (d)   Screening and landscaping. The manufactured home park shall have
a screening strip of plant material adjacent to and within the park boundary
extending along the entire perimeter of the park. This requirement may be
waived by the Town Board upon the recommendation of the Planning Board along
any boundary which is naturally screened by evergreen plant materials or
topography. Screening strips shall not be a portion of any manufactured home
space, street, or private drive. The park shall be completely screened at a
height of four feet or more from the view of adjacent properties. Landscaping
shall be provided throughout the park with ample trees and shrubs to provide
shade and break up open areas. All banks and open areas shall be grassed.
         (e)   One manufactured home per space. No more than one manufactured
home may be parked on any manufactured home lot.
         (f)   Common recreation space. At least 8% of the total gross acreage
of the park shall be reserved and developed as a common recreation space for
the residents of the park. The recreation space shall be identified on all
plans and approved by the Planning Board and the Town Board. Such areas shall
be adequately lighted for safety.
         (g)   Parking. Parking spaces sufficient to accommodate at least two
automobiles shall be constructed within each manufactured home lot and they
shall be graveled or covered with four inches of crushed stone.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.302 RESPONSIBILITIES AND DUTIES OF PARK OPERATORS.
   (A)   Manufactured home park maintenance. Manufactured home park operators
shall be required to provide adequate supervision to maintain the park in
compliance with the requirements of this subchapter. The manufactured home park
operators shall keep all park-owned facilities, improvements, equipment, and
all common areas in good repair and maintained in such a manner as to prevent
the accumulation of storage of materials which could constitute a fire hazard
or would cause insect or rodent breeding and harborage. Abandoned vehicle
storage or the accumulation of junk is expressly prohibited in existing and/or
new manufactured home parks. Either item may be cause to revoke a manufactured
home park operator’s license.
   (B)   Placement and anchoring. Operators shall be required to supervise the
placement of all manufactured homes to guarantee that they are properly
anchored and attached to utilities. All manufactured homes within a
manufactured home park shall be properly anchored or provided with tie downs,
in accordance with the state regulations for manufactured homes. Technical
assistance will be provided by the town or county building inspection office,
as applicable. All manufactured homes in manufactured home parks will be set up
and anchored according to manufacturer's instructions or state requirements.
   (C)   Assist Town Tax Administrator. Operators shall be required to comply
with G.S. § 105-316(a)(1) which requires that as of January 1 of each year each
operator of a manufactured home park furnish to the town or county tax
supervisor the name of the owner and a description of each manufactured home
located in the park.
   (D)   Fire prevention and detection. In addition to any fire prevention
regulations of the town, the following shall apply:
      (1)   The operator of a manufactured home park is responsible for
informing each park resident of the location of the nearest fire alarm box, if
any; the location of an accessible telephone and the telephone number to be
used to report fires; and procedures to be followed in case of fire.
      (2)   The park owner shall install a fire extinguisher labeled as
suitable for Class A, B, C fires and of a type approved by the fire marshal in
each building open to the public and in the park office. The park staff shall
be instructed in the proper use of any fire protection equipment available in
the park and their specific duties in the event of fire.
      (3)   The park owner or operator shall maintain the park area free of
rubbish, dry brush, leaves, weeds, and any other materials which might
communicate fires between manufactured homes and other buildings.
      (4)   Empty liquefied petroleum gas containers and other objects and
materials not approved by the Fire Marshal shall not be stored under
manufactured homes.
      (5)   The manufactured home owner shall be responsible for payment of any
applicable fees if the Fire Department is called upon.
   (E)   Infestation prevention.
      (1)   Grounds, buildings, and structures shall be maintained free of
insect and rodent infestation. Extermination methods and other measures to
control insects and rodents shall conform with the requirements of the County
Health Officer.
      (2)   Parks shall be maintained free of accumulations of debris which may
provide rodent harborage or breeding places for flies, mosquitoes, and other
pests.
      (3)   Storage areas shall be so maintained as to prevent rodent
harborage. Lumber, pipes, and other building materials shall be stored at least
one foot above the ground.
      (4)   Where the potential for insect and rodent infestation exists, all
exterior openings in or beneath any structure shall be appropriately screened
with wire, mesh, or other suitable materials.
      (5)   The growth of brush, weeds, and grass shall be controlled to
prevent harborage of ticks, chiggers, and other noxious insects. Parks shall be
so maintained as to prevent the growth of ragweed, poison ivy, poison oak,
poison sumac, and other noxious weeds considered detrimental to health. Open
areas shall be maintained free of heavy undergrowth of any description.
   (F)   Inspection.
      (1)   The Robeson County Health Department, the Inspections Department,
and/or the Zoning Official are hereby authorized and directed to make such
inspections as are necessary to determine satisfactory compliance with this
chapter. It shall be the duty of the owners or occupants of manufactured home
parks to give these agencies free access to such premises at reasonable times
for the purpose of inspection.
      (2)   Periodic inspections shall also be made of street surface
conditions within the park, with special attention given to streets surfaced
with stabilized earth. In the event the park owner fails to maintain earth
streets in an appropriate manner, the Inspections Department shall require
repaving with hard-surface materials, or pursue other appropriate legal
remedies.
      (3)   The person to whom an operating permit for a manufactured home park
is issued shall operate the park in compliance with this chapter and shall
provide adequate supervision to maintain the park, its facilities and equipment
in good repair and in a clean and sanitary condition.
      (4)   The park owner or operator shall notify park occupants of all
applicable provisions of this ordinance and inform them of their duties and
responsibilities under this chapter.
      (5)   The operator or caretaker shall be answerable, together with the
owner, for the violation of any provision of this chapter.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.303 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Enforcement. If the Planning Department shall find that any of the
provisions of this subchapter are being violated, it shall issue a notice of
violation to the manufactured home park owner, specifying the nature of the
violation and what corrective measures must be taken. The Planning Department
shall order discontinuance of illegal use of land, buildings or structures;
removal of illegal buildings or structures or of additions, alterations or
structural changes thereto; discontinuance of any illegal work being done; or
shall take any other action authorized by law to ensure compliance with or to
prevent violation of the provisions of this subchapter. The owner shall
immediately remedy the violation.
   (B)   Fees. The Town Board of Commissioners shall set a fee to cover the
necessary processing cost of all manufactured home permits and operator’s
licenses. The set fee shall be posted in the inspections office.
   (C)   Penalties. Any person failing to take corrective action within 30 days
after receiving the written notice of violation from the Planning Department or
any person operating a manufactured home park without a valid operator's
license shall be in violation of this subchapter. Violation of any of the
article requirements constitutes grounds for refusing to issue a license, to
renew a license, or to revoke an issued license.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.304 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   If any permit or operator's license is denied or revoked, the applicant may
file an appeal with the Town Board of Commissioners. The appeal shall
specifically outline the reasons why the decision to revoke the operator’s
license should be reversed.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS
§ 154.315 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to facilitate the construction,
installation, and operation of solar farms (also known as solar energy systems
(SESs)) in Fairmont in a manner that promotes economic development and ensures
the protection of health, safety, and welfare while also avoiding adverse
impacts to important areas such as agricultural lands, endangered species
habitats, conservation lands, and other sensitive lands. It is the intent of
this subchapter to encourage the development of SESs that reduce reliance on
foreign and out-of-state energy resources, bolster local economic development
and job creation, support the diversification of the state’s energy portfolio,
strengthen energy and grid security, reduce greenhouse gas emissions, reduce
local air and water pollution, and aid North Carolina in meeting its renewable
portfolio standard. This subchapter is not intended to abridge safety, health
or environmental requirements contained in other applicable codes, standards,
or ordinances. The provisions of this subchapter shall not be deemed to nullify
any provisions of local, state or federal law. The provisions of this section
shall not be deemed to nullify any provisions of local, state or federal law.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.316 APPLICABILITY.
    This subchapter applies to the construction of any new SES within the
jurisdiction of the Town of Fairmont.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.317 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM (SES). A solar collection system that generates
electricity from sunlight to a wholesale electricity market through a regional
transmission organization and an
inter-connection with the local utility power grid and/or for direct
distribution to a number of properties and consumers. Solar shall consist of a
minimum of three individual photovoltaic modules (solar panels), which are an
assembly of solar cells to generate electricity.
      (1)   LEVEL 1 SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. Level 1 SESs include the following:
         (a)   Roof-mounted on any code-compliant structure.
         (b)   Ground-mounted on an area of up to 50% of the footprint of the
primary structure on the parcel but no more than one acre.
         (c)   Covering permanent parking lot and other hardscape areas.
         (d)   Building integrated solar (i.e., shingle, hanging solar, canopy,
etc.).
   Figure 13-1: Images of Level 1 Solar Energy Systems
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0fa087e7aaf2d1426066c541dcf0227ca59242f9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2584.png]
 
      (2)    LEVEL 2 SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. Level 2 SESs are ground-mounted
systems not included in Level 1 that meet the area restriction listed below:
         (a)   Agricultural/Residential (R-20): SES 1/2 acres.
         (b)   Residential Low Density (R-15): SES 1/2 acre.
         (c)   Residential Medium Density (R-85): SES 1/2 acre.
         (d)   Residential High Density (R-6): SES 1/2 acre.
         (e)   General Commercial/Business: SES 10 acres.
         (f)   Light Industrial: SES of any size.
   Figure 13-2: Images of Level 2 Solar Energy Systems
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0fa087e7aaf2d1426066c541dcf0227ca59242f9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2586.png]
 
      (3)   LEVEL 3 SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. Level 3 SESs are systems that do not
satisfy the parameters for a Level 1 or Level 2 Solar Energy System.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.318 APPLICABILITY.
    (A)   This subchapter applies to the construction of any new SES within the
jurisdiction of the Town of Fairmont.
   (B)   An SES established prior to the effective date of this chapter shall
remain exempt. Modifications to an existing SES that increases the SES area by
more than 5% of the original footprint or changes the solar panel type (e.g.
photovoltaic to solar thermal) shall be subjected to this chapter.
   (C)   Maintenance and repair are not subject to this subchapter.
   (D)   This subchapter does not supersede regulations from local, state, or
federal agencies. Some important examples of such regulations include, but are
not limited to:
      (1)   Building/electrical permits required. Nothing in this subchapter
modifies already established building standards required to construct a SES.
      (2)   Onsite wastewater system avoidance. Nothing in this subchapter
modifies already established Department of Health and Human Services
requirements. A SES shall not be constructed over onsite waste water systems
(e.g. septic systems) unless approved by the Department of Health and Human
Services.
      (3)   Stormwater permit required. Nothing in this subchapter modifies the
requirements or exempts any SES of complying with the various stormwater
jurisdictions and regulations established by the Department of Environment and
Natural Resources. North Carolina statute requires the acquisition of
stormwater permits for construction projects that impact stormwater runoff.
      (4)   Historic districts. Nothing in this subchapter modifies already
established State Historic Preservation Office requirements. May require
additional permitting (certificates of appropriateness) to install solar in
Historic Districts.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.319 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
    The type of permit required for an SES is displayed in the table below.
(See next page)
   Required Permits for SES Development
Types of Permits Required: P= Permitted Use; C= CUP= Conditional Use
Permit
Types of Permits Required: P= Permitted Use; C= CUP= Conditional Use Permit
                                                                               Residential Residential Residential
                                                                 Agricultural/ Low Density Med.        High        Commercial/ Light
Zoning District                                                  Residential   R15         Density     Density     Business    Industrial
                                                                                         R85         R6                      
                                                                                                       
Solar Energy Facilities                                                                                                    
Roof-mounted, parking lot cover, or building integrated (Level   P             P           P           P           P           P
1)
Ground-mounted                                                                                                             
   up to 50% of the footprint of the primary structure (Level P)            P           P           P           P           P
   1/2 acre (Level 2)                                         SUP           SUP         NA          NA          NA          SUP
   10 acres (Level 2 or 3)                                    SUP           SUP         NA          NA          NA          SUP
   >10 acres (Level 2 or 3)                                   SUP           SUP         NA          NA          NA          SUP
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.320 PARCEL LINE SETBACKS.
   The following table provides the parcel line setback to ground mounted SES
equipment, excluding any security fencing, poles, and wires necessary to
connect to facilities of the electric utility.
   Parcel Line Setbacks
 
Zoning District  Level 1                Level 2                Level 3
                                                               Front Side Rear
Agricultural/                                                  30'*  15'* 25'*
Residential      Per Zoning District**, Per Zoning District**,
Residential, Low ***                    ***                    50'*  50'* 50'*
density
Industrial                                                     30'*  15'* 25'*
* 100' setback for SES equipment, excluding any security fencing, to any
residential dwelling unit. If the SES is on a working farm where the primary
residential structure of the farm is on an adjacent lot then this 100' setback
will not apply to this primary residential structure.
 
** Ground-mounted SES must comply with district front yard limitations and
setbacks, or otherwise not impair sight distance for safe access to or from the
property or other properties in the vicinity.
*** Level 1 SESs are not subject to screening requirements typically applied to
accessory utility systems (HVAC, dumpsters, etc.)
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.321 HEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
   The height of systems will be measured from the highest natural grade below
each solar panel.
   Height Limitations*
 
Zoning Districts         Level 1                           Level 2 Level 3
Agricultural/Residential Roof-mounted: per zoning district 20'     20'
Residential, low density Ground-mounted: 20'               20'     20'
Industrial                                                 20'     20'
* This excludes utility poles and any antennas constructed for the project.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.322 SITE PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   A site plan, drawn and stamped by a North Carolina licensed surveyor or
engineer, shall be submitted for all applications showing the following:
   (A)   The location and dimensions of all proposed areas for the placement of
solar panels, screening/fencing and related improvements;
   (B)   Any pre-existing structures on the same lot, and principal structures
on other properties that would affect the placement of solar panels;
   (C)   Parking and access areas;
   (D)   Location of any proposed solar access easements;
   (E)   Any proposed new structures.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.323 REQUIREMENTS FOR LEVEL 2 AND LEVEL 3 SES.
   (A)   Solar panels shall be mounted onto a pole, rack, or suitable
foundation in accordance with manufacturer’s specifications, in order to ensure
the safe operation and stability of the system.
   (B)   Multiple mounting structures shall be spaced apart at the distance
recommended by the manufacturer to ensure safety and maximum efficiency.
   (C)   The SES and components shall meet all requirements of the North
Carolina State Building Code.
   (D)   The SES shall be fenced in and access controlled. The site must be
accessible 24/7 for emergency service.
   (E)   Buffering and screening.
      (1)   SESs shall be screened from all streets and adjacent residential
uses with a vegetative buffer, or by an opaque fence of at least six feet in
height or a combination thereof. When an evergreen buffer is used, it shall be
of a species capable of reaching a height of six feet within three years of
planting and each plant shall be located close enough together at the time of
planting to insure that its growth will provide full horizontal coverage
(without gaps) within three years of planting. Any fence or plant material that
is used as a buffer shall be maintained during the entire time that the solar
farm is located on the site regardless of whether or not the farm is
operational.
      (2)   Existing trees within or near the required planting area and meets
or exceeds the standards of this chapter may be used to satisfy the tree
requirements of the planting area. The protection of tree stands, rather than
individual trees, is strongly encouraged.
   (F)   Signage. Public signage (i.e., advertising, educational, etc.) as
permitted by the Town of Fairmont Zoning Ordinance, including appropriate or
required security and safety signage.
   (G)   Lighting. If lighting is provided at site, lighting shall be shielded
and downcast such that the light does not spill onto the adjacent parcel or the
night sky. Motion sensor control is preferred.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.324 DECOMMISSIONING.
   For any SES one acre or more, a decommissioning plan signed by the party
responsible for decommissioning and the landowner (if different) addressing the
following shall be submitted with permit application.
   (A)   Defined conditions upon which decommissioning will be initiated (i.e.,
end of land lease, no power production for 12 months, etc.).
   (B)   Removal of all non-utility owned equipment, conduit, structures,
fencing, roads, and foundations.
   (C)   Restoration of property to condition prior to development of the SES.
   (D)   The timeframe for completion of decommissioning activities.
   (E)   Description of any agreement (e.g., lease) with landowner regarding
decommissioning.
   (F)   The party currently responsible for decommissioning.
   (G)   Plans for updating this decommissioning plan.
   (H)   Before final electrical inspection, provide evidence decommissioning
plan was recorded with the register of deeds.
See
Appendix B at the end of this chapter for copy of the Decommissioning Plan.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.325 MODIFICATION TO EXISTING SOLAR FARMS.
    Modifications to an existing SES that increases the SES area by more than
5% of the original footprint or changes the solar panel type (e.g.,
photovoltaic to solar thermal) shall be subjected to this subchapter.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.326 AVIATION NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   A map analysis showing a radius of five nautical miles from the center
of the SES with any airport operations within this area highlighted shall be
submitted with permit application.
   (B)   For consideration of potential impacts to low altitude military flight
paths, notification of intent to construct the SES shall be sent to the NC
Commanders Council at least 45 days prior to permit application submission.
Proof of delivery of notification and date of delivery shall be submitted with
permit application. Mail to: Commanding General MCIEAST; Attn: Mr. Bill Meier
(NC Commanders Council) or successor; Marine Corps Installations East G-7
(MCIEAST); PSC Box 20005; Camp Lejeune, NC 28542. Email: Subject: NC
Commanders' Council Notification of Solar Development Project in "Town or
County Name" Address: Meier CIV William A [William.meier@mcw.usmc.mil], Ayers
CIV Bryan C [bryan.ayers@usmc.mil]. Notification shall include:
      (1)   Location of SES (i.e., map, coordinates, address, or parcel ID).
      (2)   Solar technology (i.e., polycrystalline PV, monocrystalline PV,
Cadmium Telluride PV, evacuated tube solar thermal, flat plate solar thermal,
etc.).
      (3)   Approximate number of solar modules/panels.
      (4)   System mounting (i.e., fixed-tilt on flat roof, fixed-tilt ground-
mount, 1-axis tracking ground-mount, etc.).
      (5)   The maximum height of the array from the ground or roof surface.
      (6)   The maximum height of any new utility poles.
      (7)   Power capacity of the system, in both DC and AC Watts where
applicable.
      (8)   Acreage of array and acreage of total project.
      (9)   How will the project connect? (i.e., net meter, to existing
distribution line, to new distribution line, to transmission line).
      (10)   Will a substation be constructed? If so, provide location and
size.
      (11)   Is the site within five nautical miles of aviation operations? If
so, provide the required SGHAT analysis results.
         (a)   The latest version of the Solar Glare Hazard Analysis Tool
(SGHAT) shall be used to evaluate the solar glare aviation hazard. The full
report for each flight path and observation point, as well as the contact
information for the Zoning Administrator, shall be sent to the authority
indicated below at least 45 days prior to permit application submission. Proof
of delivery of notification and date of delivery shall be submitted with permit
application.
         (b)   Airport operations at airports in the National Plan of
Integrated Airport Systems (NPIAS)2 within five nautical miles of the center of
SES: provide required information to the Federal Aviation Administration's
(FAA) Airport District Office (ADO) with oversight of North Carolina.
         (c)   Airport operations at airport not in the NPIAS, including
military airports, within five nautical miles of the center of SES: provide
required information to the NC Commanders Council for military airports and to
the management of the airport for non-military airports. Send to: www.faa.gov/
airports/planningcapacity/npias-reports/. (As of October 2016, this is the
Memphis ADO, but this is subject to change)
         (d)   Any applicable SES design changes (e.g. module tilt, module
reflectivity, etc.) after initial submittal shall be rerun in the SGHAT tool
and the new full report shall be sent without undue delay to the contacts
specified in (11)(a) and (11)(b) above for accurate records of the as-built
system.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.327 CERTAIN LIVESTOCK ALLOWED.
   The keeping of goats and sheep shall be allowed within the fenced area of
the solar facility for the purpose of grass maintenance only.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS
Part I. General Requirements
§ 154.340 PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Purpose and compliance with federal law.
      (1)   The purpose of this subchapter is to ensure the safe and efficient
integration of facilities necessary for the provision of advanced mobile
broadband and wireless telecommunications services throughout the Town of
Fairmont and to ensure the ready availability of reliable wireless service to
the public, government agencies, and first responders, with the intention of
furthering the public safety and general welfare.
      (2)   The deployment of wireless infrastructure is critical to ensuring
first responders can provide for the health and safety of all residents of
North Carolina and that, consistent with section 6409 of the Middle Class Tax
Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012, 47 U.S.C. § 1455(a), create a national
wireless emergency communications network for use by first responders that in
large measure will be dependent on facilities placed on existing wireless
communications support structures. The following standards shall apply to
actions by the Town of Fairmont, as a regulatory body, in the regulation of the
placement, construction, or modification of a wireless communications facility.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-930.
   (B)   Applicability. The regulations of this subchapter shall apply to the
development and rehabilitation of wireless communication facilities in the
planning jurisdiction of the Town of Fairmont.
   (C)   Local authority. The Town of Fairmont may plan for and regulate the
siting or modification of wireless support structures and wireless facilities
in accordance with land development regulations and
in conformity with this subchapter. Except as expressly stated, nothing in this
subchapter shall limit the Town from regulating applications to construct,
modify, or maintain wireless support structures, or construct, modify,
maintain, or collocate wireless facilities on a wireless support structure
based on consideration of land use, public safety, and zoning considerations,
including aesthetics, landscaping, structural design, setbacks, and fall zones,
or state and local building code requirements, consistent with the provisions
of federal law provided in G.S. § 160D-9-30. For purposes of this subchapter,
public safety includes, without limitation, federal, state, and local safety
regulations but does not include requirements relating to radio frequency
emissions of wireless facilities. For similar state law provisions, refer to
G.S. § 160D-932.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.341 CERTAIN USES NOT COVERED BY THIS SUBCHAPTER.
   Wireless telecommunication towers that are used for emergency communication
for town and state personnel shall be exempt from the Town of Fairmont Zoning
Ordinance and are not required to obtain a special use zoning permit.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.342 INTERPRETATION AND DEFINITION.
   (A)   Conflict with other ordinances. To the extent these development
standards conflict with other ordinances for the town, these development
standards shall control.
   (B)   Rules for words and phrases. For the purposes of subchapter, words
used in the present tense include the future tense; words in the singular
number include the plural number, and words in the plural number include the
singular number; the word “shall” is mandatory; the word “may” is permissive;
the word “used” includes “designed” and “intended” or arranged to be used or
occupied; and the word “person” includes a firm, association, organization,
partnership, trust, foundation, company or corporation as well as an
individual.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter certain words, phrases
and terms used herein shall be interpreted as stated in this section. The
Planning Director or designee shall define any word, phrase or term not defined
herein. The interpretation shall be based upon its common and ordinary usage in
the region.
      (1)   ABANDON. Occurs when an owner of a support structure intends to
permanently and completely cease all business activity associated therewith.
      (2)   ANTENNA. Communications equipment that transmits, receives, or
transmits and receives electromagnetic radio signals used in the provision of
all types of wireless communications services.
      (3)   ANTENNA ARRAY. One or more rods, panels, discs or similar devices
used for the transmission or reception of radio frequency signals, which may
include Omni-directional antenna (rod), directional antenna (panel) and
parabolic antenna (disc). The ANTENNA ARRAY does not include the support
structure.
      (4)   APPLICABLE CODES. The North Carolina State Building Code and any
other uniform building, fire, electrical, plumbing, or mechanical codes adopted
by a recognized national code organization together with state or local
amendments to those codes enacted solely to address imminent threats of
destruction of property or injury to persons.
      (5)   APPLICATION. A request that is submitted by an applicant for a
permit to collocate wireless facilities or to approve the installation,
modification, or replacement of a utility pole, town utility pole, or wireless
support facility.
      (6)   ATTACHED WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY. An antenna array that is
attached to an existing building or structure (attachment structure), which
structures shall include but not be limited to utility poles, signs, water
towers, rooftops, towers with any accompanying pole or device (attachment
device) which attaches the antenna array to the existing building or structure
and associated connection cables, and an equipment facility which may be
located either inside or outside of the attachment structure.
      (7)   BASE STATION. A station at a specific site authorized to
communicate with mobile stations, generally consisting of radio receivers,
antennas, coaxial cables, power supplies, and other associated electronics.
      (8)   BREAKPOINT TECHNOLOGY. The engineering design of a monopole wherein
a specified point on the monopole is designed to have stresses concentrated so
that the point is at least 5% more susceptible to failure than any other point
along the monopole so that in the event of a structural failure of the
monopole, the failure will occur at the breakpoint rather than at the base
plate, anchor bolts, or any other point on the monopole.
      (9)   BUILDING PERMIT.  An official administrative authorization issued
by the town prior to beginning construction consistent with the provisions of
G.S. § 160D-11-10.
      (10)   CARRIER ON WHEELS “COW”. A portable self-contained
telecommunications facility that can be moved to a location and set up to
provide wireless services on a temporary or emergency basis. A COW is normally
vehicle-mounted and contains a telescoping boom as the antenna support
structure.
      (11)   COLLOCATION.  The placement, installation, maintenance,
modification, operation, or replacement of wireless facilities on, under,
within, or on the surface of the earth adjacent to existing structures,
including utility poles, town utility poles, water towers, buildings, and other
structures
capable of structurally supporting the attachment of wireless facilities in
compliance with applicable codes. The term COLLOCATION does not include the
installation of new utility poles, town utility poles, or wireless support
structures.
      (12)   COMMUNICATIONS FACILITY. The set of equipment and network
components, including wires and cables and associated facilities used by a
communications service provider to provide communications service.
      (13)   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. Cable service as defined in 47 U.S.C. §
522(6), information service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(24),
telecommunications service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(53), of wireless
services.
      (14)   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER. A cable operator as defined in 47
U.S.C. § 522(5); a provider of information service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. §
153(24); a telecommunications carrier, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(51); or a
wireless provider.
      (15)   COMPLETED APPLICATION. An application that contains all
information and/or data necessary to enable the board or ordinance
administrator to evaluate the merits of the application, and to make an
informed decision with respect to the effect and impact of wireless facilities
and/or wireless support structures on the town in the context of the permitted
land use for the particular location requested.
      (16)   CONCEALED WIRELESS FACILITY. Any wireless facility that is
integrated as an architectural feature of an existing structure or any new
wireless support structure designed to camouflage or conceal the presence of
antennas or towers so that the purpose of the facility or wireless support
structure is not readily apparent to a casual observer.
      (17)   ELIGIBLE FACILITIES REQUEST. A request for modification of an
existing wireless tower or base station that involves collocation of new
transmission equipment or replacement of transmission equipment but does not
include a substantial modification.
      (18)   EQUIPMENT COMPOUND. An area surrounding or near the base of a
wireless support structure within which a wireless facility is located.
      (19)   FAA.  The Federal Aviation Administration or its duly designated
and authorized successor agency.
      (20)   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission or its duly designated
and authorized successor agency.
      (21)   FTA. Federal Telecommunications Act of 1996.
      (22)   FALL ZONE. The area in which a wireless support structure may be
expected to fall in the event of a structural failure, as measured by
engineering standards.
      (23)   FREE STANDING WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A wireless support
structure that is not supported by guy wires and ground anchors or other means
of attached or external support.
      (24)   GUYED WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A style of wireless support
structure consisting of a single truss assembly composed of sections with
bracing incorporated. The sections are attached to each other, and the assembly
is attached to a foundation and supported by a series of wires that are
connected to anchors placed in the ground or on a building.
      (25)   LAND DEVELOPMENT REGULATION. Any ordinance enacted pursuant to
this chapter.
      (26)   MAJOR MODIFICATIONS. Improvements to existing telecommunications
facilities or support structures that result in a substantial increase to the
existing structure. Collocation of new telecommunications facilities to an
existing support structure without replacement of the structure shall not
constitute a major modification.
      (27)   MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY. A small wireless facility that is no
larger in dimension than 24 inches in length, 15 inches in width, and 12 inches
in height and that has an exterior antenna, if any, no longer than 11 inches.
      (28)   MINOR MODIFICATIONS. Improvements to existing structures that
result in some material change to the facility or support structure but of a
level, quality or intensity that is less than a substantial increase. MINOR
MODIFICATIONS include the replacement of the structure.
      (29)   MONOPOLE. A single, freestanding pole-type structure supporting
one or more antennas.
      (30)   ORDINARY MAINTENANCE. Ensuring that telecommunications facilities
and support structures are kept in good operating condition. ORDINARY
MAINTENANCE includes inspections, testing and modifications that maintain
functional capacity, aesthetic and structural integrity; for example, the
strengthening of a support structure's foundation or of the support structure
itself. ORDINARY MAINTENANCE includes replacing antennas of a similar size,
weight, shape and color and accessory equipment within an existing
telecommunications facility and relocating the antennas of approved
telecommunications facilities to different height levels on an existing
monopole or tower upon which they are currently located. ORDINARY MAINTENANCE
does not include minor and major modifications.
      (31)   REPLACEMENT. Constructing a new support structure of proportions
and of equal height or such other height that would not constitute a
substantial increase to a pre-existing support structure in order to support a
telecommunications facility or to accommodate collocation and removing the pre-
existing support structure.
      (32)   SEARCH RING.  The area within which a wireless support facility or
wireless facility must be located in order to meet service objectives of the
wireless service provider using the wireless facility or wireless support
structure.
      (33)   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY. A wireless facility that meets both of
the following qualifications:
         (a)   Each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than six
cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed elements,
the antenna and all of its exposed elements, if enclosed, could fit within an
enclosure of no more than six cubic feet.
         (b)   All other wireless equipment associated with the facility has a
cumulative volume of no more than 28 cubic feet. For purposes of this division,
the following types of ancillary equipment are not included in the calculation
of equipment volume: electric meters, concealment elements, telecommunications
demarcation boxes, ground-based enclosures, grounding equipment, power transfer
switches, cut-off switches, vertical cable runs for the connection of power and
other services, or other support structures.
      (34)   SUBSTANTIAL MODIFICATION.  The mounting of a proposed wireless
facility on a wireless support structure that substantially changes the
physical dimensions of the support structure. The burden is on the local
government to demonstrate that a mounting that does not meet the listed
criteria constitutes a substantial change to the physical dimensions of the
wireless support structure. A mounting is presumed to be a substantial
modification if it meets any one or more of the criteria listed below.
         (a)   Increasing the existing vertical height of the structure by the
greater of (i) more than 10% or (ii) the height of one additional antenna array
with separation from the nearest existing antenna not to exceed 20 feet.
         (b)   Except where necessary to shelter the antenna from inclement
weather or to connect the antenna to the tower via cable, adding an
appurtenance to the body of a wireless support structure that protrudes
horizontally from the edge of the wireless support structure the greater of (i)
more than 20 feet or (ii) more than the width of the wireless support structure
at the level of the appurtenance.
         (c)   Increasing the square footage of the existing equipment compound
by more than 2,500 square feet.
      (35)   SUPPORT STRUCTURE(S). A structure designed to support
telecommunications facilities including, but not limited to, monopoles, towers,
and other freestanding self-supporting structures.
      (36)   TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITY. Any unmanned facility established for
the purpose of providing wireless transmission of voice, data, images or other
information including, but not limited to, cellular telephone service, personal
communications service (PCS), and paging service.
A TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITY can consist of one or more antennas and accessory
equipment or one base station.
      (37)   TOWER. A lattice-type or monopole wireless support structure,
guyed or freestanding, that supports one or more antennas.
      (38)   TOWN RIGHT-OF-WAY. A right-of-way owned, leased, or operated by a
town, including any public street or alley that is not a part of the state
highway system.
      (39)   TOWN UTILITY POLE. A pole owned by a town in the town right-of-way
that provides lighting, traffic control, or a similar function.
      (40)   UTILITY POLE. A structure that is designed for and used to carry
lines, cables, wires, lighting facilities, or small wireless facilities for
telephone, cable television, electricity, lighting, or wireless services.
      (41)   WATER TOWER.  A water storage tank, a standpipe, or an elevated
tank situated on a support structure originally constructed for use as a
reservoir or facility to store or deliver water.
      (42)   WIRELESS FACILITY. Equipment at a fixed location that enables
wireless communications between user equipment and a communications network,
including (i) equipment associated with wireless communications and (ii) radio
transceivers, antennas, wires, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular and backup
power supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of technological
configuration. The term includes small wireless facilities. The term shall not
include any of the following:
         (a)   The structure or improvements on, under, within, or adjacent to
which the equipment is collocated.
         (b)   Wireline backhaul facilities.
         (c)   Coaxial or fiber-optic cable that is between wireless structures
or utility poles or town utility poles or that is otherwise not immediately
adjacent to or directly associated with a particular antenna.
      (43)   WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER. Any person with a certificate to
provide telecommunications service in the State who builds or installs wireless
communication transmission equipment, wireless facilities, or wireless support
structures for small wireless facilities but that does not provide wireless
services.
      (44)   WIRELESS PROVIDER.  A wireless infrastructure provider or a
wireless services provider.
      (45)   WIRELESS SERVICES. Any services, using licensed or unlicensed
wireless spectrum, including the use of Wi-Fi, whether at a fixed location or
mobile, provided to the public using wireless facilities.
      (46)   WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER.  A person who provides wireless
services.
      (47)   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A new or existing structure, such as a
monopole, lattice tower, or guyed tower that is designed to support or capable
of supporting wireless facilities. A utility pole or a town utility pole is not
a WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. Specific types of WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURES
include:
         (a)   ATTACHED WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE means an antenna or antenna
array that is secured to an existing building or structure with any
accompanying pole or device which attaches it to the building or structure,
together with transmission cables, and an equipment cabinet, which may be
located either on the roof or inside/outside of the building or structure. An
attached wireless facility is considered to be an accessory use to the existing
principal use on a site.
         (b)   CONCEALED WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE, sometimes referred to as a
concealed or camouflaged facility, means a wireless support structure,
ancillary structure, or wireless support structure equipment compound that is
not readily identifiable as such, and is designed to be aesthetically
compatible with existing and proposed building(s) and uses on a site. There are
two types of concealed wireless support structures: 1) attached and 2)
freestanding. Examples of CONCEALED ATTACHED FACILITY include, but are not
limited to, the following: painted antenna and feed lines to match the color of
a building or structure, faux windows, dormers or other architectural features
that blend with an existing or proposed building or structure.  FREESTANDING
CONCEALED WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURES usually have a secondary, obvious
function which may be, but is not limited to, the following: church steeple,
windmill, bell tower, clock tower, cupola, light standard, flagpole with or
without a flag, or faux tree.
         (c)   FREESTANDING WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE means any manned or
unmanned location for the transmission and/or reception of radio frequency
signals, or other wireless communications, and usually consisting of an antenna
or group of antennas, feed lines, and equipment cabinets, and may include an
antenna support structure. A freestanding wireless support structure includes,
but is not limited to, the following: guyed, lattice, or monopole support
structures.
         (d)   NON-CONCEALED WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE  means a wireless
support structure that is readily identifiable as such and can be either
freestanding or attached. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. §
160D-931.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.343 WHEN SPECIAL USE PERMIT IS REQUIRED.
   (A)   All applications for the construction or installation of a new
wireless support structure or substantial modification of wireless support
structures shall be permitted by a special use permit. Applications for
attached wireless support structures and collocations and eligible facilities
requests shall be issued by the Zoning Administrator. Temporary emergency
structures under §
154.355 shall also be issued by the Zoning Administrator.
   (B)   Application contents. The application shall include:
      (1)   A completed special use permit application;
      (2)   A sealed complete set of drawings prepared by a licensed architect
or engineer that will include:
         (a)   A site plan, elevation view and other supporting drawings.
         (b)   Calculations and other documentation showing the location and
dimensions of the wireless communications facility and all improvements
associated therewith.
         (c)   Information concerning specifications, antenna locations,
equipment facility and shelters.
         (d)   Plans for landscaping, parking, access, fencing and, if relevant
as determined by staff, topography, adjacent uses and existing vegetation.
   (C)   Submission requirements. The application shall be accompanied by a
site plan containing the information described above and a copy of the
appropriate FCC license. The application and site plan shall be placed on the
next available agenda in accordance with the agenda deadlines established by
the town.
   (D)   Application fees. A plan review fee and a radio frequency
intermodulation study review fee (collocation applicants only) shall accompany
each application. These fees may be used by the town to engage an engineer(s)
or other qualified consultant(s) to review the technical aspects of the
application and radio frequency intermodulation study (if required).
   (E)   Technical assistance. In the course of its consideration of an
application, the town, the Zoning Administrator, the Planning Board or the
Board of Commissioners may deem it necessary, in complex situations, to employ
an engineer(s) or other consultant(s) qualified in the design and installation
of wireless communication facilities to assist the town in the technical
aspects of the application. In such cases, any additional reasonable costs
incurred by the town not to exceed $1,500 for the technical review and
recommendation shall be reimbursed by the applicant prior to the final town
hearing.
   (F)   Administrative review. Review of wireless communication facilities
under this section shall be conducted by the Zoning Enforcement Officer or the
designee upon filing of a wireless communication facility application. The
review shall be for the purpose of determining that the application is
complete.
   (G)   Planning Board review. The Planning Board shall be the review
authority for new wireless support structure or substantial modification of
wireless support structures. The Planning Board shall follow the procedures
outlined in §§
154.105 through
154.116 for quasi-judicial hearings.
      (1)   Tower siting conditions. The Planning Board may impose conditions
and restrictions on the application or on the premises benefited as it deems
necessary to reduce or minimize any adverse effects and to enhance the
compatibility of the wireless communication facility with the surrounding
property, in accordance with the purposes and intent of this chapter. The
Planning Board may recommend additional development standards. Such conditions
shall be in addition to the development criteria based upon the following
findings:
         (a)   The wireless communication facility would result in significant
adverse visual impact on nearby residences.
         (b)   The conditions are based upon the purpose and goals of this
chapter.
         (c)   The conditions are reasonable and capable of being accomplished.
      (2)   Action. Following the public hearing and presentation of evidence,
the Planning Board shall take one of the following actions:
         (a)   Approve the application as submitted;
         (b)   Approve the application with conditions or modifications;
         (c)   Refer the application for additional information or neighborhood
input, or
         (d)   Recommend denial of the application in writing.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.344 EVALUATION OF LOCATIONS FOR NEW WIRELESS FACILITIES.
   (A)   The town requires applicants for new wireless facilities to evaluate
the reasonable feasibility of collocating new antennas (attached wireless
support structures, concealed wireless support structures, freestanding
wireless support structures, and non-concealed wireless support structures) and
equipment on an existing wireless support structure or structures within the
applicant's search ring. Collocation on an existing wireless support structure
is not reasonably feasible if collocation is technically or commercially
impractical or the owner of the existing wireless support structure is
unwilling to enter into a contract for such use at fair market value. The town
requires information as part of the application necessary to determine whether
collocation on existing wireless support structures is reasonably feasible.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-933(b)(3) and § 160D-933
(f).
    (B)   The following properties and structures are the potential town-owned
locations for attached facilities and new wireless towers within the town:
 
Suitable Fairmont Sites
Site # Field Site Name              Underlying Zoning Recommended WCF Use
                                                    
1.     Water Tank #1 - 1775 Marion  R-15              Antenna Attachments/Cell
       Stage Road                                     Tower
2.     Water Tank #2 - 520 Franklin GB                Antenna Attachments
       Street
3.     Town Hall - 421 South Main   R-10              Antenna Attachments
       Street
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0fa087e7aaf2d1426066c541dcf0227ca59242f9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2588.png]
 
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.345 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURES.
    (A)     Sec urity of wir eless sup port stru ctures. All wir eless support
structures shall be located, fenced or otherwise secured in a manner that
prevents unauthorized access. Specifically, as follows:
      (1)   All antennas, towers and other supporting structures, including guy
wires, shall be made inaccessible to individuals and constructed or shielded in
such a manner that they cannot be climbed or run into; and
      (2)   Transmitters and telecommunications control points must be
installed in a manner to be readily accessible only to persons authorized to
operate or service them.
   (B)   Signage. Wireless support structures shall contain a sign no larger
than four square feet to provide adequate notification to persons in the
immediate area of the presence of an antenna that has transmission
capabilities. The sign shall contain the name(s) of the owner(s) and operator
(s) of the facility, an emergency phone number(s), and FCC registration number,
if applicable. The sign shall be on the equipment shelter or shed of the
applicant and be visible from the access point of the site and must identify
the equipment shelter of the applicant. The sign shall not be lighted unless
the town shall have allowed such lighting or unless applicable provisions of
law require such lighting. No other signage, including advertising, shall be
permitted on any wireless support structure, unless required by law.
   (C)   Access. At a wireless support structure site, an access road, turn
around space, and parking shall be provided to assure adequate emergency and
service access. Maximum use of existing roads, whether public or private, shall
be made to the extent practicable. Road construction shall at all times
minimize ground disturbance and vegetation cutting. Road grades shall closely
follow natural contours to assure minimal visual disturbance and reduce soil
erosion.
   (D)   Setbacks. All wireless support structures and broadcast facilities
shall be set back from abutting property lines and recorded rights-of-way by
the following distances: a distance equal to the height of the wireless support
structure or broadcast facility tower or structure or use breakpoint
technology. Any accessory structure shall be located so as to comply with the
applicable minimum setback requirements for the property on which it is
situated.
   (E)   Fencing. Wireless communications facilities with support structures
shall be enclosed by an opaque fence (excluding slatted chain link) not less
than six feet in height. Security features may be incorporated into the buffer
and landscaping requirements for the site. Nothing herein shall prevent fencing
that is necessary to meet requirements of state or federal agencies.
   (F)   Radio frequency emissions/sound. The following radio frequency
emissions standards shall apply to all wireless communications facility
installations:
      (1)   Radio frequency impact. The FTA gives the FCC jurisdiction of the
regulation of radio frequency (RF) emissions, and wireless communications
facilities that do not exceed the FCC standards shall not be conditioned or
denied on the basis of RF impact.
      (2)   FCC compliance. In order to provide information to its citizens,
copies of ongoing FCC information concerning wireless communications facilities
and RF emissions standards may be requested from time to time. Applicants for
wireless communications facilities shall be required to provide information
with the application on the measurement of the effective radiated power of the
facility and how this meets the FCC standards.
      (3)   Sound prohibited. No unusual sound emissions such as alarms, bells,
buzzers or the like are permitted.
   (G)   Structural integrity. Wireless communications facilities with support
structures shall be constructed to the Electronics Industries Association/
Telecommunications Industries Association (EIA/TIA) 222 Revision F Standard
entitled “Structural Standards for Steel Antennas Towers and Antenna Support
Structures” (or equivalent), as it may be updated and amended. Each support
structure shall be capable of supporting multiple antenna arrays.
   (H)   Collocation agreement. All applicants for wireless communications
facilities are required to submit a statement with the application agreeing to
allow and reasonably market collocation opportunities to other wireless
communications facility users. The statement shall include the applicant's
policy regarding collocation of other providers and the methodology to be used
by the applicant in determining reasonable rates to be charged other providers.
   (I)   Pre-existing wireless communications facility. Wireless communications
facilities which were installed prior to the effective date of the ordinance
from which this subchapter is derived shall be considered as nonconforming.
   (J)   Amateur radio exclusion. This section shall not govern the
installation of any amateur radio facility that is owned and operated by a
federally licensed amateur radio station operator.
   (K)   Relationship to other ordinances. Except for historic districts, this
section shall supersede all conflicting requirements of other ordinances
regarding the locating and permitting of wireless communication facilities.
   (L)   Airport zoning. Any wireless communication facility located or
proposed to be located in airport areas governed by the Federal Aviation
Administration shall also comply with the provisions of all applicable local,
state and federal airport regulations.
   (M)   Building codes. Construction of all wireless communication facilities
shall comply with the requirements of the state building codes and permitting
process in addition to the requirements of this section.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.346 ATTACHED WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURES.
    (A)   Concealed and non-concealed.
      (1)   The top of the attached wireless support structure shall not be
more than 20 feet above the existing or proposed building or structure.
      (2)   An attached wireless support structure and its equipment compound
shall be subject to the setbacks of the underlying zoning district. When an
attached wireless support structure is to be located on a nonconforming
building or structure, then the existing permitted nonconforming setback shall
prevail.
      (3)   Feed lines and antennas shall be designed to architecturally match
the facade, roof, wall, or structure on which they are affixed so that they
blend with the existing structural design, color, and texture.
   (B)   Attached non-concealed wireless support structures. Shall only be
allowed on electrical transmission towers and existing light stanchions subject
to approval by the ordinance administrator and utility company.
   (C)   Permit application. Applications and site plans for attached wireless
support structures shall be submitted to the Zoning Enforcement Officer and
accompanied by a nonrefundable application fee as established by the Town Board
of Commissioners per the fee schedule. The application fee is subject to change
by resolution of the Town Board of Commissioners. Zoning permits shall be the
permit issued for attached wireless support structures.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.347 COLLOCATIONS AND ELIGIBLE FACILITIES REQUESTS OF WIRELESS SUPPORT
STRUCTURES.
   (A)   A special use permit is not required for a wireless support structure
collocation or eligible facilities requests of wireless support structures if
the work does not constitute a substantial modification of a wireless support
structure.
   (B)   A certification that the applicant is in compliance with all relevant
FCC Code of Federal Regulations pertaining to type of service offered during
the term of the collocation permit.
   (C)   An applicant who holds an antenna collocation permit for wireless
support structure shall construct, operate, maintain, repair, provide for
removal of, modify or restore the permitted wireless support structure in
strict compliance with all current applicable technical, safety and safety-
related codes adopted by the town , state, or federal government, including,
but not limited to, the most recent editions of the National Electrical Safety
Code and the National Electrical Code, the EIA/TIA-222 G as amended, as well as
accepted and responsible workmanlike industry practices and recommended
practices of the National Association of Tower Erectors. The codes referred are
codes that include, but are not limited to, construction, building, electrical,
fire, safety, health, and land use codes. In the event of a conflict between or
among any of the preceding codes the more stringent code shall apply.
   (D)   A collocation or eligible facilities request application is deemed
complete unless the town provides notice that the application is incomplete in
writing to the applicant within 45 days of submission or within some other
mutually agreed upon time frame. The notice shall identify the deficiencies in
the application which, if cured, would make the application complete. The town
may deem an application incomplete if there is insufficient evidence provided
to show that the proposed collocation or eligible facilities request will
comply with federal, state, and local safety requirements. The town may not
deem an application incomplete for any issue not directly related to the actual
content of the application and subject matter of the collocation or eligible
facilities request. An application is deemed complete on resubmission if the
additional materials cure the deficiencies indicated.
   (E)   The town shall issue a written decision approving an eligible
facilities request application within 45 days of such application being deemed
complete. For a collocation application that is not an eligible facilities
request, the town shall issue its written decision to approve or deny the
application within 45 days of the application being deemed complete.
   (F)   The town requires a fee not to exceed $1,000 for technical
consultation and the review of a collocation or eligible facilities request
application. The fee must be based on the actual, direct, and reasonable
administrative costs incurred for the review, processing, and approval of a
collocation application. The town may engage a third-party consultant for
technical consultation and the review of a collocation or eligible facilities
request application. The fee imposed by the town for the review of the
application may not be used for either of the following:
      (1)   Travel expenses incurred in a third party's review of a collocation
application.
      (2)   Reimbursement for a consultant or other third party based on a
contingent fee basis or results-based arrangement.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-934(b).
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.348 COLLOCATION OF SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES.
   (A)   Except as expressly provided in this subchapter, the town shall not
prohibit, regulate, or charge for the collocation of small wireless facilities.
   (B)   The town may not establish a moratorium on (i) filing, receiving, or
processing applications or (ii) issuing permits or any other approvals for the
collocation of small wireless facilities.
   (C)   Small wireless facilities that meet the height requirements of G.S. §
160D-936(b)(2) shall only be subject to administrative review and approval
under division (D) of this section if they are collocated (i) in a city right-
of-way within any zoning district or (ii) outside of city rights-of-way on
property other than single-family residential property.
    (D)   The town requires the applicant to obtain a permit to collocate a
small wireless facility. The town shall receive applications for, process, and
issue such permits subject to the following requirements:
      (1)   The town may not, directly or indirectly, require an applicant to
perform services unrelated to the collocation for which approval is sought. For
purposes of this subdivision, “services unrelated to the collocation,” includes
in-kind contributions to the city such as the reservation of fiber, conduit, or
pole space for the city.
      (2)   The wireless provider shall complete an application as specified in
form and content by the city. A wireless provider shall not be required to
provide more information to obtain a permit than communications service
providers that are not wireless providers.
      (3)   A zoning permit application shall be deemed complete unless the
city provides notice otherwise in writing to the applicant within 30 days of
submission or within some other mutually agreed upon time frame. The notice
shall identify the deficiencies in the application which, if cured, would make
the application complete. The application shall be deemed complete on
resubmission if the additional materials cure the deficiencies identified.
      (4)   The zoning permit application shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and shall be deemed approved if the city fails to
approve or deny the application within 45 days from the time the application is
deemed complete or a mutually agreed upon time frame between the city and the
applicant.
   (E)   Denial of application.
      (1)   The town may deny an application only on the basis that it does not
meet any of the following:
         (a)   The city's applicable codes;
         (b)   Local code provisions or regulations that concern public safety,
objective design standards for decorative utility poles, city utility poles, or
reasonable and nondiscriminatory stealth and concealment requirements,
including screening or landscaping for ground-mounted equipment;
         (c)   Public safety and reasonable spacing requirements concerning the
location of ground- mounted equipment in a right-of-way; or
         (d)   The historic preservation requirements in G.S. § 160D-936(i).
      (2)   The town must (i) document the basis for a denial, including the
specific code provisions on which the denial was based and (ii) send the
documentation to the applicant on or before the day the city denies an
application. The applicant may cure the deficiencies identified by the city and
resubmit the application within 30 days of the denial without paying an
additional application fee.
      (3)   The town shall approve or deny the revised application within 30
days of the date on which the application was resubmitted. Any subsequent
review shall be limited to the deficiencies cited in the prior denial.
   (F)   An application shall include an attestation that the small wireless
facilities must be collocated on the utility pole, city utility pole, or
wireless support structure and that the small wireless facilities must be
activated for use by a wireless services provider to provide service no later
than one year from the permit issuance date, unless the city and the wireless
provider agree to extend this period or a delay is caused by a lack of
commercial power at the site.
   (G)   An applicant seeking to collocate small wireless facilities at
multiple locations within the jurisdiction of the town shall be allowed, at the
applicant's discretion, to file a consolidated application for no more than 25
separate facilities and receive a permit for the collocation of all the small
wireless facilities meeting the requirements of this section. The town may
remove small wireless facility collocations from a consolidated application and
treat separately small wireless facility collocations (i) for which incomplete
information has been provided or (ii) that are denied. The town may issue a
separate permit for each collocation that is approved.
   (H)   The permit may specify that collocation of the small wireless facility
shall commence within six months of approval and shall be activated for use no
later than one year from the permit issuance date, unless the city and the
wireless provider agree to extend this period or a delay is caused by a lack of
commercial power at the site.
   (I)   Subject to the limitations provided in G.S. § 160A-296(a)(6), the town
may charge an application fee that shall not exceed the lesser of:
      (1)   The actual, direct, and reasonable costs to process and review
applications for collocated small wireless facilities;
      (2)   The amount charged by the city for permitting of any similar
activity; or
      (3)   $100 per facility for the first five small wireless facilities
addressed in an application, plus $50 for each additional small wireless
facility addressed in the application. In any dispute concerning the
appropriateness of a fee, the city has the burden of proving that the fee meets
the requirements of this section.
   (J)   Subject to the limitations provided in G.S. § 160A-296(a)(6), the town
may impose a technical consulting fee for each application, not to exceed $500,
to offset the cost of reviewing and processing applications required by this
section. The fee must be based on the actual, direct, and reasonable
administrative costs incurred for the review, processing, and approval of an
application. The town may engage an outside consultant for technical
consultation and the review of an application. The fee imposed by a city for
the review of the application shall not be used for either of the following:
      (1)   Travel expenses incurred in the review of a collocation application
by an outside consultant or other third party.
      (2)   Direct payment or reimbursement for an outside consultant or other
third party based on a contingent fee basis or results-based arrangement. In
any dispute concerning the appropriateness of a fee, the town has the burden of
proving that the fee meets the requirements of this section.
   (K)   The town may require a wireless services provider to remove an
abandoned wireless facility within 180 days of abandonment. Should the wireless
services provider fail to timely remove the abandoned wireless facility, the
city may cause such wireless facility to be removed and may recover the actual
cost of such removal, including legal fees, if any, from the wireless services
provider. For purposes of this section, a wireless facility shall be deemed
abandoned at the earlier of the date that the wireless services provider
indicates that it is abandoning such facility or the date that is 180 days
after the date that such wireless facility ceases to transmit a signal, unless
the wireless services provider gives the city reasonable evidence that it is
diligently working to place such wireless facility back in service.
   (L)   The town shall not require an application or permit or charge fees
for:
      (1)   Routine maintenance;
      (2)   The replacement of small wireless facilities with small wireless
facilities that are the same size or smaller; or
      (3)   Installation, placement, maintenance, or replacement of micro
wireless facilities that are suspended on cables strung between existing
utility poles or city utility poles in compliance with applicable codes by or
for a communications service provider authorized to occupy the city rights-of-
way and who is remitting taxes under G.S. § 105-164.4(a)(4c) or G.S. § 105-
164.4(a)(6).
   (M)   Nothing in this section shall prevent a city from requiring a work
permit for work that involves excavation, affects traffic patterns, or
obstructs vehicular traffic in the city right-of-way.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-935.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.349 WIRELESS FACILITIES AND WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURES IN EXISTENCE ON
THE DATE OF ADOPTION OF THIS CHAPTER.
   Wireless facilities and wireless support structures that were legally
permitted on or before the date this chapter was enacted shall be considered a
permitted and lawful use.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
Part II. Administration
§ 154.355 TOWERS ALLOWED BY ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW.
    The following wireless communication facilities may be allowed within
Fairmont on an emergency basis by administrative review only:
   (A)   Temporary wireless communications facilities. Temporary wireless
communications facilities may be permitted by administrative approval for a
term not to exceed 90 days. Once granted, a temporary wireless communications
facility permit may be extended for an additional 90 days upon evidence of need
by the applicant. In case of emergency (i.e., storm damage to an existing tower
or other circumstances resulting in the interruption of existing service) the
administrative review shall be expedited to the extent feasible.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.356 SHARED FACILITIES AND COLLOCATION POLICY.
   All new wireless communication facilities shall be engineered, designed and
constructed to be capable of sharing the facility with other applicants, to
collocate with other existing wireless communication facilities and to
accommodate the future collocation of other wireless communication facilities.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.357 REMOVAL OF ABANDONED SUPPORT STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Under the following circumstances, the Board or Zoning Enforcement
Officer may determine that the health, safety, and welfare interests of the
town warrant and require the removal of wireless facility and/or wireless
support structures:
      (1)   A wireless facility and/or wireless support structures with a
permit have been abandoned (i.e., not used as a wireless facility and/or
wireless support structure) for a period exceeding 90 days or a total of 180
days in any 365-day period, except for periods caused by force majeure or acts
of God, in which case, repair or removal shall commence within 90 days;
      (2)   Permitted wireless facility and/or wireless support structures fall
into such a state of disrepair that it creates a public health or safety
hazard;
      (3)   A wireless facility and/or wireless support structures that have
been located, constructed, or modified without first obtaining, or in a manner
not authorized by, the required major special use permit or antenna collocation
permit, or any other necessary authorization.
   (B)   If the Board or Zoning Enforcement Officer makes such a determination
as noted in division (A) above of this section, the Board or Zoning Enforcement
Officer shall notify the holder of the special use permit or antenna
collocation permit for the wireless facility and/or wireless support structure
within 48 hours that said wireless facility and/or wireless support structure
are to be removed, the Board or Zoning Enforcement Officer may approve an
interim temporary use agreement/permit, such as to enable the sale of the
wireless facility and/or wireless support structure.
   (C)   The holder of the major special use permit or antenna collocation
permit, or its successors or assigns, shall dismantle and remove such wireless
facility and/or wireless support structure, and all associated structures and
facilities, from the site and restore the site as close to its original
condition as is possible, such restoration being limited only by physical or
commercial impracticability, within 90 days of receipt of written notice from
the Board or Zoning Enforcement Officer. However, if the owner of the property
upon which the wireless facility and/or wireless support structure are located
wishes to retain any access roadway to the wireless facility and/or wireless
support structure, the owner may do so with the approval of the Board.
   (D)   If the wireless facility and/or wireless support structure are not
removed or substantial progress has not been made to remove the wireless
facility and/or wireless support structure within 90 days after the permit
holder has received notice, then the Board or Zoning Enforcement Officer may
order officials or representatives of the town to remove the wireless facility
and/or wireless support structure at the sole expense of the owner or major
special use permit or antenna collocation permit holder.
   (E)   If the town removes, or causes to be removed, wireless facility and/or
wireless support structure, and the owner of the wireless facility and/or
wireless support structure does not claim and
remove it from the site to a lawful location within ten days, then the town may
take steps to declare the wireless facility and/or wireless support structure
abandoned, and sell them and their components.
   (F)   Notwithstanding anything in this section to the contrary, the Board or
Zoning Enforcement Officer in the case of an antenna collocation permit may
approve a temporary use permit/agreement for the wireless facility and/or
wireless support structure, for no more than 90 days, during which time a
suitable plan for removal, conversion, or relocation of the affected wireless
facility and/or wireless support structure shall be developed by the holder of
the major special use permit or antenna collocation permit, subject to the
approval of the Board or Zoning Enforcement Officer in the case of an antenna
collocation permit, and an agreement to such plan shall be executed by the
holder of the major special use permit or antenna collocation permit and the
town. If such a plan is not developed, approved and executed within the 90-day
time-period, then the town may take possession of and dispose of the affected
wireless facility and/or wireless support structure in the manner provided in
this section.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.358 NONCONFORMING WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES.
   (A)   Wireless communication facilities in existence on the date of the
adoption of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived which do not
comply with the requirements of this subchapter (nonconforming wireless
communications facilities) are subject to the following provisions:
      (1)   Expansion. Nonconforming wireless communication facilities may
continue in use for the purpose now used, but may not be expanded without
complying with this subchapter except as further provided in this section.
      (2)   Additions. Nonconforming wireless communications facilities may add
additional antennas (belonging to the same provider or other providers) subject
to administrative review under this subchapter.
      (3)   Repairs or reconstruction. Nonconforming wireless communications
facilities which become damaged due to any reason or cause, may be repaired and
restored to its former use, location, and physical dimensions subject to the
provisions of this subchapter. Provided, however, that if the damage to the
wireless communication facility exceeds 50% of replacement cost, said wireless
communication facility may only be reconstructed or repaired in compliance with
this subchapter.
   (B)   Any nonconforming wireless communications facility not in use for six
months shall be deemed abandoned and all rights as a nonconforming use shall
cease.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.359 REVOCATION OF TOWER AND ANTENNA USE APPLICATIONS.
   The approval of any tower and antenna use application issued pursuant to
this subchapter may be revoked.
   (A)   If the approval results from a special use permit process, consult §
154.107 for the process of revocation.
   (B)   If the approval results from a zoning permit process, consult §
154.094 for the process of revocation.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.360 CIVIL PENALTY.
   Civil penalties may be applied to wireless communications facilities, as may
be needed.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.361 ANNUAL REVIEW.
   Wireless communication facilities with an approved special use permit shall
report annually to the town on operations to certify that the facility is still
in use. Such communication shall be in the form of a letter from the owner of
the facility and directed to the Zoning Enforcement Officer.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.362 FEES.
   The Board of Commissioners shall establish fees for all permits related to
telecommunications towers and facilities. The Board may set a technical
consultation fee to offset the actual, direct and reasonable administrative
costs incurred for review, processing, and approval of a collocation
application. The town may also engage and compensate a third-party consultant
for technical consultation and the review of a collocation application.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
LAND SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Part I. General Requirements
§ 154.375 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the subdivision regulations
of the Town of Fairmont and may be referred to as the Town of Fairmont
Subdivision Regulations.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.376 PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to establish procedures and standards
for the development and subdivision of land within the territorial jurisdiction
of the town. It is further designed to provide for:
      (1)   The orderly growth and development of the town;
      (2)   The coordination of transportation networks and utilities within
proposed subdivisions with existing or planned streets and highways within
proposed subdivisions with existing or planned street and highways and with
other public facilities;
      (3)   The dedication or reservation of recreation areas serving residents
of the immediate neighborhood within the subdivision and of right-of-way or
easements for street and utility purposes; and
      (4)   The distribution of population and traffic in such a manner that
will mitigate hazards, avoid congestion and overcrowding, and will create
conditions that substantially promote the public health, safety and the general
welfare. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-804.
   (B)   This chapter is designed to further facilitate adequate provision of
water, sewerage, parks, schools and playgrounds, and also to facilitate the
further re-subdivision of larger tracts into smaller parcels of land.
   (C)   For the purpose of this chpater, subdivision regulations shall be
applicable to all divisions of a tract or parcel of land into two or more lots,
building sites, or other divisions when any one or more of those divisions is
created for the purpose of sale or building development, whether immediate or
future, and shall include all divisions of land involving the dedication of a
new street or a change in existing streets; but the following shall not be
included within this definition nor be subject to the regulations authorized by
this subchapter:
      (1)   The combination or recombination of portions of previously
subdivided and recorded lots where the total number of lots is not increased
and the resultant lots are equal to or exceed the standards of the local
government as shown in its subdivision regulations.
      (2)   The division of land into parcels greater than ten acres where no
street right-of-way dedication is involved.
      (3)   The public acquisition by purchase of strips of land for the
widening or opening of streets or for public transportation system corridors.
      (4)   The division of a tract in single ownership whose entire area is no
greater than two acres into not more than three lots, where no street right-of-
way dedication is involved and where the resultant lots are equal to or exceed
the standards of the local government, as shown in its subdivision regulations.
      (5)   The division of a tract into parcels in accordance with the terms
of a probated will or in accordance with intestate succession under G.S.
Chapter 29.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-802.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.377 AUTHORITY AND JURISDICTION.
   This subchapter is hereby adopted under the authority and provisions of the
General Statutes of North Carolina, Chapter 160D, Article 8. The regulations
contained herein shall govern each and every subdivision within the town's
planning and zoning jurisdiction including the municipal jurisdiction and the
extraterritorial jurisdiction. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S.
§§ 160D-801 and 160D-802.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.378 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTION GOVERNS.
   It is not intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate, annul, impair, or
interfere with any existing easements, covenants, deed restrictions,
agreements, rules, regulations, or permits previously adopted or issued
pursuant to law. However, where this chapter imposes greater restrictions the
more restrictive regulation shall govern.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.379 INTERPRETATION.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall not be deemed a limitation or repeal of any other power granted by the
North Carolina General Statutes.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.380 SEVERABILITY.
   If for any reason any one or more sections, clauses or parts of this chapter
are held invalid, such judgment shall not affect, impair, or invalidate the
remaining provisions of this chapter, but shall be confined in its operation to
the specific sections, sentences, clauses, or parts of this chapter held
invalid and the invalidity of any section, sentence, clauses, or parts of this
chapter in any one or more instances shall not affect or prejudice in any way
the validity of this chapter in any other instance.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.381 RECORDING OF PLATS.
   The Register of Deeds shall not file or record a plat of a subdivision of
land located within the territorial jurisdiction of the town that has not been
approved in accordance with these provisions, nor shall the clerk of superior
court order or direct the recording of a plat if the recording would be in
conflict with this section.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.382 THOROUGHFARE PLANS.
   Where a proposed subdivision includes any part of a thoroughfare which has
been designated as such upon the officially adopted thoroughfare plan of the
town, such thoroughfare shall be platted by the subdivider in the location
shown on the plan and at the width specified in this subchapter.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.383 ADEQUATE PUBLIC FACILITIES.
   To ensure public health, safety, and welfare, the town Planning and Zoning
Board shall review each proposed subdivision to determine if public facilities
are adequate to serve the development.
   (A)   The public facilities include, but are not limited to, schools, fire
and rescue, law enforcement, and other town facilities. Applicable state
standards and guidelines shall be followed for determining whether facilities
are adequate. Facilities must be in place within two years of preliminary
approval to be considered adequate.
   (B)   The Planning Board may grant partial approval of developments based on
limited adequacy.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.384 COMPLIANCE WITH ZONING AND OTHER PLANS.
   Proposed subdivisions must comply in all respects with the requirements of
the town's Zoning Ordinance and other similar land use plans, if in effect in
the area to be subdivided.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.385 FEES.
   (A)   Reasonable fees sufficient to cover the costs of administration,
inspection, publication of notice and similar matters may be charged to
applicants for subdivision review and approvals, variances, and other
administrative relief. The amount of the fees charged shall be as set forth in
the town's budget or as established by resolution of the Board of Commissioners
filed in the office of the Town Clerk. Fees shall be paid upon submission of a
signed application.
   (B)   The Town of Fairmont shall provide notice to interested parties of the
imposition of or increase in fees or charges applicable solely to the
construction of development subject to these regulations at least seven days
prior to the first meeting where the imposition of or increase in the fees or
charges is on the agenda for consideration. The local government shall employ
at least two of the following means of communication in order to provide the
notice required by this section:
      (1)   Notice of the meeting in a prominent location on a Web site managed
or maintained by the local government.
      (2)   Notice of the meeting in a prominent physical location, including,
but not limited to, any government building, library, or courthouse within the
planning and development regulation jurisdiction of the local government.
      (3)   Notice of the meeting by electronic mail or other reasonable means
to a list of interested parties that is created by the local government for the
purpose of notification as required by this section.
   (C)   During the consideration of the imposition of or increase in fees or
charges as provided in division (A) above of this section, the Town Board shall
permit a period of public comment.
   (D)   This section shall not apply if the imposition of or increase in fees
or charges is contained in a budget filed in accordance with the requirements
of G.S. § 159-12.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-805.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.386 EFFECT ON PENDING LITIGATION.
   All suits at law or in equity, and all prosecutions resulting from the
violation of any ordinance heretofore in effect, that are now pending in any of
the courts of this state or of the United States, shall not be abated or
abandoned by reason of the adoption of this chapater, but shall be prosecuted
to their finality the same as if this chapter had not been adopted.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.387 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Where, because of severe topographical or other conditions peculiar to
the site, strict adherence to the provisions of this subchapter would cause an
unnecessary hardship, the Board of Town Commissioners may authorize a variance
to the terms of this subchapter only to the extent that is absolutely necessary
and not to an extent which violates the intent of this subchapter.
   (B)   In granting any variance, the Board shall make the findings required
below, taking into account the nature of the proposed subdivision, the existing
use of land in the vicinity, the number of persons to reside or work in the
proposed subdivision, and the possible effect of the proposed subdivision upon
traffic conditions in the vicinity.
      (1)   Unnecessary hardship would result from the strict application of
the ordinance. It shall not be necessary to demonstrate that, in the absence of
the variance, no reasonable use can be made of the property; and
      (2)   The hardship results from conditions that are peculiar to the
property, such as location, size, or topography. Hardships resulting from
personal circumstances, as well as hardships resulting from conditions that are
common to the neighborhood or the general public, may not be the basis for
granting a variance; and
      (3)   The hardship did not result from actions taken by the applicant or
the property owner. The act of purchasing property with knowledge that
circumstances exist that may justify the granting of a variance shall not be
regarded as a self-created hardship; and
      (4)   The requested variance is consistent with the spirit, purpose, and
intent of the ordinance such that public safety is secured and substantial
justice is achieved.
   (C)   Any approved variance shall be stated in the minutes of the Board of
Commissioners with the conditions and reasoning on which the variance was
recommended.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.388 AMENDMENTS TO THIS CHAPTER.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners may from time to time amend the terms of
this chapter but no amendment shall become effective unless it shall have been
proposed by or shall have been submitted to the Planning Board for review and
recommendation.
   (B)   The Planning Board shall have 60 days within which to submit its
report. If the Planning Board fails to submit a report within the specified
time, it shall be deemed to have approved the amendment.
   (C)   The Town Board of Commissioners shall adopt no amendment until they
have held a legislative hearing on the amendment. Notice of the hearing shall
be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the town at least once a
week for two successive calendar weeks prior to the hearing. The initial notice
shall appear not more than 25, nor less than ten days prior to the hearing
date. In computing the ten to 25-day period, the date of publication is not to
be counted, but the date of the hearing is.
   (D)   If an application for an amendment to this chapter is denied, one
calendar year must lapse before the petition may be resubmitted. This
limitation shall not affect petitions submitted by the Planning Board, Board of
Commissioners, or town administrative staff.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.389 PERMIT CHOICE AND VESTED RIGHTS.
   A landowner submitting a preliminary or final plat for approval may declare
he is seeking to acquire a vested right pursuant to G.S. § 160D-108 and the
zoning ordinance by completing the appropriate form and following the procedure
described in the zoning ordinance. For similar state law provisions, refer to
G.S. § 160D-108.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.390 DEVELOPMENT MORATORIA.
    The town may adopt temporary moratoria on any development approval required
by law. The duration of any moratorium shall be reasonable in light of the
specific conditions that warrant imposition of the moratorium and may not
exceed the period of time necessary to correct, modify, or resolve such
conditions.
   (A)   Notice of public hearing. Except in cases of imminent and substantial
threat to public health or safety, before adopting an ordinance imposing a
development moratorium with a duration of 60 days or any shorter period, the
Board of Commissioners shall hold a public hearing and shall publish a notice
of the hearing in a newspaper having general circulation in the area not less
than seven days before the date set for the hearing. A development moratorium
with a duration of 61 days or longer, and any
extension of a moratorium so that the total duration is 61 days or longer, is
subject to the published newspaper notice and hearing requirements required for
an amendment to the zoning ordinance.
   (B)   Application of moratorium on existing/pending permits and approvals.
Absent an imminent threat to public health or safety, a development moratorium
adopted pursuant to this section shall not apply to development set forth in a
site-specific or phased development plan approved pursuant to a granted vested
right, or to development for which substantial expenditures have already been
made in good faith reliance on a prior valid administrative or quasi-judicial
permit or approval, or to preliminary or final subdivision plats that have been
accepted for review by the town prior to the call for the public hearing to
adopt the moratorium. Any preliminary subdivision plat accepted for review by
the town prior to the call for public hearing, if subsequently approved, shall
be allowed to proceed to final plat approval without being subject to the
moratorium.
   (C)   Contents of ordinance adopting moratorium. Any ordinance establishing
a development moratorium must expressly include at the time of adoption each of
the following:
      (1)   A clear statement of the problems or conditions necessitating the
moratorium and what courses of action, alternative to a moratorium, were
considered by the town and why those alternative courses of action were not
deemed adequate.
      (2)   A clear statement of the development approvals subject to the
moratorium and how a moratorium on those approvals will address the problems or
conditions leading to imposition of the moratorium.
      (3)   An express date for termination of the moratorium and a statement
setting forth why that duration is reasonably necessary to address the problems
or conditions leading to imposition of the moratorium.
      (4)   A clear statement of the actions, and the schedule for those
actions, proposed to be taken by the town during the duration of the moratorium
to address the problems or conditions leading to imposition of the moratorium.
   (D)   Extension of moratorium. No moratorium may be subsequently renewed or
extended for any additional period unless the town shall have taken all
reasonable and feasible steps proposed to be taken by the town in its ordinance
establishing the moratorium to address the problems or conditions leading to
the imposition of the moratorium and unless new facts and conditions warrant an
extension. Any ordinance renewing or extending a development moratorium must
expressly include, at the time of adoption, the findings set forth in division
(C), including what new facts or conditions warrant the extension.
   (E)   Judicial review. Any person aggrieved by the imposition of a
moratorium on development approvals required by law may apply to the
appropriate division of the General Court of Justice for an
order enjoining the enforcement of the moratorium, and the court shall have
jurisdiction to issue that order. Actions brought pursuant to this division (E)
shall be set down for immediate hearing, and subsequent proceedings in those
actions shall be accorded priority by the trial and appellate courts. In any
such action, the town shall have the burden of showing compliance with the
procedural requirements of this section.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-107.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.391 EFFECT OF PLAT APPROVALS ON DEDICATION.
   Pursuant to G.S. § 160D-806, the approval of a plat does not constitute or
effect the acceptance by the town or the public of the dedication of any street
or other ground, public utility line, or other public facility shown on the
plat nor be construed to do so.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.392 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Civil penalty. Any person who, being the owner or agent of the owner
of any land located within the planning and development regulation jurisdiction
of the town, thereafter subdivides the land in violation of the regulation or
transfers or sells land by reference to, exhibition of, or any other use of a
plat showing a subdivision of the land before the plat has been properly
approved under the subdivision regulation and recorded in the office of the
appropriate register of deeds, is guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor. The
description by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer or other document
used in the process of selling or transferring land does not exempt the
transaction from this penalty.
      (1)   The violation of any provision of this subchapter shall subject the
offender to a civil penalty in the amount of $50 to be recovered by the town.
Violators shall be issued a written citation, which must be paid within ten
days.
      (2)   Each day's continuing violation of this subchapter shall be a
separate and distinct offense.
      (3)   Notwithstanding division (B) of this section, this subchapter may
be enforced by appropriate equitable remedies issuing from a court of competent
jurisdiction.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the use of
remedies available to the town. The town may seek to enforce this subchapter by
using any one, all, or a combination of remedies. For similar state law
provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-807(a).
   (C)   Permit denial or conditioning. As long as a violation of this chapter
remains uncorrected, the
Subdivision Administrator may deny or withhold approval, or cause the denial or
withholding of
approval, of a building permit required pursuant to G.S. § 160D-1110 a zoning
or special use permit, or any other certificate or authorization issued by the
town that is sought for the property on which the violation occurs. The
Subdivision Administrator may also condition, or cause to be conditioned, a
building, zoning, or special use permit, certificate, or authorization on the
correction of the violation and/or payment of a civil penalty, and/or posting
of a compliance security.
   (D)   Injunctive and Abatement Relief in Superior Court. 
      (1)   The town may apply to a General Court of Justice in accordance with
the provisions of G.S. § 160A-175(e), to bring action for injunction of any
illegal subdivision, transfer, conveyance, sale of land, or other violation of
this chapter and the Court shall, upon appropriate findings, issue an
injunction and order requiring the offending party to comply with this chapter.
      (2)   The Subdivision Administrator, in consultation with the Town
Attorney, is authorized to determine the amount of payment that will be
accepted in full and final settlement of some or all of the claims the town may
have in connection with the violation. The Subdivision Administrator shall
indicate, in writing, the claims from which the violator is released. For
similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-807(a).
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.393 NO SERVICE PROVISION.
   No street shall be dedicated for municipal ownership or maintained by the
town, no construction permits issued, and no water, sewer or other town
facilities or services be extended to or connected in any subdivision for which
an approved plat is required unless and until action approving a final plat has
been taken by the Town Board in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.394 VALIDITY.
   If any section, clause, paragraph, provision, or portion of these
regulations shall be held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such holding shall not affect any other section, clause,
paragraph, provision, or portion of these regulations.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.395 ADOPTION AND EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect and be in full force from and after July 18,
2023. This chapter is duly adopted by the Fairmont Town Board of Commissioners,
in the State of North Carolina, on July 18, 2023.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
Part II. Definitions
§ 154.400 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   ACCESS EASEMENT. An easement that grants the right to cross property.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A detached subordinate building, the use of which is
incidental to that of the principal building and located on the same lot
therewith.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The officer designated by the Board of Commissioners to
administer this chapter.
   ALLEY. A minor right-of-way dedicated to public use that affords a secondary
means of access to abutting property and may be used for utility access.
    ARTERIAL STREET. A street used, or intended to be used, primarily for fast
or heavy through traffic. Arterial street shall include freeways and
expressways as well as standard arterial, minor arterial, and major collector
for rural type streets and highways for urban areas as defined by the North
Carolina Highway Commission functional highway classification guide.
   BLOCK. The land lying within an area bounded on all sides by streets.
   BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS. The Board of Commissioners of the Town of Fairmont,
North Carolina.
   BUFFER. An area of natural or planted vegetation through which stormwater
runoff flows in a diffuse manner so that the runoff does not become channelized
and that provides for infiltration of the runoff and filtering of pollutants.
The buffer is measured landward from normal pool elevation of impounded
structures and from the bank of each side of streams and rivers.
   BUFFER YARD.  A strip of land which is established to separate one type of
land use from another type of land use and which contains natural or planted
vegetation, berms, walks, or fences.
   BUILDING. Any structure that encloses a space used for sheltering any
occupancy. Each portion of a building separated from other portions by a fire
wall shall be considered a separate building.
   BUILDING LINE. The line, established by the eaves or roof overhang, beyond
which the building shall not extend, except as provided for in the zoning
ordinance.
   COLLECTOR STREET. A street whose principal function is to carry traffic
between cul-de-sac, local, and sub collector streets, and streets of higher
classification, but that may also provide direct access to abutting properties.
SR 1515 is the collector street located in the town.
   COMMON AREA(S).  All areas, including private streets, conveyed to an
owners' association within a development, or owned on a proportional undivided
basis in a condominium development.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. A comprehensive plan that has been officially adopted by
the governing board pursuant to G.S. § 160D-501.
   CONDOMINIUM. Portions of real estate which are designated for separate
ownership, and the remainder of which is designated for common ownership solely
by the owners of those portions. Real estate is not a condominium unless the
undivided interests in the common elements are vested in the unit owners.
   CORNER LOT. A lot abutting two or more streets at their intersection.
   CUL-DE-SAC STREET. A short local street having one end open to traffic and
the other end permanently terminated by a vehicular turnaround.
   DAY. Any reference to days shall mean calendar days unless otherwise
specified. A duration of days shall include the first and last days on which an
activity is conducted, and all days in between, unless otherwise specified by
state law.
   DEDICATION.  A gift, by the owner, or a right to use of land for a specified
purpose or purposes. Because a transfer of property rights is entailed,
dedication must be made by written instrument, and is completed with an
acceptance.
   DEVELOPER. A person engaging in development (See SUBDIVIDER).
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation, or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials. This definition shall also include the subdivision of
land.
   DEVELOPMENT, DENSITY OF. The density of development shall be determined
using a gross acreage system. The total area of the tract, including areas to
be used for new streets, rights-of-way, drives, parking, structures, recreation
areas, dedicated areas, and required setbacks, shall be used for density
calculations.
   DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOT.  A continuous (through) lot which is accessible from
both streets upon which it fronts. See THROUGH LOT.
   DRAINAGE EASEMENT. An easement that grants the right of water drainage to
pass in open channels or enclosed structures.
   DRAINAGEWAY. Any natural or man-made channel that carries surface runoff
from precipitation.
   DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms designed, occupied or intended for
occupancy as separate living quarters, with cooking, sleeping and sanitary
facilities provided therein. Units in dormitories, hotels, motels, shelters for
the homeless, or other structures designed for transient residents are not
dwelling units.
   EASEMENT. A grant of one or more of the property rights by the property
owner to, or for use by, the public, a corporation, or other entities.
   EXISTING LOT. See LOT OF RECORD.
   FAMILY.  One or more persons occupying a dwelling unit and living as a
single household.
   FENCE. A physical barrier or enclosure consisting of wood, stone, brick,
block, wire, metal or similar material, used as a boundary or means of
protection or confinement, but not including a hedge or other vegetation.
   FLAG LOT. A lot that is composed of a narrow “flagpole” strip extending from
the street and a much wider “flag” section lying immediately behind a lot or
lots having the required street frontage for a conventional lot. In the case of
a flag lot, the lot line at the end of the flag pole lying generally parallel
to the street to which the flagpole connects shall be considered to be the
front line for setback purposes.
   GRADE. The slope of a road, street, or other public way specified in
percentage terms. The degree of inclination of a slope.
   INTERIOR LOT.  A lot other than a corner lot with only one frontage on a
street.
   LOCAL STREET. A street whose primary function is to provide access to
abutting properties.
   LOT. A portion of a subdivision or any other parcel of land intended as a
unit for transfer of ownership, or for development or both. The word “lot”
includes “plot”, “parcel”, or “tract”.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot, plot, parcel, or tract recorded in the Office of the
Robeson County Register of Deeds in conformance with the ordinance(s) in effect
at the time of recordation. Also, a lot that is part of a subdivision, a plat
of which has been recorded in the Office of the Robeson County Register of
Deeds prior to the original adoption of this chapter, or a lot described by
metes and bounds, the description of which has been so recorded prior to the
original adoption of this chapter.
   MAJOR SUBDIVISION. All subdivisions not classified as minor subdivisions,
including, but not limited to, subdivisions of five or more lots, or any size
subdivision requiring any new public and/or or private street, extension of the
local government facilities, or the creation of any public improvements.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
in the traveling mode is eight body feet or more in width, or 40 body feet or
more in length, or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet; and which
is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling, with or
without permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities,
including the plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical systems
contained therein. MANUFACTURED HOME includes any structure that meets all of
the requirements of this subsection except the size requirements and with
respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required by
the Secretary of HUD and complies with the standards established under the Act.
For manufactured homes built before adoption of the HUD code MANUFACTURED HOME
means a portable manufactured housing unit designed for transportation on its
own chassis and placement on a temporary or semi-permanent foundation having a
measurement of over 32 feet in length and over eight feet in width.
MANUFACTURED HOME also means a double-wide manufactured home, which is two or
more portable manufactured housing units designed for transportation on their
own chassis that connect on site for placement on a temporary or semi-permanent
foundation having a measurement of over 32 feet in length and over eight feet
in width. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-102 and G.S. §
143-145(7). A MANUFACTURED HOME (formerly known as a mobile home) is built to
the Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards (HUD Code) and displays
a red certification label on the exterior of each transportable section.
MANUFACTURED HOMES are built in the controlled environment of a manufacturing
plant and are transported in one or more sections on a permanent chassis.
(HUD.GOV)
   MINOR SUBDIVISION. 
      (1)   A division of a tract of land where:
         (a)   All lots front on an existing public street, and/or no more than
one lot is created that is served by an exclusive access easement;
         (b)   Public water and/or sanitary sewerage systems, other than
laterals to serve individual lots, are not to be extended; and
         (c)   The installation of drainage improvements that would require
easements through one or more lots to serve other lots are not necessary.
         (d)   No new public or private street or roads, or right-of-way
dedication, no easements, no utility extension, where the entire tract to be
subdivided is five acres or less in size, and where four or fewer lots result
after the subdivision is completed.
      (2)   The minor subdivision procedure may not be used a second time
within three years on any property less than 1,500 feet from the original
property boundaries by anyone who owned, had an option on, or any legal
interest in the original subdivision at the time the subdivision received
preliminary or final plat approval.
   MODULAR HOME.  
      (1)   A dwelling unit constructed in accordance with the standards set
forth in the North Carolina State Building Code and composed of components
substantially assembled in a manufacturing plant and transported to the
building site for final assembly on a permanent foundation. Among other
possibilities, a modular home may consist of two or more sections transported
to the site in a manner similar to a manufactured home (except that the modular
home meets the North Carolina State Building Code applicable to site built
homes), or a series of panels or room sections transported on a truck and
erected or joined together on the site.
      (2)   To qualify for a label or seal under division (1) of this section,
a single-family modular home must meet or exceed the following construction and
design standards:
         (a)   Roof pitch. For homes with a single predominant roofline, the
pitch of the roof shall be no less than five feet rise for every 12 feet of
run.
         (b)   Eave projection. The eave projections of the roof shall be no
less than ten inches, which may not include a gutter around the perimeter of
the home, unless the roof pitch is 8/12 or greater.
         (c)   Exterior wall. The minimum height of the exterior wall shall be
at least seven feet six inches for the first story.
         (d)   Siding and roofing materials. The materials and texture for the
exterior materials shall be compatible in composition, appearance, and
durability to the exterior materials commonly used in standard residential
construction.
         (e)   Foundations. The home shall be designed to require foundation
supports around the perimeter. The supports may be in the form of piers, pier
and curtain wall, piling foundations, a perimeter wall, or other approved
perimeter supports. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S.
§§ 160D-910 and 143-139.1.
   OFFICIAL MAPS OR PLANS. Any maps or plans officially adopted by the Board of
Commissioners as a guide to the development of the town.
   OPEN SPACE. An area (land and/or water) generally lacking in manmade
structures and reserved for enjoyment in its unaltered state.
   OWNER. A holder of any legal or equitable estate in the premises, whether
alone or jointly with others, and whether in possession or not.
   PEDESTRIAN WAY. A right-of-way or easement dedicated to public use to
facilitate pedestrian access to adjacent streets and properties.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, firm, association, joint venture,
public or private corporation, trust, estate, commission, board, or public or
private institution, utility, cooperative, interstate body or other legal
entity.
   PLAN. Any documented and approved program of recommended action, policy,
intention, etc., which sets forth goals and objectives along with criteria,
standards and implementing procedures necessary for effectively guiding and
controlling decisions relative to facilitating development and growth
management. The plan is sometimes referred to as the land development plan or
land use plan.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A permitted use designed to provide for
developments incorporating a single type or a variety of residential and
related uses which are planned and developed as a unit. Such development may
consist of individual lots or common building sites. Common land must be an
element of the plan related to effecting the long-term value of the entire
development.
   PLAT. A map, drawn to scale, of a surveyed parcel of land that is to be, or
has been, subdivided.
   PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE. A structure(s) in which is conducted the principal use
(s) of the lot on which it is located.
   PRIVATE DRIVE. A vehicular travel way not dedicated or offered for
dedication as a public street, providing access to parking lot(s) for two or
more principal buildings in a group housing development.
   PRIVATE DRIVEWAY. A roadway serving two or fewer lots, building sites or
other divisions of land and not intended to be public ingress or egress.
   PRIVATE SEWER. A system that provides for collection and/or treatment of
wastewater from a development, or property, and that is not maintained with
public funds.
   PRIVATE STREET. A vehicular travel-way or private way not dedicated or
offered for dedication as a public street, but resembling a cul-de-sac or a
local street by carrying traffic from a series of driveways to the public
street system.
   PRIVATE WATER.  A system that provides for the supply and/or distribution of
potable water for use by a development, project, or owner, and that is not
maintained by a governmental organization or utility district.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A system that provides for the collection and treatment of
sanitary sewage from more than one property, and is owned and operated by a
governmental organization or sanitary district.
   PUBLIC STREET. A dedicated public right-of-way for vehicular traffic which:
      (1)   Has been accepted by the town or the North Carolina Department of
Transportation for maintenance; or
      (2)   Is not yet accepted but in which the roadway design and
construction have been approved under public standards for vehicular traffic
and is to be offered for acceptance by the town or North Carolina Department of
Transportation for maintenance.
   PUBLIC WATER.  A system that provides distribution of potable water for more
than one property and is owned and operated by a governmental organization or
utility district.
   RECREATION AREA OR PARK. An area of land or combination of land and water
resources that is developed for active and/or passive recreation pursuits with
various manmade features that accommodate such activities.
   RESERVATION. An obligation shown on a plat to keep property free from
development and available for public acquisition for a stated period of time.
It is not a dedication nor a conveyance.
   RETAINING WALL.  A structure, either masonry, metal, or treated wood,
designed to prevent the lateral displacement of soil, rock, fill or other
similar material.
   REVERSE FRONTAGE LOT. A through lot that is not accessible from one of the
parallel or non-intersecting streets upon which it fronts.
   SETBACK. The minimum required horizontal distance between a structure or
activity and the property line or the street right-of-way line.
   SINGLE-FAMILY DETACHED DWELLING. A separate, detached building designed for
and occupied exclusively by one family.
   SINGLE-TIER LOT. A lot which backs upon a limited access highway, a
railroad, a physical barrier, or another type of land use and to which access
from the rear is usually prohibited.
   SIGHT DISTANCE EASEMENT.  An easement that grants to the town and/or North
Carolina Department of Transportation the right to maintain unobstructed view
across property located at a street intersection.
   STORM DRAINAGE FACILITIES. The system of inlets, conduits, channels,
ditches, and appurtenances that serve to collect and convey stormwater through,
and from, a given drainage area.
   STORMWATER RUNOFF. The direct runoff of water resulting from precipitation
in any form.
   STREET RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by
a travel way for vehicles and also available, with the consent of the
appropriate governmental agency or owners' association (for private streets),
for installation and maintenance of sidewalks, traffic control devices, traffic
signs, street name signs, historical marker signs, water lines, sanitary sewer
lines, storm sewer lines, gas lines, power lines, and communication lines.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed, erected, or placed on the land, at grade or
below grade. It includes, but is not limited to, buildings, signs, load bearing
walls, docks, columns, pools and parking areas.
   SUB-COLLECTOR STREET. A street whose principal function is to provide access
to abutting properties, but that is also designed to be used or is used to
connect local streets with collector or higher classification streets.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person who subdivides or develops any land deemed to be a
subdivision (See DEVELOPER).
   SUBDIVISION. All divisions of a tract or parcel of land into two or more
lots, building sites, or other divisions when any one or more of those
divisions are created for the purpose of sale or building development (whether
immediate or future), and includes all divisions of land involving the
dedication of a new street or a change in existing streets; however, the
following shall not be included within this definition nor be subject to the
regulations authorized by this chapter:
      (1)   The combination or recombination of portions of previously
subdivided and recorded lots where the total number of lots is not increased
and the resultant lots are equal to or exceed the standards of the town, as
shown in its subdivision regulations.
      (2)   The division of land into parcels greater than ten acres where no
street right-of-way dedication is involved.
      (3)   The public acquisition by purchase of strips of land for the
widening or opening of streets or for public transportation corridors.
      (4)   The division of a tract in single ownership whose entire area is no
greater than two acres into not more than three lots, where no street right-of-
way dedication is involved and where the resultant lots are equal to or exceed
the standards of the town, as shown in its subdivision regulations.
   SUBDIVISION ADMINISTRATOR. The officer appointed by the Board of
Commissioners to administer these regulations and to assist administratively
other boards and commissions. The title of said officer shall be “Subdivision
Administrator” for the purposes of this chapter.
   THOROUGHFARE PLAN. A plan adopted by the Board of Commissioners for the
development of existing and proposed major streets that will adequately serve
the future needs of an area in an efficient and cost effective manner.
   THROUGH LOT. A lot abutting two streets that do not intersect at the corner
of the lot.
   TOWN. Refers to Fairmont, North Carolina.
   TOWN COMMISSIONERS. Board of Town Commissioners, Fairmont, North Carolina.
   TOWN PLANNING AND ZONING BOARD. The Board created by the Board of Town
Commissioners and authorized to plan land use within the Town of Fairmont.
   TOWNHOUSE LOT.  A parcel of land intended as a unit for transfer of
ownership, and lying underneath, or underneath and around, a townhouse, patio
home, or unit in a nonresidential group development.
   TRACT. All continuous land and bodies of water in one ownership, or
contiguous land and bodies of water in diverse ownership, being developed as a
unit, although not necessarily all at one time.
   USE(S), PRINCIPAL. The primary purpose or function that a lot or structure
serves or is proposed to serve.
   UTILITY EASEMENT. An easement that grants to the town or other utility
provider the right to install and thereafter maintain any and all utilities
including, but not limited to, water lines, sewer lines, septic tank drain
fields, storm sewer lines, electrical power lines, telephone lines, natural gas
lines and community antenna television systems.
   VARIANCE. Official permission from the Board of Commissioners to depart from
the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
Part III. General Procedure for Subdivisions
§ 154.405 PLAT REQUIRED ON ANY SUBDIVISION OF LAND.
   (A)   After the effective date of these regulations, no person shall
subdivide, or re-subdivide and/or offer for sale, gift, exchange, or other way
of conveyance any land subject to these regulations, except in accordance with
and pursuant to one of the following:
      (1)   Certification by the Subdivision Administrator that the division is
not subject to, or exempt from these regulations; or
      (2)   Final plat approval for a minor subdivision is granted by the
Subdivision Administrator; or
      (3)   Final plat approval for a major subdivision is granted by the
Planning Board, after review and approval by the Planning Board and Board of
Commissioners of a Preliminary Plat. For similar state law provisions, refer to
G.S. § 160D-803(c).
   (B)   No zoning, special use, sign, building, and/or other permit required
by the town shall be issued on any lot that has been subdivided or re-
subdivided in violation of these regulations.
   (C)   No street shall be maintained by the town nor street dedication
accepted for ownership and maintenance, no construction permits issued, nor
shall water, or other town facilities or services be extended to or connected
with any subdivision for which a plat is required to be approved, unless and
until such final plat has been approved by the town in accordance with these
regulations.
   (D)   After the effective date that this subdivision regulation is adopted,
no subdivision within the town's planning and development regulation
jurisdiction shall be filed or recorded until it shall have been submitted to
and approved by the governing board or appropriate body, as specified in the
subdivision regulation, and until this approval shall have been entered on the
face of the plat in writing by an authorized representative of the town. The
review officer, pursuant to G.S. § 47-30.2, shall not certify a subdivision
plat that has not been approved in accordance with these provisions nor shall
the clerk of superior court order or direct the recording of a plat if the
recording would be in conflict with this section. For similar state law
provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-803(d).
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.406 EXPEDITED PROCESS FOR CERTAIN SUBDIVISION OF LAND.
   (A)   Subject to §
154.405(C) above, the town shall require only a plat for recordation for the
division of a tract or parcel of land in single ownership if all of the
following criteria are met:
      (1)   No street right-of-way dedication is involved.
      (2)   No part of the tract or parcel to be divided has been divided under
this section in the ten years prior to division.
      (3)   The entire area of the tract or parcel to be divided is greater
than five acres.
      (4)   After division, no more than three lots result from the division.
      (5)   After division, all resultant lots comply with all of the
following:
         (a)   All lot dimension size requirements of the applicable land-use
regulations, if any.
         (b)   The use of the lots is in conformity with the applicable zoning
requirements, if any.
         (c)   A permanent means of ingress and egress is recorded for each
lot. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-802(c).
   (B)   Under no circumstances shall a division of land involving the
dedication of a new public street, or change in an existing public street be
considered exempt from these regulations.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.407 DETERMINATION OF CLASSIFICATION - MINOR OR MAJOR SUBDIVISION, OR
EXEMPT.
   (A)   All subdivisions shall be considered major subdivisions except those
defined as minor subdivisions or those determined as exempt. Major subdivisions
shall be reviewed in accordance with the procedures of Part. V of this
subchapter. Minor subdivisions shall be reviewed in accordance with the
provisions of Part IV.
      (1)   However, if the subdivider owns, leases, holds an option on, or
holds any legal or equitable interest in any property adjacent to or located
directly across a street, easement, road or right-of-way from the property to
be subdivided, the subdivision shall not qualify under the minor subdivision
procedure.
      (2)   Furthermore, the minor subdivision procedure may not be used a
second time within three years on any property less than 1,500 feet from the
original property boundaries by anyone who owned, had an option on, or any
legal interest in the original subdivision at the time the subdivision received
preliminary of final plat approval.
   (B)   The term “minor subdivision” is defined as one involving no new public
or private street or roads, or right-of-way dedication, no easements, no
utility extension, where the entire tract to be subdivided is five acres or
less in size, and where four or fewer lots result after the subdivision is
completed.
   (C)   Exempt subdivisions. For the purpose of this chapter, subdivision
regulations shall be applicable to all divisions of a tract or parcel of land
into two or more lots, building sites, or other divisions when any one or more
of those divisions is created for the purpose of sale or building development,
whether immediate or future, and shall include all divisions of land involving
the dedication of a new street or a change in existing streets; but the
following shall not be included within this definition nor be subject to the
regulations authorized by this subchapter:
      (1)   The combination or recombination of portions of previously
subdivided and recorded lots where the total number of lots is not increased
and the resultant lots are equal to or exceed the standards of the local
government as shown in its subdivision regulations.
      (2)   The division of land into parcels greater than ten acres where no
street right-of-way dedication is involved.
      (3)   The public acquisition by purchase of strips of land for the
widening or opening of streets or for public transportation system corridors.
      (4)   The division of a tract in single ownership whose entire area is no
greater than two acres
into not more than three lots, where no street right-of-way dedication is
involved and where the resultant lots are equal to or exceed the standards of
the local government, as shown in its subdivision regulations.
      (5)   The division of a tract into parcels in accordance with the terms
of a probated will or in accordance with intestate succession under G.S.
Chapter 29. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-802(a).
   (D)   Exempt determination. If the Subdivision Administrator determines that
the proposed division is exempt from the provisions of these regulations and
does not require approval, the plat shall be endorsed to that effect and may
then be recorded in the Office of the Register of Deeds. The endorsement shall
read as follows:
 
Certificate of Exemption; No Approval Required
I hereby certify that the division of land shown and described hereon is not division of land subject to the Town of Fairmont Subdivision Regulations.
                                                                                                                         
      Subdivision Administrator                      Date
 
 
      (1)   Appeal. The subdivider may appeal the denial of a requested
exemption to the Board of Commissioners at their next regular meeting.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.408 COMBINATION AND RECOMBINATION OF LAND.
   In cases where a combination or recombination of previously subdivided and
recorded lots is proposed (such as property lines between lots being
reconfigured) that involve individual private septic systems for waste
disposal, and an existing house or facility is located on any of the resultant
lots that have been reduced in size by the proposal, the following certificate
shall be shown on the plat and endorsed by the Robeson County Health Department
prior to exemption certification required:
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0fa087e7aaf2d1426066c541dcf0227ca59242f9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2590.png]
 
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.409 RESUBDIVISION PROCEDURES.
    For any replatting or resubdivision of land, the same procedures, rules and
regulations shall apply as prescri bed herein for an original subdiv ision.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.410 APPL ICATION; PLAN AND PLAT APPROV ALS.
   (A)    Sub mission. Unless otherwise specified, all applications for plan/
plat review and certification or approval under these regulations shall be
submitted by the owner of the property or the authorized agent of such owner to
the Subdivision Administrator together with such fees as required.
   (B)   Processing. All applications for plan/plat certification or approval
shall be submitted, reviewed and processed in accordance with the requirements
of these regulations. The Subdivision Administrator may refuse to process an
incomplete application.
   (C)   Approved plans and plats. A copy of required plans and plats or
information submitted with the application shall be returned to the applicant
after the appropriate party has marked the copy either approved or disapproved
and attested to same. A similarly marked copy shall be retained by the
Subdivision Administrator.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
Part IV. Minor Subdivision Procedures
 § 154.415 APPLICATION FOR MINOR SUBDIVISION.
   An application for minor subdivision plat review including a sketch plan
shall be submitted on a form approved by the Town Board of Commissioners, to
the Subdivision Administrator. One original of the documents shall be
submitted. Submission shall be accompanied by a filing fee as required in by
this chapter. The fee schedule shall be set by the Town Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.416 MINOR SUBDIVISION SKETCH PLAN.
   One original sketch plan of the proposed subdivision shall contain the
following information:
   (A)   The boundaries of the tract and the portion of the tract to be
subdivided;
   (B)   The total acreage to be subdivided;
   (C)   A sketch vicinity map showing the location of the subdivision in
relation to neighboring tracts, subdivisions roads, and waterways;
   (D)   The existing street layout and right-of-way width, lot layout and size
of lots; new streets shall comply with the NC Department of Transportation
included in the Minimum Construction Standards for Subdivision Roads, as most
recently adopted.
   (E)   The name, address and telephone number of the owner;
   (F)   The name, if any, of the proposed subdivision;
   (G)   The zoning classification of the tract and of adjacent properties;
   (H)   A statement from the town health department that a copy of the sketch
plan has been submitted to them, if septic tanks or other on-site water or
waste water systems are to be used in the subdivision.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.417 ACTION ON MINOR SUBDIVISION SKETCH PLAN.
   (A)   At the time the sketch plan is submitted it shall be reviewed at the
next meeting of the Planning Board for general compliance with the requirements
of this chapter. The subdivider (owner) or his or her representative shall be
present at the meeting and shall discuss plans for the proposed minor
subdivision.
   (B)   The Planning Board shall advise the subdivider as to the regulations
which pertain to the proposed subdivision of the property and its development.
   (C)   The Planning Board shall approve or disapprove the sketch plan. If the
plan is approved, the subdivider may proceed to secure a final plat. If
disapproved, the Planning Board shall provide the subdivider with a written
explanation for the disapproval. If the reasons for disapproval can be
remedied, the subdivider may present a revised sketch plan for consideration
and approval by the Planning Board at their next meeting for no additional fee.
   (D)   Minor subdivision approval has no preliminary plat stage- sketch plan
serves as the preliminary plat.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.418 MINOR SUBDIVISION FINAL PLAT.
    Upon approval of the sketch plan the subdivider may proceed with the
preparation of the final plat in accordance with the requirements of this
subchapter.
   (A)   The final plat shall be prepared by a professional land surveyor
currently licensed and registered in the state by the state board of
registration for professional engineers and land surveyors.
   (B)   The final plat shall conform to the provisions for plats,
subdivisions, and mapping requirements set forth in G.S. § 47-30 and the
standards of practice for land surveying in the state.
   (C)   Two originals of the plat shall be submitted. Material and drawing
medium for the original shall be in accordance with the standards of practice
for land surveying in the state where applicable, and the requirements of the
town register of deeds.
   (D)   The final plat shall be of a size suitable for recording with the town
register of deeds. Maps may be placed on more than one sheet with appropriate
match lines.
   (E)   Submission of the final plat shall be accompanied by a filing fee set
by the town. This final plat shall meet the specifications in G.S. § 47-85. The
following signed certificate shall appear on each copy of the final plat:
      (1)    Certificate of ownership and dedication.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0fa087e7aaf2d1426066c541dcf0227ca59242f9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2592.png]
 
      (2)    Certificate of survey and accuracy. In accordance with the Manual
of Practice for Land Surveying in North Carolina, on the face of each map
prepared for recordation there shall appear a certificate acknowledged before
an officer authorized to take acknowledgments and executed by the person making
the survey or map including deeds and any recorded data shown thereon. The
certificate shall include a statement of error of closure calculated by
latitudes and departures. Any lines on the map which were not actually surveyed
must be clearly indicated on the map and a statement included in the
certificate revealing the source of information. In accordance with G.S. § 47-
30, The certificate required shall include (i) the source of information for
the survey, (ii) data indicating the ratio of precision or positional accuracy
of the survey before adjustments, and (iii) the seal and signature pursuant to
G.S. Chapter 89C, and shall be in substantially the following form:
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0fa087e7aaf2d1426066c541dcf0227ca59242f9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2594.png]
 
      (3)   Certificate of approval for recording. Following the review by the
Planning Board, the final plat shall be approved, conditionally approved with
modifications to bring the plat into compliance, or disapproved with reason,
within 45 days of its first consideration of the plat.
         (a)   During the review of the final plat the Subdivision
Administrator may appoint an engineer or surveyor to confirm the accuracy of
the final plat (if agreed to by the Board of Commissioners). If substantial
errors are found, the costs shall be charged to the subdivider and the plat
shall not be approved until such errors have been corrected.
         (b)    If the final plat is approved, such approval shall be shown on
each copy of the plat by the following signed certificate:
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0fa087e7aaf2d1426066c541dcf0227ca59242f9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2596.png]
 
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.419 REVIEW PROCEDURE; APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL.
   (A)    If the Planning Board approves the final plat, such approval shall be
shown on each copy of the plat by the following signed certificate:
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0fa087e7aaf2d1426066c541dcf0227ca59242f9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2598.png]
 
   (B)   One copy shall be retained by the Subdivision Administrator for the
Planning Office Record.
   (C)   The subdivider shall file the approved final plat with the register of
deeds of the town within 90 days of Planning Board approval; otherwise such
approval shall be null and void.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.420 APPEAL.
   Appeals of subdivision decisions may be made pursuant to G.S. § 160D-1403:
   (A)   When a subdivision regulation adopted under this chapter provides that
the decision whether to approve or deny a preliminary or final subdivision plat
is quasi-judicial, then that decision of the Board shall be subject to review
by the superior court by proceedings in the nature of certiorari. The
provisions of G.S. § 160D-406 and this section shall apply to those appeals.
   (B)   When a subdivision regulation adopted under this chapter provides that
the decision whether to approve or deny a preliminary or final subdivision plat
is administrative, then that decision of the Board shall be subject to review
by filing an action in superior court seeking appropriate declaratory or
equitable relief within 30 days from receipt of the written notice of the
decision, which shall be made as provided in G.S. § 160D-403(b).
   (C)   For purposes of this section, a subdivision regulation shall be deemed
to authorize a quasi-judicial decision if the decision-making entity under G.S.
§ 160D-803(c) is authorized to decide whether to approve or deny the plat based
not only upon whether the application complies with the specific requirements
set forth in the regulation but also on whether the application complies with
one or more generally stated standards requiring a discretionary decision to be
made.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-808.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
Part V. Major Subdivisions
§ 154.425 APPLICATION FOR MAJOR SUBDIVISION.
    An application for major subdivision plat review shall be submitted by
filing a copy of the application, on a form approved by the Town Board of
Commissioners, with the Subdivision Administrator. The application shall
consist of a form approved by the Town Board of Commissioners accompanied by a
Sketch Plan. Two copies of the documents shall be submitted. Submission of the
sketch plan shall be accompanied by a filing fee as required in by this
chapter. The fee schedule shall be set by the Town Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.426 SKETCH PLANS.
   (A)   Contents. Prior to the preliminary plat submissions, the subdivider
shall submit to the Planning Board five copies of a sketch plan of the proposed
subdivision containing the following information:
      (1)   A sketch vicinity map showing the location of the subdivision in
relation to neighboring tracts, subdivisions, roads, and waterways;
      (2)   The boundaries of the tract and the portion of the tract to be
subdivided;
      (3)   The total acreage to be subdivided;
      (4)   The existing and proposed uses of the land within the subdivision
and the existing uses of land adjoining it;
      (5)   The proposed street layout with approximate pavement and right-of-
way width, lot layout and size of lots;
      (6)   The name, address, and telephone number of the owner;
      (7)   The name, if any, of the proposed subdivision;
      (8)   Streets and lots of adjacent developed or platted properties;
      (9)   The zoning classification (if applicable) of the tract and of
adjacent properties;
      (10)   A statement from the town health department that a copy of the
sketch plan has been submitted to them, if septic tanks or other on-site water
or wastewater systems are to be used in the subdivision.
   (B)   Submission and review procedure for sketch plan.
      (1)   The sketch plan shall be submitted at least ten working days prior
to the Planning Board meeting at which it will be reviewed.
      (2)   The Planning Board shall review the sketch plan for general
compliance with the requirements of this subchapter and the zoning ordinance,
if applicable;
      (3)   The Planning Board shall advise the subdivider or his authorized
agent of the regulations pertaining to the proposed subdivision and the
procedures to be followed in the preparation and submission of the preliminary
and final plats.
      (4)   If approved, one copy of the sketch plan shall be retained as a
part of the minutes of the Planning Board with the other copy being returned to
the subdivider or his authorized agent.
      (5)   If disapproved, the Planning Board shall notify the applicant in
writing as to the reasons why. The applicant shall have the opportunity to
withdraw the plan or adjust the sketch plan and resubmit the plan for review at
a subsequent meeting of the Planning Board.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.427 PRELIMINARY PLAT SUBMISSION AND REVIEW.
   (A)   Submission procedure. Preliminary plats shall meet the specifications
in §
154.429 . For every subdivision within the territorial jurisdiction the
subdivider shall submit a preliminary plat which shall be reviewed and approved
by the Planning Board before any construction or installation of improvements
may begin. Eight copies of the preliminary plat (as well as any additional
copies which the subdivision administrator determines are needed to be sent to
other agencies) shall be submitted to the subdivision administrator at least 14
working days prior to the Planning Board meeting at which the subdivider
desires the review of the preliminary plat.
   (B)   Agency referrals. Prior to submittal of the preliminary plat for
review by the Planning Board, the Subdivision Administrator shall refer the
plat to the applicable reviewing agencies listed below. In cases where the
completion and development of the subdivision would require permits granted by
an agency, that agency shall officially approve by certificate or permit the
subdivision proposal. The review and certification process shall include, but
not be limited to, the following agencies who shall submit their findings,
recommendations, and certificates in writing to the Planning Board. The
following agencies, as deemed applicable by the Subdivision Administrator,
shall be given the opportunity to review and certify within their area of
responsibility:
      (1)   The District Engineer of the North Carolina Department of
Transportation shall review as to existing and proposed publicly dedicated
streets and highways, private street, exclusive access easement, and joint
driveway connections to state maintained streets and highways, and related
drainage systems as they affect such streets and highways. The Subdivision
Administrator, Public Works Director, and Town Engineer shall review as to
existing and proposed private streets, exclusive access easements, and joint
driveway easements, including their connections to existing and proposed
streets maintained by the town. The Public Works Director and Town Engineer
shall review private streets and their related drainage systems as they affect
streets and drainage facilities managed by the town.
      (2)   The Robeson County Environmental Health Department shall review and
certify as to proposed on-site water and sewage systems. The Public Works
Director shall review and certify as to proposed public water and sewer
systems.
      (3)   The Robeson County 911 Addressing Department shall review and
certify in regards to proposed street names and property addressing.
      (4)   The North Carolina Department of Environment and Natural Resources,
Land Quality Section, shall review and certify as to erosion and sediment
control as applicable under state sedimentation control regulations.
      (5)   The Town's Police Department, Fire Department and Emergency Service
Department shall review as to their ability to provide adequate service to the
subdivision. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-803(b).
   (C)   Procedure. The Planning Board shall review the preliminary plat at or
before its next regularly scheduled meeting which follows at least 45 days
after the Administrator receives the preliminary plat and the comments from the
appropriate agencies. The Planning Board shall, in writing, recommend approval,
conditional approval with recommended changes to bring the plat into
compliance, or disapproval with reasons within 35 days of its first
consideration of the plat.
      (1)   If the Planning Board recommends approval of the preliminary plat,
it shall retain one copy of the plat for its minutes, transmit one copy of the
plat to the Administrator with its recommendation, and return the final copy to
the subdivider.
         (a)   If the Planning Board approves the preliminary plat, such
approval shall be noted on two copies of the plat. One copy of the plat shall
be retained by the Planning Board and one copy shall be returned to the
subdivider. If the Planning Board approves the preliminary plat with
conditions, approval shall by noted on two copies of the plat along with a
reference to the conditions. One copy of the plat along with the conditions
shall be returned to the subdivider. The other copy shall be filed with the
documents for the subdivision.
      (2)   If the Planning Board recommends conditional approval of the
preliminary plat it shall keep one copy of the plat for its minutes, transmit
one copy of the plat and its recommendation to the Administrator, and return
the remaining copy of the plat and its recommendation to the subdivider.
      (3)   If the Planning Board recommends disapproval of the preliminary
plat, it shall retain one copy of the plat for its minutes, transmit one copy
of the plat and its recommendation to the Administrator, and return the
remaining copy of the plat and its recommendation to the subdivider. If the
preliminary plat is disapproved, the subdivider may make the recommended
changes and submit a revised preliminary plat, or appeal the decision to the
Board of Town Commissioners.
         (a)   If the Planning Board disapproves the preliminary plat, the
reasons for such disapproval shall be specified in writing.
      (4)   If the Planning Board does not make a written recommendation within
45 days after its first consideration of the plat, the subdivider may apply to
the Board of Town Commissioners for approval or disapproval.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.428 FINAL PLAT SUBMISSION AND REVIEW.
    (A)   Preparation of final plat and installation of improvements. Upon
approval of the preliminary plat by the Planning Board, the subdivider may
proceed with the preparation of the final plat, and the installation of, or
arrangement for required improvements in accordance with the approved
preliminary plat and the requirements of this subchapter. Prior to approval of
a final plat, the subdivider shall have installed the improvements specified in
this subchapter or guaranteed their installation as provided herein. No final
plat will be accepted or reviewed by the Planning Board unless accompanied by
written notice by the Town Clerk acknowledging compliance with any applicable
improvement or guarantee standards of this chapter. The final plat shall
constitute only that portion of the preliminary plat which the subdivider
proposes to record and develop at that time; such portion shall conform to all
requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Improvements guarantees.
      (1)   Agreement and security required. In lieu of requiring the
completion, installation and dedication of all improvements prior to final plat
approval, the town may enter into an agreement with the subdivider whereby the
subdivider shall agree to complete all required improvements. Once said
agreement is signed by both parties and the security required herein is
provided, the final plat may be approved by the Planning Board, if all other
requirements of this subchapter are met. To secure this agreement, the
subdivider shall provide, subject to the approval of the Town Commissioners,
either one, or a combination of the following guarantees not exceeding 1.25
times the entire cost as provided herein:
         (a)   Surety performance bond. The subdivider shall obtain a
performance bond from a surety bonding company authorized to do business in the
state. The bond shall be payable to the town and shall be in an amount equal to
1.25 times the entire cost, as estimated by the subdivider and approved by the
Town Commissioners, of installing all required improvements. The duration of
the bond shall be until such time as the improvements are accepted by the Town
Commissioners.
         (b)   Cash or equivalent security. The subdivider shall deposit cash,
an irrevocable letter of credit or other instrument readily convertible into
cash at face value, either with the town or in escrow with a financial
institution designated as an official depository of the town. The use of any
instrument other than cash shall be subject to the approval of the Town
Commissioners. The amount of deposit shall be equal to 1.25 times the cost, as
estimated by the subdivider and approved by the Town Commissioners, of
installing all required improvements. If cash or other instrument is deposited
in escrow with a financial institution as provided in this section, then the
subdivider shall file with the Town Commissioners an agreement between the
financial institution and himself or herself guaranteeing the following:
            1.   That said escrow account shall be held in trust until released
by the Town Commissioners and may not be used or pledged by the subdivider in
any other matter during the term of the escrow; and
            2.   That in the case of a failure on the part of the subdivider to
complete said improvements the financial institution shall, upon notification
by the Town Commissioners, and submission by the Town Commissioners to the
financial institution of an engineer's estimate of the amount needed to
complete the improvements, immediately either pay to the town the funds
estimated to complete the improvement up to the full balance of the escrow
account, or deliver to the town any other instruments fully endorsed or
otherwise made payable in full to the town.
      (2)   Default. Upon default, meaning failure on the part of the
subdivider to complete the required improvements in a timely manner as spelled
out in the performance bond or escrow agreement, then the surety, or the
financial institution holding the escrow account shall, if requested by the
Town Commissioners pay all or any portion of the bond or escrow fund to the
town up to the amount needed to complete the improvements based on an
engineering estimate. Upon payment, the Town Commissioners, in their
discretion, may expend such portion of said funds as they deems necessary to
complete all improvements.
      (3)   Release of guarantee security. The Town Commissioners may release a
portion of any security posted as the improvements are completed and
recommended for approval by the Planning Board. Within 45 days after receiving
the Planning Board recommendation, the Town Commissioners shall approve said
improvements. If the Town Commissioners approve said improvements, then it
shall immediately release any security posted.
   (C)   Contents of submission.
      (1)   The subdivider shall submit the final plat, so marked, to the
Subdivision Administrator not less than ten working days prior to the Planning
Board meeting at which it will be reviewed.
      (2)   The final plat of the proposed subdivision shall be submitted for
final approval not more than one year following the preliminary plat approval.
If not submitted for final approval within such time the preliminary plat shall
be considered as have been disapproved unless the Planning Board agrees to an
extension of time. Extensions may not exceed one year.
      (3)   The final plat shall be prepared by a professional land surveyor
currently licensed and registered in the state by the State Board of
Registration for Professional Engineers and Land Surveyors.
      (4)   The final plat shall conform to the provisions for plats,
subdivisions, and mapping requirements set forth in §
154.429  and the standards of practice for land surveying in the state. Five
copies of the final plat shall be submitted; two of these shall be on
reproducible material; three shall be black or blue line paper prints. Material
and drawing medium for the original shall be in accordance with the standards
of practice for land surveying in the state, where applicable, and the
requirements of the Town Register of Deeds.
      (5)   The final plat shall be of a size suitable for recording with the
town register of deeds and shall be at a scale of not less than one inch equals
200 feet. Maps may be placed on more than one sheet with appropriate match
lines.
      (6)   Submission of the final plat shall be accompanied by a filing fee.
      (7)   The final plat shall meet the specifications of this subchapter.
The following signed certificates shall appear on all five copies of the final
plat:
         (a)     Certificate of ownership and dedication.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0fa087e7aaf2d1426066c541dcf0227ca59242f9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2601.png]
 
      (8)    There shall appear on each plat a certificat e by the person under
whose supervision such survey or such plat was made, stating the origin of the
information shown on the plat, including a recorded deed and plat reference s
shown thereon. The ratio of precision as calculated by latitudes and departures
before any adjustments must be shown. Any lines on the plat that were not
actually surveyed must be clearly indicated and a statement included revealing
the source of information. The execution of such certificate shall be
acknowledged before any officer authorized to take acknowledgements by the
professional land surveyor preparing the plat. All plats to be recorded shall
be probated as required by law for the registration of deeds. Where a plat
consists of more than one sheet, only the first sheet must contain the
certification and all subsequent sheets must be signed and sealed.
         (b)    Certificate of survey accuracy.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0fa087e7aaf2d1426066c541dcf0227ca59242f9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2603.jpg]
 
      (9)    There shall appear on each plat a certificate of approval of the
design and installati on of streets, utilities, and other required improveme
nts and payment of filing fee:
          (a)   Certificate of approval of design and installation.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0fa087e7aaf2d1426066c541dcf0227ca59242f9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2605.jpg]
 
      (10)   There shall appear on each plat a certificate of approval of the
Review Officer:
Certificate of Review Officer.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0fa087e7aaf2d1426066c541dcf0227ca59242f9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2607.jpg]
 
   (D)   Planning Board action.
      (1)    The Planning Board shall review the final plat at or before its
next regularly scheduled meeting following submission as outlined in division
(C)(1) above of this section. The Planning Board shall recommend approval,
conditional approval with modifications to bring the plat into compliance, or
disapproval of the final plat with reasons within 60 days of its first
consideration of the plat.
      (2)   During its review of the final plat, the Planning Board may appoint
a professional land surveyor to confirm the accuracy of the final plat (if
agreed to by the Town Commissioners). If substantial errors are found, the
costs shall not be recommended for approval until such errors have been
corrected.
      (3)   If the Planning Board recommends approval of the final plat it
shall retain one copy and transmit all remaining copies of the plat and its
written recommendations to the subdivider through the Administrator.
      (4)   If the Planning Board recommends conditional approval of the final
plat with modifications to bring the plat into compliance, it shall retain one
print of the plat for its minutes, return its written recommendations and two
reproducible copies of the plat to the subdivider, and transmit one print of
the plat and its written recommendation to the Administrator.
      (5)   If the Planning Board recommends disapproval of the final plat, it
shall instruct the subdivider concerning resubmission of a revised plat and the
subdivider may make such changes as will bring the plat into compliance with
the provisions of this subchapter, and resubmit same for reconsideration by the
Planning Board, or appeal the decision to the Board of Town Commissioners.
      (6)   Failure of the Planning Board to make a written recommendation
within 60 days shall constitute grounds for the subdivider to apply to the
Board of Town Commissioners for approval.
      (7)   If the subdivider appeals to the Board of Town Commissioners, the
Commissioners shall review and approve or disapprove the final plat within 45
days after the plat and recommendations of Planning Board have been received by
the Administrator.
      (8)   If the Planning Board approves the final plat, such approval shall
be shown on each copy of the plat by the following signed certificate:
         (a)    Planning Board certificate of approval.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0fa087e7aaf2d1426066c541dcf0227ca59242f9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2609.jpg]
 
      (9)    If the final plat is disapproved by the Planning Board, the
reasons for such disapproval shall be stated in writing, specifying the
provisions of this chapter with which the final plat does not comply. One copy
of such reasons and one print of the plat shall be retained by the Planning
Board as part of its proceedings, one copy of the reasons shall be transmitted
to the Administrator, and one copy of the reasons and remaining copies of the
plat shall be transmitted to the subdivider. If the final plat is disapproved,
the subdivider may make such changes as will bring the final plat into
compliance and resubmit same for reconsideration by the Planning Board.
      (10)   If the final plat is approved by the Planning Board, the original
tracing and one print of the plat shall be retained by the subdivider. One
reproducible tracing and one print shall be filed with the Town Clerk, and one
print shall be returned to the Planning Board for its records.
      (11)   The subdivider shall file the approved final plat with the
Register of Deeds of the Town within 90 days of Planning Board approval;
otherwise such approval shall be null and void.
   (E)   Action by Board of Commissioners.
      (1)   The final plat shall be submitted to the Board of Commissioners for
their action. The Board of Commissioners shall consider the recommendations
made by the Planning Board and shall approve or disapprove the final plat
within 45 days of the final action by the Planning Board.
      (2)   The approval of the final plat and acceptance of the public ways,
easements, and other land dedicated to public use shall be shown on the
original and on three print copies of the final plat by the certificate of
approval by the Board of Commissioners as shown below:
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0fa087e7aaf2d1426066c541dcf0227ca59242f9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2611.jpg]
         One print and the original shall be returned to the subdivider, one
print shall be filed with the Town Clerk and one print shall be returned to the
Planning Board.
      (3)   If the final plat is disapproved by the Board of Commissioners, the
reasons for the disapproval shall be stated in writing. One copy of such
reasons shall be retained by the Board of Commissioners, one copy shall be
transmitted to the Planning Board and one copy shall be provided to the
subdivider.
   (F)   Recording of plat. After final approval of the plat and the affixing
of all required signatures, the original one print copy of the final plat shall
be returned to the subdivider. The subdivider shall file the approved final
subdivision plat with the County Register of Deeds for recording within six
months of the date of its approval by the Fairmont Board of Commissioners or
such approval shall be void.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.429 INFORMATION TO BE DEPICTED ON PLATS - MINOR AND MAJOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   The information to be contained in or depicted on final plats for minor
subdivisions and preliminary and final plats for major subdivisions. An “X”
indicates that the information is required.
   Table 15-1 Information Requirements for Plats
Information Final Plat for Minor Preliminary Plat for Final Plat for Major
            Subdivisions         Major Subdivisions   Subdivisions
                                                                               Final Plat   Preliminary  Final Plat
Information                                                                    for Minor    Plat for     for Major
                                                                               Subdivisions Major        Subdivisions
                                                                                            Subdivisions
Title block containing:                                                                                 
   Name of owner                                                            X            X            X
   Location (including township, town and state)                            X            X            X
   Date or dates survey was conducted and plat prepared                     X            X            X
   A scale of drawing in feet per inch listed in words or figures           X            X            X
   A bar graph                                                              X            X            X
   Name, address, registration number and seal of the professional land     X            X            X
surveyor
The name of the subdivider                                                     X            X            X
A sketch vicinity map showing the relationship between the proposed subdivider X            X            X
and surrounding area
Corporate limits, township boundaries, town lines if on the subdivision tract  X            X            X
The names, address and telephone numbers of all owners, mortgages,
professional land surveyor, land planner architects, landscape architects, and             X            X
professional engineers responsible for the subdivision
The registration numbers and seals of the professional engineers               X            X            X
Date of plat preparation                                                       X            X            X
North arrow and orientation                                                    X            X            X
The boundaries of the tract or portion thereof to be subdivided, distinctly    X            X            X
and accurately represented with all bearings and distances shown
The exact boundary lines of the tract to be subdivided, fully dimensioned by
lengths and bearings, and the location of existing boundary lines of adjoining X            X            X
lands
The names of owners of adjoining properties                                    X            X            X
The names of any adjoining subdivisions of record or proposed and under review X            X            X
Minimum building setback lines                                                 X            X            X
The zoning classifications of the tract to be subdivided and adjoining         X            X            X
properties (if applicable)
Existing property lines on the tract to be subdivided and on adjoining         X            X            X
properties
Existing buildings or other structures, water courses, railroads, bridges,
culverts, storm drains, both on the land to be subdivided and land immediately X            X            X
adjoining
Proposed lot lines, lot and block numbers, and approximate dimensions                      X             
The lots numbered consecutively throughout the subdivision                     X                        X
Wooded areas, marshes, swamps, rock outcrops, ponds or lakes, streams or                   X             
streambeds and any other natural features affecting the site
The exact location of the flood hazard, floodway and floodway fringe areas     X            X            X
from the town's FHBM or other FEMA maps
The following data concerning streets:                                                                  
                                                                               No new
   Proposed streets                                                         public       X            X
                                                                               streets/ROW
                                                                               permitted
   Existing and platted streets on adjoining properties and in the proposed X            X            X
subdivision
                                                                               Of existing
   Rights-of-way, location and dimensions                                   streets/     X            X
                                                                               roads only
   Pavement widths                                                                      X            X
   Approximate grades                                                                   X            X
   Design engineering data for all corners and curves                                   X            X
   Typical street cross sections                                                        X            X
   Street names                                                                         X            X
   Street maintenance agreement                                                         X            X
   Type of street dedication; all streets must be designated either public or
private. Where all public streets are involved which will not be dedicated to
a municipality, the subdivider must submit the following documents to the
state department of transportation district highway office for review: a
complete site layout, including any future expansion anticipated; horizontal
alignment indicating general curve data on site layout plan; vertical                                   
alignment indicated by percent grade, PI station and vertical curve length on               X            X
site plan layout; the district engineer may require the plotting of the ground
profile and grade line for roads where special conditions or problems exist;
typical section indicating the pavement design and width and the slopes,
widths and details for either the curb and gutter or the shoulder and ditch
proposed drainage facilities and drainage areas.
Where streets are dedicated to public, but not accepted into a municipal or
the state system before lots are sold, a statement explaining the status of                X             
the street in street.
If any street is proposed to intersect with a state maintained road, the
subdivider shall apply for driveway approval as required by the state                                   
department of transportation, division of highways' manual on driveway         X            X            X
regulations
Evidence that the subdivider has obtained approval.                                        X            X
The location and dimensions of all:                                                                     
   Utility and other easements                                                          X            X
   Areas to be dedicated to or reserved for public use                                  X            X
   Areas to be used for purposes other than residential with the purpose of             X            X
each stated
   The future ownership (dedication or reservation for public use to
governmental body, for owners to duly constituted homeowners' association, or                           
for tenants remaining in subdivider's ownership) of recreation and open space               X            X
lands
The plans for utility layouts including:                                                                
   Sanitary sewers                                                          Existing     X             
                                                                               only
   Storm sewers                                                                         X             
   Other drainage facilities, if any                                        Existing     X             
                                                                               only
   Water distribution lines                                                 Existing     X             
                                                                               only
   Natural gas lines                                                                    X             
   Telephone lines                                                                      X             
   Electric lines                                                                       X             
   Illustrating connections to existing systems, showing line sizes, the                             
location of fire hydrants, blow offs, manholes, force mains and gate valves                 X
   Plans for individual water supply and sewage disposal systems, if any                X            X
Site calculations including:                                                                            
   Acreage in total tract to be subdivided                                              X             
   Acreage in other nonresidential uses                                                 X             
   Total number of parcels created                                                      X             
   Acreage of smallest lot in subdivision                                               X             
   Linear feet in streets:                                                              X             
   The name and location of any property or buildings within the proposed                            
subdivision or within any contiguous property that is located on the U.S.      X            X            X
Department of Interior's National Register of Historic Places
   Sufficient engineering data to determine readily and reproduce on the
ground every straight or curved line, street line, lot line, right-of-way
line, easement line, and setback line, including dimensions, bearings, or                                 
deflection angles, radii, central angles, and tangent distance for the center                          X
line of curved property lines that are not the boundary line of curved
streets. All dimensions shall be measured to the nearest one-tenth of a foot
and all angles to the nearest minute
   The accurate locations and descriptions of all monuments, markers and                            X
control points
   A copy of any proposed deed restrictions or similar covenants. Such                               
restrictions are mandatory when private recreation areas are established.                   X            X
   A copy of the erosion control plan submitted to the appropriate authority            X             
if such a plan is required.
   Topographic map if required.                                                         X             
   All certifications required in for major subdivisions.                                           X
   Any other information considered by the subdivider, Planning Board, or To            X            X
Commissioners to be pertinent to the review of the plat.
 
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
Part VI. Required Improvements, Dedications, Reservations, and Minimum
Standards of Design for Major Subdivisions
§ 154.435 GENERALLY.
   Each subdivision shall contain the improvements specified in this part VI,
which shall be installed in accordance with the requirements of this subchapter
and paid for by the subdivider, unless other means of financing is specifically
stated in this subchapter. Land shall be dedicated and reserved in each
subdivision as specified in this subchapter. Each subdivision shall adhere to
the minimum standards of design established by this subchapter.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.436 SUITABILITY OF LAND.
   The Planning Board shall not approve the subdivision of land if from
adequate investigations by the public agencies concerned, it has been
determined that in the best interest of the public the site is not suitable as
follows:
   (A)   Land which has been determined by the Planning Board on the basis of
engineering or other expert surveys to pose an ascertainable danger to life or
property by reason of its unsuitability for the use proposed shall not be
platted for that purpose, unless and until the subdivider has taken the
necessary measures to correct said conditions and to eliminate said dangers.
   (B)   Areas that have been used for disposal of solid waste shall not be
subdivided unless tests by the town health department, a structural engineer
and a soils expert determine that the land is suitable for the purpose
proposed.
   (C)   Subdivisions shall not be located in areas that are susceptible to
regular flooding as noted on FEMA maps. Existing subdivisions located in hazard
areas shall not be allowed to expand.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.437 FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD-PRONE AREA.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent to minimize flood
damage. Flood prone areas shall be indicated by studies, reports, or maps by
agencies including the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), the US Army
Corps of Engineers, the Soil Conservation Service, the Department of Housing
and Urban Development, the US Geological Survey, and the North Carolina
Department of Environmental and Natural Resources.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data shall be provided for subdivision
proposals that contain 50 or more lots or that involve a tract of land five
acres or more in size.
   (D)   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted,
altered, or developed in any way without full compliance with the terms of the
current flood damage prevention ordinance (see §§
154.530 -
154.537).
   (E)   All violations and corrective procedures will be in full compliance
with the terms set forth in the current flood damage prevention ordinance.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
Cross-reference:
   Flood damage prevention ordinance, see §§
154.530 -
154.537
§ 154.438 WETLANDS.
   If a developer, corporation, private homeowner, or other person proposes to
perform construction/filling activities in or near a lake, stream, creek,
tributary, or any unnamed body of water and its adjacent wetlands, federal
permit authorization may be required by the US Army Corps of Engineers prior to
commencement of earth-disturbing activities. Filling activities include, but
are not limited to, construction of road crossings, sewer or utility line
installations, grading, placement of soil from ditching or other excavations,
or placement of fill for commercial or residential development. A wetlands
determination and specific permit requirements may be obtained from the
Wilmington Field Office of the US Army Corps of Engineers.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.439 STORMWATER AND DRAINAGE.
   The subdivider shall develop a stormwater management plan that describes
adequate drainage system for the proper drainage of all surface water.
   (A)   The stormwater disposal system shall be connected to an approved
system where one exists and shall be adequate for all present and future
development. The system shall incorporate proper engineering practices to
insure proper drainage.
   (B)   No surface water shall be channeled or directed into a sanitary sewer.
   (C)   Where a subdivision is traversed by a stream or drainage way, a
drainage easement shall be provided conforming with the lines of such stream
and of sufficient width as will be adequate for the purpose.
   (D)   When an approved system does not exist, the subdivider shall
incorporate North Carolina Department of Environment and Natural Resources
Stormwater Best Management Practices Guideline to minimize water quality
impacts.
   (E)   Any stormwater management plans shall be reviewed/approved by the
Subdivision Administrator as part of the review process.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.440 SEDIMENTATION AND EROSION CONTROL.
    The subdivider shall comply with all requirements of the “North Carolina
Sedimentation Pollution Control Act of 1973" and all locally adopted sediment
control ordinances.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.441 PRE-SALE OR PRE-LEASE OF SUBDIVISION LOTS.
   (A)   The subdivider, upon approval of the preliminary plat, may enter into
contracts to sell or lease the lots shown on the approved preliminary plat,
provided that the contract does all of the following:
      (1)   Incorporates as an attachment a copy of the approved preliminary
plat referenced in the contract and obligates the owner to deliver to the buyer
a copy of the approved and recorded final plat prior to closing and conveyance.
      (2)   Plainly and conspicuously notifies the prospective buyer or lessee
that a final subdivision plat has not been approved or recorded at the time of
the contract, that no governmental body will incur
any obligation to the prospective buyer or lessee with respect to the approval
of the final subdivision plat, that changes between the preliminary and final
plats are possible, and that the contract or lease may be terminated without
breach by the buyer or lessee if the final approved and recorded plat differs
in any material respect from the approved preliminary plat.
      (3)   Provides that if the approved and recorded final plat does not
differ in any material respect from the plat referred to in the contract, the
buyer or lessee may not be required by the seller or lessor to close any
earlier than five days after the delivery of a copy of the final approved and
recorded plat.
      (4)   Provides that if the approved and recorded final plat differs in
any material respect from the approved preliminary plat referred to in the
contract, the buyer or lessee may not be required by the seller or lessor to
close any earlier than 15 days after the delivery of the final approved and
recorded plat, during which 15-day period the buyer or lessee may terminate the
contract without breach or any further obligation and may receive a refund of
all earnest money or prepaid purchase price. For similar state law provisions,
refer to G.S. § 160D-807(b).
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not prohibit any owner or his or
her agent from entering into contracts to sell or lease land by reference to an
approved preliminary plat for which a final plat has not been properly approved
under this chapter or recorded with the Office of the Bladen County Register of
Deeds where the buyer or lessee is any person who has contracted to acquire or
lease the land for the purpose of engaging in the business of construction of
residential, commercial, or industrial buildings on the land, or for the
purpose of resale or lease of the land to persons engaged in that kind of
business, provided that no conveyance of that land may occur and no contract to
lease it may become effective until after the final plat has been properly
approved under the requirements of this chapter and recorded in the Office of
the Bladen County Register of Deeds. For similar state law provisions, refer to
G.S. § 160D-807(c).
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.442 HISTORIC PROPERTIES AND NATURAL ASSETS.
   (A)   In any subdivision, due consideration will be given to safeguard the
heritage of the town of Fairmont by preserving any archaeological site or any
property therein, or located on adjacent property thereto, that embodies
important elements of its cultural, social, economic, political or
architectural history and likewise all due consideration should be given to
promoting the use and conservation of property for the education, pleasure and
enrichment of the residents of the Town of Fairmont and the State of North
Carolina as a whole.
   (B)   It is a requirement of this chapter that the name and location of all
historic properties, located within the proposed subdivision or within any
contiguous property, be clearly identified on both the preliminary and final
plats. If any historic property that is listed on the U.S. Department of
Interior's National Register of Historic Places; likewise any property that has
been designated by local ordinance
as a “historic property” pursuant to G.S. § 160A-400.4; likewise any property
that has been designated by local ordinance as a “historic district” pursuant
to G.S. § 160A-400.5; the Planning Board may provide that the following
agencies be given an opportunity to make recommendations concerning an
individual subdivision plat before the plat is approved:
      (1)   The N.C. Department of Cultural Resources, Division of Archives and
History;
      (2)   Any local Historic Properties Commission appointed under the
provisions of G.S. § 160A-400.7.
   (C)   Furthermore, in any subdivision, due consideration will be given to
preserving natural features, such as trees, ponds, streams, rivers, lakes which
are of value not only to the subdivision but to the Town of Fairmont as a
whole.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.443 CONFORMITY TO EXISTING PLANS.
   All proposed subdivisions shall conform to any adopted plans for the town
and to any applicable regulations of the adopted municipal zoning chapter.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.444 PRE-SALE OR PRE-LEASE OF SUBDIVISION LOTS.
   (A)   The subdivider, upon approval of the preliminary plat, may enter into
contracts to sell or lease the lots shown on the approved preliminary plat,
provided that the contract does all of the following:
      (1)   Incorporates as an attachment a copy of the approved preliminary
plat referenced in the contract and obligates the owner to deliver to the buyer
a copy of the approved and recorded final plat prior to closing and conveyance;
      (2)   Plainly and conspicuously notifies the prospective buyer or lessee
that a final subdivision plat has not been approved or recorded at the time of
the contract, that no governmental body will incur any obligation to the
prospective buyer or lessee with respect to the approval of the final
subdivision plat, that changes between the preliminary and final plats are
possible, and that the contract or lease may be terminated without breach by
the buyer or lessee if the final approved and recorded plat differs in any
material respect from the approved preliminary plat;
      (3)   Provides that if the approved and recorded final plat does not
differ in any material respect from the plat referred to in the contract, the
buyer or lessee may not be required by the seller or lessor to close any
earlier than five days after the delivery of a copy of the final approved and
recorded plat; and
      (4)   Provides that if the approved and recorded final plat differs in
any material respect from the approved preliminary plat referred to in the
contract, the buyer or lessee may not be required by the seller or lessor to
close any earlier than 15 days after the delivery of the final approved and
recorded plat, during which 15-day period the buyer or lessee may terminate the
contract without breach or any further obligation and may receive a refund of
all earnest money or prepaid purchase price. For similar state law provisions,
refer to G.S. § 160D-807(b).
   (B)   The provisions of division (A)(4) above shall not prohibit any owner
or his or her agent from entering into contracts to sell or lease land by
reference to an approved preliminary plat for which a final plat has not been
properly approved under this ordinance or recorded with the Office of the
Bladen County Register of Deeds where the buyer or lessee is any person who has
contracted to acquire or lease the land for the purpose of engaging in the
business of construction of residential, commercial, or industrial buildings on
the land, or for the purpose of resale or lease of the land to persons engaged
in that kind of business, provided that no conveyance of that land may occur
and no contract to lease it may become effective until after the final plat has
been properly approved under the requirements of this chapter and recorded in
the Office of the Bladen County Register of Deeds. For similar state law
provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-807(c).
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.445 COMPLETING DEVELOPMENT IN PHASES.
   (A)   If a subdivision is to be developed or constructed in phases, the
subdivider shall submit plans that clearly show the various phases or stages of
the proposed development and the requirements of these regulations that will be
satisfied with respect to each phase or stage.
   (B)   Preliminary plats may be vested under the procedures in the Fairmont
Town Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.446 AMENDMENT TO AND MODIFICATION OF APPROVED PRELIMINARY PLATS.
   (A)   Insignificant deviations from the plat approval issued by the Planning
Board are permissible and the Subdivision Administrator may authorize such
insignificant deviations. A deviation may be considered insignificant if it
does not involve any of the following:
      (1)   Any substantive change in a condition of approval;
      (2)   An increase in the number of building lots proposed;
      (3)   Any substantial change in the location of, or any decrease in, the
amount of open space, buffers, or areas reserved for recreational use;
      (4)   Any substantial change in pedestrian and/or vehicular access or
circulation including road classification;
      (5)   Any change in the provision of services such as water supply and
wastewater disposal;
      (6)   Any substantial change in the location of utilities or other
easements.
   (B)   All other requests for changes in approved preliminary plats will be
processed as a modification to the original application. If such requests are
to be acted upon by the Planning Board, new conditions may be imposed only on
the specific site or area requested to be modified in accordance with these
regulations, but the applicant retains the right to reject such additional
conditions by withdrawing his/her request for an amendment and may then proceed
in accordance with the previously approved preliminary plat.
   (C)   The Subdivision Administrator shall determine whether amendments to
and modifications of permits fall within the categories set forth above in
division (A).
   (D)   An applicant requesting approval of changes shall submit a written
request for such approval to the Subdivision Administrator, which request shall
identify the changes. Approval of all changes must be given in writing.
   (E)   A vested right established in accordance with the town zoning
ordinance shall not be extended by any amendments or modifications to an
approved site specific development plan unless expressly provided for by the
town.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.447 PLAT APPROVAL NOT ACCEPTANCE OF DEDICATION OFFERS.
   (A)   The approval of a plat shall not be deemed to constitute the
acceptance by the local government or public of the dedication of any street or
other ground, public utility line, or other public facility shown on the plat.
However, any governing board may by resolution accept any dedication made to
the public of lands or facilities for streets, parks, public utility lines, or
other public purposes, when the lands or facilities are located within its
planning and development regulation jurisdiction. Acceptance of dedication of
lands or facilities located within the planning and development regulation
jurisdiction but outside the corporate limits of a city shall not place on the
city any duty to open, operate, repair, or maintain any street, utility line,
or other land or facility, and a city shall in no event located outside its
corporate limits.
   (B)   The town shall not have the authority to require, as a condition of
subdivision approval, the dedication of water systems or facilities, or other
public entity operating a water system shall have agreed to begin operation and
maintenance of the water system or water system facilities within one year of
the time of issuance of a certificate of occupancy for the first unit of
housing in the subdivision, a city or town shall not, as part of its
subdivision regulation applied to facilities or land outside the corporate
limits of a city, require dedication of water systems or facilities as a
condition for subdivision approval.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-806.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.448 PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE.
   (A)   Agreement and security required. In lieu of requiring the completion,
installation, and dedication of all improvements prior to final plat approval,
the Board of Commissioners may enter into an agreement with the subdivider
whereby the subdivider shall agree to complete all required improvements. The
subdivider shall be allowed to choose which security or combination of
securities that he or she wishes to provide from the choices provided below.
The town shall not have the authority to dictate which form of security will be
accepted as an improvement guarantee, and shall be required to offer a range of
options of types of improvements guarantees from which the subdivider may
choose.
   (B)   Guarantees. Once the agreements are signed by both parties and the
security required herein is provided, the final plat may be approved, if all
other requirements of this chapter are met. To secure this agreement, the
subdivider shall provide either one or a combination of the following
guarantees:
      (1)   Type. The type of the performance guarantee shall be at the
election of the developer. The term “performance guarantee” means any of the
following forms of guarantee:
         (a)   Surety bond issued by any company authorized to do business in
this state.
         (b)   Letter of credit issued by any financial institution licensed to
do business in this state.
         (c)   Other form of guarantee that provides equivalent security to a
surety bond or letter of credit.
      (2)   Duration. The duration of the performance guarantee shall initially
be one year, unless the developer determines that the scope of work for the
required improvements necessitates a longer duration. In the case of a bonded
obligation, the completion date shall be set one year from the date the bond is
issued, unless the developer determines that the scope of work for the required
improvements necessitates a longer duration.
      (3)   Extension. A developer shall demonstrate reasonable, good-faith
progress toward completion of the required improvements that are secured by the
performance guarantee or any extension. If the improvements are not completed
to the specifications of the local government, and the current performance
guarantee is likely to expire prior to completion of performance guarantee
issued, for an additional period. An extension under this section shall only be
for a duration necessary to
complete the required improvements. If a new performance guarantee is issued,
the amount shall be determined by the procedure provided in division (B)(5) of
this section and shall include the total cost of all incomplete improvements.
      (4)   Release. The performance guarantee shall be returned or released,
as appropriate, in a timely manner upon the acknowledgement by the local
government that the improvements for which the performance guarantee is being
required are complete. The local government shall return letters of credit or
escrowed funds upon completion of the required improvements to its
specifications or upon acceptance of the required improvements, if the required
improvements are subject to local government acceptance. When required
improvements that are secured by a bond are completed to the specifications of
the local government, or are accepted by the local government, if subject to
its acceptance, upon request by the developer, the local government shall
timely provide written acknowledgement that the required improvements have been
completed.
      (5)   Amount. The amount of the performance guarantee shall not exceed
125% of the reasonably estimated cost of completion at the time the performance
guarantee is issued. The local government may determine the amount of the
performance guarantee or use a cost estimate determined by the developer. The
reasonably estimated cost of completion shall include 100% of the costs for
labor and materials necessary for completion of the required improvements.
Where applicable, the costs shall be based on unit pricing. The additional 25%
allowed under this subdivision includes inflation and all costs of
administration regardless of how such fees or charges are denominated. The
amount of any extension of any performance guarantee shall be determined
according to the procedures for determining the initial guarantee and shall not
exceed 125% of the reasonably estimated cost of completion of the remaining
incomplete improvements still outstanding at the time the extension is
obtained.
      (6)   Timing. A local government, at its discretion, may require the
performance guarantee to be posted either at the time the plat is recorded or
at a time subsequent to plat recordation.
      (7)   Coverage. The performance guarantee shall only be used for
completion of the required improvements and not for repairs or maintenance
after completion.
      (8)   Legal responsibilities. No person shall have or may claim any
rights under or to any performance guarantee provided pursuant to this section
or in the proceeds of any such performance guarantee other than the following:
         (a)   The local government to whom the performance guarantee is
provided.
         (b)   The developer at whose request or for whose benefit the
performance guarantee is given.
         (c)   The person or entity issuing or providing the performance
guarantee at the request of or for the benefit of the developer.
      (9)    Multiple guarantees. The developer shall have the option to post
one type of a performance guarantee as provided for in division (B)(1) of this
section, in lieu of multiple bonds, letters of credit, or other equivalent
security, for all development matters related to the same project requiring
performance guarantees.
      (10)   Exclusion. Performance guarantees associated with erosion control
and stormwater control measures are not subject to the provisions of this
section. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-804.1.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.449 CONSTRUCTION COST ESTIMATE.
   The financial guarantee shall be accompanied by an itemized estimate for the
cost of construction that includes quantities and unit prices for construction
materials and activities such as clearing and grading. The estimate shall be
prepared by an engineer, contractor, or other individual qualified to calculate
the cost to complete the improvements according to approved plans and
specifications, who has no direct or indirect ownership interest in the
subdivision. The construction cost estimate shall include a 50% construction
contingency to account for unanticipated conditions or circumstances discovered
during the development process.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.450 DEFAULT.
   Upon default, meaning failure on the part of the subdivider to complete the
required improvements in a timely manner as spelled out in the performance bond
or escrow agreement, then the surety, or the financial institution holding the
escrow account shall, if requested by the town, pay all or any portion of the
bond or escrow fund to the town up to the amount needed to complete the
improvements based on an engineering estimate. Upon payment, the Board of
Commissioners, in its discretion, may expend such portion of said funds as it
deems necessary to complete all improvements.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.451 MAINTENANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Improvements installed as a requirement of subdivision approval shall
be maintained by the subdivider until they are accepted for maintenance by:
      (1)   For a public street, town or the North Carolina Department of
Transportation as appropriate;
      (2)   For utilities, town;
      (3)   For landscaping, the homeowners;
      (4)   For private streets, and/or community facilities such as recreation
and stormwater management improvements, a homeowners’ or neighborhood
association, or similar legal entity.
   (B)   Where a neighborhood or homeowners' association, or similar legal
entity, is to be responsible for the maintenance and control of any
improvements required as part of the subdivision approval, the subdivider shall
file with the Subdivision Administrator and record with the final plat, a
declaration of covenants and restrictions, articles of incorporation, where
required, and/or by-laws as approved by the Town Attorney that will govern the
maintenance and control of such improvements. Provisions shall include, but not
be limited to, the following:
      (1)   The association shall be established before any homes are sold and
any building occupied;
      (2)   Membership shall be mandatory for each homebuyer and all successive
buyers;
      (3)   The association shall be responsible for liability insurance, local
taxes and maintenance of recreation and other facilities, including streets
(e.g., when street maintenance is to be provided by a homeowners' association
until such time as the town or state, as applicable, assumes street maintenance
responsibility), and utility lines;
      (4)   The homeowners must pay their pro rate share of the costs, and any
sums levied by the association that remain unpaid shall become a lien on the
individual homeowner's property that shall be subordinate only to tax and
mortgage liens;
      (5)   If all or any portion of the property held by the association is
being disposed of, or if the association is dissolved, adequate recreation
space shall be deeded to the town or the appropriate unit of local government;
      (6)   The lot owner of each dwelling unit or lot shall have voting rights
in the association; and
      (7)   The homeowners' association shall be able to adjust any assessments
to meet changed needs.
      (8)   When articles of incorporation are required they shall be submitted
in the form in which they will be filed with the North Carolina Secretary of
State. Upon filing, a copy of the articles of incorporation shall be provided
to the Subdivision Administrator.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.452 DEFECTS GUARANTEE.
   The Planning Board shall require a bond guaranteeing utility taps, street
pavement, drainage facilities, water and sewer lines, and other improvements
against defects for one year. This bond shall be in the amount determined by
the Town Engineer and shall be in cash or be made by a surety company
authorized to do business in the state.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.453 MAINTENANCE GUARANTEE.
   The Subdivision Administrator shall secure from all subdividers a letter in
which the subdivider shall agree to maintain the backfill and any improvements
located thereon and therein and any ditch which has been dug in connection with
the installation of such improvements. Such letter shall be binding on the
subdivider for a period of one year after the acceptance of such improvements
by the town.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.454 VACATION OF PLATS.
   (A)   Any plat or any part of any plat must be vacated by the owner at any
time before the sale of any lot in the subdivision by a written instrument to
which a copy of such plat shall be attached, declaring the same to be vacated.
   (B)   Such an instrument shall be approved by the same agencies as approved
the final plat. The governing body may reject any such instrument, which
abridges or destroys any public right in any of its public uses, improvements,
streets or alleys.
   (C)   Such an instrument shall be executed, acknowledged or approved and
recorded and filed in the same manner as a final plat; and being duly recorded
or filed shall operate to destroy the force and effect of the recording of the
plat so vacated, and to divest all public right in the streets, alleys and
public grounds, and all dedications laid out or described in such plat.
   (D)   When lots have been sold, the plat may be vacated in the manner
provided in divisions (A), (B) and (C) of this section by all owners of the
lots in such plat joining in the execution of such writing.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.455 DEDICATIONS AND RESERVATIONS.
   (A)   Land subject to flooding as denoted in the town's flood plain maps and
land deemed by the Planning Board to be uninhabitable for other reasons
including, but not limited to, slopes in excess of 25%, slumping soils,
wetlands, habitats for endangered species, and historic/archeological sites,
shall not be platted for residential occupancy, nor for such other uses as may
increase danger to health, life or property, or aggravated the flood hazard.
Such land within a plan shall be set aside for such uses as will not be
endangered by periodic or occasional inundation, or will not produce
unsatisfactory living conditions.
      (1)   Past records of flood levels shall be used to determine sufficient
area from the centerline of streams to provide adequate protection from the
most severe flood of record.
   (B)   Where land is subdivided into larger parcels than ordinary building
lots, such parcels shall be arranged so as to allow for the opening of future
streets and logical further subdivision.
   (C)   Where a proposed residential subdivision contains or is adjacent to a
major highway, it shall be planned so as to avoid having lots fronting on the
highway in such a manner as to derive their access from said highway,
preferably by providing a marginal access street for these lots or by backing
the lots to the highway.
   (D)   Where a proposed subdivision contains or is adjacent to a railroad
right-of-way, it shall be planned so as to avoid having residential lots front
on a street, which parallels and is adjacent to the railroad right-of-way.
   (E)   Subdivision showing reserve strips controlling access to public ways
will not be approved except when the control and disposition of land comprising
such strips is placed within the town's jurisdiction under conditions meeting
the approval of the Subdivision Administrator.
   (F)   All subdivided land shall be part of a usable and numbered lot or it
shall be reserved as permanent open space. All major subdivisions shall be
required to reserve a minimum of 5% or more of the gross land area as permanent
open space, subject to the review of the Planning Board.
   (G)   If the entire area shown on an approved preliminary plat is not to be
recorded at the same time as one unit, but instead, sections or units of the
entire subdivision are to be recorded at subsequent time intervals, then the
unit boundaries shall be so designated as to permit each unit recorded to
function independently of the unit to follow it in the proposed recording
schedule of the subdivider. Temporary turnarounds shall be constructed by the
developer, as required by the town, at the ends of streets, which are presently
dead-end, but are planned as through streets when the adjacent unit ultimately
recorded.
   (H)   Areas that have been used for disposal of solid waste shall not be
subdivided unless tests by the town Health Department, a structural engineer,
and soils expert determine that the land is suitable for the purpose proposed.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.456 NAME DUPLICATION.
   The name of the subdivision shall not duplicate nor closely approximate the
name of an existing subdivision within the town.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.457 SUBDIVISION LAYOUT AND DESIGN.
   (A)   Blocks.
      (1)   The lengths, widths, and shapes of blocks shall be determined with
due regard to: provision of adequate building sites suitable to the special
needs of the type of use contemplated; zoning requirements; needs for vehicular
and pedestrian circulation; control and safety of street traffic; limitations
and opportunities of topography; and convenient access to water areas.
      (2)   Blocks shall not be less than 400 feet or more than 1,200 feet.
      (3)   Blocks shall have sufficient width to allow two tiers of lots of
minimum depth except where single tier lots are required to separate
residential development from through vehicular traffic or another type of use,
in nonresidential subdivisions, or where abutting a water area.
      (4)   Where deemed necessary by the Planning Board, a pedestrian
crosswalk at least 15 feet in width may be required to provide convenient
public access to a public area such as a park or school, to a water area, or to
areas such as shopping centers, religious or transportation facilities.
      (5)   Block numbers shall conform to the town street numbering system.
   (B)   Lots.
      (1)   All lots in new subdivisions shall conform to any zoning
requirements of the district in which the subdivision is located. Conformance
to zoning requirements means, among other things, that the smallest lot in the
subdivision must meet all dimensional requirements of the zoning ordinance. It
is not sufficient merely for the average lot to conform.
      (2)   Lots shall meet any applicable requirements of the County Health
Department, particularly where no public water and/or sewer is provided.
      (3)   Double frontage lots shall be avoided wherever possible.
      (4)   Side lot lines shall be substantially at right angles to or radial
to street lines.
      (5)   When in the opinion of the Robeson County Health Department factors
of drainage or soil conditions indicate a potential health hazard, the Fairmont
Planning Board shall require lots of greater area.
      (6)   Every lot shall abut a public street which has a minimum right-of-
way width of at least fifty feet, except for lots abutting marginal street
access.
      (7)   Lots are not required for subdivision for commercial and industrial
use, but when provided should be of appropriate size and arrangement to provide
for adequate off-street parking and loading facilities based upon the intended
use.
   (C)   Easements.
      (1)   Utility easements. Easements for underground or above ground
utilities shall be provided, where necessary, across lots or centered on rear
or side lot lines and shall be at least 12 feet wide for water and sanitary
sewer lines and as required by the companies involved, for telephone, gas and
power lines. The Planning Board will determine whether one easement is
sufficient or whether several easements are necessary to accommodate the
various facilities and the subdivider shall provide the required easements.
      (2)   Drainage easements. Where a subdivision is traversed by a stream or
drainage way, an easement shall be provided conforming with the lines of such
stream and of sufficient width as will be adequate for the purpose.
      (3)   The Planning Board may require pedestrian easements or walkways to
be provided through the interior of block where such easements are needed to
provide access to a block. Pedestrian easements shall be at least ten feet wide
and shall be laid out along property lines.
      (4)   Only those easements, rights-of-way, and public sites approved by
the Board of Commissioners will be accepted for maintenance by the Town of
Fairmont.
   (D)   Alleys.
      (1)   Alleys shall be provided in commercial and industrial districts,
except that the Planning Board may waive this requirement where other definite
and assured provision is made for service access, such as off-street loading,
unloading and parking consistent with and adequate for the uses proposed.
      (2)   The width of an alley serving commercial and industrial areas
shall, not be less than 30 feet. Dead end alleys shall be provided only with
adequate turn-around facilities, at the dead end as determined by the Planning
Board.
      (3)   Alleys are not permitted in residential districts except when the
Planning Board determines that special conditions warrant a secondary means of
access.
   (E)   Buffering/landscaping/screening. All buffers and landscaping shall
conform to the requirements of the zoning ordinance as outlined in §§
154.205 through
154.213 - Landscaping, Buffering, and Screening.
   (F)   Outdoor lighting. All outdoor lighting shall conform to the
requirements of the zoning ordinance as outlined in §§
154.215 through
154.218 - Outdoor Lighting.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.458 STREETS.
   The following shall be considered minimum standards for design and placement
of streets. Where other official engineering and public works standards and
specifications are more stringent, such higher standards shall apply.
   (A)   Type of street required. All subdivision lots shall abut on a public
street. All public streets shall be built to the standards of this subchapter
and all other applicable standards of the town and the state department of
transportation. Public streets which are eligible for acceptance into the state
highway system shall be constructed to the standards necessary to be put on the
state highway system or the standard in this subchapter whichever is stricter
in regard to each particular item, and shall be put on such system. Streets
which are not eligible to be put on the state highway system because there are
too few lots or residences shall, nevertheless, be dedicated to the public and
shall be in accordance with the standards in this subchapter or the standards
necessary to be put on the state highway system, whichever is stricter in
regard to each particular item, so as to be eligible to be put on the system at
a later date. A written maintenance agreement with provisions for maintenance
of the street until it is put on the state system shall be included with the
final plat. No lots may be sold until this provision is satisfied. There shall
be no private streets.
   (B)   Subdivisions street disclosure statement. All streets shown on the
final plat shall be designated in accordance with G.S. § 136-102.6 and
designation as public shall be conclusively presumed an offer of dedication to
the public. Where streets are dedicated to the public but not accepted into a
municipal or the state system, before lots are sold, and statement explaining
the status of the street shall be included with the final plat.
   (C)   Half-streets. The dedication of half-streets of less than 60 feet at
the perimeter of a new subdivision shall be prohibited. If circumstances render
this impractical, adequate provision for the concurrent dedication of the
remaining half of the street shall be furnished by the subdivider. Where there
exists a half-street in an adjoining subdivision, the remaining half shall be
provided by the proposed subdivision. However, in circumstances where more than
60 feet of right-of-way is required, a partial width right-of-way, not less
than 60 feet in width, may be dedicated when adjoining undeveloped property is
owned or controlled by the subdivider; provided that the width of the partial
dedication is such as to permit the installation of such facilities as may be
necessary to serve abutting lots. When the adjoining property is subdivided,
the remainder of the full required right-of-way shall be dedicated.
   (D)   Marginal access streets. Where a tract of land to be subdivided
adjoins a principal arterial street, the subdivider may be required to provide
a marginal access street parallel to the arterial street or reverse frontage on
a minor street for the lots to be developed adjacent to the arterial. Where
reverse frontage is established, private driveways shall be prevented from
having direct access to the principal arterial.
   (E)   Access to adjacent properties. Where, in the opinion of the Planning
Board, it is necessary to provide for street access to an adjoining property,
proposed streets shall be extended by dedication to the boundary of such
property and a temporary turnaround provided.
   (F)   Nonresidential streets. The subdivider of a nonresidential subdivision
shall provide streets in accordance with I.F-4 of the North Carolina Roads,
Minimum Construction Standards, January 2010 (as amended); and the standards in
this subchapter, whichever are stricter in regard to each particular item.
   (G)   Design standards. The design of all streets and roads within the
jurisdiction of this subchapter shall be in accordance with the accepted
policies of the state department of transportation, division of highways, as
taken or modified from the American Association of State Highway Officials
(AASHO) manuals. The North Carolina Department of Transportation, Division of
Highways' Subdivision Roads Minimum Construction Standards, January 2010 (as
amended), shall apply for any items not included in this subchapter, or where
stricter than this subchapter. The following signed certificates shall appear
on all copies of the final plat:
 
Certificate of Ownership and Dedication
I hereby certify that I am the owner of the property shown and described hereon, which is located in the subdivision jurisdiction of the Town of Fairmont and that I hereby adopt this plan of subdivision with
my free consent, establish minimum building setback lines, and dedicate all streets, alleys, walks, parks, and other sites and easements to public or private use as noted. Furthermore, I hereby dedicate all
sanitary sewer, storm sewer and water to the Town.
                                                                                                        
Subdivider                               Date
 
 
   (H)   Other requirements.
      (1)   Through traffic. Through traffic discouraged on residential
collector and local streets residential collector and local streets shall be
laid out in such a way that their use by through traffic will be discouraged.
Streets shall be designed or walkways dedicated to ensure convenient access to
places of public assembly.
      (2)   Permits for connection to state roads. An approved permit is
required for connection to any existing state system road. This permit is
required prior to any construction on the street or road. The application is
available at the office of the nearest district engineer of the division of
highways.
      (3)   Offsets to utility poles. Poles for overhead utilities should be
located clear of roadway shoulders, as close to the right-of-way as possible.
On streets with curb and gutter, utility poles should be set back a minimum
distance of six feet from the face of curb.
      (4)   Wheelchair ramps. In accordance with G.S. § 136-44.14, all street
curbs in the state being constructed or reconstructed for maintenance
procedures, traffic operations, repairs, correction of utilities, or altered
for any reason after September 1, 1973, shall provide wheelchair ramps for the
physically handicapped at all intersection where both curb and gutter and
sidewalks are provided and at other major points of pedestrian flow.
      (5)   Curb and gutter. The subdivider may construct curbs and gutters,
but it is not required by this subchapter for plat approval.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.459 UTILITIES.
   (A)   Water and sanitary sewer systems. Each lot in all subdivisions within
the town's jurisdiction shall be provided with an extension of the town's water
(and/or sanitary sewer) systems at the subdivider's expense if practical. A
subdivision lot in the town's jurisdiction may be provided with extensions to a
municipal system in lieu of the town system. Water and sanitary sewer lines,
connections, and equipment shall be in accordance with the town standards. All
lots in subdivisions not connected to municipal or town water and/or sanitary
sewer systems must have a suitable source of water supply and sanitary sewage
disposal, which complies with the regulations of the appropriate agencies.
   (B)   Storm water drainage system. The subdivider shall provide a surface
water drainage system constructed to the standards of the state department of
transportation, as reflected in, Handbook for the Design of Highway Surface
Drainage Structures, (1973), subject to review by the town consulting engineer.
   (C)   Streetlights. All subdivisions that have one or more public streets
shall have streetlights installed at no more than 200 feet apart along each
street. The subdivider is responsible for installation expenses. The long-term
maintenance of the streetlights is to be assigned prior to the selling of any
lots.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.460 OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
    (A)   Placement of monuments. Unless otherwise specified by this
subchapter, the manual of practice for land surveying as adopted by the state
board of registration for professional engineers and land surveyors, under the
provisions of title 21 of the North Carolina Administrative Code, chapter 56
(21 NCAC 56), shall apply when conducting surveys for subdivisions; to
determine the accuracy for survey and placement of monuments, control corners,
markers, and property corner ties; to determine the location, design, and
material of monuments, markers, control corners, and property corner ties; and
to determine other standards and procedures governing the practice of land
surveying for subdivisions.
   (B)   Grading.
      (1)   All subdivision grading shall be done in such a manner as to
preserve natural topographic and vegetative features.
      (2)   Wholesale removal of topsoil from subdivision areas other than
those to be paved shall not be permitted. Where extensive grading is required,
the topsoil shall be removed and piled near the site until rough grading is
completed after which the topsoil shall be spread over the portions of the site
which are not to be paved.
      (3)   When grading is completed, the topography will generally agree with
the contour changes shown and approved on the preliminary plat.
   (C)   Oversized improvements. The town may require installation of certain
oversized utilities or the extension of utilities to adjacent property when it
is in the interest of future development. If the town requires the installation
of improvements in excess of the standards adopted by reference, the town shall
pay the cost differential between the improvement required and the standards in
this subchapter.
   (D)   Exclusive access easements. Exclusive access easements serving one lot
shall only be permitted in minor subdivisions and shall meet the following
standards:
      (1)   An exclusive access easement shall serve only one single-family
dwelling and its uninhabited accessory structures;
      (2)   Lots to be served by an exclusive access easement shall not be
created in an area served by public water or sewer;
      (3)   The minimum lot size shall be one acre (excluding the easement
portion);
      (4)   The minimum easement width shall be 25 feet measured up the entire
length of the easement;
      (5)   The minimum separation between the easement portion and any other
platted access or right-of-way shall be 150 feet;
      (6)   The location of the easement shall be recorded and labeled on the
plat as “private”;
      (7)   The exclusive access easement shall permit ingress, egress, and
regress and necessary utilities required to serve the lot;
      (8)   Building setbacks shall be provided as illustrated in Figure 15-1.
The easement portion of the lot shall not be used to calculate building
setbacks.
      (9)     Further subdivision of lots accessed by an exclusive access
easement shall be prohibited. A notice of this fact shall be placed on the
final plat submitted for approval.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0fa087e7aaf2d1426066c541dcf0227ca59242f9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2613.png]
 
   (E)     Street name markers. Street name markers shall be provided at all
subdivision street intersections. The placement and construction of such signs
shall conform to the specification of the Town of Fairmont.
   (F)   Sidewalks. The Planning Board may required sidewalks to be constructed
along officially designated major streets and along any minor streets in a
manner that will provide convenient, safe
pedestrian circulation throughout the area. Where deemed necessary, the
Planning Board may require the construction of sidewalks or walkways to connect
with existing or future proposed sidewalks or walkways. All required sidewalks
or walkways shall be constructed within the street right-of-way and installed
according to specifications and standards established by the Board of
Commissioners.
   (G)   Construction standards.
      (1)   All standards and specifications of the town shall govern the
design, construction, and installation of all improvements. The Board of
Commissioners may order suspension of work being performed if such standards
and specifications are not being conformed to.
      (2)   Prior to the commencement of such construction, the subdivider
shall advise the Subdivision Administrator in writing, at least 15 working days
in advance of such work, that construction is to be commenced. The Subdivision
Administrator, in conjunction with other applicable agencies, shall inspect
such work. During construction, the building site shall be maintained by the
subdivider in a safe and sanitary manner. Prior to the issuance of an occupancy
permit, all stumps, litter, rubbish, brush, weeds, dead trees, roots, debris,
and scrap building materials shall be removed by the subdivider.
   (H)   Construction procedures.
      (1)   Commencement. No construction or installation of improvements shall
commence in a proposed subdivision until the preliminary plat has been
approved, and all plans and specifications have been approved by the
appropriate authorities.
      (2)   Permits. No building or other permits shall be issued for erection
of a structure on any lot not of record at the time of adoption of this chapter
until all the requirements of this chapter have been met.
      (3)   Access. The Subdivision Administrator shall have access to premises
and structures during reasonable hours to make those inspections as deemed
necessary by him/her to ensure compliance with this chapter.
      (4)   Inspection. The subdivider, prior to commencing any work within the
subdivision, shall make arrangements with the Subdivision Administrator to
provide for adequate inspection. The approving authorities having jurisdiction
or their representatives shall inspect and approve all completed work prior to
release of the sureties.
      (5)   Erosion control. The subdivider shall cause all grading,
excavations, open cuts, side slopes, and other land surface disturbances to be
so mulched, seeded, sodded, or otherwise protected.
      (6)   Existing flora. The subdivider shall make every effort to protect
and retain all existing trees, shrubbery, vines, and grasses not actually lying
in public roadways, drainage ways, building foundation
sites, private driveways, soil absorption waste disposal areas, paths, and
trails. Such trees are to be protected and preserved during construction. Such
trees are to be preserved by well islands or retaining walls whenever abutting
grades are altered. Temporary vegetation and mulching shall be used to protect
critical areas, and permanent vegetation shall be installed as soon as
practical.
      (7)   Construction. Construction at any given time shall be confined to
the smallest practical area and for the shortest practical period of time.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS AND VESTED RIGHTS
§ 154.475 APPLICABILITY.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish an orderly process to develop
land within the Town of Fairmont. It is also the intent of this subchapterto
provide a clear and understandable development process that is fair and
equitable to all interests, including the applicants/petitioners, affected
neighbors, town staff, related agencies, the Planning Board and the Town Board
of Commissioners. The development review process applies to all development
actions within the planning jurisdiction.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.476 DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS.
   Development projects often occur in multiple phases over several years,
requiring a long-term commitment of both public and private resources, creating
community impacts and opportunities that are difficult to accommodate within
traditional zoning processes, and require careful coordination of public
capital facilities planning, financing, and construction schedules and phasing
of the private development. Recognizing this, the NC General Assembly has
authorized local governments to enter into development agreements with
developers, subject to the procedures outlined in this section. When entering
into such agreements, Town of Fairmont may not exercise any authority or make
any commitment not authorized by general or local act and may not impose any
tax or fee not authorized by otherwise applicable law. A development agreement
shall not exempt the property owner or developer from compliance with the State
Building Code or State or local housing codes that are not part of the town’s
development regulations. When the Town Board of Commissioners approves the
rezoning of any property associated with a development agreement executed and
recorded pursuant to this section, the provisions of G.S. § 160D-6-5(a) apply.
Development authorized by a development agreement shall comply with all
applicable laws, including all ordinances, resolutions, regulations, permits,
policies, and laws affecting the development of property, including laws
governing permitted uses of the property, density, intensity, design, and
improvements. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-1001(a)-
(d).
    (A)   Definitions.
      (1)   DEVELOPMENT. The planning for or carrying out of a building
activity, the making of a material change in the use or appearance of any
structure or property, or the dividing of land into two or more parcels.
      (2)   PUBLIC FACILITIES. Major capital improvements, including, but not
limited to, transportation, sanitary sewer, solid waste, drainage, potable
water, educational, parks and recreational, and health systems and facilities.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-1002.
   (B)   Authority. The town may enter into a development agreement with a
developer, subject to the procedures and standards of this section. In entering
into such a development agreement, the town may not exercise any authority or
make any commitment not authorized by general or local act, and may not impose
any tax or fee not authorized by otherwise applicable law. If more than one
local government is made party to an agreement, the agreement must specify
which local government is responsible for the overall administration of the
development agreement. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. §§ 160D-
1001(b) and 160D-1006(c).
   (C)   Applicability. The development agreement procedure allows the town and
the developer to enter into an agreement for completion of the development,
subject to compliance with specific requirements set down in the agreement. A
development agreement may be applied to a development of any size, however, all
proposed developments of at least three buildable acres shall be subject to a
development agreement. The terms of a development agreement apply to all
successors in interest. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-
1004.
   (D)   Duration. Development agreement issued by the town shall be of a
reasonable length of time based upon the complexity of the development proposed
in the agreement. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-1004.
   (E)   Development agreement standards. For consideration of the town to
participate in a development agreement, a development subject to the agreement
must meet the following criteria:
      (1)   Planned development. The information regarding the property subject
to the development agreement shall contain details of the property and the
planned development in accordance with the NC State General Statute
requirements.
      (2)   Phasing and duration of development. The development shall
demonstrate phasing and participation in the proposed agreement shall be of
reasonable terms that shall be specified in the agreement.
      (3)   Impact on capital improvements. The development shall demonstrate
the impact on existing and future provisions of capital improvements by the
town including at least one of the following:
transportation, potable water, sanitary sewer, solid waste, stormwater
management, educational, parks and recreational, and health systems and
facilities.
   (F)   Contents of application. An application for a development agreement
shall include a proposed development agreement that shall, at a minimum,
address all of the following:
      (1)   A legal description of the property subject to the agreement and
the names of its legal and equitable property owners;
      (2)   The duration of the agreement;
      (3)   A development schedule, including commencement dates and interim
completion dates at no greater than five-year intervals;
      (4)   The development uses permitted on the property, including
population densities and building types, intensities, placement on the site,
and design;
      (5)   A description of public facilities that will service the
development, including who provides the facilities, the date any new public
facilities, if needed, will be constructed, and a schedule to assure public
facilities are available concurrent with the impacts of the development;
      (6)   If the development agreement provides that the town shall provide
certain public facilities, the development agreement shall provide that the
delivery date of such public facilities will be tied to successful performance
by the developer in implementing the proposed development (such as meeting
defined completion percentages or other performance standards);
      (7)   A description, where appropriate, of any reservation or dedication
of land for public purposes and any provisions to protect environmentally
sensitive property;
      (8)   A description of all local development permits approved or needed
to be approved for the development of the property together with a statement
indicating that the failure of the agreement to address a particular permit,
condition, term, or restriction does not relieve the developer of the necessity
of complying with the law governing their permitting requirements, conditions,
terms, or restrictions;
      (9)   A description of any conditions, terms, restrictions, or other
requirements determined to be necessary by the town for the public health,
safety, or welfare of its citizens;
      (10)   A description, where appropriate, of any provisions for the
preservation and restoration of historic structures; and
      (11)   An indemnification and “hold harmless” clause whereby the
developer/property owner holds the town and its agents harmless from liability
for damages, injury, or death that may arise from the direct or indirect
operations of the owner, developers, contractors, and subcontractors that
relate to the project.
      (12)   The proposed development agreement may include the following:
         (a)   A provision that the entire development or any phase of it be
commenced or completed within a specified period of time;
         (b)   Other defined performance standards to be met by the developer;
         (c)   Other matters not inconsistent with law.
      (13)   The application shall include a master plan that depicts the
general configuration and relationship of the principal elements of the
proposed development, including major uses, general building types, pedestrian
and vehicular circulation, open space, public facilities, and phasing.
         (a)   If more than one local government is made party to an agreement,
the agreement must specify which local government is responsible for the
overall administration of the development agreement. A local or regional
utility authority may also be made a party to the development agreement.
         (b)   The development agreement also may cover any other matter,
including defined performance standards, not inconsistent with G.S. Chapter
160D. The development agreement may include mutually acceptable terms regarding
provision of public facilities and other amenities and the allocation of
financial responsibility for their provision, provided any impact mitigation
measures offered by the developer beyond those that could be required by the
local government pursuant to G.S. § 160D-8-4 shall be expressly enumerated
within the agreement, and provided the agreement may not include a tax or
impact fee not otherwise authorized by law. For similar state law provisions,
refer to G.S. § 160D-1006.
         (c)   Modifications. Consideration of a proposed major modification of
the agreement shall follow the same procedures as required for initial approval
of a development agreement. Changes which constitute a major modification may
be determined as provided for in the development agreement. Changes which are
deemed minor may be processed administratively. For similar state law
provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-1006(e).
   (G)   Procedure for entering into development agreements with developers.
      (1)   Submittal.
         (a)   The application for a development agreement shall be submitted,
together with all other related permit/development approval applications, to
the Zoning Administrator.
         (b)   The Zoning Administrator shall review the contents to ensure
that the application is complete. If the application is not completed, the
applicant shall be notified within ten calendar days.
         (c)   When the completed application is received and verified, the
Zoning Administrator shall request and place the consideration of this
application on the agenda for the next meeting of the Planning Board.
      (2)   Review and recommendation of the Planning Board. Following
consideration and review, the Planning Board shall make on the following
recommendations:
         (a)   The town enter into the development agreement as submitted;
         (b)   The town enter into the development agreement application
subject to modifications agreed to by the applicant, in writing; or
         (c)   The town not enter into the development agreement.
      (3)   Consideration of the development agreement by the Board of
Commissioners.
         (a)   Before entering in to a development agreement, the Town Board of
Commissioners shall conduct a legislative hearing. The Town Clerk shall
schedule a public hearing before the Town of Fairmont Board of Commissioners
for the development agreement application. The notice provisions of G.S. §
160D-6-2 applicable to zoning map amendments shall be followed for this
hearing. The notice for the public hearing must specify the location of the
property subject to the development agreement, the development uses proposed on
the property, and must specify a place where a copy of the proposed development
agreement can be obtained. This hearing may be held jointly with any hearing
required for other permits and approvals necessary of this same project. For
similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-1005.
         (b)   Following consideration and review of the recommendation from
the Planning Board, the Board of Commissioners shall take one of the following
actions:
            1.   Enter into the development agreement as submitted;
            2.   Enter into the development agreement, subject to modifications
agreed to by the applicant, in writing;
            3.   Not enter into the development agreement; or
            4.   Remand of the application back to the Planning Commission for
further consideration.
   (H)   Recordation. The developer shall record the agreement with the Robeson
County Register of Deeds within 14 days after the local government and
developer execute an approved development agreement. No development approvals
may be issued until the development agreement has been recorded. The burdens of
the development agreement are binding upon, and the benefits of the agreement
shall inure to, all successors in interest to the parties to the agreement. For
similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-1011.
   (I)   Approval of debt. In the event that any of the obligations of the
local governments in the development agreement constitute debt, the local
government shall comply, at the time of the obligation to incur the debt and
before the debt becomes enforceable against the local government, with any
applicable constitutional and statutory procedures for the approval of this
debt. The agreement shall be signed by the Town Attorney, Finance Director, and
Mayor. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-1012.
   (J)   Vesting.
      (1)   Unless the development agreement specifically provides for the
application of subsequently enacted laws, the laws applicable to development of
the property subject to a development agreement are those in force at the time
of execution of the agreement.
      (2)   Except for grounds specified in G.S. § 160D-1-8(e), Town of
Fairmont may not apply subsequently adopted ordinances or development policies
to a development that is subject to a development agreement.
      (3)   In the event state or federal law is changed after a development
agreement has been entered into and the change prevents or precludes compliance
with one or more provisions of the development agreement, Town of Fairmont may
modify the affected provisions, upon a finding that the change in state or
federal law has a fundamental effect on the development agreement. For similar
state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-1007.
   (K)   Termination. Development agreements may be terminated by mutual
consent of the parties. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-
1009.
   (L)   Annual review; breach and cure.
      (1)   Annual review. During any period of time in which a development
permit is active, the town shall review the development at least once every 12
months for compliance with the agreement. The developer shall be required to
demonstrate good faith compliance with the terms of the development agreement.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. 160D-1009.
      (2)   Breach and cure.
         (a)   A development agreement shall be enforceable by any party to the
agreement notwithstanding any changes in the development regulations made
subsequent to the effective date of the development agreement. Any party to the
agreement may file an action for injunctive relief to enforce the terms of a
development agreement.
         (b)   Material breach. If the town finds and determines that the
developer has committed a material breach of the terms or conditions of the
development agreement, the town shall serve written notice of the breach upon
the developer within a reasonable time after the periodic review. Such notice
shall set forth with reasonable particularity the nature of the breach and the
evidence supporting the finding and determination, and shall provide the
developer a reasonable time in which to cure the material breach.
         (c)   Failure to cure material breach. If the developer fails to cure
the material breach within the time given, then the town unilaterally may
terminate or modify the development agreement.
         (d)   Appeal. The notice of termination or modification may be
appealed to the Board of Adjustment for review and decision.
         (e)   Other penalties for breach. An ordinance adopted pursuant to
G.S. § 160D-10.3 or the development agreement may specify other penalties for
breach in lieu of termination, including but not limited to, penalties allowed
for violation of a development regulation. Nothing in this subchapter shall be
construed to abrogate or impair the power of the local government to enforce
applicable law.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-1008.
   (M)   Amendments to development agreement.
      (1)   Mutual consent. A development agreement may be amended or canceled
by mutual consent of the parties to the agreement or by their successors in
interest.
      (2)   Major modification. Consideration of a proposed major modification
of a development agreement shall follow the same procedures as required for
initial approval of the agreement.
      (3)   Minor modification. The Town Board of Commissioners delegates these
to the Zoning Administrator who may approve minor modifications of the
development agreement with the mutual consent of the other parties to the
agreement, without following the same procedures as required for initial
approval of the agreement, upon making written findings that the proposed
modifications would not significantly change the use, intensity, or design of
the development, would be consistent with the purposes and goals of the
agreement, would comply with this chapter, and would not adversely affect the
public health, safety, or general welfare.
   (N)   Assumption of jurisdiction over development agreements.
      (1)   Town assumes planning jurisdiction. If the town assumes planning
jurisdiction over property subject to a development agreement established by
another jurisdiction, such development agreement shall be valid for the
duration of the agreement, or eight years from the effective date of the town’s
assumption of planning jurisdiction over the subject property, whichever is
earlier.
      (2)   Rights and obligations. The parties to the development agreement
and the town shall have the same rights and obligations with respect to each
other regarding matters addressed in the development agreement as if the
property had remained in the previous jurisdiction.
      (3)   Modification or suspension. The town may modify or suspend the
provisions of the development agreement if the town determines that the failure
to do so would place the residents of the area subject to the development
agreement, or the residents of the town’s planning jurisdiction, or both, in a
condition dangerous to their health or safety, or both.
   (O)   Change of jurisdiction.
      (1)   A development agreement entered into by Town of Fairmont before the
effective date of a change of jurisdiction shall be valid for the duration of
the agreement, or eight years from the effective date of the change in
jurisdiction, whichever is earlier. The parties to the development agreement
and the local government assuming jurisdiction have the same rights and
obligations with respect to each other regarding matters addressed in the
development agreement as if the property had remained in the previous
jurisdiction.
      (2)   In assuming jurisdiction, Town of Fairmont may modify or suspend
the provisions of the development agreement if the town determines that the
failure to do so would place the residents of the territory subject to the
development agreement, or the residents of the town, or both, in a condition
dangerous to their health or safety, or both. For similar state law provisions,
refer to G.S. § 160D-1010.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.477 VESTED RIGHTS AND PERMIT CHOICE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to ensure reasonable
certainty, stability, and fairness in the development regulation process,
secure the reasonable expectations of landowners, and foster cooperation
between the public and private sectors in land-use planning and development.
This purpose is based upon the General Assembly’s recognition that local
government approval of development typically follows significant investment in
site evaluation, planning, development costs, consultant fees, and related
expenses. The General Assembly has found that it is therefore necessary and
desirable to provide for the establishment of certain vested rights. These
provisions strike an appropriate balance between private expectations and the
public interest. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-1014
(a).
   (B)   Permit choice. When an application made in accordance with local
regulation is submitted for a development approval required pursuant to G.S. §
160D-1014 and a development regulation changes between the time the application
was submitted and a decision is made, the applicant may choose which version of
the development regulation will apply to the application. If the development
permit applicant chooses the version of the rule or ordinance applicable at the
time of the permit application, the development permit applicant shall not be
required to await the outcome of the amendment to the rule, map, or ordinance
prior to acting on the development permit. This section applies to all
development approvals issued by the town. The duration of vested rights created
by development approvals are as set forth in §
154.389. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-1014(b).
   (C)   Process to claim vested right. A person claiming a statutory or common
law vested right may submit information to substantiate that claim on a form
approved by the Town Board of Commissioners to the Zoning Administrator who
shall make an initial determination as to the existence of the vested right.
The Zoning Administrator's determination may be appealed under G.S. 160D-405.
On appeal the existence of a vested right shall be reviewed de novo. In lieu of
seeking such a determination, a person claiming a vested right may bring an
original civil action as provided by G.S. 160D-405(c). For similar state law
provisions, refer to G.S. §§ 160D-1014(c) and 160D-108.1.
   Figur e 16.1 Vested Rights Certificate Process
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0fa087e7aaf2d1426066c541dcf0227ca59242f9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2615.png]
 
   (D)     Types and duration of statutory vested rights. Except as provided by
this section and subject to §
154.476 of this subchapter, amendments in local development regulations shall
not be applicable or enforceable with regard to a develop ment that has been
permitted or approved pursunt to this subchapter so long as one of the
approvals listed in this subchapter remains valid and unexpired. Each type of
vested right listed below is defined by and is subject to the limitations
provided in this section and the cited statutes. Vested rights established
under this section are not mutually exclusive. The establishment of a vested
right under one section does not preclude vesting under one or more other
sections or by common law principles.
      (1)   Six months -- building permits. Pursuant to G.S. § 160D-11-9, a
building permit expires six months after issuance unless work under the permit
has commenced. Building permits also expire if work is discontinued for a
period of 12 months after work has commenced.
      (2)   One year -- other local development approvals. Pursuant to G.S. §
160D-4-3(c), unless otherwise specified by this section, statute, or local
ordinance, all other local development approvals expire one year after issuance
unless work has substantially commenced. Expiration of a local development
approval does not affect the duration of a vested right established as a site
specific vesting plan, a multiphase development plan, a development agreement,
or vested rights established under common law.
      (3)   Two to five years -- site specific vesting plans.
         (a)   Duration. A vested right for a site specific vesting plan shall
remain vested for a period of two years. This vesting shall not be extended by
any amendments or modifications to a site specific vesting plan unless
expressly provided by the town. The town may provide that rights regarding a
site specific vesting plan shall be vested for a period exceeding two years,
but not exceeding five years, if warranted by the size and phasing of
development, the level of investment, the need for the development, economic
cycles, and market conditions or other considerations. This determination shall
be in the discretion of the town and shall be made following the process
specified by division (D)(3)(d) below of this section for the particular form
of a site specific vesting plan involved.
         (b)   Relation to building permits. A right vested as provided in this
section shall terminate at the end of the applicable vesting period with
respect to buildings and uses for which no valid building permit applications
have been filed. Upon issuance of a building permit, the provisions of
G.S.160D-11-9 and G.S. 160D-11-13 shall apply, except that the permit shall not
expire or be revoked because of the running of time while a vested right under
this section exists.
         (c)   Requirements for site specific vesting plans. For the purposes
of this section a “site- specific vesting plan” means a plan submitted to the
town which identifies with reasonable certainty the type and intensity of use
for a specific parcel or parcels of property. The plan may be in the form of,
but not be limited to, any of the following plans or approvals: A planned unit
development plan, a subdivision plat, a site plan, a preliminary or general
development plan, a special use permit, a conditional zoning, or any other
development approval as may be used by a local government.
            1.   Unless otherwise expressly provided by the town, the plan
shall include the approximate boundaries of the site; significant topographical
and other natural features effecting development of the site; the approximate
location on the site of the proposed buildings, structures, and other
improvements; the approximate dimensions, including height, of the proposed
buildings and other structures; and the approximate location of all existing
and proposed infrastructure on the site, including water, sewer, roads, and
pedestrian walkways.
            2.   What constitutes a site specific vesting plan shall be defined
by the relevant development regulation and the development approval that
triggers vesting shall be so identified. At a minimum, the regulation shall
designate a vesting point earlier than the issuance of a building permit. In
the event the town fails to adopt a regulation setting forth what constitutes a
site specific vesting plan, any development approval shall be considered to be
a site specific vesting plan.
            3.   A variance shall not constitute a “site specific vesting plan”
and approval of a site specific vesting plan with the condition that a variance
be obtained shall not confer a vested right unless and until the necessary
variance is obtained. If a sketch plan or other document fails to describe with
reasonable certainty the type and intensity of use for a specified parcel or
parcels of property, it may not constitute a site specific vesting plan.
         (d)   Process for approval and amendment of site specific vesting
plans. If a site specific vesting plan is based on an approval required by a
local development regulation, the local government shall provide whatever
notice and hearing is required for that underlying approval. If the duration of
the underlying approval is less than two years, that shall not affect the
duration of the site specific vesting established by this section. If the site
specific vesting plan is not based on such an approval, a legislative hearing
with notice as required by G.S. § 160D-6-2 shall be held.
            1.   The town may approve a site specific vesting plan upon such
terms and conditions as may reasonably be necessary to protect the public
health, safety, and welfare. Such conditional approval shall result in a vested
right, although failure to abide by such terms and conditions will result in a
forfeiture of vested rights.
            2.   The town shall not require a landowner to waive vested rights
as a condition of developmental approval. A site specific vesting plan shall be
deemed approved upon the effective date of the town’s decision approving the
plan or such other date as determined by the Town Council upon approval.
            3.   An approved site specific vesting plan and its conditions may
be amended with the approval of the owner and the local government as follows:
               a.   Any substantial modification must be reviewed and approved
in the same manner as the original approval;
               b.   Minor modifications may be approved by staff, if such are
defined and authorized by local regulation.
   (E)   Seven years -- multi-phase developments.
      (1)   A multi-phased development shall be vested for the entire
development with the zoning regulations, subdivision regulations, and unified
development ordinances in place at the time a site plan approval is granted for
the initial phase of the multi-phased development. This right shall remain
vested for a period of seven years from the time a site plan approval is
granted for the initial phase of the multi-phased development.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, “multi-phased development” means a
development containing 100 acres or more that (i) is submitted for site plan
approval for construction to occur in more than one phase and (ii) is subject
to a master development plan with committed elements, including a requirement
to offer land for public use as a condition of its master development plan
approval.
   (F)   Indefinite -- development agreements. A vested right of reasonable
duration may be specified in a development agreement approved under G.S.
Chapter 160D Article 10.
For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-1014(d).
   (G)   Continuing review. 
      (1)   Following approval or conditional approval of a statutory vested
right, the town may make subsequent reviews and require approvals to ensure
compliance with the terms and conditions of the original approval, provided
that such reviews and approvals are not inconsistent with the original
approval.
      (2)   The town may revoke the original approval for failure to comply
with applicable terms and conditions of the original approval or the applicable
local development regulations. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S.
§ 160D-1014(e).
   (H)   Exceptions.
      (1)   A vested right, once established, precludes any zoning action by
the town that would change, alter, impair, prevent, diminish, or otherwise
delay the development or use of the property as set forth in an approved vested
right, except:
         (a)   With the written consent of the affected landowner;
         (b)   Upon findings, after notice and an evidentiary hearing, that
natural or man-made hazards on or in the immediate vicinity of the property, if
uncorrected, would pose a serious threat to the public health, and safety, and
welfare if the project were to proceed as contemplated in the approved vested
right;
         (c)   To the extent that the affected landowner receives compensation
for all costs, expenses, and other losses incurred by the landowner, including,
but not limited to, all fees paid in consideration of financing, and all
architectural, planning, marketing, legal, and other consultant's fees incurred
after approval by the town together with interest as is provided in G.S. §
160D-1-6. Compensation shall not include any diminution in the value of the
property that is caused by such action;
         (d)   Upon findings, after notice and an evidentiary hearing, that the
landowner or his or her representative intentionally supplied inaccurate
information or made material misrepresentations that made a difference in the
approval by the town to the vested right; or
         (e)   Upon the enactment or promulgation of a state or federal law or
regulation that precludes development as contemplated in the approved vested
right, in which case the town may modify the affected provisions, upon a
finding that the change in state or federal law has a fundamental effect on the
plan, after notice and an evidentiary hearing.
      (2)   The establishment of a vested right under this section shall not
preclude the application of overlay zoning or other development regulation that
imposes additional requirements but does not affect the allowable type or
intensity of use, or ordinances or regulations that are general in nature and
are applicable to all property subject to development regulation by a local
government, including, but not limited to, building, fire, plumbing,
electrical, and mechanical codes. Otherwise applicable new regulations shall
become effective with respect to property that is subject to a vested right
established under this section upon the expiration or termination of the vested
rights period provided for in this section.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any provision of this section, the establishment of
a vested right under this section shall not preclude, change or impair the
authority of the town to adopt and enforce development regulation provisions
governing nonconforming situations or uses. For similar state law provisions,
refer to G.S. § 160D-1014(f).
   (I)   Miscellaneous provisions.
      (1)   A vested right obtained under this section is not a personal right,
but shall attach to and run with the applicable property. After approval of a
vested right under this section, all successors to the original landowner shall
be entitled to exercise such rights.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall preclude judicial determination,
based on common law principles or other statutory provisions, that a vested
right exists in a particular case or that a compensable taking has occurred.
Except as expressly provided in this section, nothing in this section shall be
construed to alter the existing common law. For similar state law provisions,
refer to G.S. § 160D-1014(g).
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.478 VESTED RIGHTS CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   Purpose. A vested rights certificate allows an applicant with an
approved and unexpired site plan, subdivision plan, or final plat to “vest” the
plan or plat, in accordance with the ordinance. Such “vesting” allows
development to continue on an approved plan even if certain deadlines are not
met and/or there are code changes that might otherwise affect continued
development of the property.
   (B)   Application. An application for a vested rights certificate may be
filed concurrently or following approval of a site plan, subdivision plan, or
final plat application. In approving the vested rights certificate, the Zoning
Administrator may apply conditions of approval.
   (C)   Applicability. A vested right may be established, in accordance with
G.S. § 160D-108. The types of vesting plans and duration of those plans are
outlined in §
154.477 of this chapter.
   (D)   Vested rights certificate procedure.
      (1)   Pre-application conference required. A pre-application conference
with the Zoning Administrator is required.
      (2)   Application submittal and acceptance. Applications may be initiated
by the landowner on a form approved by the Town Board of Commissioners.
      (3)   Staff review. The Zoning Administrator shall review the
application, prepare a staff report, and provide a recommendation in accordance
with the vested rights certificate review standards in division (E) below of
this section.
      (4)   Public notification. Public notification shall comply with the
standards outlined in quasi- judicial hearings included in §
154.109.
      (5)   Town Board of Commissioners review and decision.
         (a)   Conduct hearing. The hearing shall comply with the standards
outlined in quasi-judicial hearings included in §
154.109.
         (b)   The Town Board of Commissioners, after the conclusion of a
quasi-judicial hearing, shall decide the application in accordance with the
vested rights certificate review standards. The decision shall be one of the
following:
            1.   Approval of the vested rights certificate as proposed;
            2.   Approval of a revised vested rights certificate;
            3.   Denial of vested rights certificate; or
            4.   Remand of the vested rights certificate application to the
Planning and Development Director for further review.
   (E)   Vested rights certificate review standards. A vested rights
certificate shall be approved if the applicant demonstrates:
      (1)   The vested rights certificate is for an approved site plan, group
development plan, or preliminary plat;
      (2)   The development is valid and unexpired; and
      (3)   Any required variances have been obtained.
   (F)   Vested rights certificate. Following approval of a vested right, each
map, plat, site plan or other document evidencing a site specific development
plan shall contain the following notation: “Approval of this plan established a
zoning vested right under G.S. § 160D-108. Unless terminated at an earlier
date, the zoning vested right shall be valid until (date).”
   (G)   Amendment. Amendment of vested rights certificate may only be reviewed
and considered in accordance with the procedures and standards established for
its original approval.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
MORATORIA
§ 154.490 PURPOSE OF MORATORIA.
   From time to time, the Town of Fairmont may find it necessary to place a
temporary hold on the issuance of development permits. This can be done while
the land use regulations are being discussed and revised, to pause development
while sufficient drinking water and wastewater capacities are developed to
support future growth, and for other related reasons. G.S. § 160D-107 allows
temporary development moratoria on “any development approval required by law.”
This includes all zoning permits, land-subdivision plats, building permits,
sign permits, and any other approvals required prior to development.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.491 AUTHORITY.
   The town may adopt temporary moratoria on any development approval required
by law, except for the purpose of developing and adopting new or amended plans
or ordinances as to development regulations governing residential uses. The
duration of any moratorium shall be reasonable in light of the specific
conditions that warrant imposition of the moratorium and may not exceed the
period of time necessary to correct, modify, or resolve such conditions. For
similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-107(a).
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.492 HEARING REQUIRED.
   Except in cases of imminent and substantial threat to public health or
safety, before adopting an ordinance, a development regulation imposing a
development moratorium with a duration of 60 days or any shorter period, the
governing board shall hold a public legislative hearing and shall publish a
notice of the hearing in a newspaper having general circulation in the area not
less than seven days before the date set for the hearing. A development
moratorium with a duration of 61 days or longer, and any extension of a
moratorium so that the total duration is 61 days or longer, is subject to the
notice and hearing requirements of G.S. § 160D-6-1.60. For similar state law
provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-107(b).
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.493 EXEMPT PROJECTS.
   Absent an imminent threat to public health or safety, a development
moratorium adopted pursuant to this section shall not apply to any project for
which a valid building permit issued pursuant to G.S. § 160D-11-1461 is
outstanding, to any project for which a conditional use permit application or
special use permit application has been accepted as complete, to development
set forth in a site-specific or phased development vesting plan approved
pursuant to G.S. § 160D-1-14, to development for which substantial expenditures
have already been made in good faith reliance on a prior valid administrative
or quasi-judicial permit or development approval, or to preliminary or final
subdivision plats that have been accepted for review by the town prior to the
call for public a hearing to adopt the moratorium. Any preliminary subdivision
plat accepted for review by the town prior to the call for public a hearing, if
subsequently approved, shall be allowed to proceed to final plat approval
without being subject to the moratorium. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a
complete application for a development approval has been submitted prior to the
effective date of a moratorium, G.S. § 160D-1-14(b) shall be applicable when
permit processing resumes. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. §
160D-107(c).
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.494 REQUIRED STATEMENTS.
   Any ordinance development regulation establishing a development moratorium
must expressly include at the time of adoption each of the following:
   (A)   A clear statement of the problems or conditions necessitating the
moratorium and what courses of action, alternative to a moratorium, were
considered by the local government and why those alternative courses of action
were not deemed adequate.
   (B)   A clear statement of the development approvals subject to the
moratorium and how a moratorium on those approvals will address the problems or
conditions leading to imposition of the moratorium.
   (C)   An express date for termination of the moratorium and a statement
setting forth why that duration is reasonably necessary to address the problems
or conditions leading to imposition of the moratorium.
   (D)   A clear statement of the actions, and the schedule for those actions,
proposed to be taken by the town during the duration of the moratorium to
address the problems or conditions leading to imposition of the moratorium. For
similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-107(d).
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.495 LIMITS ON RENEWAL OR EXTENSION.
   No moratorium may be subsequently renewed or extended for any additional
period unless the town shall have taken all reasonable and feasible steps
proposed to be taken by the town in its ordinance establishing the moratorium
to address the problems or conditions leading to imposition of the moratorium
and unless new facts and conditions warrant an extension. Any ordinance
renewing or extending a development moratorium must expressly include, at the
time of adoption, the findings set forth in §§
154.490 through
154.494 of this subchapter, including what new facts or conditions warrant the
extension. For similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-107(e).
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.496 EXPEDITED JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   Any person aggrieved by the imposition of a moratorium on development
approvals required by law may apply to the appropriate division of the General
Court of Justice for an order enjoining the enforcement of the moratorium, and
the court shall have jurisdiction to issue that order. Actions brought pursuant
to this section shall be set down scheduled for expedited immediate hearing,
and subsequent proceedings in those actions shall be accorded priority by the
trial and appellate courts. In any such actions, the town shall have the burden
of showing compliance with the procedural requirements of this section. For
similar state law provisions, refer to G.S. § 160D-107(f).
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
NONCONFORMING SITUATIONS
§ 154.510 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   There exist uses of land, structures, lots of record, and signs that
were lawfully established before this chapter was adopted or amended, that now
do not conform to its terms and requirements. A nonconforming situation occurs
when, on the effective date of this chapter, an existing lot or structure or
use of an existing lot or structure does not conform to one or more of the
regulations applicable to the district in which the lot or structure is
located. Among other possibilities, a nonconforming situation may arise because
a lot does not meet minimum acreage requirements, because structures exceed
maximum height limitations, because the relationship between existing buildings
and the land (in such matter as density and setback requirement) is not in
conformity with this chapter, because signs do not meet the requirements of
this chapter, or because land or buildings are used for purposes made unlawful
by this chapter.
   (B)   The purpose and intent of this subchapter is to regulate and limit the
continued existence of those uses, structures, lots of record, and signs that
do not conform to the provisions of this chapter, or any subsequent amendments.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.511 NONCONFORMING SITUATIONS - GENERALLY.
   (A)   Applicability. This subchapter applies to any nonconformity. There are
four categories of nonconformities as defined below:
      (1)   Nonconforming lot (land). A lot, parcel, or tract of land lawfully
established prior to the adoption or amendment of the zoning ordinance that
fails to meet all current requirements for area, width, and/or configuration of
the zoning district in which it is located.
      (2)   Nonconforming signs. A sign that was lawfully established before
the adoption or amendment of the zoning ordinance.
      (3)   Nonconforming structure. A structure lawfully established before
the adoption or amendment of the zoning ordinance that no longer complies with
all regulations applicable to the zoning district in which the structure is
located.
      (4)   Nonconforming use. A nonconforming situation that occurs when
property is used for a purpose or in a manner made unlawful by the use
regulations applicable for the district in which the property is located. The
term also refers to the activity that constitutes the use made of the property.
The term includes any pre-existing structure, object of natural growth, or use
of land or building that is inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter or
an amendment thereto. Any use or structure not established legally at the time,
it shall be considered a violation of this chapter and is not a nonconformity.
   (B)   Minor repairs and maintenance.
      (1)   Minor repairs and normal maintenance that are required to keep
nonconforming uses, structures, lots of record, and signs in a safe condition
are permitted, provided the minor repair or maintenance does not extend,
expand, or enlarge the nonconforming aspect.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, “minor repair or normal
maintenance” shall mean:
         (a)   Maintenance of safe condition. Repairs that are necessary to
maintain a nonconforming use, structure, lot of record, or sign in a safe
condition; and
         (b)   Maintenance of land for safety. Maintenance of land areas to
protect against health hazards and promote the safety of surrounding uses.
   (C)   Changes in ownership (tenancy). No change of title, possession, or
right to possession of property, whether that property is real estate or an
improvement to the real estate, structure or use, involved shall be construed
to prevent the continuance of a nonconforming use.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.512 NONCONFORMING LOTS.
   (A)   No use or structure shall be established on a nonconforming lot of
record except in accordance with the standards in this section.
   (B)   Status of nonconforming lots.
      (1)   Conforming structures legally established on nonconforming lots of
record prior to the effective date of this chapter may be continued, enlarged,
extended, reconstructed, or structurally altered in any way that is in
conformance with the standards of this chapter.
      (2)   Nonconforming structures legally established on a nonconforming lot
prior to the effective date of this chapter may be continued, enlarged, or
redeveloped only in accordance with the standards in §
154.513 Nonconforming Structures.
   (C)   Development of unimproved lots.
      (1)   Residential districts. In the residential zoning districts,
notwithstanding limitations imposed by other provisions of this chapter, a
single-family detached dwelling and customary accessory structures may be
developed on any single lot of record existing on the date this chapter became
effective. This provision applies even if the lot of record fails to comply
with the standards for area or width in the dimensional standards of the
district. Development of a single-family detached dwelling on the lot of record
shall comply with the other standards in dimensional standards of the district,
to the maximum extent practicable.
      (2)   Nonresidential districts. In the nonresidential zoning districts,
notwithstanding limitations imposed by other provisions of this chapter, a
permitted use may be developed on any single nonconforming lot of record
existing on the date this chapter becomes effective, or the date the lot of
record became nonconforming, subject to review and approval of a special use
permit. This provision shall apply even though the lot of record fails to
comply with the standards for lot area that are applicable in the zoning
district. In considering the application for a special use permit, the Board of
Adjustment shall ensure the design and location of the proposed use is
compatible with surrounding uses. Development of the permitted use on the lot
of record shall comply with the other standards in dimensional standards of the
district, to the maximum extent practicable.
      (3)   Recombination required. In the event that a vacant nonconforming
lot is located adjacent to a lot under common ownership, and the adjacent lot
has sufficient size to allow for a lot line adjustment as a means of bringing
the vacant lot closer into conformity with the requirements of the zoning
district where its located, then such lot line adjustment shall be required as
a condition of approval for development on the vacant nonconforming lot.
      (4)   Redevelopment of improved lots in residential districts after
casualty. If a legally established single-family attached or detached use is
destroyed by casualty on a nonconforming lot in a residential zoning district
that was part of a subdivision or division of land evidenced by plat or deed,
or both, recorded prior to the effective date of this chapter, an identical
replacement structure may be reconstructed within the same footprint as the use
destroyed by casualty even though the lot does not meet the minimum lot area or
lot width requirements.
      (5)   Government acquisition of land in a residential district.
Governmental acquisition of a portion of a lot for a public purpose that
results in a reduction in lot width and/or lot area below that required in the
dimensional standards of the district, shall not render the lot nonconforming.
      (6)   Change of nonconforming lots. A nonconforming lot may be increased
in area, width, or both, through a lot line adjustment in accordance with the
requirements of the recombination plat procedures, to make the lot less
nonconforming.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.513 NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Continuation. Normal repair and maintenance may be performed to allow
the continued use of nonconforming structures.
   (B)   Enlargement. A nonconforming structure shall not be enlarged or
expanded in any way that increases the degree of nonconformity. (For example, a
structure that has a five-foot side yard setback where the ordinance requires a
ten-foot side yard setback cannot be enlarged so as to further encroach into
the side yard setback.) Expansion of the structure in a way that complies with
applicable dimensional standards or that decreases the degree of nonconformity
is permitted.
   (C)   Relocation. A nonconforming structure shall not be moved, in whole or
in part, to another location within the town's jurisdiction, on or off the
parcel of land on which it is presently located, unless upon relocation it
conforms to the requirements of this chapter.
   (D)   Replacement of manufactured homes in nonconforming parks. Manufactured
homes within a nonconforming manufactured home park may be replaced with a
conforming manufactured home and only with the appropriate permits.
   (E)   Replacement of manufactured homes in individual lots. A nonconforming
manufactured home can only be replaced by another manufactured home pursuant to
the issuance of a special use permit in accordance with §§
154.105 through
154.116. Nonconforming Class B or C manufactured homes may be replaced by a
Class A manufactured home, or another nonconforming Class B manufactured home,
provided: The replacement nonconforming Class B manufactured home has a larger
habitable floor area or newer construction date than the nonconforming
manufactured home being replaced.
   (F)   Reconstruction after casualty damage.
      (1)   Destruction or damage over 50% of value.
         (a)   In the event a nonconforming structure (or portion of a
structure) is damaged or destroyed, by any means, to an extent more than 50% of
its structural replacement cost at the time of damage or destruction, it shall
not be restored.
         (b)   New construction (including the establishment of off-street
parking, landscaping, signage, and other site features) shall be in accordance
with the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   Damage of 50% or less of value.
         (a)   In the event a nonconforming structure is damaged, by any means,
to an extent of 50% or less of its structural replacement cost at the time of
damage or destruction, it may be rebuilt to its previous form if a building
permit for such repair or restoration is obtained within 180 days of the
casualty damage, and repair or restoration is completed within one year of
obtaining the building permit.
         (b)   In no event shall the repair or restoration increase the degree
of nonconformity.
   (G)   Termination of legal nonconforming status of structures. The right to
occupy and maintain a nonconforming structure terminates and ceases to exist
whenever the structure:
      (1)   Is damaged in any manner and from any cause, except natural
disasters, where the cost of repairing the damage exceeds 50% of the current
assessed tax value of structure; or
      (2)   Becomes obsolete or substandard under any applicable town
ordinances or North Carolina State Law as determined by the proper town
official, and where the cost of bringing the structure into compliance exceeds
50% of the current assessed tax value of structure.
      (3)   The applicant shall engage a qualified professional to estimate the
cost of repairs or otherwise bringing a structure into compliance with
applicable codes and this report shall be provided to the Zoning Administrator
in writing. The cost of land or any other factors other than the nonconforming
structure itself will not be included in determining the replacement cost.
   (H)   Exception for repairs pursuant to public order. Nothing in this
section will be deemed to prevent the strengthening or restoration of a
structure to a safe condition in accordance with an order of a public official
charged with protecting the public safety, provided the restoration is not
otherwise in violation of the various provisions of this section prohibiting
the repair, restoration of partially damaged or destroyed structures.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.514 NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Nonconforming uses are declared generally incompatible with the
permitted uses in the district in which they are located and with the
provisions of this chapter. Nonconforming uses shall be subject to the
standards in this section.
   (B)   Change of use. A nonconforming use shall not be changed to any other
nonconforming use. Once a nonconforming use has ceased operation or has been
discontinued for a period of 180 days or longer, it shall only be replaced with
a conforming use.
   (C)   Expansion and enlargement. An existing nonconforming use may be
enlarged into any portion of the structure where it is located, provided the
area proposed for expansion was designed and intended for such use prior to the
date the use became a nonconformity and provided that it enlarges only in
compliance with this subchapter.
   (D)   Discontinuance. A nonconforming use shall not be reestablished after
discontinuance for a period of 180 consecutive calendar days or more. An effort
to renovate the structure housing the use is
not considered a vacancy, abandonment, or discontinuance, provided all
appropriate development approvals are obtained, and provided the renovation is
completed within 180 days from its commencement, and the use is re-established
within 30 days from the time the renovation is completed. Failure to complete
the renovation within 180 days or reestablish the use within 30 days following
renovation shall constitute discontinuance, and a nonconforming use shall not
be reestablished in the structure.
   (E)   Accessory uses. Once a nonconforming principal use is discontinued,
all associated accessory uses shall cease operation within 30 days.
   (F)   Reconstruction after casualty damage.
      (1)   Destruction or damage beyond 50% of value. In the event a structure
housing a nonconforming use is damaged or destroyed, by any means, to an extent
of more than 50% of its structural replacement cost at the time of damage or
destruction, the nonconforming use may not be reestablished following
reconstruction.
      (2)   Damage of 50% or less of value.
         (a)   In the event a structure housing a nonconforming use is damaged,
by any means, to an extent of 50% or less of its structural replacement cost at
the time of damage, it may be repaired to its previous form, and the
nonconforming use reestablished, if a building permit for such repair or
restoration is obtained within 180 days of the casualty damage, and the repair
or restoration is completed within one year of obtaining the building permit.
         (b)   In no case shall a different nonconforming use be established in
the place of the nonconforming use that was housed in the structure at the time
of casualty damage.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.515 NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   General standards. No nonconforming sign shall be used, erected,
altered, repaired, or relocated except in accordance with the standards of this
section.
   (B)   Nonconforming signs protected.
      (1)   Any sign that was lawfully erected prior to the effective date of
this chapter, but that does not conform in one or more respects with the
requirements of this chapter may remain in use, subject to the requirements of
this section and other applicable requirements of this chapter. No activity
that increases the amount of nonconformity shall be permitted.
      (2)   A nonconforming sign may not be moved or replaced except to bring
the sign into complete conformity with this chapter. Once a nonconforming sign
is removed from the premises or otherwise taken down or moved, the sign may
only be replaced with a sign which is in conformance with this chapter.
   (C)   Routine repairs and maintenance.
      (1)   Repairs and maintenance of nonconforming signs, such as repainting
and electrical repairs, shall be permitted, provided such activities are
completed in accordance with the requirements in §§
154.195  -
154.202, Sign Regulations, and provided that the cost of repairs do not exceed
50% of the replacement value of the sign.
      (2)   Nonconforming signs representing a danger to the public health or
safety as determined by the Ordinance Administrator shall be immediately
replaced or removed, and replacement signage shall comply with all requirements
of this chapter.
   (D)   Replacement required.
      (1)   Single tenant buildings. In the event there is a change in use to
an existing single tenant building, and there are one or more on-premises
nonconforming signs which advertised the business or use which changed, the
owner or new occupant shall replace all existing nonconforming signs with new
signs or new sign faces that meet all sign requirements for the district as set
forth in §§
154.195  -
154.202, Sign Regulations.
      (2)   Multi-tenant buildings. In the event there is a change in use to an
existing multi-tenant building, and there are one or more on-premises
nonconforming signs which advertised the business or use which changed, the
owner or new tenant shall replace all nonconforming signs which pertain
specifically to the new tenant with new signs or new sign faces that meet all
sign requirements for the district as set forth in §§
154.195  -
154.202, Sign Regulations. Common signage on the property (those signs
advertising more than one tenant) may not be changed or altered when a change
in use occurs, except in order to bring the sign(s) into conformance with the
requirements of §§
154.195  -
154.202.
   (E)   Damage or destruction beyond 50% of value. In the event that a
nonconforming sign is damaged or destroyed from natural causes to an extent
that exceeds 50% of the sign’s value, then the sign shall only be restored,
repaired, or reconstructed in accordance with the standards of §§
154.195  -
154.202, Sign Regulations. In no instance shall any remnants of the former
nonconforming sign structure remain on the site. In the event a nonconforming
sign is damaged to an extent less than 50% of the sign’s value, the sign may be
repaired in accordance with division (C) above of this section, routine repairs
and maintenance.
   (F)   Abandonment.
      (1)   If a nonconforming on-premises sign which advertises a business,
service, commodity, accommodation, attraction, or other enterprise or activity
that has for a period of at least 180 days not been operated, conducted, or
offered, that sign shall be deemed abandoned and shall be removed or brought
into compliance by the sign owner, landowner, or other person having control
over the sign within 30 days.
      (2)   If a nonconforming sign remains blank for a continuous period of
180 days, that sign shall be deemed abandoned and shall, within 30 days after
such abandonment, be brought into compliance with this chapter or be removed by
the sign owner, owner of the land where the sign is located, or other person
having control over the sign. For purposes of this chapter, a sign shall be
deemed “blank” if:
         (a)   It advertises a business, commodity, accommodation, attraction,
service, or other enterprise or activity that is no longer operating or being
offered or conducted in that location;
         (b)   The advertising message it displays becomes illegible in whole
or substantial part; or
         (c)   It does not contain an advertising message. (For such purposes,
the terms “Sign For Rent”, “Sign For Lease”, “Building For Rent”, “Building For
Lease”, “Building for Sale”, and the like shall not be deemed to be an
advertising message.)
      (3)   Signs advertising a use or structure that has been demolished or
moved to another site shall be removed within 60 days following demolition or
relocation. In the event an existing use or structure has been demolished or
moved to facilitate new construction, all signage associated with the new
construction shall comply with the standards in §§
154.195  -
154.202 Sign Regulations.
      (4)   The spaces within a nonconforming manufactured homes park may not
be increased except by a special use permit. Manufactured homes within a
nonconforming manufactured home park may be replaced with appropriate permits.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.516 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT AND NONCONFORMITIES.
   (A)   Except as allowed elsewhere in this subchapter, no person may engage
in any activity causing an increase in the extent of a nonconformity.
   (B)   Property owners seeking approval to expand or enlarge a nonconforming
use or structure shall make application to the Board of Adjustment for such
expansion or enlargement.
   (C)   The Board of Adjustment shall hear and consider such requests in the
same manner as a special use permit application.
   (D)   The Board of Adjustment in approving an application shall, in addition
to those findings necessary for the issuance of a special use permit, find
whether the proposed alteration, expansion, change, or rebuilding of the
nonconforming use will have a substantial adverse impact upon adjacent
properties, the neighborhood, or the public.
   (E)   The Board of Adjustment may impose any reasonable conditions,
standards, or safeguards to mitigate any potential hazards or problems of the
application.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
§ 154.530 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
    The purpose and intent of this subchapter is to regulate development in the
floodplain in accordance with state and federal regulations.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.531 ORDINANCE AS REQUIRED BY THE STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA.
   The language of this flood damage prevention ordinance is established by the
State of North Carolina and must be adopted as presented by the state. The
following pages include the body of the ordinance. Maps which are snapshots in
time and should not be used for determining if a property is in the floodplain
but only for general purposes for persons not familiar with these regulations.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.532 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   Statutory authorization. The Legislature of the State of North
Carolina has in Part 6, Article 21 of Chapter 143; Article 6 of Chapter 153A;
Article 8 of Chapter 160A; and Article 7, 9, and 11 of Chapter 160D of the
North Carolina General Statutes, delegated to local governmental units the
authority to adopt regulations designed to promote the public health, safety,
and general welfare. Therefore, the Town Council of the Town of Fairmont, North
Carolina, does ordain as follows in this chapter.
   (B)   Findings of fact.
      (1)   The flood prone areas within the jurisdiction of the Town of
Fairmont, are subject to periodic inundation which results in loss of life,
property, health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental
services, extraordinary public expenditures of flood protection and relief, and
impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public health,
safety, and general welfare.
      (2)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities
and by the occupancy in flood prone areas of uses vulnerable to floods or other
hazards.
   (C)   Statement of purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to promote
public health, safety, and general welfare and to minimize public and private
losses due to flood conditions within flood prone areas by provisions designed
to:
      (1)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water or erosion hazards or that result in damaging increases
in erosion, flood heights or velocities;
      (2)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities that
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      (3)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
      (4)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and all other development that
may increase erosion or flood damage; and
      (5)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
   (D)   Objectives. The objectives of this subchapter are to:
      (1)   Protect human life, safety, and health;
      (2)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      (3)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      (4)   Minimize prolonged business losses and interruptions;
      (5)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities (i.e. water and
gas mains, electric, telephone, cable and sewer lines, streets, and bridges)
that are located in flood prone areas;
      (6)   Minimize damage to private and public property due to flooding;
      (7)   Make flood insurance available to the community through the
National Flood Insurance Program;
      (8)   Maintain the natural and beneficial functions of floodplains;
      (9)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas; and
      (10)   Ensure that potential buyers are aware that property is in a
special flood hazard area.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.533 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this subchapter
shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage
and to give this subchapter it's most reasonable application.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure located on the same
parcel of property as the principal structure and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure. Garages, carports and storage
sheds are common urban accessory structures. Pole barns, hay sheds and the like
qualify as accessory structures on farms, and may or may not be located on the
same parcel as the farm dwelling or shop building.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING BUILDING). An extension or increase in the floor
area or height of a building or structure.
   ALTERATION OF A WATERCOURSE. A dam, impoundment, channel relocation, change
in channel alignment, channelization, or change in cross-sectional area of the
channel or the channel capacity, or any other form of modification which may
alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or velocity of the riverine
flow of water during conditions of the base flood.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator's
interpretation of any provision of this subchapter.
   AREA OF FUTURE-CONDITIONS FLOOD HAZARD. The land area that would be
inundated by the 1-percent- annual-chance (100- year) flood based on future-
conditions hydrology (OPTIONAL).
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated Zone AO or AH on a community’s flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) with base flood depths determined to be from one to
three feet. These areas
are located where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of
flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be
evident.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. See SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA).
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). A determination of the water surface elevations
of the base flood as published in the flood insurance study. When the BFE has
not been provided in a special flood hazard area, it may be obtained from
engineering studies available from a federal, state, or other source using FEMA
approved engineering methodologies. This elevation, when combined with the
freeboard, establishes the regulatory flood protection elevation.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   CHEMICAL STORAGE FACILITY. A building, portion of a building, or exterior
area adjacent to a building used for the storage of any chemical or chemically
reactive products.
   DESIGN FLOOD. See REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
   DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY. Any activity defined as “Development” which will
necessitate a floodplain development permit. This includes buildings,
structures, and non-structural items, including (but not limited to) fill,
bulkheads, piers, pools, docks, landings, ramps, and erosion control/
stabilization measures.
   DIGITAL FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (DFIRM).  The digital official map of a
community, issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), on which
both the special flood hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to
the community are delineated.
   DISPOSAL. As defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(6), the discharge, deposit,
injection, dumping, spilling, leaking, or placing of any solid waste into or on
any land or water so that the solid waste or any constituent part of the solid
waste may enter the environment or be emitted into the air or discharged into
any waters, including groundwaters.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building which has its lowest elevated
floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear walls, posts, piers,
pilings, or columns.
   ENCROACHMENT. The advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation,
buildings, structures or development into a special flood hazard area, which
may impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING BUILDING AND EXISTING STRUCTURE. Any building and/or structure for
which the start of construction commenced before the effective date of the
initial FIRM, dated September 1, 1987.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A
manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities
for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed before the effective date of the floodplain management regulations
adopted by a community, dated August 11, 1987.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY and FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). An official map of a community,
issued by the FEMA, on which the special flood hazard areas and the floodways
are delineated. This official map is a supplement to and shall be used in
conjunction with the flood insurance rate map (FIRM).
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). An official map of a community, issued by
the FEMA, where the boundaries of the special flood hazard areas have been
defined as Zone A.
   FLOOD INSURANCE. The insurance coverage provided under the National Flood
Insurance Program.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, issued by
the FEMA, on which both the special flood hazard areas and the risk premium
zones applicable to the community are delineated. (See also DFIRM).
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). An examination, evaluation, and determination
of flood hazards, corresponding water surface elevations (if appropriate),
flood hazard risk zones, and other flood data in a community issued by the
FEMA. The FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY report includes flood insurance rate maps
(FIRMs) and flood boundary and floodway maps (FBFMs), if published.
   FLOOD PRONE AREA. See FLOODPLAIN.
   FLOOD ZONE. A geographical area shown on a flood hazard boundary map or
flood insurance rate map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the
area.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The individual appointed to administer and enforce
the floodplain management regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. Any type of permit that is required in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of
any development activity.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited
to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations, and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This subchapter and other zoning
ordinances, subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations,
special purpose ordinances, and other applications of police power. This term
describes federal, state or local regulations, in any combination thereof,
which provide standards for preventing and reducing flood loss and damage.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation facilities,
structures, and their contents.
   FLOOD-RESISTANT MATERIAL. Any building product [material, component or
system] capable of withstanding direct and prolonged contact (minimum 72 hours)
with floodwaters without sustaining damage that requires more than low-cost
cosmetic repair. Any material that is water-soluble or is not resistant to
alkali or acid in water, including normal adhesives for above-grade use, is not
flood-resistant. Pressure-treated lumber or naturally decay-resistant lumbers
are acceptable flooring materials. Sheet-type flooring coverings that restrict
evaporation from below and materials that are impervious, but dimensionally
unstable are not acceptable. Materials that absorb or retain water excessively
after submergence are not flood-resistant. Please refer to Technical Bulletin
2, Flood Damage-Resistant Materials Requirements, and available from the FEMA.
Class 4 and 5 materials, referenced therein, are acceptable flood-resistant
materials.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse, including the area
above a bridge or culvert when applicable, and the adjacent land areas that
must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively
increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   FLOODWAY ENCROACHMENT ANALYSIS. An engineering analysis of the impact that a
proposed encroachment into a floodway or non-encroachment area is expected to
have on the floodway boundaries and flood levels during the occurrence of the
base flood discharge. The evaluation shall be prepared by a qualified North
Carolina licensed engineer using standard engineering methods and hydraulic
models meeting the minimum requirements of the National Flood Insurance
Program.
   FREEBOARD. The height added to the BFE to account for the many unknown
factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the height
calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as wave
action, blockage of bridge or culvert openings, precipitation exceeding the
base flood, and the hydrological effect of urbanization of the watershed. The
BFE plus the freeboard establishes the regulatory flood protection elevation.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY. A facility which cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located in close proximity to water, limited to a
docking or port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or
passengers, shipbuilding, or ship repair. The term does not include long-term
storage, manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITY. As defined in G.S. Chapter 130A,
Article 9, a facility for the collection, storage, processing, treatment,
recycling, recovery, or disposal of hazardous waste.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE (HAG). The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface, prior to construction, immediately next to the proposed walls of the
structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the US Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of Interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic landmarks in
communities with a Certified Local Government (CLG) Program; or
      (4)   Certified as contributing to the historical significance of a
historic district designated by a community with a Certified Local Government
(CLG) Program.
      (5)   Certified Local Government (CLG) Programs are approved by the US
Department of the Interior in cooperation with the North Carolina Department of
Cultural Resources through the State Historic Preservation Officer as having
met the requirements of the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966 as
amended in 1980.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). An official determination issued by FEMA that
amends or revises an effective flood insurance rate map or flood insurance
study. Letters of map change include:
      (1)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). An official amendment, by letter,
to an effective National Flood Insurance Program map. A LOMA is based on
technical data showing that a property had been inadvertently mapped as being
in the floodplain, but is actually on natural high ground above the base flood
elevation. A LOMA amends the current effective flood insurance rate map and
establishes that a specific property, portion of a property, or structure is
not located in a special flood hazard area.
      (2)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR).  A revision based on technical data
that may show changes to flood zones, flood elevations, special flood hazard
area boundaries and floodway delineations, and other planimetric features.
      (3)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). A determination that
a structure or parcel of land has been elevated by fill above the BFE and is,
therefore, no longer located within the special flood hazard area. In order to
qualify for this determination, the fill must have been permitted and placed in
accordance with the community's floodplain management regulations.
      (4)   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR). A formal review and
comment as to whether a proposed project complies with the minimum NFIP
requirements for such projects with respect to delineation of special flood
hazard areas. A CLOMR does not revise the effective Flood Insurance Rate Map or
Flood Insurance Study; upon submission and approval of certified as-built
documentation, a Letter of Map Revision may be issued by FEMA to revise the
effective FIRM.
   LIGHT DUTY TRUCK. Any motor vehicle rated at 8,500 pounds gross vehicular
weight rating or less which has a vehicular curb weight of 6,000 pounds or less
and which has a basic vehicle frontal area of 45 square feet or less as defined
in 40 CFR 86.082-2 and is:
      (1)   Designed primarily for purposes of transportation of property or is
a derivation of such a vehicle, or
      (2)   Designed primarily for transportation of persons and has a capacity
of more than 12 persons; or
      (3)   Available with special features enabling off-street or off-highway
operation and use.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG). The lowest elevation of the ground, sidewalk or
patio slab immediately next to the building, or deck support, after completion
of the building.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access, or limited storage in an area other than
a basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor, provided that such
an enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this subchapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MAP REPOSITORY. The location of the official flood hazard data to be applied
for floodplain management. It is a central location in which flood data is
stored and managed; in North Carolina, FEMA has recognized that the application
of digital flood hazard data products has the same authority as hard copy
products. Therefore, the NCEM's floodplain mapping program websites house
current and historical flood hazard data. For effective flood hazard data the
NC FRIS website (http://FRIS.NC.GOV/FRIS) is the map repository, and for
historical flood hazard data the FloodNC website (http://FLOODNC.GOV/NCFLOOD)
is the map repository.
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, not including the land value and that of
any accessory structures or other improvements on the lot. Market value may be
established by independent certified appraisal; replacement cost depreciated
for age of building and quality of construction (Actual Cash Value); or
adjusted tax assessed values.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of the initial floodplain management regulations
and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NON-CONVERSION AGREEMENT. A document stating that the owner will not convert
or alter what has been constructed and approved. Violation of the agreement is
considered a violation of the ordinance and, therefore, subject to the same
enforcement procedures and penalties. The agreement must be filed with the
recorded deed for the property. The agreement must show the Clerk’s or
Recorder’s stamps and/or notations that the filing has been completed.
   NON-ENCROACHMENT AREA (NEA). The channel of a river or other watercourse,
including the area above a bridge or culvert when applicable, and the adjacent
land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot as
designated in the Flood Insurance Study report.
   POST-FIRM.  Construction or other development for which the start of
construction occurred on or after, September 1, 1987, the effective date of the
initial Flood Insurance Rate Map for the area.
   PRE-FIRM. Construction or other development for which the start of
construction occurred before September 1, 1987, the effective date of the
initial Flood Insurance Rate Map for the area.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. That at least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure is above ground.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND/OR NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV).  A vehicle, which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck;
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use,
and
      (5)   Is fully licensed and ready for highway use.
For the purpose of this chapter, tiny homes/houses and park models that do not
meet the items listed above are not considered RECREATIONAL VEHICLES and should
meet the standards of and be permitted as residential structures.
   REFERENCE LEVEL. The portion of a structure or other development that must
be compared to the regulatory flood protection elevation to determine
regulatory compliance. For structures within special flood hazard areas
designated as Zone A1-A30, AE, A, A99 or AO, the reference level is the top of
the lowest floor or bottom of lowest attendant utility including ductwork,
whichever is lower.
   REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. The base flood elevation plus the
freeboard. In special flood hazard areas where base flood elevations (BFEs)
have been determined, this elevation shall be the BFE plus two feet of
freeboard. In special flood hazard areas where no BFE has been established,
this elevation shall be at least two feet above the highest adjacent grade.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. To bring the structure or other development into
compliance with state and community floodplain management regulations, or, if
this is not possible, to reduce the impacts of its noncompliance. Ways that
impacts may be reduced include protecting the structure or other affected
development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement provisions of the
ordinance or
otherwise deterring future similar violations, or reducing federal financial
exposure with regard to the structure or other development.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, etc.
   SALVAGE YARD. Any non-residential property used for the storage, collection,
and/or recycling of any type of equipment, and including but not limited to
vehicles, appliances and related machinery.
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY. Any facility involved in the disposal of
solid waste, as defined in G.S. 130A-290(a)(35).
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SITE. As defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(36), any place
at which solid wastes are disposed of by incineration, sanitary landfill, or
any other method.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). The land in the floodplain subject to a 1%
or greater chance of being flooded in any given year, as determined in §
154.534(B) of this subchapter.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and the date the
building permit was issued provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement, or other improvement was
within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start means either the first
placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a
basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start of construction
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural
part of the building, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, a manufactured home, or a gas,
liquid, or liquefied gas storage tank that is principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure during any
one-year period whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before
damaged condition would equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the
structure before the damage occurred. See definition of “substantial
improvement”.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any combination of repairs, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement of a structure, taking place
during any one-year period for which the cost equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred substantial
damage, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
      (1)   Any correction of existing violations of state or community health,
sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been identified by the
community code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
historic structure and the alteration is approved by variance issued pursuant
to §
154.535(E) of this subchapter.
   TECHNICAL BULLETIN and TECHNICAL FACT SHEET. A FEMA publication that
provides guidance concerning the building performance standards of the NFIP,
which are contained in Title 44 of the U.S. Code of Federal Regulations at
Section 60.3. The bulletins and fact sheets are intended for use primarily by
state and local officials responsible for interpreting and enforcing NFIP
regulations and by members of the development community, such as design
professionals and builders. New bulletins, as well as updates of existing
bulletins, are issued periodically as needed. The bulletins do not create
regulations; rather they provide specific guidance for complying with the
minimum requirements of existing NFIP regulations.
   TEMPERATURE CONTROLLED. Having the temperature regulated by a heating and/or
cooling system, built-in or appliance.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in §§
154.535 and
154.536 of this chapter is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION (WSE). The height, in relation to NAVD 1988, of
floods of various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of riverine
areas.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.534 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Lands to which this subchapter applies. This subchapter shall apply to
all special flood hazard areas within the jurisdiction including extra-
territorial jurisdictions (ETJs) as allowed by law, of the Town of Fairmont,
NC.
   (B)   Basis for establishing the special flood hazard areas. The special
flood hazard areas are those identified under the Cooperating Technical State
(CTS) agreement between the State of North Carolina and FEMA in its flood
insurance study (FIS) dated, December 6, 2019 for Robeson County and associated
digital flood insurance rate map (DFIRM) panels, including any digital data
developed as part of the FIS, which are adopted by reference and declared a
part of this chapter, and all revisions thereto.
   (C)   Establishment of floodplain development permit. A floodplain
development permit shall be required in conformance with the provisions of this
subchapter prior to the commencement of any development activities within
special flood hazard areas determined in accordance with the provisions of
division (B)) above of this section.
   (D)   Compliance. No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended,
converted, altered, or developed in any way without full compliance with the
terms of this subchapter and other applicable regulations.
   (E)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. This subchapter is not intended
to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. However, where this subchapter and another ordinance conflict or
overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
   (F)   Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of this
subchapter, all provisions shall be:
      (1)   Considered as minimum requirements;
      (2)   Liberally construed in favor of the Town Council; and
      (3)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
   (G)   Warning and disclaimer of liability. The degree of flood protection
required by this subchapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes
and is based on scientific and engineering consideration. Larger floods can and
will occur. Actual flood heights may be increased by man-made or natural
causes. This subchapter does not imply that land outside the special flood
hazard areas or uses permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or
flood damages. This subchapter shall not create liability on the part of the
Town of Fairmont, NC or by any officer or employee thereof for any flood
damages that result from reliance on this subchapter or any administrative
decision lawfully made hereunder.
   (H)   Penalties for violation. Violation of the provisions of this
subchapter or failure to comply with any of its requirements, including
violation of conditions and safeguards established in connection with grants of
variance or special exceptions, shall constitute a Class 1 misdemeanor pursuant
to G.S. § 143-215.58. Any person who violates this subchapter or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined
not more than $50 or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both. Each day
such violation continues shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing herein
contained shall prevent the Town of Fairmont, NC from taking such other lawful
action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.535 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Designation of Floodplain Administrator. The Town Administrator,
hereinafter referred to as the Floodplain Administrator, is hereby appointed to
administer and implement the provisions of this subchapter. In instances where
the Floodplain Administrator receives assistance from others to complete tasks
to administer and implement this subchapter, the Floodplain Administrator shall
be responsible for the coordination and community's overall compliance with the
National Flood Insurance Program and the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Floodplain development application, permit and certification
requirements.
      (1)   Application requirements. Application for a floodplain development
permit shall be made to the Floodplain Administrator prior to any development
activities located within special flood hazard areas. The following items shall
be presented to the Floodplain Administrator to apply for a floodplain
development permit:
         (a)   A plot plan drawn to scale which shall include, but shall not be
limited to, the following specific details of the proposed floodplain
development:
            1.   The nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area
of development/disturbance; existing and proposed structures, utility systems,
grading/pavement areas, fill materials, storage areas, drainage facilities, and
other development;
            2.   The boundary of the special flood hazard area as delineated on
the FIRM or other flood map as determined in §
154.534(B), or a statement that the entire lot is within the special flood
hazard area;
            3.   Flood zone(s) designation of the proposed development area as
determined on the FIRM or other flood map as determined in §
154.534(B).
            4.   The boundary of the floodway(s) or non-encroachment area(s) as
determined in §
154.534(B).
            5.   The Base Flood Elevation (BFE) where provided as set forth in
§
154.534(B); division (C) below of this section; or §
154.536(C);
            6.   The old and new location of any watercourse that will be
altered or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
            7.   The certification of the plot plan by a registered land
surveyor or professional engineer.
         (b)   Proposed elevation, and method thereof, of all development
within a special flood hazard area including but not limited to:
            1.   Elevation in relation to NAVD 1988 of the proposed reference
level (including basement) of all structures;
            2.   Elevation in relation to NAVD 1988 to which any non-
residential structure in Zones A, AE, or AO will be flood proofed; and
            33.   Elevation in relation to NAVD 1988 to which any proposed
utility systems will be elevated or flood proofed.
         (c)   If floodproofing, a floodproofing certificate (FEMA Form 81-65)
with supporting data, an operational plan, and an inspection and maintenance
plan that include, but are not limited to, installation, exercise, and
maintenance of floodproofing measures.
         (d)   A foundation plan, drawn to scale, which shall include details
of the proposed foundation system to ensure all provisions of this subchapter
are met. These details include but are not limited to:
            1.   The proposed method of elevation, if applicable (i.e., fill,
solid foundation perimeter wall, solid backfilled foundation, open foundation
on columns/posts/piers/piles/shear walls); and
            2.   Openings to facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic
flood forces on walls in accordance with §
154.536(B)(4)(d) when solid foundation perimeter walls are used in Zones A, AE,
AO, and A1-30.
         (e)   Usage details of any enclosed areas below the lowest floor.
         (f)   Plans and/or details for the protection of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems to be located and
constructed to minimize flood damage.
         (g)   Certification that all other local, state and federal permits
required prior to floodplain development permit issuance have been received,
(wetlands, endangered species, erosion and sedimentation control, riparian
buffers, mining, etc.)
         (h)   Documentation for placement of recreational vehicles and/or
temporary structures, when applicable, to ensure that the provisions of §
154.536(B)(6) and (B)(7) of this subchapter are met.
         (i)   A description of proposed watercourse alteration or relocation,
when applicable, including an engineering report on the effects of the proposed
project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the effects to
properties located both upstream and downstream; and a map (if not shown on
plot plan) showing the location of the proposed watercourse alteration or
relocation.
      (2)   Permit requirements. The floodplain development permit shall
include, but not be limited to:
         (a)   A complete description of all the development to be permitted
under the floodplain development permit (e.g. house, garage, pool, septic,
bulkhead, cabana, pier, bridge, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving,
excavation or drilling operations, or storage of equipment or materials, etc.).
         (b)   The special flood hazard area determination for the proposed
development in accordance with available data specified in §
154.534(B).
         (c)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
reference level and all attendant utilities.
         (d)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
protection of all public utilities.
         (e)   All certification submittal requirements with timelines.
         (f)   A statement that no fill material or other development shall
encroach into the floodway or non-encroachment area of any watercourse unless
the requirements of §
154.534(F) have been met.
         (g)   The flood openings requirements.
         (h)   Limitations of below BFE enclosure uses (if applicable). (i.e.,
parking, building access and limited storage only).
         (i)   A statement, that all materials below BFE/RFPE must be flood
resistant materials.
      (3)   Certification requirements.
         (a)   Elevation certificates.
            1.   An elevation certificate (FEMA Form 81-31) is required prior
to the actual start of any new construction. It shall be the duty of the permit
holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the
elevation of the reference level, in relation to NAVD 1988. The Floodplain
Administrator shall review the certificate data submitted. Deficiencies
detected by such review shall be corrected by the permit holder prior to the
beginning of construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure to
make required corrections shall be cause to deny a floodplain development
permit.
            2.   A final finished construction elevation certificate (FEMA Form
81-31) is required after construction is completed and prior to certificate of
compliance/occupancy issuance. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of final as-built
construction of the elevation of the reference level and all attendant
utilities. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data
submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
permit holder immediately and prior to certificate of compliance/occupancy
issuance. In some instances, another certification may be required to certify
corrected as-built construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure
to make required corrections shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a
certificate of compliance/occupancy.
         (b)   Floodproofing certificate.
            1.   If non-residential flood proofing is used to meet the
regulatory flood protection elevation requirements, a floodproofing certificate
(FEMA Form 81-65), with supporting data, an operational plan, and an inspection
and maintenance plan are required prior to the actual start of any new
construction. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the
Floodplain Administrator a certification of the flood proofed design elevation
of the reference level and all attendant utilities, in relation to NAVD 1988.
Floodproofing certification shall be prepared by or under the direct
supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by same. The
Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data, the operational
plan, and the inspection and maintenance plan. Deficiencies detected by such
review shall be corrected by the applicant prior to permit approval. Failure to
submit the certification or failure to make required corrections shall be cause
to deny a floodplain development permit. Failure to construct in accordance
with the certified design shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a
certificate of compliance/occupancy.
            2.   A final finished construction floodproofing certificate (FEMA
Form 086-0-34), with supporting data, an operational plan, and an inspection
and maintenance plan are required prior to the issuance of a certificate of
compliance/occupancy. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to
the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the flood proofed design
elevation of the reference level and all attendant utilities, in relation to
NAVD 1988. Floodproofing certificate shall be prepared by or
under the direct supervision of a professional engineer or architect and
certified by same. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate
data, the operational plan, and the inspection and maintenance plan.
Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the applicant prior
to certificate of occupancy. Failure to submit the certification or failure to
make required corrections shall be cause to deny a floodplain development
permit. Failure to construct in accordance with the certified design shall be
cause to deny a certificate of compliance/occupancy.
         (c)   If a manufactured home is placed within Zones A, AE, AH, AO, or
A1-30 and the elevation of the chassis is more than 36 inches in height above
grade, an engineered foundation certification is required in accordance with
the provisions of §
154.536(B)(3)(b).
         (d)   If a watercourse is to be altered or relocated, a description of
the extent of watercourse alteration or relocation; a professional engineer's
certified report on the effects of the proposed project on the flood-carrying
capacity of the watercourse and the effects to properties located both upstream
and downstream; and a map showing the location of the proposed watercourse
alteration or relocation shall all be submitted by the permit applicant prior
to issuance of a floodplain development permit.
         (e)   Certification exemptions. The following structures, if located
within Zones A, AE, AH, AO, or A1- 30, are exempt from the elevation/
floodproofing certification requirements specified in divisions (B)(3)(a) and
(b) above of this section:
            1.   Recreational vehicles meeting requirements of §
154.536(B)(6)(a);
            2.   Temporary structures meeting requirements of §
154.536(B)(7); and
            3.   Accessory structures that are 150 square feet or less meeting
requirements of §
154.536(B)(8).
      (4)   Determinations for existing buildings and structures. For
applications for building permits to improve buildings and structures,
including alterations, movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, change of
occupancy, additions, rehabilitations, renovations, substantial improvements,
repairs of substantial damage, and any other improvement of or work on such
buildings and structures, the Floodplain Administrator, in coordination with
the Building Official, shall:
         (a)   Estimate the market value, or require the applicant to obtain an
appraisal of the market value prepared by a qualified independent appraiser, of
the building or structure before the start of construction of the proposed
work; in the case of repair, the market value of the building or structure
shall be the market value before the damage occurred and before any repairs are
made;
         (b)   Compare the cost to perform the improvement, the cost to repair
a damaged building to its pre-damaged condition, or the combined costs of
improvements and repairs, if applicable, to the market value of the building or
structure;
         (c)   Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage; and
         (d)   Notify the applicant if it is determined that the work
constitutes substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage and that
compliance with the flood resistant construction requirements of the NC
Building Code and this subchapter is required.
   (C)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator. The
Floodplain Administrator shall perform, but not be limited to, the following
duties:
      (1)   Review all floodplain development applications and issue permits
for all proposed development within special flood hazard areas to assure that
the requirements of this subchapter have been satisfied.
      (2)   Advise permittee that additional federal or state permits
(wetlands, endangered species, erosion and sedimentation control, riparian
buffers, mining, etc.) may be required, and require that copies of such permits
be provided and maintained on file with the floodplain development permit.
      (3)   Notify adjacent communities and the North Carolina Department of
Public Safety, Division of Emergency Management, State Coordinator for the
National Flood Insurance Program prior to any alteration or relocation of a
watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA).
      (4)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is maintained.
      (5)   Prevent encroachments into floodways and non-encroachment areas
unless the certification and flood hazard reduction provisions of §
154.536(E) are met.
      (6)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to NAVD 1988) of the reference
level (including basement) and all attendant utilities of all new and
substantially improved structures, in accordance with the provisions of
division (B)(3) above of this section.
      (7)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to NAVD 1988) to which all new
and substantially improved structures and utilities have been floodproofed, in
accordance with the provisions of division (B)(3) above of this section.
      (8)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to NAVD 1988) of all public
utilities in accordance with the provisions of division (B)(3) above of this
section.
      (9)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, obtain
certifications from a registered professional engineer or architect in
accordance with the provisions of division (B)(3) above of this section and §
154.536(B)(2).
      (10)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of
boundaries of the special flood hazard areas, floodways, or non-encroachment
areas (for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped
boundary and actual field conditions), make the necessary interpretation. The
person contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable
opportunity to appeal the interpretation as provided in this subchapter.
      (11)   When BFE data has not been provided in accordance with the
provisions of §
154.534(B), obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any BFE data, along with
floodway data or non-encroachment area data available from a federal, state, or
other source, including data developed pursuant to §
154.536(C)(2)(c), in order to administer the provisions of this subchapter.
      (12)   When BFE data is provided but no floodway or non-encroachment area
data has been provided in accordance with the provisions of §
154.534(B), obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any floodway data or non-
encroachment area data available from a federal, state, or other source in
order to administer the provisions of this subchapter.
      (13)   When the lowest ground elevation of a parcel or structure in a
special flood hazard area is above the base flood elevation, advise the
property owner of the option to apply for a letter of map amendment (LOMA) from
FEMA. Maintain a copy of the letter of map amendment (LOMA) issued by FEMA in
the floodplain development permit file.
      (14)   Permanently maintain all records that pertain to the
administration of this subchapter and make these records available for public
inspection, recognizing that such information may be subject to the Privacy Act
of 1974, as amended.
         (15)   Make on-site inspections of work in progress. As the work
pursuant to a floodplain development permit progresses, the Floodplain
Administrator shall make as many inspections of the work as may be necessary to
ensure that the work is being done according to the provisions of the local
ordinance and the terms of the permit. In exercising this power, the Floodplain
Administrator has a right, upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter on
any premises within the jurisdiction of the community at any reasonable hour
for the purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
         (16)   Issue stop-work orders as required. Whenever a building or part
thereof is being constructed, reconstructed, altered, or repaired in violation
of this subchhapter, the Floodplain Administrator may order the work to be
immediately stopped. The stop-work order shall be in writing and directed to
the person doing or in charge of the work. The stop-work order shall state the
specific work to be stopped, the specific reason(s) for the stoppage, and the
condition(s) under which the work may be resumed. Violation of a stop-work
order constitutes a misdemeanor.
         (17)   Revoke floodplain development permits as required. The
Floodplain Administrator may revoke and require the return of the floodplain
development permit by notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason
(s) for the revocation. Permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure
from the approved application, plans, and specifications; for refusal or
failure to comply with the requirements of state or local laws; or for false
statements or misrepresentations made in securing the permit. Any floodplain
development permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state or
local law may also be revoked.
         (18)   Make periodic inspections throughout the special flood hazard
areas within the jurisdiction of the community. The Floodplain Administrator
and each member of his or her inspections department shall have a right, upon
presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
territorial jurisdiction of the department at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
         (19)   Follow through with corrective procedures of division (D) below
of this section.
         (20)   Review, provide input, and make recommendations for variance
requests.
         (21)   Maintain a current map repository to include, but not limited
to, historical and effective FIS Report, historical and effective FIRM and
other official flood maps and studies adopted in accordance with the provisions
of §
154.534(B) of this subchapter, including any revisions thereto including
letters of map change, issued by FEMA. Notify state and FEMA of mapping needs.
         (22)   Coordinate revisions to FIS reports and FIRMs, including
letters of map revision based on fill (LOMR- Fs) and letters of map revision
(LOMRs).
   (D)   Corrective procedures.
      (1)   Violations to be corrected. When the Floodplain Administrator finds
violations of applicable state and local laws, it shall be his or her duty to
notify the owner or occupant of the building of the violation. The owner or
occupant shall immediately remedy each of the violations of law cited in such
notification.
      (2)   Actions in event of failure to take corrective action. If the owner
of a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action, the
Floodplain Administrator shall give the owner written notice, by certified or
registered mail to the owner's last known address or by personal service,
stating:
         (a)   That the building or property is in violation of the floodplain
management regulations;
         (b)   That a hearing will be held before the Floodplain Administrator
at a designated place and time, not later than ten days after the date of the
notice, at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by
counsel and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
         (c)   That following the hearing, the Floodplain Administrator may
issue an order to alter, vacate, or demolish the building; or to remove fill as
applicable.
      (3)   Order to take corrective action. If, upon a hearing held pursuant
to the notice prescribed above, the Floodplain Administrator shall find that
the building or development is in violation of the flood damage prevention
ordinance, he or she shall issue an order in writing to the owner, requiring
the owner to remedy the violation within a specified time period, not less than
60 calendar days, nor more than 180 calendar days. Where the Floodplain
Administrator finds that there is imminent danger to life or other property, he
or she may order that corrective action be taken in such lesser period as may
be feasible.
      (4)   Appeal. Any owner who has received an order to take corrective
action may appeal the order to the local elected Town Council by giving notice
of appeal in writing to the Floodplain Administrator and the clerk within ten
days following issuance of the final order. In the absence of an appeal, the
order of the Floodplain Administrator shall be final. The local Town Council
shall hear an appeal within a reasonable time and may affirm, modify and
affirm, or revoke the order.
      (5)   Failure to comply with order. If the owner of a building or
property fails to comply with an order to take corrective action for which no
appeal has been made or fails to comply with an order of the Town Council
following an appeal, the owner shall be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor
pursuant to G.S. § 143-215.58 and shall be punished at the discretion of the
court.
   (E)   Variance procedures.
      (1)   The Board of Adjustment as established by the Town of Fairmont, NC
hereinafter referred to as the Appeal Board, shall hear and decide requests for
variances from the requirements of this subchapter.
      (2)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board may appeal
such decision to the Court, as provided in G.S. Chapter 7A.
      (3)   Variances may be issued for:
         (a)   The repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon the
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure's continued designation as a historic structure and that the variance
is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure;
         (b)   Functionally dependent facilities if determined to meet the
definition as stated in §
154.533 of this subchapter, provided provisions of divisions (9)(b), (c), and
(e) below of this section have been satisfied, and such facilities are
protected by methods that minimize flood damages during the base flood and
create no additional threats to public safety; or
         (c)   Any other type of development provided it meets the requirements
of this section.
      (4)   In passing upon variances, the Appeal Board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this subchapter, and:
         (a)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
         (b)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
         (c)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
         (d)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility
to the community;
         (e)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location as
defined under §
154.533 of this subchapter as a functionally dependent facility, where
applicable;
         (f)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to
flooding or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
         (g)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
         (h)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and floodplain management program for that area;
         (i)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
         (j)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
         (k)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
      (5)   A written report addressing each of the above factors shall be
submitted with the application for a variance.
      (6)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of
this subchapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes and objectives of this
subchapter.
      (7)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the BFE and the elevation to which the
structure is to be built and that such construction below the BFE increases
risks to life and property, and that the issuance of a variance to construct a
structure below the BFE may result in increased premium rates for flood
insurance up to $25 per $100 of insurance coverage. Such notification shall be
maintained with a record of all variance actions, including justification for
their issuance.
      (8)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all
appeal actions and report any variances to the FEMA and the State of North
Carolina upon request.
      (9)   Conditions for variances.
         (a)   Variances shall not be issued when the variance will make the
structure in violation of other federal, state, or local laws, regulations, or
ordinances.
         (b)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway or
non-encroachment area if the variance would result in any increase in flood
levels during the base flood discharge.
         (c)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
         (d)   Variances shall only be issued prior to development permit
approval.
         (e)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
            1.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
            2.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship; and
            3.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not
result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, or
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (10)   A variance may be issued for solid waste disposal facilities or
sites, hazardous waste management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical
storage facilities that are located in special flood hazard areas provided that
all of the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The use serves a critical need in the community.
         (b)   No feasible location exists for the use outside the special
flood hazard area.
         (c)   The reference level of any structure is elevated or flood
proofed to at least the regulatory flood protection elevation.
         (d)   The use complies with all other applicable federal, state and
local laws.
         (e)   The Town of Fairmont, NC has notified the Secretary of the North
Carolina Department of Public Safety of its intention to grant a variance at
least 30 calendar days prior to granting the variance.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.536 PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION.
   (A)   General standards. In all special flood hazard areas, the following
provisions are required:
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be designed
(or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, and
lateral movement of the structure.
      (2)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage in
accordance with the FEMA Technical Bulletin 2, Flood Damage-Resistant Materials
Requirements.
      (3)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damages.
      (4)   All new electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air
conditioning equipment, and other service equipment shall be located at or
above the RFPE or designed and installed to prevent water from entering or
accumulating within the components during the occurrence of the base flood.
These include, but are not limited to, HVAC equipment, water softener units,
bath/kitchen fixtures, ductwork, electric/gas meter panels/boxes, utility/cable
boxes, hot water heaters, and electric outlets/switches.
      (5)   Replacements part of a substantial improvement, electrical,
heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning equipment, and other service
equipment shall also meet the above provisions.
      (6)   Replacements that are for maintenance and not part of a substantial
improvement, may be installed at the original location provided the addition
and/or improvements only comply with the standards for new construction
consistent with the code and requirements for the original structure.
      (7)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
      (8)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters.
      (9)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
      (10)   Nothing in this subchapter shall prevent the repair,
reconstruction, or replacement of a building or structure existing on the
effective date of this subchapter and located totally or partially within the
floodway, non-encroachment area, or stream setback, provided there is no
additional encroachment below the regulatory flood protection elevation in the
floodway, non-encroachment area, or stream setback, and provided that such
repair, reconstruction, or replacement meets all of the other requirements of
this subchapter.
      (11)   New solid waste disposal facilities and sites, hazardous waste
management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage facilities shall not
be permitted, except by variance as specified in §
154.535(E)(10). A structure or tank for chemical or fuel storage incidental to
an allowed use or to the operation of a water treatment plant or wastewater
treatment facility may be located in a special flood hazard area only if the
structure or tank is either elevated or floodproofed to at least the regulatory
flood protection elevation and certified in accordance with the provisions of §
154.535(B)(3).
      (12)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall be
consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
      (13)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall
have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water
systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
      (14)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall
have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
      (15)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall
have received all necessary permits from those governmental agencies for which
approval is required by federal or state law, including Section 404 of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334.
      (16)   When a structure is partially located in a special flood hazard
area, the entire structure shall meet the requirements for new construction and
substantial improvements.
      (17)   When a structure is located in a flood hazard risk zone with
multiple base flood elevations, the provisions for the more restrictive flood
hazard risk zone and the highest BFE shall apply.
      (18)   Buildings and structures that are located in more than one flood
hazard area shall comply with the provisions associated with the most
restrictive flood hazard area.
   (B)   Specific standards. In all special flood hazard areas where BFE data
has been provided, as set forth in §
154.534(B), or division (C) below of this section, the following provisions, in
addition to the provisions of division (A) above of this section, are required:
      (1)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any residential structure (including manufactured homes) shall
have the reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the
regulatory flood protection elevation, as defined in §
154.533 of this subchapter.
      (2)   Non-residential construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or other non-residential structure
shall have the reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the
regulatory flood protection elevation, as defined in §
154.533 of this subchapter. Structures located in Zones A, AE, AH, AO, and A1-
30 may be floodproofed to the regulatory flood protection elevation in lieu of
elevation provided that all areas of the structure, together with attendant
utility and sanitary facilities, below the regulatory flood protection
elevation are watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water, using structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the effect of buoyancy. For AO Zones,
the floodproofing elevation shall be in accordance with division (F)(2) below
of this section. A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify
that the floodproofing standards of this section are satisfied. Such
certification shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator as set forth in
§
154.535(B)(3), along with the operational plan and the inspection and
maintenance plan.
      (3)   Manufactured homes.
         (a)   New and replacement manufactured homes shall be elevated so that
the reference level of the manufactured home is no lower than the regulatory
flood protection elevation, as defined in §
154.533 of this subchapter.
         (b)   Manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement, either
by certified engineered foundation system, or in accordance with the most
current edition of the State of North Carolina Regulations for Manufactured
Homes adopted by the Commissioner of Insurance pursuant to G.S. § 143-143.15.
Additionally, when the elevation would be met by an elevation of the chassis 36
inches or less above the grade at the site, the chassis shall be supported by
reinforced piers or engineered foundation. When the elevation of the chassis is
above 36 inches in height, an engineering certification is required.
         (c)   All enclosures or skirting below the lowest floor shall meet the
requirements of Article division (B)(4) below of this section.
         (d)   An evacuation plan must be developed for evacuation of all
residents of all new, substantially improved or substantially damaged
manufactured home parks or subdivisions located within flood prone areas. This
plan shall be filed with and approved by the Floodplain Administrator and the
local Emergency Management Coordinator.
      (4)   Elevated buildings. Fully enclosed area, of new construction and
substantially improved structures, which is below the lowest floor:
         (a)   Shall not be designed or used for human habitation, but shall
only be used for parking of vehicles, building access, or limited storage of
maintenance equipment used in connection with the premises. Access to the
enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow for parking of vehicles
(garage door) or limited storage of maintenance equipment (standard exterior
door), or entry to the living area (stairway or elevator). The interior portion
of such enclosed area shall not be finished or partitioned into separate rooms,
except to enclose storage areas;
         (b)   Shall not be temperature-controlled or conditioned;
         (c)   Shall be constructed entirely of flood resistant materials at
least to the regulatory flood protection elevation; and
         (d)   Shall include flood openings to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on walls by allowing for the entry and exit of
floodwaters. To meet this requirement, the openings must either be certified by
a professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following minimum
design criteria:
            1.   A minimum of two flood openings on different sides of each
enclosed area subject to flooding;
            2.   The total net area of all flood openings must be at least one
square inch for each square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding;
            3.   If a building has more than one enclosed area, each enclosed
area must have flood openings to allow floodwaters to automatically enter and
exit;
            4.   The bottom of all required flood openings shall be no higher
than one foot above the higher of the interior or exterior adjacent grade;
            5.   Flood openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other
coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions; and
            6.   Enclosures made of flexible skirting are not considered
enclosures for regulatory purposes, and, therefore, do not require flood
openings. Masonry or wood underpinning, regardless of structural status, is
considered an enclosure and requires flood openings as outlined above.
      (5)   Additions/improvements.
         (a)   Additions and/or improvements to pre-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
            1.   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or
improvements must be designed to minimize flood damages and must not be any
more non-conforming than the existing structure.
            2.   A substantial improvement, with modifications/rehabilitations/
improvements to the existing structure or the common wall is structurally
modified more than installing a doorway, both the existing structure and the
addition must comply with the standards for new construction.
         (b)   Additions to pre-FIRM or post-FIRM structures that are a
substantial improvement with no modifications/rehabilitations/improvements to
the existing structure other than a standard door in the common wall, shall
require only the addition to comply with the standards for new construction.
         (c)   Additions and/or improvements to post-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
            1.   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or
improvements only must comply with the standards for new construction
consistent with the code and requirements for the original structure.
            2.   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
         (d)   Where an independent perimeter load-bearing wall is provided
between the addition and the existing building, the addition(s) shall be
considered a separate building and only the addition must comply with the
standards for new construction.
      (6)   Recreational vehicles. Recreational vehicles shall either:
         (a)   Temporary placement.
            1.   Be on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days; or
            2.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use. (A recreational
vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is
attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities, and has no
permanently attached additions.)
         (b)   Permanent placement. Recreational vehicles that do not meet the
limitations of temporary placement shall meet all the requirements for new
construction.
      (7)   Temporary non-residential structures. Prior to the issuance of a
floodplain development permit for a temporary structure, the applicant must
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a plan for the removal of such structure
(s) in the event of a hurricane, flash flood or other type of flood warning
notification. The following information shall be submitted in writing to the
Floodplain Administrator for review and written approval:
         (a)   A specified time period for which the temporary use will be
permitted. Time specified may not exceed three months, renewable up to one
year;
         (b)   The name, address, and phone number of the individual
responsible for the removal of the temporary structure;
         (c)   The time frame prior to the event at which a structure will be
removed (i.e., minimum of 72 hours before landfall of a hurricane or
immediately upon flood warning notification);
         (d)   A copy of the contract or other suitable instrument with the
entity responsible for physical removal of the structure; and
         (e)   Designation, accompanied by documentation, of a location outside
the special flood hazard area, to which the temporary structure will be moved.
      (8)   Accessory structures. When accessory structures (sheds, detached
garages, etc.) are to be placed within a special flood hazard area, the
following criteria shall be met:
         (a)   Accessory structures shall not be used for human habitation
(including working, sleeping, living, cooking or restroom areas);
         (b)   Accessory structures shall not be temperature-controlled;
         (c)   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential;
         (d)   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the
building site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
         (e)   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance with
the provisions of division (A) above of this section;
         (f)   All service facilities such as electrical shall be installed in
accordance with the provisions of division (A)(4) above of this section; and
         (g)   Flood openings to facilitate automatic equalization of
hydrostatic flood forces shall be provided below regulatory flood protection
elevation in conformance with the provisions of division (B)(4)(d) above of
this section.
         (h)   An accessory structure with a footprint less than 150 square
feet that satisfies the criteria outlined above is not required to meet the
elevation or floodproofing standards of division (B)(2) above. Elevation or
floodproofing certifications are required for all other accessory structures in
accordance with §
154.535(B)(3).
      (9)   Tanks. When gas and liquid storage tanks are to be placed within a
special flood hazard area, the following criteria shall be met:
         (a)   Underground tanks. Underground tanks in flood hazard areas shall
be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads during conditions of the design flood,
including the effects of buoyancy assuming the tank is empty;
         (b)   Above-ground tanks, elevated. Above-ground tanks in flood hazard
areas shall be elevated to or above the regulatory flood protection elevation
on a supporting structure that is designed to prevent flotation, collapse or
lateral movement during conditions of the design flood. Tank-supporting
structures shall meet the foundation requirements of the applicable flood
hazard area;
         (c)   Above-ground tanks, not elevated. Above-ground tanks that do not
meet the elevation requirements of division (B)(2) of this section shall be
permitted in flood hazard areas provided the tanks are designed, constructed,
installed, and anchored to resist all flood-related and other loads, including
the effects of buoyancy, during conditions of the design flood and without
release of contents in the floodwaters or infiltration by floodwaters into the
tanks. Tanks shall be designed, constructed, installed, and anchored to resist
the potential buoyant and other flood forces acting on an empty tank during
design flood conditions.
         (d)   Tank inlets and vents. Tank inlets, fill openings, outlets and
vents shall be:
            1.   At or above the regulatory flood protection elevation or
fitted with covers designed to prevent the inflow of floodwater or outflow of
the contents of the tanks during conditions of the design flood; and
            2.   Anchored to prevent lateral movement resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy, during
conditions of the design flood.
      (10)   Other development.
         (a)   Fences in regulated floodways and NEAs that have the potential
to block the passage of floodwaters, such as stockade fences and wire mesh
fences, shall meet the limitations of division (E) below of this section.
         (b)   Retaining walls, sidewalks and driveways in regulated floodways
and NEAs. Retaining walls and sidewalks and driveways that involve the
placement of fill in regulated floodways shall meet the limitations of division
(E) below of this section.
         (c)   Roads and watercourse crossings in regulated floodways and NEAs.
Roads and watercourse crossings, including roads, bridges, culverts, low-water
crossings and similar means for vehicles or pedestrians to travel from one side
of a watercourse to the other side, that encroach into regulated floodways
shall meet the limitations of division (E) below of this section.
         (d)   Commercial storage facilities are not considered limited storage
as noted in this subchapter and shall be protected to the regulatory flood
protection elevation as required for commercial structures.
   (C)   Standards for floodplains without established base flood elevations.
Within the special flood hazard areas designated as Approximate Zone A and
established in §
154.534(B), where no BFE data has been provided by FEMA, the following
provisions, in addition to the provisions of division (A) above of this
section, shall apply:
      (1)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements or new development shall be permitted within a distance of 20 feet
each side from top of bank or five times the width of the stream, whichever is
greater, unless certification with supporting technical data by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating that such encroachments shall
not result in any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood discharge.
      (2)   The BFE used in determining the regulatory flood protection
elevation shall be determined based on the following criteria:
         (a)   When BFE data is available from other sources, all new
construction and substantial improvements within such areas shall also comply
with all applicable provisions of this ordinance and shall be elevated or flood
proofed in accordance with standards in divisions (A) and (B) above of this
section.
         (b)   When floodway or non-encroachment data is available from a
federal, state, or other source, all new construction and substantial
improvements within floodway and non-encroachment areas shall also comply with
the requirements of divisions (B) and (E) of this section.
         (c)   All subdivision, manufactured home park and other development
proposals shall provide BFE data if development is greater than five acres or
has more than 50 lots/manufactured home sites. Such BFE data shall be adopted
by reference in accordance with §
154.534(B) and utilized in implementing this subchapter.
         (d)   When BFE data is not available from a federal, state, or other
source as outlined above, the reference level shall be elevated or flood
proofed (nonresidential) to or above the regulatory flood protection elevation,
as defined in §
154.533. All other applicable provisions of division (B) above of this section
shall also apply.
   (D)   Standards for riverine floodplains with base flood elevations but
without established floodways or non-encroachment areas. Along rivers and
streams where BFE data is provided by FEMA or is available from another source
but neither floodway nor non-encroachment areas are identified for a special
flood hazard area on the FIRM or in the FIS report, the following requirements
shall apply to all development within such areas:
      (1)   Standards of divisions (A) and (B) above of this section; and
      (2)   Until a regulatory floodway or non-encroachment area is designated,
no encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial improvements,
or other development, shall be permitted unless certification with supporting
technical data by a registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating
that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all
other existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point.
   (E)   Floodways and non-encroachment areas. Areas designated as floodways or
non-encroachment areas are located within the special flood hazard areas
established in §
154.534(B). The floodways and non-encroachment areas are extremely hazardous
areas due to the velocity of floodwaters that have erosion potential and carry
debris and potential projectiles. The following provisions, in addition to
standards outlined in divisions (A) and (B) above of this section, shall apply
to all development within such areas:
      (1)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements and other developments shall be permitted unless:
         (a)   It is demonstrated that the proposed encroachment would not
result in any increase in the flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood discharge, based on hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in
accordance with standard engineering practice and presented to the Floodplain
Administrator prior to issuance of floodplain development permit; or
         (b)   A conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR) has been approved
by FEMA. A letter of map revision (LOMR) must also be obtained within six
months of completion of the proposed encroachment.
      (2)   If division (E)(1) above is satisfied, all development shall comply
with all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this subchapter.
      (3)   Manufactured homes may be permitted provided the following
provisions are met:
         (a)   The anchoring and the elevation standards of division (B)(3)
above of this section; and
         (b)   The encroachment standards of division (E)(1) above of this
section.
   (F)   Standards for areas of shallow flooding (Zone AO). Located within the
special flood hazard areas established in §
154.534(B), are areas designated as shallow flooding areas. These areas have
special flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist and where the path of flooding
is unpredictable and indeterminate. In addition to divisions (A) and (B) above
of this section, all new construction and substantial improvements shall meet
the following requirements:
      (1)   The reference level shall be elevated at least as high as the depth
number specified on the flood insurance rate map (FIRM), in feet, plus a
freeboard of four feet, above the highest adjacent grade; or at least two feet
above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number is specified.
      (2)   Non-residential structures may, in lieu of elevation, be
floodproofed to the same level as required in Article 5, Section I(1) so that
the structure, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, below
that level shall be watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the
passage of water and with structural components having the capability of
resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
Certification is required in accordance with Article 4, Section B(3) and
Article 5, Section B(2).
      (3)   Adequate drainage paths shall be provided around structures on
slopes, to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed structures.
   (G)   Standards for areas of shallow flooding (Zone AH). Located within the
special flood hazard areas established in §
154.534(B), are areas designated as shallow flooding areas. These areas are
subject to inundation by 1%-annual-chance shallow flooding (usually areas of
ponding) where average depths are one to three feet. Base flood elevations are
derived from detailed hydraulic analyses are shown in this zone. In addition to
divisions (A) and (B) above of this section, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall meet the following requirements: Adequate
drainage paths shall be provided around structures on slopes, to guide
floodwaters around and away from proposed structures.
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 154.537 LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Effect on rights and liabilities under the existing flood damage
prevention ordinance. 
      (1)   This subchapter in part comes forward by re-enactment of some of
the provisions of the flood damage prevention ordinance enacted December 11,
2006 as amended, and it is not the intention to repeal but rather to re-enact
and continue to enforce without interruption of such existing provisions, so
that all rights and liabilities that have accrued thereunder are reserved and
may be enforced. The enactment of this subchapter shall not affect any action,
suit or proceeding instituted or pending. All provisions of the flood damage
prevention ordinance of the Town of Fairmont, NC enacted on August 11, 1987 as
amended, which are not reenacted herein are repealed.
      (2)   The date of the initial flood damage prevention ordinance for
Robeson County is November 11, 1990.
   (B)   Effect upon outstanding floodplain development permits. Nothing herein
contained shall require any change in the plans, construction, size, or
designated use of any development or any part thereof for which a floodplain
development permit has been granted by the Floodplain Administrator or his or
her
authorized agents before the time of passage of this subchapter; provided,
however, that when construction is not begun under such outstanding permit
within a period of six months subsequent to the date of issuance of the
outstanding permit, construction or use shall be in conformity with the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   Severability.   If any section, clause, sentence, or phrase of this
subchapter is held to be invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, then said holding shall in no way effect the validity of the
remaining portions of this subchapter.
   (D)   Effective date. This subchapter shall become effective upon adoption.
   (E)   Adoption certification.
   I hereby certify that this is a true and correct copy of the Flood Damage
Prevention Ordinance as adopted by the Town Council of the Town of Fairmont,
North Carolina, on the 18th day of July, 2023.
   WITNESS my hand and the official seal of
                                                               , this the
                        day of                                               ,
2023.
                                                                             SEAL
   (signature)
(Ord. 23-241, passed 7-18-2023)
APPENDIX A: LIST OF TEXT AMENDMENTS
APPENDIX B: DECOMMISSIONING PLAN FOR SOLAR LOCATIONS
    A Decommissioning Plan signed by the party responsible for decommissioning
and the landowner (if different) addressing the following shall be submitted
with permit application. The Decommissioning Plan shall follow the provision as
outlined in SESSION LAW 2019-132.
APPENDIX C: LIST OF PREFERRED LOCATIONS FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT
 
Suitable Fairmont Sites
Site # Field Site Name              Underlying Zoning Recommended WCF Use
1.     Water Tank #1 - 1775 Marion  R-15              Antenna Attachments/Cell
       Stage Road                                     Tower
2.     Water Tank #2 - 520 Franklin GB                Antenna Attachments
       Street
3.     Town Hall - 421 South Main   R-10              Antenna Attachments
       Street
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0fa087e7aaf2d1426066c541dcf0227ca59242f9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2617.png]
 
(Ord. 23-2 41, passed 7- 18-2023)
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to 1988 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
 
 
G.S. Reference Code Section
G.S. Reference          Code Section
                        154.108,
Chapter 1, Sub. 11      154.116,
                        154.132
Chapter 1, Article 26   154.133
1-49(3)                 154.093
1-51                    154.093
1-54.1                  154.116,
                        154.132
1-54(10)                154.116,
                        154.132
1-117                   152.06
1-120.2                 152.06
7A                      154.535
7A-227                  152.10,
                        152A.23
7A-228                  152A.23
14, Art. 37             115.07,
                        115.16
                        10.99,
                        52.24,
                        52.99,
                        90.011,
                        90.083,
                        91.07,
                        91.36,
14-4                    93.99,
                        94.99,
                        95.99,
                        130.06,
                        130.99,
                        132.99,
                        152.13,
                        152A.29,
                        154.093
14-4(b)                 73.17
14-127                  130.01
14-128                  95.03
14-132                  95.03,
                        130.01
14-144                  130.01
14-145                  130.03
14-154                  130.01
14-160                  130.01
14-190.1 et seq.        133.15
14-196 et seq.          132.03
14-202.10               154.026,
                        154.235
14-234                  154.067
14-277.2                90.077,
                        131.02
14-287                  131.05
14-399                  95.03
15-27.2                 152.04,
                        152A.16
17C-10                  33.03
18B-300                 133.01
18B-1001                110.03
20                      70.01
20-4.01                 70.01,
                        154.026
20-4.01(2a)             154.026
20-4.01(2b)             154.026
20-4.01(2c)             154.026
20-4.01(27)k            154.026
20-37                   111.06
20-97                   70.04,
                        111.06
20-114.1                70.07
20-121.1                154.026
20-129                  74.18
20-134                  73.04
20-141 et seq.          72.01
20-158 et seq.          71.04
20-161 et seq.          73.02
20-168                  70.02
20-169                  70.01
20-171                  70.03
20-171.1 et seq.        74.18
20-172 et seq.          74.03
20-174(e)               74.01
20-175.1 et seq.        74.03
                        91.26,
20-219.11               91.27,
                        91.30
Chapter 29              154.376,
                        154.407
Chapter 40A             154.200
42-29                   152.10,
                        152A.23
42-30                   152.10,
                        152A.23
44-48                   50.24
44A-1 et seq.           91.32
47-30                   154.418
47-30.2                 154.405
47-85                   154.418
Chapter 47C             154.252
63-31                   154.282
67-30 et seq.           94.39
87-85(10a)              154.026
Ch. 89B                 154.005
89C                     154.418
90-5                    90.011
90-86 et seq.           130.06
97                      33.26
105-33 et seq.          110.16
105-109(d)              110.25
105-164.4(a)(4c)        154.348
105-164.4(a)(6)         154.348
105-277.3               154.026
105-316(a)(1)           154.297,
                        154.302
105-317.1(a)            154.200
Chapter 105, Art. 12    154.005
110-86 (2)              154.026
113A-110                154.007
121 5(c)                154.055
122C-3(11)b             154.026,
                        154.253
130A-196                94.29
130A-290 et seq.        52.01
130A-290(a)(6)          154.533
130A-290(a)(35)         154.533
130A-290(a)(36)         154.533
130A-313(10)            50.81,
                        154.026
Chapter 130A, Article 9 154.533
131D-2.1                154.026
132-8                   154.055
Chapter 136             154.200
Chapter 136, Art. 12    154.264
Chapter 136, Art. 13    154.200
136-18(29)              154.107
136-44.14               154.458
136-102.6               154.458
136-128                 154.026
136-131.1               154.200
136-131.2               154.200
136-141 et seq.         91.22
136-143                 91.22
143, Art. 21            50.58
143-138                 151.02,
                        154.172
143-139.1               154.026,
                        154.400
143-143.9(6)            154.026
143-143.15              154.536
                        152.03,
143-145(7)              154.026,
                        154.400
143-213(18)             50.51
143-215.1               50.51,
                        50.54
143-215.1(b)            50.54
143-215.1(d)            50.51
143-215.1(g)            50.54
143-215.3(a)(14)        50.51
143-215.3C              50.57
143-215.6B              50.05,
                        50.58
143-215.6B(f)           50.58
143-215.6B(g)           50.58
143-215.6B(h)           50.58
143-215.6B(i)           50.58
143-215.54              150.44
143B-452                150.01
153A-123                94.99
153A-275                50.50
159                     31.112
160A                    152.34,
                        152A.063
160A, Art. 10           152A.063,
                        152A.110
160A-11 et seq.         150.01
160A-12                 31.004
160A-19                 154.001,
                        154.013
160A-19 et seq.         153.02
160A-19-3               154.001
160A-20.1               52.20
160A-69                 30.01
160A-71                 30.03
160A-74                 30.03
160A-76                 92.30
160A-81.9               30.19
160A-162                31.002
160A-164                31.002
160A-167                30.01
160A-174                90.011
                        10.99,
160A-175                90.011,
                        130.06,
                        133.19
160A-179                130.06
160A-184                132.02
160A-185                94.20
160A-186                94.20
160A-188                94.19
160A-189                131.03
160A-193(a)             91.07
160A-193(b)             91.07
160A-193                91.07,
                        150.01
160A-198                150.01
160A-206 et seq.        31.112
160A-207                110.25
160A-211 et seq.        110.16
160A-211                111.06
160A-212                94.20
160A-213                70.04
                        31.112,
160A-216 et seq.        152.34,
                        152A.063,
                        152A.091
160A-217                90.010
160A-226(c)             31.004
160A-281 et seq.        33.02
160A-282                33.21
160A-291 et seq.        92.03
160A-291                92.16
160A-292                92.16
160A-300 et seq.        70.01
160A-303                91.20
160A-303(b)             91.20
                        91.22,
160A-303(c)             91.23,
                        91.26
160A-303(d)             91.27
                        111.01,
160A-304                111.03,
                        111.04,
                        111.08
160A-304(a)             111.09,
                        111.10
160A-311 et seq.        52.21
160A-312                50.50,
                        50.70
160A-317                52.01
160A-360 et seq.        32.01
160A-361 et seq.        32.01
160A-362                32.01
160A-364                154.048,
                        154.100
160A-373                153.35
160A-376                153.22
160A-400.04             153.37
160A-400.4              153.38,
                        153.50
                        153.37,
160A-400.5              153.38,
                        153.50
160A-400.7              153.50
160A-426                151.19
160A-435                151.01
160A-439                152A.075
160A-439(f)             152A.092
160A.439(g)             152A.092
160A-441 et seq.        152.01
                        152.02,
160A-441                152A.051,
                        152A.052
160A-443                152.30,
                        152A.052
160A-443(5)             152.33
160A-443(6)             152.34
160A-443(2) through (5) 152.30
160A-444                152.30
160A-445                152.32
160A-446                152A.114
160A-446(a)             152.31
160A-446(b)             152.31
                        152.30,
160A-446(f)             152A.094,
                        152A.095
160A-446(c) through (g) 152.30
160A-463                151.19
160A-465                151.20
160A-466                151.21,
                        151.22
160A-493                94.39
163A-439(f)             152A.090
166A-1 et seq.          34.02
166A-7                  34.02
                        154.002,
                        154.005,
                        154.008,
                        154.012,
                        154.026,
                        154.065,
                        154.070,
                        154.088,
                        154.092,
Chapter 160D            154.093,
                        154.107,
                        154.108,
                        154.109,
                        154.115,
                        154.116,
                        154.126,
                        154.128,
                        154.132,
                        154.170,
                        154.476
160D-1-6                154.477
160D-1-8                154.026
160D-1-8(e)             154.476
160D-1-9                154.110
160D-1-9(d)             154.107
160D-1-14               154.493
160D-1-14(b)            154.493
160D-2-4                154.005
160D-3-1                154.026
160D-3-3                154.005
160D-4-3(c)             154.477
160D-4-5                154.092
                        154.005,
160D-6-1                154.007,
                        154.126
160D-6-1.60             154.492
160D-6-2                154.476,
                        154.477
160D-6-2(b)             154.128,
                        154.129
160D-6-5(a)             154.476
160D-8-2                154.026
160D-8-4                154.476
160D-9-30               154.340
160D-10(b)              154.071
160D-10.3               154.476
160D-11-9               154.477
160D-11-10              154.342
160D-11-12              154.092
160D-11-13              154.477
160D-11-23              154.092
160D-11-1461            154.493
160D-12-6               154.092
160D-12-8               154.092
160D-14-1               154.110
160D-101                154.002
                        154.026,
                        154.065,
160D-102                154.107,
                        154.146,
                        154.400
160D-104                154.008,
                        154.026
160D-105(b)             154.037
160D-106                154.009
160D-107                154.390,
                        154.490
160D-107(a)             154.491
160D-107(b)             154.492
160D-107(c)             154.493
160D-107(d)             154.494
160D-107(e)             154.495
160D-107(f)             154.496
                        154.003,
                        154.088,
160D-108                154.108,
                        154.130,
                        154.389,
                        154.478
160D-108(d)             154.088,
                        154.107
160D-108(h)             154.113,
                        154.133
160D-108(i)             154.133
160D-108.1              154.130,
                        154.477
160D-108.1(a)           154.108
                        154.066,
160D-109                154.067,
                        154.126
160D-109(a)             154.126
                        154.067,
                        154.070,
160D-109(d)             154.071,
                        154.107,
                        154.108
160D-110(b)             154.024,
                        154.126
160D-110(c)             154.024
160D-201(a)             154.005
160D-202                154.005,
                        154.126
160D-202(a)             154.005
160D-202(b)             154.005
160D-202(c)             154.005
160D-202(d)             154.005
160D-202(e)             154.005
160D-202(f)             154.005
160D-202(g)             154.005
160D-202(h)             154.005
160D-202(i)             154.005
160D-202(j)             154.005
160D-202(k)             154.005
160D-203                154.005
160D-204                154.005
160D-301                154.070
160D-301(b)             154.070,
                        154.107
160D-302                154.071
160D-306                154.072
160D-308                154.070,
                        154.071
160D 309                154.070,
                        154.071
160D-402(a), (b)        154.069
160D-402(d)             154.067,
                        154.069
                        154.067,
160D-403                154.082,
                        154.231
                        154.006,
                        154.081,
160D-403(a)             154.125,
                        154.297,
                        154.301
                        154.086,
                        154.096,
160D-403(b)             154.109,
                        154.112,
                        154.420
                        154.088,
160D-403(c)             154.108,
                        154.130
160D-403(d)             154.089
160D-403(e)             154.090
                        154.094,
160D-403(f)             154.108,
                        154.131
                        154.092,
                        154.093,
160D-404                154.094,
                        154.108,
                        154.131
                        154.092,
                        154.094,
                        154.096,
160D-405                154.108,
                        154.110,
                        154.113,
                        154.131,
                        154.477
160D-405(a)             154.109,
                        154.111
160D-405(b)             154.109
160D-405(c)             154.477
160D-405(d)             154.109
160D-405(e)             154.094,
                        154.108
160D-405(f)             154.109
160D-405(g)             154.109
160D-405(h)             154.109
                        154.065,
160D-406                154.067,
                        154.070,
                        154.420
160D-406(a)             154.108,
                        154.111
                        154.107,
160D-406(b)             154.108,
                        154.109
                        154.107,
160D-406(c)             154.108,
                        154.109
160D-406(d)             154.107,
                        154.108
                        154.107,
160D-406(e)             154.108,
                        154.109
160D-406(f)             154.109
160D-406(g)             154.108,
                        154.109
                        154.067,
160D-406(i)             154.071,
                        154.107,
                        154.108
                        154.107,
                        154.108,
160D-406(j)             154.109,
                        154.116,
                        154.132
160D-406(k)             154.110
                        154.007,
160D-501                154.070,
                        154.400
160D-501(b)             154.007
160D-501(c)             154.007
Chapter 160D, Art. 6    154.067
160D-601                154.067,
                        154.127
160D-601(a)             154.126
160D-601(b)             154.126
160D-601(c)             154.126
160D-601(d)             154.126
160D-602(a)             154.126
160D-602(b)             154.126
160D-602(c)             154.126
160D-602(e)             154.126
160D-603                154.127
160D-604                154.007,
                        154.070
160D-604(a)             154.128
160D-604(b)             154.128
160D-604(c)             154.128
160D-604(d)             154.128
160D-604(e)             154.128
160D-605                154.007
160D-605(a)             154.129
160D-605(b)             154.129
160D-605(c)             154.129
160D-701                154.040
                        154.170,
160D-702                154.171,
                        154.172
160D-702(b)             154.107
160D-703(c)             154.145
160D-703(d)             154.145
                        154.107,
160D-705                154.108,
                        154.127
160D-705(c)             154.107
160D-705(d)             154.108
Chapter 160D, Art. 8    154.377
                        154.026,
160D-801                154.295,
                        154.377
                        154.026,
160D-802                154.376,
                        154.377
160D-802(a)             154.407
160D-803(b)             154.427
                        154.112,
160D-803(c)             154.405,
                        154.406,
                        154.420
160D-803(d)             154.405
160D-804                154.376
160D-804.1              154.448
160D-805                154.385
160D-806                154.391,
                        154.447
160D-807(a)             154.392
160D-807(b)             154.441,
                        154.444
160D-807(c)             154.441
160D-808                154.420
160D-902                154.235
160D-902(f)             154.026
160D-903                154.026
160D-903(a)             154.026
160D-907                154.253
160D-907(b)             154.026,
                        154.253
160D-907(c)             154.253
160D-907(d)             154.253
160D-908                154.172
160D-910                154.026,
                        154.400
160D-912(a)             154.200
160D-912(b)             154.200
160D-912(c)             154.200
160D-912(d)             154.200
160D-912(e)             154.200
160D-912(f)             154.200
160D-912(g)             154.200
160D-912(h)             154.200
160D-912(i)             154.200
160D-912(j)             154.200
160D-912(k)             154.200
160D-912(l)             154.200
160D-912(m)             154.200
160D-912(n)             154.200
160D-912(o)             154.200
160D-930                154.340
160D-931                154.342
160D-932                154.340
160D-933(b)(3)          154.344
160D-933(f)             154.344
160D-934(b)             154.347
160D-935                154.348
160D-936(b)(2)          154.348
160D-936(i)             154.348
160D Article 10         154.477
160D-1001(a) - (d)      154.476
160D-1001(b)            154.476
160D-1002               154.476
160D-1004               154.476
160D-1005               154.476
160D-1006               154.476
160D-1006(c)            154.476
160D-1006(e)            154.476
160D-1007               154.476
160D-1008               154.476
160D-1009               154.476
160D-1010               154.476
160D-1011               154.476
160D-1012               154.476
160D-1014               154.477
160D-1014(a)            154.477
160D-1014(b)            154.477
160D-1014(c)            154.477
160D-1014(d)            154.477
160D-1014(e)            154.477
160D-1014(f)            154.477
160D-1014(g)            154.477
160D-1110               154.392
160D-1129               152A.03
160D, Art. 12           152.01,
                        154.026
160D-1201               152.01
160D-1201(b)            152.02
160D-1203(4)            152.10
160D-1208               152A.20
160D-1401               154.133
                        154.096,
                        154.107,
160D-1402               154.109,
                        154.110,
                        154.113
160D-1402(a)            154.110
160D-1402(b)            154.110
                        154.096,
160D-1402(c)            154.109,
                        154.110
                        154.107,
160D-1402(d)            154.108,
                        154.109,
                        154.110
160D-1402(e)            154.110
160D-1402(f)            154.110
160D-1402(g)            154.110
160D-1402(h)            154.110
160D-1402(i)            154.110,
                        154.113
160D-1402(j)            154.110,
                        154.113
160D-1402(k)            154.110
160D-1402(l)            154.110
160D-1402(m)            154.110
160D-1402(n)            154.110
160D-1403               154.420
160D-1403(a)            154.112
160D-1403(b)            154.112
160D-1403(c)            154.112
                        154.110,
160D-1403.1             154.116,
                        154.132,
                        154.133
160D-1403.1(a)          154.113
160D-1403.1(b)          154.113
160D-1403.1(c)          154.113
160D-1403.1(d)          154.113
160D-1403.1(e)          154.113
160D-1403.1(f)          154.113
160D-1403.1(g)          154.113
                        154.096,
160D-1403.2             154.109,
                        154.114
160D-1404               154.115
160D-1405(a)            154.116,
                        154.132
160D-1405(b)            154.116,
                        154.132
160D-1405(c)            154.116,
                        154.132
160D-1405(d)            154.110,
                        154.116
160D-1405(e)            154.116,
                        154.132
160D-1405(f)            154.116,
                        154.132
166A-1 et seq.          34.02
166A-7                  34.02
166A-19.24              154.067
168-21                  154.026
                        
 
REFERENCES TO 1988 CODE
1988 Code Section Code Section
2-26              30.01
2-27              30.02
2-28              30.03
2-29              30.04
2-41              30.15
2-42              30.16
2-43              30.17
2-44              30.18
2-45              30.19
2-46              30.20
2-47              30.21
2-48              30.22
2-49              30.23
2-50              30.23
2-76              31.110
2-101             31.11
2-102             31.112
4-1               151.01
4-2               151.02
4-61              151.15
4-62              151.16
4-63              151.17
4-64              151.17
4-65              151.19
4-66              151.20
4-67              151.21
4-68              151.22
5-16              34.01
5-17              34.02
5-18              34.03
10-1              92.01
10-2              92.02
10-3              92.03
10-16             92.15
10-17             92.15
10-18             92.16
10-19             92.16
10-31             92.30
10-32             92.30
11-1              93.01
11-2              93.02
11-3              93.03
12-1              110.01
12-2              110.02
12-16             110.15
12-17             110.16
12-18             110.17
12-20             110.18,
                  110.19
12-21             110.19
12-22             110.21
12-23             110.22
12-24             110.23
12-25             110.24
12-26             110.25
12-27             110.26
12-28             110.27
12-29             110.28
12-30             110.29
12-31             110.30
12-32             110.31
12-33             110.31
12-51             112.01
12-52             112.02
12-53             112.03
12-54             112.04
12-55             112.05
12-56             112.06
12-111            114.01
12-112            114.02
13-1              130.01
13-2              130.02
13-3              130.03
13-4              130.04
13-5              130.05
13-26             131.01
13-27             131.02
13-28             131.03
13-29             131.04
13-30             131.05
13-31             131.06
13-51             132.01
13-52             132.02
13-53             132.03
13-54             132.04,
                  132.99
13-76             133.01
13-90             133.16
13-91             133.16
13-92             133.17
13-93             133.18
13-94             133.19
13-95             133.20
14-1              70.01
14-2              70.02
14-3              70.03
14-4              70.04
14-5              70.05
14-6              70.06
14-21             70.07
14-51             71.01
14-52             71.02
14-53             71.03
14-54             71.04
14-55             71.05
14-56             71.06
14-57             71.07
14-58             71.08
14-59             71.09
14-76             72.01
14-77             72.02
14-78             72.03
14-79             72.04
14-80             72.05
14-81             72.05
14-81             72.05
14-83             72.06
                  72.08,
14-85             74.28, ,
                  Ch. 75, Sch. VII
14-86             72.07
14-101            73.01
14-102            73.02
14-103            73.03
14-104            73.04
14-105            73.05
14-106            73.06
14-107            73.07
14-108            73.08
14-109            73.09
14-110            73.10
14-111            73.11
14-112            73.12
14-113            73.13
14-114            73.14
14-115            73.15
14-126            73.30
14-127            73.31
14-128            73.32
14-129            73.33
14-151            74.01
14-152            74.02
14-153            74.03
14-176            74.15
14-177            74.16
14-178            74.17
14-179            74.18
14-180            74.19
14-181            74.20
14-182            74.21
14-183            74.22
14-184            74.23
14-185            74.24
14-186            74.25
14-187            74.26
14-188            74.27
14-189            74.28
                  74.28,
14-2001           Ch. 75, Sch. V,
                  Ch. 75, Sch. I
14-2002           74.28,
                  Ch. 75, Sch. II
14-2003           74.28,
                  Ch. 75, Sch. III
14-2005           74.28,
                  Ch. 76, Sch. I
14-2006           74.28,
                  Ch. 76, Sch. I
14-2007           74.28,
                  Ch. 76, Sch. I
14-2008           74.28,
                  Ch. 76, Sch. I
14-2009           74.28,
                  Ch. 76, Sch. I
14-2010           74.28,
                  Ch. 76. Sch. II
14-2011           74.28,
                  Ch. 75, Sch. IV
14-2012           74.28,
                  Ch. 75, Sch. V
15-60             71.10
16-1              31.001
16-2              31.002
16-3              31.003
16-4              31.004
16-21             31.020
16-22             31.021
16-23             31.022
16-24             31.023
16-25             31.024
16-26             31.025
16-27             31.026
16-28             31.027
16-29             31.028
16-30             31.029
16-32             31.031
16-34             31.033
16-35             31.034,
                  31.032
16-36             31.035
16-37             31.035
16-38             31.036
16-39             31.036
16-40             31.037
16-61             31.050
16-62             31.051
16-63             31.052
16-64             31.052
16-65             31.053
16-66             31.054
16-67             31.055
16-68             31.055
16-69             31.056
16-70             31.057
16-71             31.057
16-72             31.057
16-73             31.058
16-74             31.058
16-75             31.059
16-76             31.060
16-77             31.061
16-101            31.075
16-102            31.076
16-105            31.077,
                  31.078
16-106            31.077,
                  31.079
16-107            31.080
16-151            31.095
16-152            31.096
16-153            31.096
16-154            31.097
16-155            31.098
16-156            31.09
17-26             32.01
17-27             32.01
17-28             32.02
17-29             32.03
17-30             32.03
17-31             32.04
17-32             32.05
17-33             32.06
17-34             32.07
18-1              33.01
18-25             33.02
18-26             33.03
18-27             33.03
18-28             33.04
18-29             33.05
18-30             33.05
18-31             33.06
18-51             33.20
18-52             33.21
18-53             33.22
18-54             33.23
18-55             33.24
18-56             33.25
19-1              52.01
19-2              52.02
19-3              52.03
19-4              52.04
19-5              52.05
19-6              52.06
19-7              52.07
19-8              52.08
19-9              52.09
19-31             52.21
19-32             52.22
19-33             52.23
19-34             52.24
19-36             52.26
19-37             52.25,
                  52.27
19-38             52.28
19-40             52.29
19-41             52.30,
                  52.99
19-51             52.31
19-52             52.32
20-1              90.001
20-2              90.002
20-3              90.003
20-4              90.004
20-5              90.005
20-6              90.006
20-7              90.006
20-8              90.008
20-9              90.009
20-10             90.010
20-11             90.011
20-21             90.025
20-31             90.026
20-32             90.027
20-33             90.028
20-51             90.040
20-52             90.041
20-53             90.042
20-54             90.043
20-55             90.044
20-57             90.046
20-58             90.045,
                  90.047
20-59             90.047
20-76             90.060
20-77             90.061
20-78             90.062
20-91             90.063
20-92             90.064
20-93             90.065
20-111            90.075
20-112            90.076
20-113            90.077
20-114            90.078
20-115            90.079
20-126            90.080
20-127            90.081
20-128            90.082
20-129            90.083
21-1              111.01
21-2              111.02
21-3              111.03
21-4              111.04
21-5              111.05
21-6              111.06
21-7              111.06
21-8              111.06
21-9              111.07
21-10             111.08
21-11             111.08
21-12             111.09
21-13             111.10
22-181            51.01
22-191            51.15
22-192            51.16
22-193            51.16
22-194            51.17
22-206            51.30
22-207            51.31
22-208            51.31
22-209            51.32
22-210            51.33
22-211            51.34
22-212            51.35
22-213            51.36
22-214            51.37
22-215            51.38
22-216            51.39
22-217            51.40
22-218            51.41
22-219            51.42
22-220            51.43
22-221            51.44
22-222            51.45
22-223            51.46
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        4-13-1999   74.28,
                     Ch. 75, Sch. VI
-        12-4-1999   74.28,
                     Ch. 75, Sch. I
-        7-11-2000   31.004
-        8-15-2000   34.04,
                     154.140
                     50.01 through
                     50.07,
                     50.20 through
-        3-12-2002   50.23,
                     50.35 through
                     50.37,
                     50.50 through
                     50.56
-        10-8-2002   73.16,
                     73.99
                     93.15 through
                     93.18,
-        10-8-2002   93.20 through
                     93.23,
                     93.99
                     95.01 through
-        10-8-2002   95.05,
                     95.99
                     94.01,
                     94.02,
                     94.15 through
-        5-13-2003   94.34,
                     94.36 through
                     94.40,
                     94.99
-        5-18-2004   130.06
-        5-18-2004   130.99
-        6-15-2004   90.011
-        11-16-2004  94.35
-        1-17-2006   30.17
-        1-17-2006   73.17
-        3-21-2006   74.28,
                     Ch. 75, Sch. I
                     50.70 through
06-101   4-18-2006   50.74,
                     50.99
06-103   11-21-2006  Adopting Ordinance
06-104   11-21-2006  132.04
07-108   4-17-2007   30.05
07-109   5-15-2007   Ch. 75, Sch. I
                     50.80 through
09-120   7-21-2009   50.87,
                     50.99
09-127   12-15-2009  115.01 through
                     115.17
10-130   4-20-2010   50.50 through
                     50.60
10-131   3-16-2010   115.06
10-137   7-20-2010   30.40 through
                     30.46
                     53.01 through
10-138   8-17-2010   53.10,
                     53.99
10-139   10-19-2010  30.05
11-141   6-30-2011   115.06
12-145   6-19-2012   115.02
12-148   9-18-2012   77.01,
                     77.02
12-149   12-18-2012  77.02
12-150   12-18-2012  50.50 through
                     50.60
13-151   2-19-2013   50.51
14-155   6-17-2014   95.03
16-164   5-17-2016   30.05
16-167   6-21-2016   50.21,
                     50.36
17-171   6-20-2017   94.23,
                     94.99
17-172   6-20-2017   Ch. 76, Sch. I
18-178   2-20-2018   50.24
18-179   2-20-2018   50.20,
                     50.22
19-186   1-15-2019   94.15
22–220 11-15-2022  110.03
23-225   3-21-2023   91.01 -
                     91.08
23-226   3-21-2023   91.20 -
                     91.37
23-227   3-21-2023   152.01 -
                     152.17
23-228   3-21-2023   152A.01 -
                     152A.30
23-237   4-18-2023   132.04,
                     132.99
                     154.001 -
                     154.013,
                     154.020 -
                     154.026,
                     154.035 -
                     154.055,
                     154.065 -
                     154.072,
                     154.080 -
                     154.096,
                     154.105 -
                     154.116,
                     154.125 -
                     154.135,
                     154.145 -
                     154.160,
                     154.170 -
                     154.173,
                     154.185 -
                     154.189,
                     154.195 -
                     154.202,
                     154.205 -
                     154.213,
                     154.215 -
                     154.218,
                     154.215 -
                     154.218,
                     154.230 -
23-241   7-18-2023   154.284,
                     154.295 -
                     154.304,
                     154.315 -
                     154.327,
                     154.340 -
                     154.349,
                     154.355 -
                     154.362,
                     154.375 -
                     154.395,
                     154.400,
                     154.405 -
                     154.410,
                     154.415 -
                     154.420,
                     154.425 -
                     154.429,
                     154.435 -
                     154.460,
                     154.475 -
                     154.478,
                     154.490 -
                     154.496,
                     154.510 -
                     154.516,
                     154.530 -
                     154.537, Ch. 154 Appendices
                     A,
                     B, and
                     C
                    
 
