FLETCHER, NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-17 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. O-23-11, passed 11-13-2023; and
State legislation current through 2023 A.L.S. #6
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
O-08-3
ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE TOWN OF FLETCHER
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE TOWN OF FLETCHER, REVISING,
AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH
CODE OF ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the political
subdivision are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in
form and substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of
its affairs; and
WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of North Carolina empower and
authorize the political subdivision to revise, amend, restate, codify and
compile any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted
or published and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book
form; and
WHEREAS, the Legislative Authority of the Political Subdivision has authorized
a general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the
Political Subdivision of a general and permanent nature and publication of such
ordinance in book form; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF TOWN OF FLETCHER:
Section 1.   The general ordinances of the Political Subdivision as revised,
amended, restated, codified and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as and
shall constitute the “Code of Ordinances of the Town of Fletcher, North
Carolina.”
Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following Titles:
 
Chapter I. Incorporation and Corporate Section 1.1 Incorporation and corporate
Powers.                                powers.
Chapter II. Corporate Boundaries.      Sec. 2.1 Town boundaries.
                                       Sec. 2.2 Electoral District Boundaries.
                                       Sec. 3.1 Structure of governing body;
                                       number of members.
                                       Sec. 3.2 Manner of electing board.
Chapter III. Governing Body.           Sec. 3.3 Term of office of Council
                                       members.
                                       Sec. 3.4 Selection of mayor; term of
                                       office.
 
 
Chapter IV. Elections.     Sec. 4.1 Conduct of town elections.
                           Sec. 5.1 Mayor-Council plan.
                           Sec. 5.2 Board and Commissions.
Chapter V. Administration. Sec. 5.3 Streets.
                           Sec. 5.4 Fire protection.
                           Sec. 5.5 Police Protection.
 
Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
Section 4.   Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the Political
Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of
Ordinances in the Office of the Clerk.
Section 5.   Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section
6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
Section 6.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Legislative Authority of the Political Subdivision on
this 11th day of November, 2008.
ATTEST:
Christine F. Thompson /s/                  William B. Moore /s/
Town Clerk                        Mayor William B. Moore
Christine F. Thompson
CHARTER
Editor’s Note:
   This charter is derived from House Bill 793, Chapter 44, of the 1989 Session
of the General Assembly of North Carolina.
Section
Chapter I. Incorporation and Corporate Powers.
   Section
1.1   Incorporation and corporate powers.
Chapter II. Corporate Boundaries.
   Sec.
2.1   Town boundaries.
   Sec.
2.2   Electoral District Boundaries.
Chapter III. Governing Body.
   Sec.
3.1   Structure of governing body; number of members.
   Sec.
3.2   Manner of electing board.
   Sec.
3.3   Term of office of Council members.
   Sec.
3.4   Selection of Mayor; term of office.
Chapter IV. Elections.
   Sec.
4.1   Conduct of Town elections.
Chapter V. Administration.
   Sec.
5.1   Mayor-Council plan.
   Sec.
5.2   Board and Commissions.
   Sec.
5.3   Streets.
   Sec.
5.4   Fire protection.
   Sec.
5.5   Police Protection.
Cross-reference:
   Change of government to Council/Manager form, see
Chapter 30 of the code of ordinances
“CHARTER OF THE TOWN OF FLETCHER.
“Chapter I.
“Incorporation and Corporate Powers.
“Section 1.1. Incorporation and corporate powers.
The inhabitants of the Town of Fletcher are a body corporate and politic under
the name ‘Town of Fletcher’. Under that name they have all the powers, duties,
rights, privileges, and immunities conferred and imposed upon cities by the
general law of North Carolina.
“Chapter II.
“Corporate Boundaries.
“Sec. 2.1. Town boundaries.
   (a)   Until modified in accordance with law, the boundaries of the Town of
Fletcher are as follows:
BEGINNING at a point in the center of Cane Creek where said creek is
intersected by the eastern margin of the N.C. Department of Transportation’s
right-of-way of Interstate 26; thence easterly, running with the center of Cane
Creek to the point of confluence of Hooper’s Creek with Cane Creek; thence
continuing easterly, running with the center of Hooper’s Creek to a point where
said creek intersects the southeastern margin of State Road (SR) 1539 (Jackson
Road); thence northeasterly, running with the southeastern margin of SR 1539 to
its intersection with the northeastern margin of SR 1552 (Souther Road, also
known as Youngblood Loop and Burney Mountain Road); Thence northwesterly
running with the northeastern margin of SR 1552 to its intersection with the
northern margin of SR 1553 (Hooper’s Creek Road); Thence westerly running with
the northern Margin of SR 1553 to its intersection with the northeastern margin
of SR 1552 (Burney Mountain Road); Thence running northwesterly with the
northeastern Margin of SR 1552 to its intersection with the eastern margin of
SR 1551 (Mills Gap Road); Thence northerly running with the eastern margin of
SR 1551 to its intersection with the amended Buncombe-Henderson County boundary
line as established by an Act of the Legislature of North Carolina in 1851,
(recorded in Laws of North Carolina, 1850-1851, Chapter XLV, Page 113-114,
ratified the 23rd day of January 1851); Thence westerly running with the
amended Buncombe-Henderson County boundary line to a concrete monument, the
terminus of the first call of the Buncombe-Henderson County boundary line as
established by House Bill 1283, (1959-Session Laws, Chapter 1145, ratified the
18th day of June, 1959); Thence running easterly and southerly with the
Buncombe-Henderson County boundary line as established by said House Bill 1283,
to its intersection with the eastern Boundary of the Interstate 26 right-of-
way; thence southerly, running with the eastern Boundary of the Interstate 26
right-of-way to its intersection with the Buncombe-Henderson County boundary
line as established by House Bill 1283; thence easterly and southerly, running
with the Buncombe-Henderson County boundary line as established by House Bill
1283, to its intersection with the eastern boundary of the Interstate 26 right-
of-way; thence southerly, running with the eastern boundary of, the Interstate
26 right-of-way to the point of BEGINNING.
   (b)   Notwithstanding Article 4A of Chapter 160A of the General Statutes,
the Town of Fletcher may not annex any territory within Buncombe County.
“Sec. 2.2. Electoral District Boundaries.
   (a)   For the purpose of residence of members of the Town Council as
provided in section 3.2 of this Charter, the boundaries of electoral district 1
are as follows:
BEGINNING at a point in the east margin of Mills Gap Road (SR 1551) at its
intersection with the Amended Buncombe-Henderson County line as established by
an Act of Legislature of North Carolina in 1851 (recorded in Laws of North
Carolina, 1850-1851, Chapter XLV Page 113-114, ratified the 23rd day of January
1851);
Thence, from said beginning point, westerly with the Amended Buncombe-Henderson
County line to a point in the west line of Block 4 of Dade-Olina Park, Ref.
Plat Cabinet B, Slide 45A, Henderson County Register of Deeds Office, the same
being the east line of the Calvary Episcopal Church property;
Thence southerly with said line of Dade-Olina Park and Calvary Episcopal Church
and continuing to a point in the center of Old Airport Road (SR 1547);
Thence with the centerline of Old Airport Road easterly to its intersection
with the centerline of Cane Creek Road (SR 1545);
Thence with the centerline of Cane Creek Road southerly and westerly to a point
over the center of the centerline of Southern Railway’s main line;
Thence, with the centerline of Southern Railway’s main line, southerly to its
intersection with the center of Cane Creek;
Thence easterly running with the center of Cane Creek to the point of
confluence of Hooper’s Creek with Cane Creek;
Thence continuing easterly running with the center of Hooper’s Creek to a point
where said creek intersects the southeastern margin of Jackson Road (SR 1539);
Thence northeasterly, running with the southeastern margin of Jackson Road (SR
1539) to its intersection with the northeastern margin of Souther Road, also
known as Youngblood Loop and Burney Mountain Road (SR 1552);
Thence northwesterly running with the northeastern margin of Souther Road (SR
1552) to its intersection with the northern margin of Hooper’s Creek Road (SR
1553);
Thence westerly running with the northern margin of Hooper’s Creek Road (SR
1553) to its intersection with the northeastern margin of Burney Mountain Road
(SR 1552);
Thence running northwesterly with the northeastern margin of Burney Mountain
Road (SR 1552) to its intersection with the eastern margin of Mills Gap Road
(SR 1551);
Thence northerly running with the eastern margin of Mills Gap Road (SR 1551) to
the Point of Beginning.
   (b)   For the purpose of residence of members of the Town Council as
provided in section 3.2 of this Charter, the boundaries of electoral district 2
are as follows:
BEGINNING AT a point in the Amended Buncombe-Henderson County line as
established by an Act of Legislature of North Carolina in 1851 (recorded in
Laws of North Carolina, 1850-1851, Chapter XLV, page 113-114, ratified the 23rd
day of January, 1851), at its intersection with the west line of Block 4 of
Dade-Olina Park, Ref. Plat Cabinet B, Slide 45A, Henderson County Register of
Deeds Office, the same being the east line of the Calvary Episcopal Church
property;
Thence southerly with said line of Dade-Olina Park and Calvary Episcopal Church
and continuing to a point in the center of Old Airport Road (SR 1547);
Thence with the centerline of Old Airport Road easterly to its intersection
with the centerline of Cane Creek Road (SR 1545);
Thence with the centerline of Cane Creek Road southerly and westerly to a point
over the center of the centerline of Southern Railway’s main line;
Thence with the centerline of Southern Railway’s main line southerly to its
intersection with the center of Cane Creek;
Thence with the center of Cane Creek westerly crossing U.S. Highway No. 25 to
the point of confluence of Cane Creek with Westfeldt Branch.
Thence northerly with the center of Westfeldt Branch to its intersection with
the centerline of Fanning Bridge Road (SR 1358);
Thence westerly and northerly with the centerline of Fanning Bridge Road to its
intersection with St. John’s Road (SR 1361);
Thence northerly with the centerline of St. John’s Road to its intersection
with U.S. 25;
Thence northerly with the centerline of U.S. 25 to its intersection with the
aforementioned Amended Buncombe-Henderson County line;
Thence easterly with the Amended Buncombe-Henderson County line to the Point of
Beginning.
   (c)   For the purpose of residence of members of the Town Council as
provided in section 3.2 of this Charter, the boundaries of electoral district 3
are as follows:
BEGINNING at a point in the center of Cane Creek where said creek is
intersected by the eastern margin of the North Carolina Department of
Transportation right-of-way of Interstate 26;
Thence easterly, running with the center of Cane Creek to the point of
confluence of Westfeldt Branch;
Thence northerly with the center of said branch to its intersection with the
centerline of Fanning Bridge Road;
Thence westerly with the centerline of Fanning Bridge Road to its intersection
with the Buncombe-Henderson County line as established by House Bill 1283
(1959-Session Laws, Chapter 1145, ratified the 18th day of June, 1959);
Thence southerly with said Buncombe-Henderson County line to its intersection
with the eastern boundary of the North Carolina Department of Transportation’s
right-of-way of Interstate 26;
Thence southerly with said right-of-way to the Point of Beginning.
   (d)   For the purpose of residence of members of the Town Council as
provided in section 3.2 of this Charter, the boundaries of electoral district 4
are as follows:
BEGINNING at a point in the centerline of U.S. 25 at its intersection with the
amended Buncombe-Henderson County Line as established by an Act of Legislature
of North Carolina in 1851 (recorded in Laws of North Carolina 1850-1851,
Chapter XLV, Page 113-114, ratified the 23rd day of January, 1851);
Thence southerly with the centerline of U.S. 25 to its intersection with the
centerline of St. John’s Road (SR 1361);
Thence southerly with the centerline of St. John’s Road to its intersection
with the centerline of Fanning Bridge Road (SR 1358);
Thence westerly with the centerline of Fanning Bridge Road to the Buncombe-
Henderson County Line as established by House Bill 1283, (1959-Session Laws,
Chapter 1145, ratified the 18th day of June, 1959);
Thence northerly and westerly running with said Buncombe-Henderson County line
as established by House Bill 1283 to its intersection with the eastern boundary
of the right-of-way of Interstate 26;
Thence northerly with the eastern boundary of the right-of-way of Interstate 26
to its intersection with the Buncombe-Henderson County line as established by
House Bill 1283;
Thence with the Buncombe-Henderson County line as established by House Bill
1283 northerly and westerly to a concrete monument, the terminus of the first
call of the Buncombe-Henderson boundary line as established by House Bill 1283,
said monument standing in the amended Buncombe-Henderson County line
aforementioned;
Thence easterly with said Amended Buncombe-Henderson County line to the Point
of Beginning.
   (e)   The boundaries of the electoral districts may be adjusted as provided
by G.S. 160A-23 after annexations and after the decennial federal census.
“Chapter III.
“Governing Body.
“Sec. 3.1. Structure of governing body; number of members.
The governing body of the Town of Fletcher is the Town Council, which has four
members, and the Mayor.
“Sec. 3.2. Manner of electing board.
The Town is divided into four electoral districts, and each is represented on
the Council by one member. The qualified voters of the entire Town nominate and
elect the members of the Council. To be eligible for election to the council, a
person must reside in the district of the office sought.
“Sec. 3.3. Term of office of Council members.
Members of the Town Council are elected to four-year terms, except at the
initial election in 1989, the two highest vote getters who are elected to
district seats shall be elected to four-year terms, and the next two highest
vote-getters elected to district seats shall be elected to two-year terms. In
1991 and quadrennially thereafter, two members of the Council shall be elected
for four-year terms. In 1993 and quadrennially thereafter, two members of the
Council shall be elected for four-year terms.
“Sec. 3.4. Selection of Mayor; term of office.
The qualified voters of the entire town nominate and elect the Mayor. A mayor
shall be elected in 1989 and quadrennially thereafter for a four-year term.
Chapter IV.
“Elections.
“Sec. 4.1. Conduct of Town elections.
The Town Council and Mayor shall be elected on a nonpartisan basis and the
results determined by the primary method as provided by G.S. § 163-294;
provided that if the City of Hendersonville is scheduled to hold a primary on
the sixth Tuesday before the election under G.S. § 163-279(a)(2), the
nonpartisan primary in the Town of Fletcher shall be on that date.
“Chapter V.
“Administration.
“Sec. 5.1. Mayor-Council plan.
The Town of Fletcher operates under the Mayor-Council plan as provided by Part
3 of Article 7 of Chapter 160A of the General Statutes.
Editor’s Note:
   Pursuant to Chapter 160 A of the General Statutes, the town amended the
Charter to change the form of government from Mayor-Council to Council-Manager.
For the specific language of this change contained in Ordinance O-96-5, passed
September 9, 1996, please see §
30.01 of the town’s code of ordinances.
“Sec. 5.2. Board and Commissions.
The Town Council may appoint such commissions and committees as it deems
necessary or advisable in providing local governmental service to the Town.
“Sec. 5.3. Streets.
The Town Council may contract with the North Carolina Department of
Transportation for street maintenance.
“Sec. 5.4. Fire protection.
The Town shall contract with Fletcher Fire and Rescue for fire and rescue
purposes, as long as Fletcher Fire and Rescue is capable of providing such
services, under an agreed upon contract.
“Sec. 5.5. Police Protection.
The Town of Fletcher may contract with the Henderson County Board of
Commissioners to set up a special force of the Sheriff’s Department to provide
police protection within the Town. That contract may call for at least six such
officers to be assigned to provide police protection to the Town.”
   In the General Assembly read three times and ratified this the 5th day of
April, 1989.
JAMES C. GARDNER
James C. Gardner
President of the Senate
J. L. MAVRETIC
J. L. Mavretic
Speaker of the House of Representatives
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time; computing time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinances
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend code; effect of new ordinances
   
10.18   Section histories; section headings; statutory references
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the Town of Fletcher shall be
designated as the Code of Fletcher, North Carolina and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CHARTER. The Charter of the Town of Fletcher, North Carolina.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time within which an act is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and the last day; and if the last day is
Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday, that day shall be excluded.
      COUNCIL. The Mayor and Council, or governing body, of the Town of
Fletcher, North Carolina.
      COUNTY. The County of Henderson, North Carolina.
      GENDER. Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine
and neuter.
      G.S. or GENERAL STATUTES. The latest edition of the GENERAL STATUTES of
North Carolina, as amended.
      GOVERNOR. The Governor of North Carolina.
      JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving a joint authority to 3 or more persons
or officers shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of persons
or officers.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      NUMBER. Words used in the singular include the plural, and the plural
includes the singular number.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this municipality unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
      OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Whenever certain hours are named in this code,
they shall mean standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use
in this town.
      OWNER. Applied to any property, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole
or a part of the property.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Every species of property except real property.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property.
      REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of North Carolina.
      STREET. Any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard,
parkway, dedicated alley, lane, viaduct, bridge and the approaches thereto
within the town and shall mean the entire width of the right-of-way between
abutting property lines.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT. When applied to a building or land, shall include any
person who occupies the whole or a part of the building or land, whether alone
or with others.
      TENSE. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well
as the past and present.
      TOWN. The Town of Fletcher, in the County of Henderson, North Carolina.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
      ZONING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. One designated by the Council.
Statutory reference:
   Computation of time, see G.S. § 1-593
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this town shall be by the following
rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance:
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of an act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this town exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, that spelling shall be corrected and the word
or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this town for the transaction of all
municipal business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME; COMPUTING TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   (A)   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other
ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in
full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary
implication.
   (B)   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall be
construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
      (1)   Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture
incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective
date of this code;
      (2)   Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment
of money for the town or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the town or
any evidence of the town’s indebtedness;
      (3)   Any contract or obligation assumed by the town;
      (4)   Any ordinance fixing the salary of any town officer or employee;
      (5)   Any right or franchise granted by the town;
      (6)   Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating,
relocating, opening, widening, paving and the like, any street or public way in
the town;
      (7)   Any appropriation ordinance;
      (8)   Any ordinance which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or
limited term;
      (9)   Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes
therefor;
      (10)   Any zoning ordinance or zoning map amendment;
      (11)   Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat;
      (12)   Any ordinance describing or altering the boundaries of the town;
      (13)   The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the town not in
conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this code;
      (14)   Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included herein;
      (15)   Any ordinance establishing or prescribing street grades in the
town; and/or
      (16)   Any personnel ordinance.
   (C)   Nor shall any ordinance be construed to revive any ordinance or part
thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance which is repealed by
this chapter; and all ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full
force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length herein.
Statutory reference:
   Statutes not repealed by General Statutes, see G.S. § 164-7
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND CODE; EFFECT OF NEW ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal or
in any way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering
system hereof and printed for inclusion herein. When subsequent ordinances
repeal any chapter, section or subsection, or any portion thereof, the repealed
portions may be excluded from this code by omission from reprinted pages. The
subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of
repeal, shall be prima facie evidence that the subsequent ordinances numbered
or omitted are readopted as a new code by the town.
   (B)   Amendments to any of the provisions of the code shall be made by
amending provisions by specific reference to the section number of this code in
language substantially similar to the following: “Section                of the
Code of Ordinances, Town of Fletcher, North Carolina, is hereby amended as
follows: [. . .] .” The new provisions shall then be set out in full as
desired.
   (C)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be added,
language substantially similar to the following shall be used: “The Code of
Ordinances, Town of Fletcher, North Carolina, is hereby amended by adding a
section, to be numbered        , which section shall read as follows: [. . .]
.” The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (D)   All sections, articles, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed
must be specifically repealed by section, article or chapter number, as the
case may be.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; SECTION HEADINGS; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Am. Ord. 20, passed
1-1-1980; Am. Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example:
(G.S. § 160A-11)
      (2)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Inspection of public records, see G.S. §§ 132-1 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of any
section or division of this code of ordinances for which no other penalty is
provided, or failing or neglecting or refusing to comply with same, shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor and subject to a fine not to
exceed $50 or imprisonment not to exceed 30 days, and each day that any of the
provisions of this code of ordinances are violated shall constitute a separate
offense.
(G.S. § 14-4(a))
Statutory reference:
   For provisions concerning enforcement of ordinances, see G.S. § 160A-175
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   TOWN GOVERNMENT; CHARTER AMENDMENTS
      
31.   TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   PURCHASING
      
33.   TOWN POLICIES
      
34.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 30: TOWN GOVERNMENT; CHARTER AMENDMENTS
Section
Charter Amendments
   
30.01   Change of form of government to Council/Manager form
   
30.02   Change from nonpartisan primary method to the nonpartisan plurality
method for Town Council elections
CHARTER AMENDMENTS
§ 30.01 CHANGE OF FORM OF GOVERNMENT TO COUNCIL/MANAGER FORM.
   (A)   The Town of Fletcher Town Charter is hereby amended pursuant to North
Carolina G.S. §§ 160A-101 and 160A-102 to allow for the change of government
from the current Mayor/Council form of government to the Council/Manager form
of government.
   (B)   This amendment to the Town of Fletcher Charter would cause the Town of
Fletcher to operate under the Council/Manager form of government in accordance
with G.S. Chapter 160A, Art. 7, pt. 2 of the North Carolina General Statutes.
(Ord. O-96-5, passed 9-9-1996)
Cross-reference:
   Further details as to local government, see the Town Charter,
Chapter III and
Chapter V, Sec.
5.1
§ 30.02 CHANGE FROM NONPARTISAN PRIMARY METHOD TO THE NONPARTISAN PLURALITY
METHOD FOR TOWN COUNCIL ELECTIONS.
   The Town of Fletcher Town Charter is hereby amended, as allowed by G.S. §
160A-101, to select the nonpartisan plurality method for the town's municipal
elections for Town Council members pursuant to G.S. § 163-292, using the
procedure outlined by G.S. § 160A-102.
(Ord. O-23-11, passed 11-13-2023)
CHAPTER 31: TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Requirements for appointed Board members
Planning Board
   
31.15   Creation
   
31.16   Composition and vacancies
   
31.17   Organization, rules, meetings and records
   
31.18   Expenditures, incurring indebtedness, donations
   
31.19   Powers and duties
Parks and Recreation Commission
   
31.30   Creation
   
31.31   Members
   
31.32   Officers
   
31.33   Recreational facilities
   
31.34   Donations
   
31.35   Director of Recreation
   
31.36   Funding
   
31.37   Reports
   
31.38   Powers relating to recreation systems
   
31.39   Effective date
   
31.40   Attendance required
Cross-reference:
   Historic Resources Commission, see
Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 REQUIREMENTS FOR APPOINTED BOARD MEMBERS.
   (A)   Eligibility.  In order to be eligible to serve on any volunteer board,
commission or committee whose members are appointed by the Town Council of the
Town of Fletcher, any and all prospective nominees must be residents of the
town and not owe any delinquent taxes to the town prior to their nomination.
Should the position being filled by the Town Council require a citizen to also
reside in a particular residential district, then the prospective nominee must
also reside in that residential district prior to nomination.
   (B)   Responsibility. The responsibility of checking into the eligibility
requirements of the nominee will be that of the Council person making the
nomination.
   (C)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to any full- or part-time
employees or officers of the town.
(Ord. O-94-3, passed 4-11-1994)
PLANNING BOARD
§ 31.15 CREATION.
   The Town Council of Fletcher hereby establishes the Planning Board under the
authority granted by the General Statutes of the State of North Carolina, G.S.
Chapter 160A-361. The Board shall constitute, function and may be referred to
as the Fletcher Planning Board.
(Ord. O-92-1, passed 2-13-1992)
§ 31.16 COMPOSITION AND VACANCIES.
   (A)   (1)   The Town of Fletcher Planning Board, herein after referred to as
the Board, shall consist of 8 members, including one from the extra-territorial
jurisdiction (E.T.J.).
      (2)   Residential requirements for appointed Board members shall be as
follows: Planning Board members are required to be ad-valorem taxpayers within
the Town of Fletcher. Determination of members’ qualifications will be done by
the Tax Collector. Members are also required to be registered voters with the
Henderson County Board of Elections.
(Am. Ord. O-94-07, passed 7-11-1994)
   (B)   The Planning Board shall consist of 8 members, 7 members located
within the municipal limits of Fletcher, and one from the extra-territorial
jurisdiction. This shall conform to the proportional representation
requirements under G.S. § 160A-362. The Town Council shall appoint the members
from the municipality. The Henderson County Board of Commissioners shall
appoint the Planning Board member from the extraterritorial jurisdiction. The
member appointed from the E.T.J. shall be a current resident of this area.
   (C)   All 8 members of the Board shall have equal rights, privileges and
duties regardless of whether the issues being considered and acted upon are
within the corporate limits of the Town of Fletcher or within its
extraterritorial jurisdiction.
(Ord. O-92-1, passed 2-13-1992; Am. Ord. O-99-2, passed 2-15-1999)
  § 31.17 ORGANIZATION, RULES, MEETINGS AND RECORDS.
   (A)   The Planning Board shall meet and elect a Chairperson and Vice-
Chairperson from among its regular members, both of whom shall serve for terms
of 1 year or until reelected or until their successors are elected. The Board
shall appoint a Secretary, who may be a municipal officer or employee of the
town or a member of the Board, and who shall hold office during the term of the
Chairperson and/or until a successor secretary shall have been appointed. The
Board may create and fill other offices as it may determine.
   (B)   (1)   The Board shall adopt rules for the transaction of its business
which are consistent with this ordinance as well as the General Statutes of the
State of North Carolina, and shall keep a record of its members’ attendance,
and of its resolutions, discussions, findings and recommendations, which record
shall be a public record.
      (2)   The Board shall schedule at least 1 meeting monthly and all of its
meetings shall be open to the public.
      (3)   There shall be a quorum of 4 Board members for the purpose of
taking any official action required by this subchapter.
(Ord. O-92-1, passed 2-13-1992)
§ 31.18 EXPENDITURES, INCURRING INDEBTEDNESS, DONATIONS.
   (A)   The expenditures of the Planning Board, exclusive of gifts or grants,
shall be within the amounts appropriated for the purpose by the Town Council,
and no indebtedness for which the town shall be liable shall be contracted or
incurred by the Board unless an appropriation is made by the Town Council for
that purpose, as authorized by law, and then only to the extent of the
appropriation.
   (B)   The Board shall have the right to accept gifts and donations for the
exercise of its functions, and may expend the money received from the gifts and
donations in a manner which in the judgment of the Board is consistent with the
best interest of the planning program.
(Ord. O-92-1, passed 2-13-1992)
§ 31.19 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Board shall have the power to perform the following duties:
   (A)   Make studies of the area within its jurisdiction and surrounding
areas;
   (B)   Determine objectives to be sought in the development of the study
area;
   (C)   Prepare and adopt plans for achieving these objectives;
   (D)   Develop and recommend policies, ordinances, administrative procedures
and other means for carrying out plans in a coordinated and efficient manner;
   (E)   Advise the Town Council concerning the use and amendment of the means
for carrying out plans;
   (F)   Exercise any functions in the administration and enforcement of
various means for carrying out plans that the Town Council may direct;
   (G)   The Planning Board shall work and coordinate with other boards and
advisory groups as directed by the Town Council; and
   (H)   Perform any other related duties that the Town Council may direct.
(Ord. O-92-1, passed 2-13-1992)
PARKS AND RECREATION COMMISSION
§ 31.30 CREATION.
   There is hereby created a commission to be known as the Town of Fletcher
Parks and Recreation Commission (hereafter, Parks and Recreation Commission).
(Ord. O-93-1, passed 1-11-1993; Am. Ord. O-93-8, passed 12-13-1993)
§ 31.31 MEMBERS.
   The Parks and Recreation Commission shall be appointed by the Town Council
of the unit and shall consist of 7 members. Upon the expiration of their
original terms of office each succeeding term shall be for 3 years and until
their successors qualify for office. Vacancies in the Commission shall be
filled for the unexpired term by appointment of the Town Council of the unit.
The members shall serve without compensation.
(Ord. O-93-1, passed 1-11-1993)
§ 31.32 OFFICERS.
   The Parks and Recreation Commission shall appoint from its membership a
Chairperson and any other officers as it may deem necessary for the orderly
procedure of its business and may adopt bylaws, rules and regulations governing
its procedure not inconsistent with the provisions of the state laws. The Parks
and Recreation Commission shall, from time to time, make rules and regulations
governing the operation and conduct of the Parks and Recreation facilities
operated by the Parks and Recreation Commission. The Parks and Recreation
Commission shall hold regular meetings at times and places as it may designate.
(Ord. O-93-1, passed 1-11-1993)
§ 31.33 RECREATIONAL FACILITIES.
   The Parks and Recreation Commission shall provide, maintain, operate and
supervise the public parks and playgrounds, athletic fields, and recreation
centers and other recreation facilities owned or controlled by the governing
body of the Town of Fletcher or leased or loaned to the Parks and Recreation
Commission by the owners thereof. The Parks and Recreation Commission shall
have complete supervision of the facilities and activities provided and
conducted on or in connection with the parks, playgrounds, athletic fields and
recreation centers provided, and shall have the power to conduct any form of
recreation or cultural activity.
(Ord. O-93-1, passed 1-11-1993)
§ 31.34 DONATIONS.
   The Parks and Recreation Commission may accept any grant, gift, bequest or
donation of any personal property offered or made for Parks and Recreation
purposes and, with the approval of the governing body, may accept any grant,
gift or devise of real estate. Any gift, bequest of money or other personal
property, grant or devise of real estate shall be held, used and finally
disposed of in accordance with the terms or conditions under which the grant,
gift or devise is made and accepted. The Parks and Recreation Commission shall
have no authority to enter into any contract or incur any obligation binding
the governing body of the town other than current obligation(s) or contracts to
be fully executed within the current fiscal year and all within the budget
appropriations made by the governing body of the town.
(Ord. O-93-1, passed 1-11-1993)
§ 31.35 DIRECTOR OF RECREATION.
   The members of the Commission and the Town Manager shall review all
applications with respect to the position of Recreation Director and shall
consist of the interview board. At the end of the interviews, the Commission
and the Town Manager shall make a recommendation to the Town Council for final
approval. The personnel policy for the town shall govern this and all positions
in this department. The Director shall have the authority to hire part-time and
seasonal help to complete programs that have been approved by the Commission.
(Ord. O-93-1, passed 1-11-1993; Am. Ord. O-95-3, passed 7-10-1995)
§ 31.36 FUNDING.
   Funds shall be appropriated to the Commission through the General Fund of
the Town of Fletcher by the Town Council that is in concurrence with the fiscal
budget year of the town. Funds shall be disbursed under the cash management
policy as adopted and amended by the Town Council. Funds received by the
Commission from sources other than budget appropriations shall be deposited
into the General Fund of the town, unless otherwise specified.
(Ord. O-93-1, passed 1-11-1993; Am. Ord. O-95-3, passed 7-10-1995)
§ 31.37 REPORTS.
   The Parks and Recreation Commission shall make full and complete reports to
the governing body at such times as may be requested and at such other times as
to the governing body may seem proper. The fiscal year of the Commission shall
conform to that of the governing body of the town.
(Ord. O-93-1, passed 1-11-1993)
§ 31.38 POWERS RELATING TO RECREATION SYSTEMS.
   Those powers as are now provided by statute of the State of North Carolina
or by the ordinance or resolution of the governing body of the town relating to
the development and operation of recreation systems, parks and playgrounds are
hereby vested in the Parks and Recreation Commission to be by it subject to all
restrictions contained in those powers and ordinances or resolutions.
(Ord. O-93-1, passed 1-11-1993)
§ 31.39 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be in full force and effect 30 days after its passage.
(Ord. O-93-1, passed 1-11-1993)
§ 31.40 ATTENDANCE REQUIRED.
   Attendance to all meetings is required with respect to being a Commission
member. However, if a member is required to be absent, the member can miss up
to 25% of regularly scheduled meetings per year. If a member misses more than
25% of the regular meetings, then the person shall be removed from the
Commission by a simple majority vote of the Commission. If the person believes
that his or her absenteeism is justified and would like to continue as a member
on the Commission, that person shall write a letter to the Commission
requesting a leave of absence from the Commission or reinstatement. However,
any granting of a leave of absence or reinstatement shall require approval from
the Commission before one is granted. If a leave is not approved or one has not
been requested within 5 days of missing 25% of the regular meetings, then the
Chairperson of the Commission shall notify the Town Council that that member is
no longer a Commission member and that the Commission has begun looking for a
replacement to recommend to Town Council.
(Ord. O-96-2, passed 4-8-1996)
CHAPTER 32: PURCHASING
Section
   
32.01   Grant of authority
   
32.02   Report
   
32.03   Extent of authority
   
32.04   No limitation of other authority
   
32.05   Appropriation required
   
32.06   Application of General Statutes
   
32.07   Authority of provisions
§ 32.01 GRANT OF AUTHORITY.
   Subject to the restrictions and conditions hereinafter provided, when
purchasing apparatus, supplies, materials or equipment for use by the town, in
addition to any authority as may be provided by law and/or otherwise delegated
by the Town Council, the Town Manager shall have the authority to:
   (A)   Prepare, or cause to be prepared, plans and/or specifications setting
forth a complete description of the item(s) to be purchased and the
characteristics, features and/or requirements therefor;
   (B)   Include, where appropriate, in specifications for the item(s) to be
purchased an opportunity for bidders to purchase as trade-in specified personal
property owned by the town;
   (C)   Advertise or otherwise secure bids for those item(s), if required
under applicable law;
   (D)   Award contracts for the purchase of the item(s) and, where applicable,
award contracts for the purchase of the item(s) and the sale of trade-in
property;
   (E)   Reject bids;
   (F)   Readvertise to receive bids;
   (G)   Waive bid bond or deposit requirements;
   (H)   Waive performance and payment bond requirements; and
   (I)   Execute and deliver the purchase contract(s).
(Ord. O-98-1, passed 2-9-1998)
§ 32.02 REPORT.
   At the first meeting of the Town Council following the award of any contract
(s) pursuant to this subchapter, the Town Manager shall submit a report to the
Town Council summarizing the bids received and the contract(s) awarded. The
report shall be included in the minutes of the meeting at which it is received.
(Ord. O-98-1, passed 2-9-1998)
§ 32.03 EXTENT OF AUTHORITY.
   Either of the following may be applicable:
   (A)   Except in cases of sole source purchases and cases of purchases from
established contracts pursuant to G.S. § 143-129(g), unless otherwise provided
by law, the provisions of this subchapter shall apply to the purchase of
apparatus, supplies, materials or equipment requiring the estimated expenditure
of municipal funds in an amount not to exceed $5,000 for any 1 item or group of
similar items; or
   (B)   Except in cases of sole source purchases, and cases of purchases from
established contracts pursuant to G.S. § 143-129(g), unless otherwise provided
by law, the provisions of this subchapter shall apply to the purchase of all
apparatus, supplies, materials or equipment required for use by the town.
(Ord. O-98-1, passed 2-9-1998)
§ 32.04 NO LIMITATION OF OTHER AUTHORITY.
   The provisions of this subchapter are not intended to limit, restrict or
revoke, in any manner, authority otherwise granted and/or delegated to the Town
Manager by statute, law or action of the Town Council.
(Ord. O-98-1, passed 2-9-1998)
§ 32.05 APPROPRIATION REQUIRED.
   No purchase shall be made by the Town Manager under authority of this
subchapter unless an appropriation for that purpose has been authorized in the
annual budget, or by supplemental appropriation or budget appropriation
amendment duly adopted by the Town Council.
(Ord. O-98-1, passed 2-9-1998)
§ 32.06 APPLICATION OF GENERAL STATUTES.
   In acting pursuant to the authority delegated by this subchapter, the Town
Manager shall comply with the requirements of G.S. Chapter 143, Art. 8, as from
time to time amended, modified, supplemented, revised or superseded, to the
same extent as would have otherwise applied to the Town Council.
(Ord. O-98-1, passed 2-9-1998)
§ 32.07 AUTHORITY OF PROVISIONS.
   This subchapter is enacted pursuant to the provisions of G.S. § 143.129(a).
(Ord. O-98-1, passed 2-9-1998)
CHAPTER 33: TOWN POLICIES
Section
   
33.01   Smoking on town properties
   
33.02   Disposing of personal property
   
33.99   Penalty
§ 33.01 SMOKING ON TOWN PROPERTIES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      SMOKING. The inhaling, exhaling, burning or carrying of a lighted pipe,
cigar, cigarette or other combustible tobacco product.
   (B)   Smoking prohibited in municipal buildings. It shall be unlawful for
any person to smoke in any building or facility or portion of a building or
facility now or hereafter owned, leased, operated, occupied, managed or
controlled by the town.
   (C)   Smoking prohibited in municipal vehicles. It shall be unlawful for any
person to smoke in any vehicle now or hereafter owned or leased by the town.
   (D)   Conflict of laws.  If any portion of this section or the enforcement
thereof shall be preempted by any state or federal authority, the preemptions
shall not operate to invalidate the rest of this section; and the same shall
remain in full force and effect.
(Ord. O-93-5, passed 8-24-1993) Penalty, see §
33.99 
§ 33.02 DISPOSING OF PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   The Town Manager is hereby authorized to dispose of any surplus
personal property owned by the Town of Fletcher, whenever he or she determines,
in his or her discretion, that:
      (1)   The item or group of items has a fair market value of less than
$5,000;
      (2)   The property is no longer necessary for the conduct of public
business; and
      (3)   Sound property management principles and financial considerations
indicate that the interests of the town would best be served by disposing of
the property.
   (B)   The Town Manager may dispose of any such surplus personal property by
any means which he or she judges reasonably calculated to yield the highest
attainable sale price in money or other consideration, including but not
limited to the methods of sale provided in G.S. Chapter 160A, Art. 12. The sale
may be public or private, and with or without notice and minimum waiting
period.
   (C)   The surplus property shall be sold to the party who tenders the
highest offer, or exchanged for any property or services useful to the town if
greater value may be obtained in that manner, and the Town Manager is hereby
authorized to execute and deliver any applicable title documents. If no offers
are received within a reasonable time, the Town Manager may retain the
property, obtain any reasonably available salvage value, or cause it to be
disposed of as waste material. No surplus property may be donated to any
individual or organization except by resolution of the Town Council.
   (D)   The Town Manager shall keep a record of all property sold under
authority of this section and that record shall generally describe the property
sold or exchanged, to whom it was sold, or with whom exchanged, and the amount
of money or other consideration received for each sale or exchange.
   (E)   This section is enacted pursuant to the provisions of G.S. § 160A-266
(c).
(Ord. O-98-2, passed 2-9-1998)
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   Violation of §
33.01 shall subject the offender to a civil penalty in the amount of $20 to be
recovered by the Town Clerk. Violators shall be first issued a written warning,
then any subsequent violations must be paid within 48 hours of that violation.
Violation of this section shall not constitute a misdemeanor or infraction
punishable under G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. O-93-5, passed 8-24-1993)
CHAPTER 34: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
State of Emergency
   
34.01   Restrictions authorized
   
34.02   Proclamation; imposing prohibitions and restrictions
   
34.03   Evacuation procedure
   
34.04   Curfew
   
34.05   Certain activities prohibited or restricted during state of emergency
   
34.06   Removal of prohibitions and restrictions
   
34.07   Superseding and amendatory proclamations
   
34.08   Termination of proclamation
   
34.09   In case of absence or disability of Manager
   
34.10   Motor vehicle registration
   
34.11   Proclamation forms
   
34.99   Penalty
STATE OF EMERGENCY
§ 34.01 RESTRICTIONS AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   A state of emergency shall be deemed to exist wherever, during times
of public crisis, disaster, rioting, catastrophe or similar public emergency,
for any reason, public safety authorities are unable to maintain public order
or afford adequate protection for lives, safety or property, or whenever the
occurrence of any such condition is imminent.
   (B)   In the event of an existing or threatened state of emergency
endangering the lives, safety, health and welfare of the people within the town
or any part thereof, or threatening damage to or destruction of property, the
Manager is hereby authorized and empowered under G.S. § 166A-8 to issue a
public proclamation declaring to all persons the existence of such state of
emergency, and in order to more effectively protect the lives and property of
people within the town, to place in effect any or all of the restrictions
hereinafter authorized.
   (C)   The Manager is hereby authorized and empowered to limit, by the
proclamation, the application of all or any part of these restrictions to any
area specifically designated or described within the town limits and to
specific hours of the day or night; and to exempt from all or any part of the
restrictions, while acting in the line of and within the scope of their
respective duties, law enforcement officers, firefighters and other public
employees, rescue squad members, doctors, nurses, employees of hospitals and
other medical facilities; on-duty military personnel, whether state or federal;
on-duty employees of public utilities, public transportation companies, and
newspaper, magazine, radio broadcasting and television broadcasting
corporations operated for profit; and any other classes of persons as may be
essential to the preservation of public order and immediately necessary to
serve the safety, health and welfare needs of the people within the town.
§ 34.02 PROCLAMATION; IMPOSING PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The Manager, by proclamation, may impose the prohibitions and
restrictions specified in §§
34.03 through
34.05, inclusive, in the manner described in those sections. The Manager may
impose as many of those specified prohibitions and restrictions as he or she
finds are necessary, because of an emergency, to maintain an acceptable level
of public order and services, and to protect lives, safety and property. The
Manager shall recite his or her findings in the proclamation.
   (B)   The proclamation shall be in writing. The Manager shall take
reasonable steps to give notice of the terms of the proclamation to those
affected by it and shall post a copy of it in the Town Hall. The Manager shall
send reports of the substance of the proclamation to the mass communications
media which serves the affected area. The Manager shall retain a text of the
proclamation and furnish upon request certified copies of it for use as
evidence.
§ 34.03 EVACUATION PROCEDURE.
   The Manager may direct and compel evacuation of all or part of the
population of the town, to prescribe routes, modes of transportation and
destination in connection with evacuation; and to control ingress and egress of
a disaster area, the movement of persons within the area and the occupancy of
premises therein. Details of the evacuation may be set forth or amended in a
subsequent proclamation, which shall be well publicized.
§ 34.04 CURFEW.
   (A)   The proclamation may impose a curfew prohibiting, in certain areas and
during certain periods, the appearance in public of anyone who is not a member
of an exempted class. The proclamation shall specify the geographical area or
areas and the period during each 24-hour day to which the curfew applies. The
Manager may exempt from some or all of the curfew restrictions classes of
people whose exemption the Manager finds necessary for the preservation of the
public health, safety and welfare. The proclamation shall state the exempted
classes and the restrictions from which each is exempted.
   (B)   Unless otherwise specified in the proclamation, the curfew shall apply
during the specified period each day until the Manager by proclamation removes
the curfew.
§ 34.05 CERTAIN ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED OR RESTRICTED DURING STATE OF EMERGENCY.
   (A)   The proclamation referred to in §
34.02 may prohibit the possession or consumption of any alcoholic beverage,
including beer, wine and spirituous liquor, other than on one’s own premises
and may prohibit the transfer, transportation, sale or purchase of any
alcoholic beverage within the area of the town described in the proclamation.
The prohibition, if imposed, may apply to transfers of alcoholic beverages by
employees of Alcoholic Beverage Control stores as well as by anyone else within
the geographical area described.
   (B)   The proclamation may prohibit the transportation or possession off of
one’s own premises, or the sale or purchase of any dangerous weapon or
substance. The Manager may exempt from some or all of the restricted classes of
people whose possession, transfer or transportation of certain dangerous
weapons or substances is necessary to the preservation of the public’s health,
safety or welfare. The proclamation shall state the exempted classes and the
restrictions from which each is exempted.
   (C)   The term DANGEROUS WEAPON OR SUBSTANCE means:
      (1)   Any deadly weapon, ammunition, explosive, incendiary device,
radioactive material or device as defined in G.S. § 14-288.8(c), gasoline, or
other instrument or substance designed for a use that carries a threat of
serious bodily injury or destruction of property;
      (2)   Any other instrument or substance that is capable of being used to
inflict serious bodily injury or destruction of property, when the
circumstances indicate that there is some probability that the instrument or
substance will be so used; and
      (3)   Any part or ingredient in any instrument or substance included in
divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2) above when the circumstances indicate a probability
that such a part or ingredient will be so used.
   (D)   If imposed, the restriction shall apply throughout the jurisdiction of
the town or part thereof as designated in the proclamation.
   (E)   The proclamation may prohibit obtaining access or attempting to obtain
access to any area, designated in the manner described in this section, in
violation of any order, clearly posted notice or barricade indicating that
access is denied or restricted.
   (F)   Areas to which access is denied or restricted shall be designated by
the Chief of Police and his or her subordinates when directed in the
proclamation to do so by the Manager. When acting under this authority, the
Chief of Police and his or her subordinates may restrict or deny access to any
area, street, highway or location within the town if that restriction or denial
of access or use is reasonably necessary to promote efforts being made to
overcome the emergency or to prevent further aggravation of the emergency.
   (G)   Movements of people in public places may be restricted.
   (H)   The operation of offices, business establishments and other places to
or from which people may travel or at which they may congregate may be
restricted.
   (I)   Other activities or conditions the control of which may be reasonably
necessary to maintain order and protect lives or property during the state of
emergency within the area designated in the proclamation may be restricted.
§ 34.06 REMOVAL OF PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   The Manager shall by proclamation terminate the entire declaration of
emergency or remove the prohibitions and restrictions as the emergency no
longer requires them, or when directed to do so by the Town Council.
§ 34.07 SUPERSEDING AND AMENDATORY PROCLAMATIONS.
   The Manager, in his or her discretion, may invoke the restrictions
authorized by this chapter in separate proclamations, and may amend any
proclamation by means of a superseding proclamation in accordance with the
procedures set forth in §
34.02.
§ 34.08 TERMINATION OF PROCLAMATION.
   Any proclamation issued under this chapter shall expire 5 days after its
last imposition unless sooner terminated in writing under the same procedures
set forth in §
34.02 for proclamations.
§ 34.09 IN CASE OF ABSENCE OR DISABILITY OF MANAGER.
   In case of the absence or disability of the Manager, another person as may
be designated by the Town Council, shall have and exercise all of the powers
herein given the Manager.
§ 34.10 MOTOR VEHICLE REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Automobile identification decals.
      (1)   Each resident and property owner shall register with the Police
Department every motor vehicle kept in the town any part of 15 or more days
within a calendar year. The Police Department will issue a decal to each
vehicle so registered. The purpose of the decal is to identify residents and
property owners in the event of evacuation and reentry into the town in
connection with a declaration of emergency.
      (2)   Registration for motor vehicles then subject to registration shall
be completed on or before February 15, 1993.
      (3)   Each motor vehicle shall be registered by its owner within 30 days
after it is subject to registration.
      (4)   Persons who are employed within the town limits, but who neither
reside in nor own property in the town, may register their vehicles according
to this section at any time prior to a declaration of emergency. If the person
chooses to register his or her vehicle, he or she shall comply with and be
subject to all provisions of this section.
      (5)   There will be no charge for registration or issuance of the decals.
   (B)   Display of decals. Decals will be displayed in the left bottom corner
of the front windshield of the vehicle for which it was issued, except that the
decal will be displayed on the front fender of 2-wheel motor vehicles.
   (C)   Replacement of and removal of decals.
      (1)   In the event a decal issued for a motor vehicle under this section
is destroyed, the owner of the vehicle must apply for a new decal with the
Police Department within 15 days after the destruction of the previous decal.
      (2)   Residents who move from the town, property owners who sell their
property, and persons who register their vehicles by reason of employment
within the town but who leave that employment, will remove all decals issued
pursuant to this section within 15 days and will report the action to the
Police Department.
   (D)   Reentry without decal prohibited. Vehicles that do not display the
identification decal will not be permitted to reenter the town after an
evacuation ordered until ownership can be verified or until the emergency is
declared ended.
   (E)   Unlawful use of decal is prohibited. No person shall display or cause
or permit to be displayed or have in his or her possession any decal issued
under this section knowing the same to be fictitious or invalid or to have been
canceled, revoked, suspended, nullified or altered; and no person shall
willfully display any decal that is not valid and current. It shall be unlawful
for any person to give, lend, sell or obtain a decal for any purpose other than
as authorized in this section and for any purpose other than in connection with
vehicles for which the decal was issued.
Penalty, see §
34.99
§ 34.11 PROCLAMATION FORMS.
   The following forms shall be used to proclaim and terminate a municipal
state of emergency:
   (A)   Proclaiming a municipal state of emergency.
   PROCLAMATION OF A MUNICIPAL STATE OF EMERGENCY
   Section 1. Pursuant to Town Ordinance _____and G.S. Chapter 166A and § 14-
288 of the North Carolina General Statutes, I have determined that a State of
Emergency, as defined in Town Ordinance_____, exists in the Town of Fletcher.
   Section 2. I, therefore, proclaim the existence of a State of Emergency in
the Town of Fletcher.
   Section 3. I hereby order all town law enforcement officers and employees
and all other emergency management personnel subject to my control to cooperate
in the enforcement and implementation of the provisions of the town emergency
ordinances which are set forth below.
   Section 4. Evacuation. I have determined that, in the best interest of
public safety and protection, it is necessary to evacuate the civilian
population from the Town of Fletcher. Citizens are free to use any type of
transportation, but they are to use only _____ in leaving the town. Evacuation
is to occur as soon as possible. Further proclamation concerning evacuation
will be issued as needed.
   Section 5. Curfew. Unless one is a member of the town’s law enforcement
agency or the emergency management program, every person who is located within
a _____ radius of _____ is to be inside a house or dwelling from the hours of
_____ to _____.
   Section 6. No Alcoholic Beverages. There shall be no sale, consumption,
transportation or possession of alcoholic beverages during the State of
Emergency in the Town of Fletcher.
   Section 7. No Firearms, Ammunition or Explosives. During the State of
Emergency, there shall be no sale or purchase of any type of firearm or
ammunition or any possession of such items along with any type of explosive off
of owner’s own premises.
   Section 8. Execution of Emergency Plan. All civilians and emergency
management personnel are ordered to comply with the emergency reaction plan.
   Section 9. This proclamation shall become effective immediately.
   Proclaimed this the _____ day of _____ at _____ [a.m/p.m.].
   _________________________
   Manager/Town of Fletcher
   (B)   Terminating a municipal state of emergency.
   PROCLAMATION TERMINATING A MUNICIPAL STATE OF EMERGENCY
   Section 1. On _____ at _______ [a.m./p.m.], I determined and proclaimed a
local State of Emergency for the Town of Fletcher.
   Section 2. On _____, at _____ [a.m./p.m.], I ordered the evacuation of all
civilians from the area, imposed a curfew, prohibited alcoholic beverages,
firearms, ammunition and explosives and ordered the execution of the emergency
reaction plan.
   Section 3. I have determined that a State of Emergency no longer exists in
the Town of Fletcher.
   Section 4. I thereby terminate the proclamation of a local State of
Emergency and all of the restrictions and orders therein.
   Section 5. This proclamation is effective immediately.
   Proclaimed this the _____ day of _____ at _____ [a.m./p.m.]
   _________________________
   Manager/Town of Fletcher
§ 34.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation of any provision of §§
34.01 et seq. other than those provisions in §
34.10 shall subject the violator to a civil penalty in a sum to be determined
by Council.
   (B)   A citation for the civil penalty shall be issued by the Police
Department or the Town Building Inspector.
   (C)   Each citation for a civil penalty must be paid within 72 hours of
issuance.
   (D)   For violations of §
34.10, the following penalties shall apply:
      (1)   If any person shall display or cause or permit to be displayed or
have in his or her possession any decal issued under §
34.10 for purposes of reentering the town in connection with a declaration of
emergency with knowledge that the decal is fictitious, invalid, canceled,
revoked, suspended, nullified or altered, the person shall be guilty of a
general misdemeanor.
      (2)   Any other violation of any provision of §
34.10 shall subject the violator to a civil penalty in a sum to be determined
by Council. A citation for the civil penalty must be issued by the Police
Department. Each citation for a civil penalty must be paid within 72 hours of
issuance.
   (E)   Each day that the violator continues any violation in this chapter
shall be a separate and distinct offense.
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE AND SOLID WASTE
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE AND SOLID WASTE
Section
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Littering
   
50.03   Construction debris
   
50.04   Material resulting from clearing land
   
50.05   Garbage collection
   
50.06   Garbage receptacles
   
50.07   Tree limbs, brush, leaves and the like
   
50.08   Placement of limbs, brush and leaves and the like
   
50.09   Maintenance of private roads for town equipment
   
50.10   Grass clippings
   
50.11   Refuse not collected by the town
   
50.12   Prohibitions
 
   
50.99   Notice of violation and penalties
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING MATERIAL SCRAPS. Scrap building material from the construction,
reconstruction, remodeling or repair of a building, walkway, driveway, sign and
other structure, including but not limited to excavated earth, tree stumps,
rocks, gravel, bricks, plaster, concrete, lumber or any other similar material
used in construction or containers or wrappings.
   BULKY WASTE. Large items of solid waste such as furniture, white goods,
large auto parts, stumps, and other oversize wastes whose large size precludes
or complicates their handling by normal solid waste collection, processing or
disposal methods.
   COLLECTION. The act of removing solid waste to a transfer station,
processing facility or disposal facility.
   COMMERCIAL CUT. Any person other than the property owner who cuts and
maintains trees and limbs.
(Ord. O-99-5, passed 7-12-1999)
   GARBAGE. Animal and vegetable matter resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food, tin cans, glassware or other
containers, rags, waste paper, including all putrescible wastes, but excluding
sewage and human wastes.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE.  A solid waste or combination of solid wastes, including
liquid or gaseous wastes, which because of its quantity, concentration or
physical, chemical or infectious characteristics may:
      (1)   Cause or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or an
increase in serious irreversible or incapacitating reversible illness;
      (2)   Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or
the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported or disposed of or
otherwise managed.
(Ord. O-05-5, passed 7-11-2005)
   MEDICAL WASTE.  Any solid waste that is generated in the diagnosis,
treatment or immunization of human beings or animals, in research pertaining
thereto, or the production of biologicals.
   PATHOLOGICAL WASTE. Human tissues, organs and body parts, and the carcasses
and body parts of any animals that were known to have been exposed to pathogens
that are potentially dangerous to humans during research, were used in the
production of biologists or in vivo testing of pharmaceuticals, or that humans
died with a known or suspected disease transmissible to humans.
   PUTRESCIBLE. Solid waste capable of being decomposed by microorganisms with
sufficient rapidity as to cause nuisances from odors and gases, such as kitchen
wastes, offal and animal carcasses.
   REFUSE.  Solid wastes that are nonputrescible wastes collected from
residences.
   SHARPS.  Needles, syringes and scalpel blade.
   SOLID WASTE. Garbage and refuse, including SOLID WASTE materials resulting
from residential and business activities, but does not include solids or
dissolved materials in domestic sewage or other significant pollutants in water
resources, such as silt, dissolved materials in irrigation return flows or
other common water pollutants.
   WHITE GOODS.  Inoperative and discarded refrigerators, ranges, water
heaters, freezers, and other similar domestic and commercial large appliances.
   YARD TRASH. Solid waste consisting solely of vegetative matter resulting
from landscaping maintenance. Includes grass clippings, leaves, sod, tree limbs
and weeds.
(Ord. O-97-9, passed 9-8-1997; Am. Ord. O-17-04, passed 2-13-2017)
§ 50.02 LITTERING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or deposit upon any street, or
upon any private property, any rocks, bricks, lumber, sawdust, bottles, jars,
broken glass, or any paper bags, caps or paper of any kind, or any trash,
leaves, dirt, rubbish or any thing that may be unsightly or offensive or that
may in any way be dangerous to traffic.
(Ord. O-97-9, passed 9-8-1997) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.03 CONSTRUCTION DEBRIS.
   All refuse, lumber and debris remaining as a result of the repair of a
building or the erection and completion of a new building shall be removed by
the property owner within 10 days from the date of completion of the work.
(Ord. O-97-9, passed 9-8-1997)
§ 50.04 MATERIAL RESULTING FROM CLEARING LAND.
   No materials such as trees, shrubbery or underbrush resulting from land
being cleared shall be placed for collection by the town, but those materials
shall be disposed of by the contractor or builder. In the event the contractor
or builder fails to remove this material, the removal thereof shall be the
responsibility of the owner of the property.
(Ord. O-97-9, passed 9-8-1997)
§ 50.05 GARBAGE COLLECTION.
   (A)   Garbage shall be collected at curbside. Collection of garbage shall be
made by the town on a regular basis. A schedule of the times and routes of
collection shall be posted in the Town Hall and may be changed from time to
time as deemed necessary or appropriate by the Public Works Director.
(Ord. O-97-9, passed 9-8-1997)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to bring construction debris,
business trash, garbage, household refuse, household trash, industrial waste,
litter, refuse, solid waste, yard waste or any other kind of trash or rubbish
into the Town of Fletcher from a point outside the town for the purpose of the
materials to become subject to pickup by the town.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to permit the use of his
or her receptacles or any other portion of his or her property by any other
person for the disposal of any construction debris, business trash, garbage,
hazardous refuse, household trash, industrial waste, litter, refuse, solid
waste, yard waste, or any other kind of trash or rubbish brought in to the town
from a point outside the town for the purpose of disposing of the materials to
become subject to pickup by the town.
(Ord. O-03-4, passed 1-12-2004) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.06 GARBAGE RECEPTACLES.
   Garbage receptacles shall be roll out cans provided by the town. All trash
must be bagged, as no loose trash shall be picked up. Plastic bags shall be
property secured at the bag opening with a twist tie or other means to
eliminate any spillage of contents. Garbage from dumpsters shall not be
collected by the town.
(Ord. O-97-9, passed 9-8-1997; Am. Ord. O-04-8, passed 9-13-2004; Am. Ord. O-
17-04, passed 2-13-2017)
§ 50.07 TREE LIMBS, BRUSH, LEAVES AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   All trees or portions thereof to be picked up shall be cut up and
reduced in lengths so that no portion shall be more than 6 feet in length.
Limbs shall be no greater than 6 inches in diameter (distance through the
limb). All limbs shall be cut from the main body of any limb or trunk. All
these materials shall be neatly piled with the length of the items
substantially parallel to the street. One 8-yard dump truck load of limbs and
brush shall be allowed each residence per 2 months without additional charges.
Should the volume exceed 1 dump truck load, a fee will be charged for each 2
cubic yards. (Limbs or brush neatly stacked 3 feet by 3 feet by 6 feet is 2
cubic yards.) A fee per 2 cubic yards, as designated in division (D) below,
will be charged when limbs and brush have exceeded 1 dump truck load or any
portion thereof in a 2-month period.
   (B)   Loose leaves shall be collected at roadside by town forces from
October 1 through December 31. Leaves shall be free of sticks, rocks and other
debris, and placed in plastic bags.
   (C)   Tree limbs and brush shall not be placed at curbside more than 5 days
prior to the collection date.
(Ord. O-97-9, passed 9-8-1997)
   (D)   Brush piles shall be no greater than 2 cubic yards per week with an 8-
yard limit per 2 months. Piles greater than 2 yards can be picked up for a
charge of $20 per cubic yard.
   (E)   No tree limbs, brush, leaves, and the like shall be collected from any
non-residential land use.
(Am. Ord. O-99-5, passed 7-12-1999; Am. Ord. O-17-04, passed 2-13-2017)
§ 50.08 PLACEMENT OF LIMBS, BRUSH AND LEAVES AND THE LIKE.
   Limbs, brush and leaves shall be placed by occupant at curbside in front of
his or her residence but at least 3 feet off of the pavement.
(Ord. O-97-9, passed 9-8-1997)
§ 50.09 MAINTENANCE OF PRIVATE ROADS FOR TOWN EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   In order for the town to continue picking up residential solid waste
on private streets, the following must be adhered to:
      (1)   Limbs on private property must be cut back to ensure town equipment
is not damaged when entering;
      (2)   A minimum of 12 feet must be available for the roadway for the
equipment to enter, and the private road must be maintained to allow such large
equipment to use; and
      (3)   The town and property owners must agree upon areas to allow town
vehicles adequate turnaround areas.
   (B)   If the above is not followed, then the property owners will be
required to bring the trash to the nearest public right-of-way.
(Ord. O-01-07, passed 8-13-2001)
§ 50.10 GRASS CLIPPINGS.
   The town shall not collect grass clippings and sod. Grass clippings should
be scattered on the premises of the property owner or removed from the
property, but not along the roadway by a person or firm for hire on the first
occasion. A fee in the amount of $25 will be charged to the occupant at the
premises who places grass clippings at roadside to be picked up; a fee of $50
will be charged for each instance thereafter.
(Ord. O-97-9, passed 9-8-1997)
  § 50.11 REFUSE NOT COLLECTED BY THE TOWN.
   The following denotes refuse not accepted by the Henderson County Landfill.
Asbestos is not accepted unless by prior arrangement with Henderson County
Landfill personnel.
   (A)   Asbestos;
   (B)   Ashes;
   (C)   Batteries;
   (D)   Bedding;
   (E)   Building materials;
   (F)   Flammable materials;
   (G)   Gas tanks;
   (H)   Hazardous waste;
   (I)   Liquids;
   (J)   Materials resulting from clearing land;
   (K)   Medical waste;
   (L)   Paint;
   (M)   Pathological waste;
   (N)   Sharps;
   (O)   Tires; and
(Ord. O-97-9, passed 9-8-1997)
   (P)   Loose fecal matter. The placement of loose fecal matter or used kitty
litter will be specifically prohibited from being picked up by the town. These
items may be intermingled with the regular household waste, but not placed to
be picked up separately.
(Ord. O-00-08, passed 7-10-2000)
§ 50.12 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Improper sewage disposal to such a degree that sewage or effluent is
discharging onto the surface of the ground, backing up into a structure, or
discharging into a body of water.
   (B)   An unsecured opening caused by an improperly abandoned cistern, well
pit, sewage treatment system, unused or non-maintained swimming pool, mine
shaft or tunnel.
   (C)   Failure to keep waste, refuse, or garbage in an enclosed building or
properly contained in a closed, insect and rodent-proof container designed or
reasonably adapted for such purpose.
   (D)   Accumulation of carcasses of animals, birds, or fish by failing to
bury or otherwise dispose of them in a sanitary manner within 24 hours after
death.
   (E)   Significant outdoor storage of solid waste including but not limited
to: decaying animal or vegetable matter, animal or human feces, trash, rubbish,
garbage, rotting lumber, packing materials, scrap metal, pallets, fuel storage
containers, tools, tires and wheels, furnaces, home appliances, furniture,
plumbing fixtures, construction materials, amusement park devices, metal,
pipes, rubber, glass bottles, machinery, wood, brick, cement blocks, all-
terrain vehicles, toys, bicycles, junk or any other substances in which flies,
mosquitoes, other disease carrying insects, rodents or other vermin can harbor.
   (F)   Accumulations of rubbish or junk so as to become dangerous or
injurious to the health and safety of any individual or to the public.
   (G)   Infestations of flies, fleas, cockroaches, lice, rats, mice, fly
larvae, hookworm larvae or other insects, parasites or vermin.
   (H)   Breeding grounds which support mosquito larvae and mosquitos capable
of carrying West Nile Virus, La Crosse Encephalitis Virus, or any other disease
causing microorganism.
   (I)   Recreational or other vehicles used to store solid waste.
(Ord. O-17-04, passed 2-13-2017) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATION AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   A notice of violation shall be issued to the property owner, notifying
the owner that a violation of this section must be corrected within 30 days. A
single 30-day extension may be granted if it has been demonstrated that the
owner is working in good faith to correct the violation. The owner of a parcel
that is deemed to be in violation of this chapter may appeal the declaration by
filing a writing request to the Town Council within 10 days of the receipt of
the initial notice of violation. A hearing would be held at the next available
meeting following the receipt of the request to determine whether the
declaration of a violation was valid.
   (B)   If the violation is not corrected within the prescribed time period,
then a citation in the amount of $50 per violation per day shall be issued.
   (C)   If the violation is still not corrected following the issuance of the
aforementioned citations, then the town may pursue one or more of the following
measures in order to obtain compliance:
      (1)   Injunction. The town may apply to the appropriate court of law for
a mandatory or prohibitory injunction commanding the defendant to correct the
violation.
      (2)   Order of abatement. In addition to any injunction, the town may
apply for and the court may enter into an order of abatement as part of the
judgement in the case. An order of abatement may direct the town to correct the
violation on the subject property.
      (3)   Execution of court decisions. If the defendant fails or refuses to
comply with an injunction or with an order of abatement within the time allowed
by the court, the defendant may be cited for contempt. The town may execute the
order of abatement and will have a lien on the property for the cost of
executing the order. The defendant may secure cancellation of an order of
abatement by paying all costs of the proceedings and by posting a bond for
compliance with the order. The bond must be given with sureties approved by the
Clerk of Superior Court in an amount approved by the judge before whom the
matter was heard and shall be conditioned for the defendant’s full compliance
with the terms of the order of abatement within the time fixed by the judge.
Cancellation of an order of abatement does not suspend or cancel an injunction
issued in conjunction with the order.
      (4)   Option of enjoining or abating. Notwithstanding any provision in
this chapter, the town shall have the option of enjoining or abating any
violation of this chapter in accordance with any and all authority granted by
state law or statute.
(Ord. O-17-04, passed 2-13-2017)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL REGULATIONS; TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   PARKING, STOPPING AND STANDING
      
72.   TRUCK REGULATIONS
      
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL REGULATIONS; TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Obedience to police or fire official required
   
70.03   Authorized emergency vehicles
   
70.04   Authority of police in emergencies
   
70.05   Pedestrians soliciting rides, employment, business or funds
   
70.06   Prohibition of engine compression brakes
Administration and Enforcement
   
70.20   Obedience required; when signs required for enforcement
   
70.21   Display of unauthorized signs, signals or markings
   
70.22   Interference with official traffic-control devices
Traffic Rules
   
70.35   Authority to erect stop signs
   
70.36   Vehicles to stop at stop signs
   
70.37   Vehicles approaching yield signs
   
70.38   Signs to be posted
   
70.39   Speed limits
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this title, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A thoroughfare through the middle of a block.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Vehicles of the Fire Department, police
vehicles, and ambulances and emergency vehicles of municipal departments or
public service corporations as are designated or authorized by the Chief of
Police.
   BICYCLE. Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may
ride, having 2 tandem wheels, either of which is over 20 inches in diameter.
   BLOCK. A portion of any street located between any 2 intersections of any 2
streets or public alleyways next adjacent to each other.
   COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE. A motor vehicle designed or used to transport
passengers or property as defined in G.S. § 20-4.01(3)(d).
   CROSSWALK. That portion of any street or roadway ordinarily included within
the prolongation or connection of the lateral lines of sidewalks at
intersections; any portion of a roadway or street distinctly indicated for
pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface of the street or
roadway.
   CURB LOADING ZONE. A space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use
of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
   DRIVER. The operator of a vehicle. The terms DRIVER and OPERATOR and their
cognates are synonymous.
   FREIGHT CURB LOADING ZONE. A space adjacent to a curb for the exclusive use
of vehicles during the loading or unloading of freight or passengers.
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation of the lateral curblines;
or, if none, then the lateral edge of roadway lines of 2 or more highways which
join one another at any angle, whether or not one highway crosses the other.
      (2)   Where a highway includes 2 roadways 30 feet or more apart, every
crossing of each roadway of the divided highway by an intersecting highway
shall be regarded as a separate INTERSECTION. If the intersecting highway also
includes 2 roadways 30 feet or more apart, every crossing of 2 roadways of the
highways shall be regarded as a separate INTERSECTION.
   LANED ROADWAY. A roadway which is divided into 2 or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle
designed to run upon the streets which is pulled by a self-propelled vehicle.
This shall not include mopeds as defined in G.S. § 20-4.01(27)(d)(1).
   MOTORCYCLE. A vehicle having a saddle for the use of the rider and designed
to travel on not more than 3 wheels in contact with the ground, including motor
scooters and motor-driven bicycles, but excluding tractors and utility vehicles
equipped with an additional form of device designed to transport property, 3-
wheeled vehicles while being used by law enforcement agencies, and mopeds as
defined in G.S. § 20-4.01(27)(d)(1).
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC SIGNAL. Any device, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, whereby traffic is alternately directed to stop and to
proceed, or to turn, or to proceed with caution.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICE. Any sign, signal, marking or device, not
inconsistent with this title, placed or erected by authority of the governing
body by a designated official having jurisdiction through authority given by
the governing body, for the purpose of regulating, warning, prohibiting or
guiding traffic upon the public streets and thoroughfares of the town.
   PARK. The standing of any vehicle, whether occupied or unoccupied, otherwise
than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or
unloading passengers or cargo.
   PASSENGER CURB LOADING ZONE. A place adjacent to a curb reserved for the
exclusive use of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PERSON. Every individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
governmental agency or combination thereof, of whatsoever form or character.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every peace officer of the town, including every employee of
the town authorized and empowered to regulate traffic and to make arrests for
any violations of the provisions of this title.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. Every road or driveway not open to the use of the
public as a matter of right for the purpose of vehicular traffic.
   PUBLIC CONVEYANCE. Any vehicle other than a taxicab or railroad train for
transporting persons for a fare.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the street or roadway.
   ROADWAY. That portion of a street or highway improved, designed or
ordinarily used for vehicular travel, exclusive of the shoulder. In the event a
highway includes 2 or more separate ROADWAYS, the term ROADWAY shall refer to
any ROADWAYS separately but not to all ROADWAYS collectively.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of a street between the curblines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   STANDING. Any stopping of any vehicle, whether or not the vehicle is
occupied during the period of stopping.
   STOP.   When required, the complete cessation of movement of any vehicle.
   STOP or STOPPING. When prohibited, means any STOPPING of any vehicle, except
when the STOPPING means that it shall be necessary to STOP the vehicle to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the direction of any peace
officer of the town or by reason of any traffic-control sign or signal or by
reason of any emergency.
   STREET and HIGHWAY. The entire width between property or right-of-way lines
of every way or place of whatever nature, when any part thereof is open to the
use of the public as a matter of right for the purposes of vehicular traffic.
The terms STREET and HIGHWAY and their cognates are synonymous.
   THROUGH HIGHWAY. Every street or highway or portion thereof at the entrances
to which vehicular traffic from intersecting streets or highways is required by
law to stop before entering or crossing the same and when stop signs are
erected as provided in this title.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles of all kinds,
conveyances, tractors, bicycles, motorcycles and the like, either singly or
together, while using any street or alleyway for travel, including the
operation, the loading or unloading, or the parking of any vehicle upon any of
the public streets of the town.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon streets excepting devices moved by human power or
used exclusively upon fixed rails or tracks. For the purposes of this title,
bicycles shall be deemed VEHICLES, and every rider of a bicycle upon a highway
shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter applicable to the driver of
a VEHICLE except those which by their very nature can have no application. This
term shall not include a device which is designed for and intended to be used
as a means of transportation for a person with a mobility impairment, is
suitable for use both inside and outside a building, and whose maximum speed
does not exceed 12 mph when the device is being operated by a person with a
mobility impairment.
§ 70.02 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE OR FIRE OFFICIAL REQUIRED.
   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of a police officer or Fire Department official.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   The provisions of this title regulating the operation, parking and standing
of vehicles shall apply to authorized emergency vehicles except as provided
under state law.
§ 70.04 AUTHORITY OF POLICE IN EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the officers of the Police Department to
enforce all street traffic laws and all of the state vehicle laws applicable to
street traffic.
   (B)   Officers of the Police Department are hereby authorized to direct all
traffic by voice, hand or signal in conformance with traffic laws; provided
that, in the event of a fire or other emergency or to expedite traffic or to
safeguard pedestrians, officers of the Police Department may direct traffic as
conditions may require notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws.
   (C)   Officers of the Fire Department, when at the scene of a fire, may
direct or assist the police in directing traffic thereat or in the immediate
vicinity.
§ 70.05 PEDESTRIANS SOLICITING RIDES, EMPLOYMENT, BUSINESS OR FUNDS.
   (A)   No person shall stand in any portion of the state highways, except
upon the shoulders thereof, for the purpose of soliciting a ride from the
driver of any motor vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall stand or loiter in the main traveled portion,
including the shoulders and median, of any state highway or street, excluding
sidewalks, or stop any motor vehicle for the purpose of soliciting employment,
business or contributions from the driver or occupant of any motor vehicle that
impedes the normal movement of traffic on the public highways or streets. The
provisions of this division shall not apply to licensees, employees or
contractors of the Department of Transportation or of any municipality engaged
in construction or maintenance or in making traffic or engineering surveys.
   (C)   The section does not prohibit engaging in the distribution of
newspapers on the non-traveled portion of any street or highway except when
those distribution activities impede the normal movement of traffic on the
street or highway.
   (D)   In the event the solicitation event or the solicitors shall create a
nuisance, delay traffic, create threatening or hostile situations, any law
enforcement officer with proper jurisdiction may order the solicitations to
cease. Any individual failing to follow a law enforcement officer’s lawful
order to cease solicitation shall be guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor.
(Ord. O-12-09, passed 12-10-2012)
§ 70.06 PROHIBITION OF ENGINE COMPRESSION BRAKES.
   (A)   No person shall use a motor vehicle on any street, road, or highway
within the town's jurisdiction where the engine compression brake is in any way
engaged or activated on such motor vehicle or any unit a part thereof, except
for emergency situations for the purpose of avoiding a collision with another
object, person or vehicle.
   (B)   ENGINE COMPRESSION BRAKES means a device primarily on trucks for the
conversion of the engine from an internal combustion engine to an air
compressor for the purpose of braking without the use of wheel brakes (commonly
referred to as a “jake” brake, “jacob's” brake, engine brake, or dynamic
braking device).
   (C)   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be guilty of
a Class 3 misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished in accordance with
§
10.99.
(Ord. O-13-06, passed 4-8-2013; Am. Ord. O-15-01, passed 1-12-2015; Am. Ord. O-
15-01, passed 2-9-2015; Am. Ord. O-15-01, passed 7-13-2015)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 70.20 OBEDIENCE REQUIRED; WHEN SIGNS REQUIRED FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any person failing or refusing to comply with the directions indicated
on any sign, marker or device for the control or direction of traffic, erected
or placed in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, when so placed or
erected, shall be guilty of a violation. This section shall not be construed to
apply when the driver of a vehicle is otherwise directed by a police officer or
when an exception is granted to the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle
under §
70.04.
   (B)   No provisions of this title for which signs are required shall be
enforced against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the alleged
violation, an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently legible
to an ordinarily observant person.
§ 70.21 DISPLAY OF UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS, SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of any
highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which purports to be
or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic-control device, sign or
signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic, or which hides
from view or interferes with the effectiveness of any official traffic-control
device, sign or signal.
   (B)   No person shall place or maintain nor shall any public authority
permit upon any highway any traffic sign or signal bearing thereon any
commercial advertising.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.22 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   No person shall without lawful authority attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down or remove any official traffic-control device, sign
or signal or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or any other part
thereof.
Penalty, see §
70.99
TRAFFIC RULES
§ 70.35 AUTHORITY TO ERECT STOP SIGNS.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance designates and describes a through street,
there shall be a stop sign on every street intersecting the through street or
intersecting portion thereof, described and designated as such by any
ordinance, unless traffic at any intersection is controlled at all times by
traffic-control signals. At the intersection of 2 through streets or at the
intersection of a through street and a heavy traffic street not so designated,
stop signs shall be erected at the approaches of either of the streets.
   (B)   Every sign erected pursuant to this section shall bear the word “STOP”
in letters not less than 8 inches in height; and the signs shall at nighttime
be rendered luminous by steady or flashing internal illumination, or by a fixed
floodlight projected on the face of the sign, or by efficient reflecting
elements on the face of the sign. Every stop sign shall be located as near as
practicable at the nearest line of the crosswalk on the side of the
intersection or, if none, at the nearest line of the roadway.
§ 70.36 VEHICLES TO STOP AT STOP SIGNS.
   (A)   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic-control
signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection, as specified
in
Schedule IV of Chapter 73, shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near
side of the intersection or, if there is no crosswalk, shall stop at a clearly
marked stop line or, if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting
roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting
roadway before entering the intersection.
   (B)   The driver having stopped in obedience to a stop sign at an
intersection shall proceed cautiously, yielding the right-of-way to all
vehicles not so obliged to stop which are approaching the intersection.
§ 70.37 VEHICLES APPROACHING YIELD SIGNS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign erected at an
intersection shall, in obedience to the sign, slow down and yield the right-of-
way to any pedestrian crossing the roadway on which he or she is driving and to
any vehicle in movement on the main traveled or through highway or street which
he or she is approaching, so as to arrive at the intersection at approximately
the same time as the vehicle entering the main traveled or through street or
highway.
   (B)   The driver of the vehicle approaching a yield sign, if required to
stop, shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection; or in the event there is no crosswalk, at a clearly marked
stopline; but if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where
the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway.
   (C)   In accordance with divisions (A) and (B) above, and when signs are
erected giving notice thereof, drivers of vehicles, when entering designated or
main traveled or through streets from intersecting streets in the direction
shown, shall yield the right-of-way to approaching pedestrians or vehicles.
§ 70.38 SIGNS TO BE POSTED.
   The Public Works Director is hereby directed to post and maintain at all
points where truck routes enter the town and junction points and turns where
necessary, and at all approaches to the streets or parts of streets on which
trucks are prohibited, appropriate signs directing truck traffic in accordance
with this chapter.
§ 70.39 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   The town, with reference to streets that are not state highways, has
hereby established those speed limits set forth more particularly in
Chapter 73, Schedule I, and has posted signs indicating those speed limits.
   (B)   Pursuant to the authority of G.S. § 20-141(f), it shall be unlawful to
operate a vehicle in excess of the speeds listed in this section, upon the
streets or portions of streets of the state highway system and those streets or
portions of streets not a part of the state highway system.
   (C)   Pursuant to the authority of G.S. § 20-141(f), it shall be unlawful to
operate any vehicle on the following state highway system streets at speeds in
excess of those speeds indicated in
Chapter 73, Schedule I.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   If any person shall violate an ordinance regulating the operation or
parking of vehicles, he or she shall be responsible for an infraction and shall
be required to pay a penalty of not more than $50.
(G.S. § 14-4(b))
CHAPTER 71: PARKING, STOPPING AND STANDING
Section
General Provisions
   
71.001   Stopping in streets generally
   
71.002   Stopping when traffic obstructed
   
71.003   Emerging from alley or private driveway
   
71.004   Unattended motor vehicles
   
71.005   Stopping and parking prohibited in specified places
   
71.006   Standing or parking prohibited for certain purposes
   
71.007   Standing or parking for primary purpose of advertising
   
71.008   Moving of vehicles into prohibited areas
   
71.009   Conflict of laws
Vehicle Placement
   
71.020   Obstructing passage of other vehicles
   
71.021   Left side to curb; one-way streets
   
71.022   Parallel parking required generally
   
71.023   Parking inside markings
   
71.024   Angle parking
   
71.025   Vehicles backed to curb
   
71.026   Blocking entrances, exits and ways by parking
   
71.027   Access to buildings by responding fire apparatus
Parking Restrictions
   
71.040   Parking in prohibited zones generally
   
71.041   Handicapped parking; identification required
   
71.042   Parking in limited parking zone
   
71.043   Parking in bus stops or taxicab stands
   
71.044   Parking in alleys
   
71.045   Lights on parked vehicles
   
71.046   Moving from parked positions
Trucks and Large Vehicles
   
71.060   Parking of trucks over two tons
   
71.061   Parking tank trucks
   
71.062   Vehicles in excess of 80 inches
Enforcement
   
71.075   Impoundment of standing or parked vehicles
   
71.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Routes where trucks permitted and prohibited, see
Chapter 72 of this code of ordinances
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.001 STOPPING IN STREETS GENERALLY.
   No vehicle shall be stopped in any street except for the purpose of parking
as prescribed in this chapter, unless the stop is made necessary by the
approach of fire apparatus, by the approach of a funeral or other procession
which is given the right-of-way, by the stopping of a public conveyance, by the
lowering of railway gates, by the giving of traffic signals, the passing of
some other vehicle or a pedestrian, or by some emergency. In any case covered
by these exceptions, the vehicles shall not stop so as to obstruct any footway,
pedestrian aisle, safety zone, crossing or street intersection if the
obstruction can be avoided.
(Ord. O-00-12, passed 8-14-2000) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate parking, see G.S. § 160A-301
   Parking prohibited in specific places, see G.S. § 20-162
§ 71.002 STOPPING WHEN TRAFFIC OBSTRUCTED.
   No driver of a vehicle shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk
unless there is sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or
crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle he or she is operating without obstructing
the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic-
control signal indication to proceed.
(Ord. O-00-12, passed 8-14-2000) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.003 EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR PRIVATE DRIVEWAY.
   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall
stop the vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or into the
sidewalk areas extending across any alleyway, and shall yield the right-of-way
to any pedestrian, as may be necessary to avoid collision, and upon entering
the roadway, shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the
roadway.
(Ord. O-00-12, passed 8-14-2000)
§ 71.004 UNATTENDED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   No person having control or charge of a motor vehicle shall allow the
vehicle to stand on any street or highway in the town, unattended, without
first effectively setting the brakes thereon and stopping the motor of the
vehicle and, when standing upon any grade, without turning the front wheels of
the vehicle to the curb or side of the street or highway.
Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 20-163
  § 71.005 STOPPING AND PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police
officer or traffic-control device in any of the following places:
   (A)   On a sidewalk;
   (B)   Within an intersection, or within 20 feet thereof;
   (C)   On a crosswalk;
   (D)   Within 30 feet of any flashing beacon, stop sign or traffic-control
signal located at the side of a street or roadway;
   (E)   No vehicle shall park on either side of any street approaching a
railroad underpass or overhead bridge within 50 feet in any direction of the
outer edge of the underpass or overhead bridge;
   (F)   No vehicle shall park on either side of any street approaching a grade
crossing within 50 feet of the closest rail; provided, however, that where
existing permanent structures are located along the street and closer than 50
feet, parking may be permitted in front of the structures, unless otherwise
prohibited, if the parking does not interfere with the view in either direction
of an approaching locomotive or train;
   (G)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when the
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
   (H)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure or within any underpass
structure;
   (I)   Within 15 feet in either direction of the entrance to a hotel,
theater, hospital or any other public building, where the street is so marked;
   (J)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped, standing or parked at the
edge or curb of a street;
   (K)   Within 15 feet in either direction of any fire hydrant;
   (L)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and on the
side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75 feet of
the entrance when properly signposted; and
   (M)   At any place where signs prohibit parking.
(Ord. O-00-12, passed 8-14-2000) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Parking in front of fire hydrants and the like, see G.S. § 20-162.1
  § 71.006 STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITED FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES.
   (A)   No person shall stand or park a vehicle upon any street for the
principal purpose of the following:
      (1)   Displaying it for sale;
      (2)   Washing, greasing or repairing the vehicle, except repairs
necessitated by an emergency;
      (3)   Storage of the vehicle by garages, dealers or other persons when
such storage is not incidental to the bona fide use and operation of the
automobiles or other vehicles; or
      (4)   Storage of any detached trailer or van when the towing unit has
been disconnected or for the purpose of transferring merchandise or freight
from one vehicle to another, or the storage of any truck, trailer, van or other
automobile or motor vehicle, whether a physical, permanent part of the towing
unit or detachable therefrom.
   (B)   Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to prevent
parking for purposes of foreclosure and judicial sales.
(Ord. O-00-12, passed 8-14-2000) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.007 STANDING OR PARKING FOR PRIMARY PURPOSE OF ADVERTISING.
   No person shall stand or park on any street any vehicle for the primary
purpose of advertising.
(Ord. O-00-12, passed 8-14-2000) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.008 MOVING OF VEHICLES INTO PROHIBITED AREAS.
   No person shall move a vehicle not owned by that person into any prohibited
area or away from a curb such distance as is unlawful.
(Ord. O-00-12, passed 8-14-2000) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.009 CONFLICT OF LAWS.
   If any portion of this chapter or the enforcement thereof shall be preempted
by any state or federal authority, the preemptions shall not operate to
invalidate the rest of this chapter; and the same shall remain in full force
and effect.
(Ord. O-00-12, passed 8-14-2000)
VEHICLE PLACEMENT
§ 71.020 OBSTRUCTING PASSAGE OF OTHER VEHICLES.
   No vehicle shall so stand on any street as to interrupt or interfere with
the passage of other vehicles.
(Ord. O-00-12, passed 8-14-2000) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.021 LEFT SIDE TO CURB; ONE-WAY STREETS.
   No vehicle shall stop with its left side to the curb; except that on 1-way
streets, vehicles shall stop headed in the direction of traffic.
(Ord. O-00-12, passed 8-14-2000) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.022 PARALLEL PARKING REQUIRED GENERALLY.
   Where not otherwise indicated by this chapter and where the street is not
marked to show how vehicles shall park, all vehicles shall park parallel to the
curb and not more than 12 inches therefrom.
(Ord. O-00-12, passed 8-14-2000)
§ 71.023 PARKING INSIDE MARKINGS.
   On any street which is marked off with lines indicating the parking spaces
for vehicles, the vehicles shall be parked between the lines.
(Ord. O-00-12, passed 8-14-2000)
§ 71.024 ANGLE PARKING.
   On streets or parts of streets so designated and marked as zones for angle
parking, automobiles and other vehicles shall be parked at an angle to the curb
as indicated by the markings.
(Ord. O-00-12, passed 8-14-2000)
§ 71.025 VEHICLES BACKED TO CURB.
   In no case shall the driver or person in charge of any vehicle permit the
same to remain backed up to curb, except when actually loading or unloading.
(Ord. O-00-12, passed 8-14-2000)
§ 71.026 BLOCKING ENTRANCES, EXITS AND WAYS BY PARKING.
   (A)   (1)   In any area set aside for the use of the public for parking
vehicles therein, it shall be unlawful for any person to park or otherwise
leave a vehicle stationary in that position as to interfere with the free entry
into the parking area or withdrawal therefrom.
      (2)   It shall likewise be unlawful for any person, having entered such
an area with a vehicle, to park the vehicle in a manner and in such position
with reference to any other vehicle already parked therein as to interfere with
the free movement of the other vehicle.
   (B)   It shall also be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle in such a
manner that it will block or obstruct the passage of motor vehicles into or out
of any alley or public or private driveway.
(Ord. O-00-12, passed 8-14-2000) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.027 ACCESS TO BUILDINGS BY RESPONDING FIRE APPARATUS.
   (A)   Access to Fire Department apparatus by way of access roadways with
all-weather driving surfaces of not less than 20 feet (6.1 meters) of
unobstructed width, with adequate roadway turning radius capable of supporting
the imposed loads of fire apparatus and having a minimum vertical clearance of
13 feet 6 inches (4.1 meters).
   (B)   The required width of access roadways shall not be obstructed in any
manner, including the parking of vehicles.
(Ord. O-00-12, passed 8-14-2000) Penalty, see §
71.999
PARKING RESTRICTIONS
§ 71.040 PARKING IN PROHIBITED ZONES GENERALLY.
   When signs are placed, erected or installed, giving notice thereof, or the
curbing has been painted yellow or red in lieu of such signs, no person shall
park a vehicle at any time in any zone so designated as a no-parking zone. If
parking is prohibited in that zone only between certain hours, this section
shall apply only between those hours, as indicated on the signs erected in the
zone. The zones shall be clearly and distinctly marked and indicated upon the
official traffic-control and parking regulation signs, markings and other
devices map on file in the office of the Director of Public Works.
(Ord. O-00-12, passed 8-14-2000) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.041 HANDICAPPED PARKING; IDENTIFICATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   License plate, placard, identification card or veteran plate required.
It shall be unlawful to park or leave standing any vehicle in a space
designated for handicapped persons when the vehicle does not display the
distinguishing license plate, placard or identification card or a disabled
veteran registration plate as provided by state law.
   (B)   Unlawful use of distinguishing plates, placards or cards. It shall be
unlawful for any person not qualifying for the rights and privileges extended
to handicapped or visually impaired persons to exercise or attempt to exercise
those rights or privileges by the unauthorized use of a distinguishing license
plate, placard or identification card.
(Ord. O-00-12, passed 8-14-2000) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Handicapped parking, see G.S. § 20-37.6(E)(1)(3)
§ 71.042 PARKING IN LIMITED PARKING ZONE.
   Whenever a parking zone is designated, limiting the time or conditions under
which the vehicle may be parked, no person shall park any vehicle in that zone,
except in accord with the signs and markings erected therein. The zones shall
be clearly and distinctly marked and indicated upon the official traffic-
control and parking regulation signs, markings and other devices map on file in
the office of the Director of Public Works. A change of position of a vehicle
from 1 point directly to another point in the same block shall be deemed 1
continuous parking period.
(Ord. O-00-12, passed 8-14-2000) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.043 PARKING IN BUS STOPS OR TAXICAB STANDS.
   Whenever any bus stop or taxicab stand is designated and marked, no other
vehicle shall be parked therein, except those for which the space or stand has
been designated.
(Ord. O-00-12, passed 8-14-2000)
§ 71.044 PARKING IN ALLEYS.
   (A)   No person shall park a vehicle within an alley and leave the vehicle
unattended. No person shall park a vehicle within an alley, while under his or
her direct supervision and control for purposes of loading and unloading, in
such a manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than 10 feet
of the width of the alley for the free movement of vehicular traffic.
   (B)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle within an alley in such
a position as to block the driveway entrance to any abutting property.
(Ord. O-00-12, passed 8-14-2000) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.045 LIGHTS ON PARKED VEHICLES.
   The displaying of lights upon a vehicle when lawfully parked at night upon a
street of the town in accordance with this chapter shall not be required when
there is sufficient light to reveal any person within a distance of 200 feet
upon the street.
(Ord. O-00-12, passed 8-14-2000)
§ 71.046 MOVING FROM PARKED POSITIONS.
   Vehicles parked shall move out in the direction headed or, if they are
parked at an angle with the curb, they shall back out on that angle until they
have cleared the other cars and shall proceed in the direction in which they
are most nearly headed.
(Ord. O-00-12, passed 8-14-2000)
TRUCKS AND LARGE VEHICLES
§ 71.060 PARKING OF TRUCKS OVER TWO TONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or cause to be parked any truck
or tractor-drawn trailer larger than 2-ton capacity upon any of the streets,
public alleys or rights-of-way of the town within the residential areas of the
town.
(Ord. O-00-12, passed 8-14-2000) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.061 PARKING TANK TRUCKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or to permit to remain standing,
upon any street or public alley of the town, any transport tank truck,
designed, constructed or used for the bulk transportation of gasoline or other
petroleum products or hazardous materials as defined by NCDOT, whether the tank
truck is empty or loaded.
(Ord. O-00-12, passed 8-14-2000) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.062 VEHICLES IN EXCESS OF 80 INCHES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle, which shall
have a width in excess of 80 inches, upon any of the streets of the town, for a
continuous period of time longer than 30 minutes.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to motor vehicles momentarily stopped for
the purpose of taking on or discharging passengers, or loading or unloading
freight, at a point of origin or destination, nor shall it apply to motor
vehicles accidentally and unavoidably disabled; provided, however, that the
parking or stoppage is necessary for emergency repairs, to permit the vehicle
to be put in operating condition.
(Ord. O-00-12, passed 8-14-2000) Penalty, see §
71.999
ENFORCEMENT
§ 71.075 IMPOUNDMENT OF STANDING OR PARKED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Any vehicle which shall be or remain standing or parked upon any
public street, avenue, way, alley or other public place, may be removed by a
police officer of the town, and placed in storage in a privately operated
garage or other place designated by or maintained by the town, under the
following circumstances:
      (1)   When any vehicle is found upon a street, avenue, alley, way or
public place and a report has been previously made that the vehicle has been
stolen or a complaint has been filed and a warrant issued thereon, charging
that the vehicle has been stolen or converted in violation of law;
      (2)   When a police officer arrests any person driving or in control of a
vehicle for an alleged offense and the officer is or may be required by law to
take the one arrested immediately before a magistrate, and when the arrested
one is the sole occupant or the owner of the vehicle and is immediately placed
in custody;
      (3)   When a vehicle is so disabled that its normal operation is
impossible or impractical and the persons in charge of the vehicle are
incapacitated by reason of physical injury or other causes to such an extent as
to be unable to provide for its removal or custody, or cannot be found or are
not in the immediate vicinity of the vehicle; or
      (4)   When any vehicle is left standing or parked unattended in violation
of any applicable provision of this code, state law or town ordinance, rule or
regulation.
   (B)   If the towing, storage or removal of a vehicle is necessary, every
effort should be made to ascertain the owner, operator or legal possessor’s
preference with regard to towing. The last registered owner of a vehicle towed
and/or stored shall be provided with the towing notification information
required by state law.
   (C)   An officer shall not transport and store a vehicle unlawfully parked
on any street/highway right-of-way which does not interfere with the regular
flow of traffic or otherwise constitutes a hazard until the vehicle remains on
the highway right-of-way for a period of 48 hours or more. An officer shall tag
the vehicle with an approved departmental placard prior to transportation and
storage.
   (D)   In order to obtain possession of a vehicle stored under the provisions
of this section, the claimant must produce satisfactory evidence of ownership
or right to possession within 30 days from the date of the storage and, in
addition thereto must pay all charges for the removal and storage of the
vehicle, the storage charges to be those imposed by the storing authority,
person, firm or individual, in addition to any fine which may be assessed for
the violation of any applicable provision of this code, state statute or town
ordinance, rule or regulation.
   (E)   If a vehicle removed under this section is not claimed within 30 days
from the date of storage, the vehicle may be sold by the town or the garage
where the same is stored, for all charges levied against the vehicle.
(Ord. O-00-12, passed 8-14-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 20-161(E)
§ 71.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any violation of this chapter will result in the issuance of an
ordinance violation citation punishable by a fine of not more than $50 and
payable to the town unless governed by North Carolina General Statutes.
Violations of the General Statutes will result in a possible court appearance
plus additional court costs.
(Ord. O-00-12, passed 8-14-2000)
CHAPTER 72: TRUCK REGULATIONS
Section
Truck Routes
   
72.01   Purpose
   
72.02   Definitions   
   
72.03   Truck routes
No Through Trucks Routes
   
72.15   Purpose
   
72.16   Definitions
   
72.17   Restricted routes
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Parking of trucks, see §§
71.060 through
71.062
TRUCK ROUTES
§ 72.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to provide for the safety of children
and all other persons on or about the schools, playgrounds and churches located
on State Road (SR) 1545 (Fairview Road) by routing all large truck traffic onto
SR 1547, which is a wider and safer route for large trucks to utilize traveling
from and to U.S. Highway (U.S.) 25.
(Ord. O-91-4, passed 10-28-1991)
§ 72.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CARGO.  Any property transported by truck.
   DIRECTION SIGN. The customary highway marker designating the highway route
number or that a certain direction should be followed to reach a given
destination.
   LOCAL TRUCK. Any truck, as defined in this section, which enters, leaves or
operates within the town for the purpose of either collecting or discharging
cargo, or for the purpose of either collecting or discharging passengers within
the town.
   OPERATOR. The person physically operating a truck or a person therein and
directing its operation.
   PASSENGER.  Any person transported by truck.
   THROUGH TRUCK. Any truck, as defined in this section, which passes over SR
1545 without stopping for the purpose of either collecting or discharging cargo
or for the purpose of either collecting or discharging passengers.
   THROUGH TRUCK ROUTE. Those routes or streets established herein and
designated by signs as numbered N.C. or U.S. routes.
   TRUCK(S). Any motor vehicle used or designated to be used for the
transportation of cargo or passengers, including but not limited to the
following: trucks, inter-city buses; truck-drawn trailers, when the TRUCK is
designated primarily for use in towing a trailer. The following motor vehicles
are excluded from this meaning: passenger automobiles, pickup trucks, fire
trucks, other emergency vehicles, vehicle-drawn trailers when the vehicle
drawing the trailer is not designed primarily for drawing a trailer,
motorcycles, motor scooters, school buses, charter buses and other nonscheduled
buses.
(Ord. O-91-4, passed 10-28-1991)
§ 72.03 TRUCK ROUTES.
   (A)   The operator of a through truck entering the town by way of a route
not a through truck route shall, upon entering the town, proceed to the nearest
through truck route, and proceed exclusively upon a through truck route until
he or she leaves the town.
   (B)   The designated truck routes for the town are set forth in
Chapter 73, Schedule II.
(Ord. O-91-4, passed 10-28-1991) Penalty, see §
72.99
NO THROUGH TRUCKS ROUTES
§ 72.15 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to provide for the safety of children
and all other persons walking, biking or traveling by motor vehicle on
Underwood Road, a town-maintained road, by routing all large truck traffic onto
U.S. 25, which is a wider and safer route for large trucks to utilize traveling
through the town.
(Ord. O-98-10, passed 7-13-1998)
§ 72.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CARGO.  Any property transported by truck or a person therein and directing
its operation.
   DIRECTION SIGN. The customary highway marker designating the highway route
number or that a certain direction should be followed to reach a given
designation.
   LOCAL TRUCK. Any truck, as defined by §
72.17(A), which enters, leaves or operates within the town for the purpose of
either collecting or discharging cargo, or for the purpose of either collecting
or discharging passengers within the town.
   OPERATOR. The person physically operating a truck or a person therein and
directing its operation.
   PASSENGER. Any person transported by truck.
   THROUGH TRUCK.  Any truck, as defined in this section, which passes over
Underwood Road without stopping for the purpose of either collecting or
discharging cargo or for the purpose of either collecting or discharging
passengers.
   THROUGH TRUCK ROUTE. Those routes or streets established herein and
designated by signs as numbered N.C., U.S. or town routes.
   TRUCK(S).  Any motor vehicle used or designated to be used or designated to
be used for the transportation of cargo or passengers, including but not
limited to the following: trucks, inter-city buses; truck-drawn trailers when
the truck is designated primarily for use in towing a trailer. The following
motor vehicles are excluded from this meaning: passenger automobiles, pickup
trucks, fire trucks, other emergency vehicles, vehicle-drawn trailers when the
vehicle drawing the trailer is not designed primarily for drawing a trailer,
motorcycles, motor scooters, school buses, charter buses and other nonscheduled
buses.
(Ord. O-98-10, passed 7-13-1998)
§ 72.17 RESTRICTED ROUTES.
   (A)   The operator of a through truck entering the town by way of a route
not a through truck route shall, upon entering the town, proceed to the nearest
through truck route, and proceed exclusively upon a through truck route until
he or she leaves the town.
   (B)   “No through trucks” routes are those marked by appropriate signage on
roads or streets located within the town.
(Ord. O-98-10, passed 7-13-1998; Am. Ord. O-14-07, passed 6-9-14)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   The violation of any provision of §§
72.01 through
72.03 shall be an infraction punishable by a fine of not more than $50, plus
court costs.
(Ord. O-91-4, passed 10-28-1991)
   (C)   The violation of any provision of §§
72.15 through
72.17 shall be an infraction punishable by a fine of not more than $50, plus
court costs.
(Ord. O-98-10, passed 7-13-1998)
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Speed limits
   
II.   Truck routes
   
III.   Reserved
   
IV.   Stop signs
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
Road; Description Speed Limit (mph) Ord. No. Date Passed Eff. Date
Road; Description              Speed Limit (mph) Ord. No. Date Passed Eff. Date
U.S. 25, from a point 0.85
mile south of SR 1545 (the
south corporate limit of       45                O-02-4   9-9-2002
Fletcher) northward to the
Buncombe County Line
SR 1360 from a point 0.34 mile
west of U.S. 25 eastward to    25                O-91-1   -           2-28-1991
U.S. 25
SR 1363 from SR 1358 northward
to a point 0.09 mile north of  20                O-91-1   -           2-28-1991
SR 1358
SR 1437 from SR 1358 northward
to a point 0.12 mile north of  20                O-91-1   -           2-28-1991
SR 1358
SR 1471 from SR 1358 northward 25                O-91-1   -           2-28-1991
to SR 2000, west of Fletcher
SR 1472 from SR 1358 to SR     25                O-91-1   -           2-28-1991
1356
SR 1473 from a point 0.08 mile
west of SR 1474, east to SR    25                O-91-1   -           2-28-1991
1474
SR 1474 from a point 0.20 mile
south of SR 1499 north to SR   25                O-91-1   -           2-28-1991
1499
SR 1499 from SR 1356 eastward
to SR 2034 and around the loop 25                O-91-1   -           2-28-1991
of SR 1499, west of Fletcher
SR 1542 from U.S. 25 eastward
to a point 0.05 mile east of   20                O-91-1   -           2-28-1991
U.S. 25
SR 1545, from a point 0.05
mile east of U.S. 25, eastward
for 0.15 mile (except for a 25
mph school speed zone at
Veritas Christian Academy,
from 30 minutes before classes
begin in the morning to 30     35                O-02-2   4-8-2002
minutes after classes begin in
the morning, and from 30
minutes before classes end in
the afternoon to 30 minutes
after classes end in the
afternoon)
SR 1546 Blake Street, from
U.S. 25 eastward to the end of 25                O-06-3   3-13-2006
state maintenance
SR 1547 from U.S. 25, east to  45                O-97-1   1-13-1997
SR 1545
SR 1548 from SR 1547 northward
to a point 0.06 mile north of  20                O-91-1   -           2-28-1991
SR 1547
SR 1549 from SR 1547 northward
to a point 0.29 mile north of  20                O-91-1   -           2-28-1991
SR 1548
SR 1550 from SR 1545 northward
to a point 0.40 mile north of  25                O-91-1   -           2-28-1991
SR 1545, the Henderson County
Line
SR 1551 from SR 1545, eastward 45                O-97-1   1-13-1997
to the Buncombe County Line
SR 1649 from SR 1551 northward
to a point 0.45 mile north of  25                O-91-1   -           2-28-1991
SR 1551, east of Fletcher
SR 1658 from a point 0.30 mile
south of SR 1553, North to SR  25                O-97-3   3-10–1997
1553
SR 1665 from SR 1658 northward 25                O-91-1   -           2-28-1991
to SR 1553, east of Fletcher
SR 2014 from a point 0.30 mile
south of SR 1358 northward to  20                O-91-1   -           2-28-1991
SR 1358
SR 2034 from SR 1358 northward 25                O-91-1   -           2-28-1991
to SR 1499, west of Fletcher
SR 2035 from SR 2034 eastward
to a point 0.05 mile east of   25                O-91-1   -           2-28-1991
SR 2034
SR 2036 from SR 2034 eastward
to a point 0.05 mile east to   25                O-91-1   -           2-28-1991
SR 2034
SR 2037 from a point 0.20 mile
south of SR 1358 northward to  25                O-91-1   -           2-28-1991
SR 1358
SR 2038 from SR 2037 eastward
to a point 0.15 mile east of   25                O-91-1   -           2-28-1991
SR 2037
SR 2039 from SR 2037 east to a
point 0.15 mile east of SR     25                O-91-1   -           2-28-1991
2037
SR 2040 from a point 0.20 mile
south of SR 1358, northward to 25                O-91-1   -           2-28-1991
SR 1358
SR 2041 from SR 2043 eastward
to a point 0.13 mile east of   25                O-91-1   -           2-28-1991
SR 2043
SR 2042 from SR 2043 eastward
to a point 0.11 mile east of   25                O-91-1   -           2-28-1991
SR 2043
SR 2043 from a point 0.29 mile
south of SR 1358, northward to 25                O-91-1   -           2-28-1991
SR 1358
SR 2068 from a point 0.05 mile
west of SR 1359 eastward to SR 20                O-91-1   -           2-28-1991
1359
SR 2070 from its west
intersection with SR 1358,     25                O-91-1   -           2-28-1991
east to its east intersection
with SR 1358
SR 2071 from a point 0.17 mile
south of SR 1358, north to SR  25                O-91-1   -           2-28-1991
1358
SR 2072 from a point 0.27 mile
west of SR 2037 eastward to SR 25                O-91-1   -           2-28-1991
2037
SR 2073 from a point 0.07 mile
south of SR 2072 northward to  25                O-91-1   -           2-28-1991
SR 2072
SR 2074 from SR 1499 northward
to a point 0.10 mile north of  25                O-91-1   -           2-28-1991
SR 1499
SR 2096 from a point 0.12 mile
west of SR 1359 eastward to SR 20                O-91-1               2-28-1991
1359
Red Spruce Way in the Windsor  20                O-23-04  4-10-2023   4-12-2023
Forest Subdivision
Windsor Forest Circle in the   20                O-23-04  4-10-2023   4-12-2023
Windsor Forest Subdivision
Mountain Adler Lane in the     20                O-23-04  4-10-2023   4-12-2023
Windsor Forest Subdivision
Silver Maple Court in the      20                O-23-04  4-10-2023   4-12-2023
Windsor Forest Subdivision
Windsor Forest Court in the    20                O-23-04  4-10-2023   4-12-2023
Windsor Forest Subdivision
Carolina Holly Way in the      20                O-23-04  4-10-2023   4-12-2023
Windsor Forest Subdivision
Cliff Rose Court in the        20                O-23-04  4-10-2023   4-12-2023
Windsor Forest Subdivision
Tulip Tree Court in the        20                O-23-04  4-10-2023   4-12-2023
Windsor Forest Subdivision
 
Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. TRUCK ROUTES.
   Truck routes in the town are designated as follows:
 
Road                Description                            Ord. No. Date Passed
Secondary Road 1547 As the same leads from U.S. Highway 25 O-91-4   10-28-1991
                    Fanning Bridge Road is designated as
Secondary Road 1358 truck route, as the same leads from    O-98-10  7-13-1998
                    U.S. Highway 280
                    Rutledge Road is designated as truck
Secondary Road 1359 route, as the same leads from U.S.     O-98-10  7-13-1998
                    Highway 280
 
SCHEDULE III. RESERVED.
SCHEDULE IV. STOP SIGNS.
   Stop signs in the town are located as follows:
 
Street Intersections                 Type       Ord. No. Date Passed
Thorncrest Drive and Pebble Lane     3-way stop O-00-07  7-10-2000
Thorncrest Drive and Rosebriar Court 3-way stop O-00-07  7-10-2000
 
Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 74: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   No parking areas
SCHEDULE I: NO PARKING AREAS.
   The following areas are designated as “No Parking Areas” in the town:
 
Street           Location   Ord. No. Date Passed
Wiltshire Circle Inner loop O-05-02  2-14-2005
 
Penalty, see §
71.999
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT; NUISANCES
      
91.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
92.   PUBLIC PROPERTY; PARKS AND RECREATION
      
93.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
94.   ABANDONED, NUISANCE AND JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES
      
95.   ANIMALS
CHAPTER 90: HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT; NUISANCES
Section
Noise
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Unreasonably loud, disturbing and unnecessary noise prohibited
   
90.03   Exceptions
   
90.04   Conflict of laws
Animal Control
   
90.15   Public nuisance
   
90.16   Enforcement
   
90.99   Penalty
NOISE
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISTURBING. Noise which is perceived by a person of ordinary sensibilities
as interrupting the normal peace and calm of the area.
   UNNECESSARY. Any excessive or unusually loud sound or any sound which is of
a character, intensity and duration as to disturb the peace and quiet of any
neighborhood or which disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose,
health, peace or safety of any person, and being a type of sound which could be
lessened or otherwise controlled by the maker without unduly restricting his or
her conduct.
   UNREASONABLY LOUD. Noise which is substantially incompatible with the time
and location where created, to the extent that it creates an actual or imminent
interference with peace or good order.
(Ord. O-00-10, passed 8-14-2000)
§ 90.02 UNREASONABLY LOUD, DISTURBING AND UNNECESSARY NOISE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to create or
assist in creating any unreasonably loud, disturbing and unnecessary noise
beyond the boundaries of his or her property or onto the property of another
within the town. Noise of a character, intensity and duration as to be
detrimental to the public health, welfare and peace is hereby prohibited.
   (B)   In determining whether a noise is unreasonably loud, disturbing and
unnecessary, the following factors incident to the noise are to be considered:
time of day; proximity to residential structures; whether the noise is
recurrent, intermittent or constant; the volume and intensity; whether the
noise has been enhanced in volume or range by any type of mechanical means; the
nature and zoning of the area; whether the noise is related to the normal
operation of a business or other labor activity or is the result of some use
for individual purposes; whether the noise is subject to being controlled
without unreasonable effort or expense to the creator thereof.
      (1)   The sounding of any horn or signal device on any automobile,
motorcycle, bus or other vehicle, except as a danger signal, so as to create
any unreasonable loud or harsh sound, or the sounding of the device for any
unnecessary and unreasonable period of time;
      (2)   The keeping of any animal or bird, which, by causing frequent or
long continued noise, shall disturb the comfort and repose of any person in the
vicinity;
      (3)   The use of any automobile, motorcycle or vehicle so out of repair,
so loaded, or in any manner as to create loud or unnecessary grating, rattling
or other noise;
      (4)   The conducting, operating or maintaining of any garage or service
station in any residential area so as to cause loud or offensive noises to be
emitted therefrom between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.;
      (5)   The erection (including excavation), demolition, alteration or
repair of any building in a residential or business district other than between
the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., except in the case of urgent necessity in
the interest of public safety and then only with a permit from the Town Manager
and the Zoning Administrator, which permit may be renewed for a period of 3
days or less while the emergency construction continues;
      (6)   The shouting and crying of peddlers, barkers, hawkers and vendors
which disturb the quiet and peace of the neighborhood;
      (7)   Noises as referenced in the land development code adopted in
Chapter 151; and
(Ord. O-00-10, passed 8-14-2000)
      (8)   The playing of any radio, television set, record player, musical
instrument or sound-producing or sound-amplifying device in such a manner or
with such a volume, particularly but not limited to the hours between 11:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m., such that a responsibly prudent person would recognize as
likely to unreasonably disturb persons in the vicinity.
(Am. Ord. O-01-8, passed 8-13-2001) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The following uses and activities, among others, are not governed by
and shall be exempt from the noise regulations set forth in this subchapter. It
is expressly provided, however, that the following enumeration shall not be
deemed or considered exclusive, and any activity that is not expressly
prohibited as set forth in §
90.02 shall be exempt from this subchapter.
      (1)   Noises of safety signals and warning devices legally used for their
intended purpose for a reasonable duration;
      (2)   Noise resulting from any authorized emergency vehicle, when
responding to an emergency call or acting in time of emergency;
      (3)   Noise resulting from emergency work, to be construed as work made
necessary to restore property to a safe condition following a public calamity,
or work required to protect persons or property from an imminent exposure to
danger;
      (4)   Noise resulting from farming operations, including but not limited
to noises generated by machinery, equipment and farm animals;
      (5)   Noise associated with the legal operations of any firearm club,
organization or association legally established;
      (6)   Noise associated with any event in recognition of a community
celebration of national, state or county events or public festivals;
      (7)   Noise associated with any school activity or camp activity, except
that it shall be unlawful for any person to use loud, boisterous, raucous
language or shouting in a violent or offensive manner while attending those
activities;
      (8)   Noise associated with the chimes or bells of businesses, schools,
camps or religious institutions in the daytime hours, provided they operate for
not more than 10 minutes in any hour;
      (9)   Noise caused by the firing, shooting or discharging of any firearm
by law enforcement in the discharge of duty pursuant to lawful direction of law
enforcement officers, or in lawful defense of person or property;
      (10)   Noise associated with the official training of any law enforcement
officers, including but not limited to driver training, firearm training and
any such other training that is deemed necessary and advisable;
      (11)   Noise caused by the firing, shooting or discharging of any firearm
in the lawful defense of person or property;
      (12)   Nonamplified crowd noises resulting from activities planned by
student, governmental, camp or community groups;
      (13)   Noise associated with or resulting from the normal operations of
any construction, commercial, industrial or agricultural activities or
operations, except for electronically amplified sound and acts specifically
prohibited by §
90.02;
      (14)   Noise associated with or resulting from the normal operations of
any facility that is properly licensed by the North Carolina Department of
Agriculture, Veterinary Division, as a boarding kennel, pet shop or dealer in
accordance with the North Carolina Animal Welfare Act (G.S. §§ 19A-20 et seq.),
as may be amended, or of any animal shelter that is operated by Henderson
County; or
      (15)   Nonamplified traffic noise on public streets or highways, or
routine noises associated with railroad operations.
   (B)   If any exception stated in this subchapter would limit obligation,
limit liability or eliminate either an obligation or liability, the person who
would benefit from the application of the exception shall have the burden of
proving that the exception applies and that the terms of the exception have
been met.
(Ord. O-00-10, passed 8-14-2000)
§ 90.04 CONFLICT OF LAWS.
   If any portion of this subchapter or the enforcement thereof shall be
preempted by any state or federal authority, the preemptions shall not operate
to invalidate the rest of this subchapter; and the same shall remain in full
force and effect.
(Ord. O-00-10, passed 8-14-2000)
ANIMAL CONTROL
§ 90.15 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   The keeping of any animal in such a manner or in such numbers as to
constitute a public nuisance is hereby prohibited.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, a PUBLIC NUISANCE shall include, but
not be limited to the following: allowing 1 or more dogs or other animals to
bark or make disturbing noises continuously or intermittently for more than 30
minutes.
(Ord. O-06-2, passed 1-8-2007)
§ 90.16 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Town of Fletcher Police Department shall be enforcement authority of
this subchapter.
(Ord. O-06-2, passed 1-8-2007)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any violation of §§
90.01 through
90.04 shall be an infraction punishable by a fine of not more than$50, plus
court costs.
(Ord. O-00-10, passed 8-14-2000)
   (C)   (1)   Any violation of §
90.15 shall be deemed a non-criminal violation for which a civil penalty as set
forth below may be assessed to the owner of the animal.
      (2)   The owner shall be issued a written notice of violation and penalty
and the owner shall require payment to be made to the town within 3 business
days of receipt of the notice. Notice of the civil penalty and violation shall
be delivered in person to the owner or mailed by certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the owner’s last known address.
      (3)   Upon the owner’s failure to pay the required amount within the
designated 3 business-day period, the town may institute a civil action in the
nature of debt to recover such amount.
      (4)   Penalties assessed under this division shall progress as follows:
 
Animal Service Civil Penalty Fee Schedule
Public Nuisance                                         Civil Penalty Fee
First violation                                         Written warning only
Second violation                                        $50
Third (and subsequent) violation (per day of violation) $100
 
(Ord. O-06-2, passed 1-8-2007)
CHAPTER 91: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Sight obstructions at intersections
   
91.02   Special event permits; street closings
Parades and Public Assemblies
   
91.15   Definitions
   
91.16   Requirements concerning parades or public assemblies
   
91.17   Application for parade/public assembly permit
   
91.18   Requirements concerning picketing
   
91.19   Prohibition of firearms and other weapons
Statutory reference:
   Local authorities may regulate processions and assemblages, see G.S. § 20-
169
   Picketing or parading with intent to obstruct justice, see G.S. § 14-225.1
   Regulation of mass gatherings, G.S. §§ 130A-251 et seq.
   Weapons at parades prohibited, see G.S. § 14-277.2
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 SIGHT OBSTRUCTIONS AT INTERSECTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any property owner, lessee or tenant to allow
flowers, shrubs or trees to grow to such an extent at any street intersection
in the town so that same will obstruct and prevent a reasonable view of street
signs and vehicular traffic approaching any intersection.
(Ord. O-00-6, passed 7-10-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.02 SPECIAL EVENT PERMITS; STREET CLOSINGS.
   (A)   Standards for issuance of permit.
      (1)   The Town Manager shall issue the permit authorizing the special
event unless it is found that:
         (a)   Insufficient funding and/or resources necessary to provide
extraordinary services or equipment for the event are not available;
         (b)   The event will interfere with the movement of emergency vehicles
to the extent that adequate police, fire or other emergency services cannot be
provided throughout the town;
         (c)   The applicant has failed to obtain any necessary permits or
licenses, including any required building permit or privilege license;
         (d)   The applicant is in violation of any town ordinance;
         (e)   The applicant fails to obtain liability coverage and show proof
of that insurance as required by the town;
         (f)   The event will create a severe hardship on persons occupying
property adjacent to the site, location or route of the event as a result of
the denial of access to property;
         (g)   The event, if held at the time or at the location or along the
route proposed, will cause an unreasonable and unwarranted disruption to
vehicular or pedestrian traffic; or
         (h)   The applicant has failed to comply with any of the provisions of
any applicable local, state or federal regulation, including but not limited to
payment of any required fees and costs.
      (2)   If a permit is issued in accordance with division (A)(1) above the
Town Manager may attach any reasonable conditions, based on recommendations
from the Fire Marshal, the Police Chief or the Public Works Director, that
serve to promote the protection of public safety and health.
      (3)   Any event held pursuant to a permit issued under this section shall
be conducted within the applicable terms including any attached conditions.
   (B)   Street closing.
      (1)   The Town Manager is authorized to permit the temporary closing of a
street or other public right-of-way if the provisions of the section are
adequately complied with. Any temporary closing of a street or part thereof
owned and/or maintained by the State of North Carolina shall require
concurrence by the N.C. Department of Transportation.
      (2)   The town shall, by any adequate means, notify persons occupying
property abutting the street where the event is to take place as soon as
possible once a permit is issued.
   (C)   Permit fees.
      (1)   A nonrefundable fee of $50 shall accompany all requests for special
event permits.
      (2)   The permittee shall be responsible for costs, including but not
limited to traffic control and public safety services.
(Ord. O-04-1, passed 2-9-2004)
PARADES AND PUBLIC ASSEMBLIES
§ 91.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARADE.  Any march, demonstration, ceremony or procession of any kind which
moves from place to place completely or partially in or upon any street,
sidewalk or other public grounds or areas owned or under the control of the
town along a specified route.
   PARADE/PUBLIC ASSEMBLY PERMIT. Prior written authorization to utilize the
street, sidewalk or other town-controlled or public areas for a parade or
public assembly.
   PICKETING. The stationing of any person by standing, lying, walking,
sitting, kneeling, bending or in any other similar manner at a particular
place, so as to persuade or otherwise influence another person’s actions or
conduct, or to appraise the public of an opinion or message.
   PUBLIC AREAS. Parks, playgrounds, trails, paths and other recreational areas
and open spaces; scenic and historic sites; schools and other buildings and
structures; and other places where the public is directly or indirectly invited
to visit or permitted to congregate.
   PUBLIC ASSEMBLY. Multiple individuals gathered together to participate in an
event or program or to observe programs of participation.
   PUBLIC ASSEMBLY AREA. Any area where large numbers of individuals collect to
participate or to observe programs of participation, such as auditoriums,
gymnasiums or conference facilities.
(Ord. O-02-5, passed 11-11-2002)
§ 91.16 REQUIREMENTS CONCERNING PARADES OR PUBLIC ASSEMBLIES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to initiate, promote or
participate in any parade or public assembly in any public area or right-of-
way, or in areas not designed as public assembly areas, within the town limits
until a parade permit has first been secured. Permits must be approved by the
Town Manager, Fire Marshal and Chief of Police. Parades or public assemblies
involving barricades or street closures must also secure a permit from the
Public Works Director.
   (B)   Any person denied a parade/public assembly permit under this section
may appeal to the Town Council at the next regularly scheduled meeting.
   (C)   Parades/public assemblies that take place on a state road or portion
of a state road must secure permission from the NCDOT Division Office.
   (D)   Participants in a parade are required to abide by division
requirements and the terms of the parade/public assembly permit. Willful
violation thereof is unlawful.
   (E)   The person designated on the application as responsible for the
conduct of the parade shall be physically present and accept responsibility for
compliance with any and all terms of the parade/public assembly permit.
   (F)   All holders of permits granted and approved by the town pursuant to
this section shall indemnify and hold harmless the town in all respects against
any and all claims and liabilities arising out of or related to the issuance of
a parade/public assembly permit.
   (G)   No person shall unreasonably obstruct, impede or interfere with any
parade or public assembly, or with any person, vehicle or animal participating.
   (H)   The town shall charge an administrative fee to cover expenses
incidental to processing the application and to cover expenses for police
escorts, barricades or other expenses when requested. No parade or public
assembly in which animals are involved shall be conducted without a special
permit from the Town Manager. The Town Manager shall require a bond in the
amount of $100 where animals are involved in order to provide that the person
obtaining the special permit will be responsible for cleaning the town streets
or property after the parade, exhibition, demonstration or assembly.
   (I)   The Chief of Police shall have the authority when reasonably necessary
to prohibit or restrict the parking of vehicles along a street, highway or part
thereof constituting a part of the route or area of the event.
   (J)   Notwithstanding that a permit for the parade or public assembly has
been issued, the Chief of Police is hereby authorized, empowered and instructed
to stop and disperse any parade conducted in violation of these provisions.
   (K)   Town-sponsored parades or public assemblies shall be excluded from the
requirements of this subchapter. Groups that are interested in utilizing Town
Park facilities are also excluded from this subchapter and must fill out the
contract and follow the guidelines as provided by the Town’s Parks and
Recreation Department.
(Ord. O-02-5, passed 11-11-2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Park regulations, see
Chapter 92 of this code of ordinances
§ 91.17 APPLICATION FOR PARADE/PUBLIC ASSEMBLY PERMIT.
   (A)   An application for a parade or public assembly shall be filed with the
town not less than 14 days before the date when the parade or public assembly
is proposed to take place. A permit may be issued within 14 days as an
exemption to this requirement if and only if:
      (1)   There is no conflict in schedule with some other previously
scheduled event; and
      (2)   That the time between filing the permit and the parade or public
assembly is sufficient to prepare town services and policing.
   (B)   The applicant for a parade/public assembly permit shall set forth the
following information:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the person responsible;
      (2)   The name, address and phone number of the headquarters of the
organization for which the parade or public assembly is being conducted (if
applicable);
      (3)   The date the parade or public assembly is to take place and the
hours from start to finish;
      (4)   Proposed route from start point to termination point and any areas
of public assembly;
      (5)   The approximate number of persons, animals and vehicles which will
constitute the parade or participate in the assembly; the type of animals and a
description of vehicles;
      (6)   The person or persons to be in charge of the parade or public
assembly and who will be physically present at the event and carry the permit
at all times; and
      (7)   Any additional information which the Town Manager, Fire Marshal or
Chief of Police may require or clarify on any of the specific information set
forth above.
   (C)   The applicable town staff shall act upon the application for a parade
permit within 10 days thereof. If the Town Manager and/or Police Chief, Fire
Marshal or Public Works Director disapproves of the application, he or she
shall notify the applicant, stating the reason for the denial of the permit,
and shall be empowered to authorize alternative routes, dates, times or other
logistical needs that amend the initial permit to allow its issuance.
(Ord. O-02-5, passed 11-11-2002)
§ 91.18 REQUIREMENTS CONCERNING PICKETING.
   (A)   Peaceful picketing shall be allowed in the town, provided that
picketers observe the right of nonpicketers to utilize the public rights-of-way
and shall at all times keep the public rights-of-way free and clear for
utilization by other pedestrian and vehicular movement. Picketers are
encouraged to provide notice to the Police Chief and Town Manager of the intent
to picket.
   (B)   Whenever the free passage of any street or other public area in the
town shall be obstructed by picketers, persons picketing shall disperse or move
when and as directed to do so by the police or other enforcement officer of the
town. Nothing in this section shall prohibit any person from reconvening after
dispersing so long as free passage of any street or other public area is not
obstructed.
(Ord. O-02-5, passed 11-11-2002)
§ 91.19 PROHIBITION OF FIREARMS AND OTHER WEAPONS.
   With the exception of law enforcement officers acting within the scope of
their duties, no firearms or dangerous weapons of any kind, as defined by
federal, state and local laws, may be possessed by any participant in a parade
or public assembly or by any person engaged in picketing.
(Ord. O-02-5, passed 11-11-2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Additional weapons regulations; offenses, see
Chapter 131 of this code of ordinances
CHAPTER 92: PUBLIC PROPERTY; PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Helmet requirement
Parks Regulations
   
92.15   Purpose
   
92.16   Definitions
   
92.17   Rules and regulations
   
92.18   Lease or rental
   
92.19   Violations
   
92.20   Rental fees
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 HELMET REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Regulations.  
      (1)   Every person operating a bicycle, roller blades or skateboard on
town property (including parks and greenways) shall wear a helmet of good fit,
fastened securely, and:
         (a)   Meeting ANSI Z90.4 standards, as amended; or
         (b)   The Snell Foundation 1995 Standard for Protective Headgear for
use in bicycling, or ASTM bicycle helmet standard, as the standards above may
be amended.
      (2)   No person operating a bicycle on town property (including parks and
greenways) shall allow anyone under the age of 6, and weighing less than 40
pounds to ride as a passenger on a bicycle other than in a seat which shall
adequately restrain the passenger and protect the passenger from moving bicycle
parts, or astride the regular seat of a tandem bicycle.
      (3)   No person operating a bicycle on town property (including parks and
greenways) shall allow anyone to ride as a passenger unless the passenger is
wearing a helmet as defined in division (A)(1) of this section.
   (B)   Enforcement.  This section shall be enforced by those town officials
appointed by Town Council.
(Ord. O-00-11, passed 8-14-2000; Am. Ord. passed 5-8-2017) Penalty, see §
92.99
PARKS REGULATIONS
§ 92.15 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide rules and regulations to be
enforced at the town’s recreational facilities for the health, safety and
enjoyment of the visitors to the facilities.
(Ord. O-98-12, passed 12-14-1998)
§ 92.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LOITERING. If a person remains in a vehicle with or without other persons
without cause; repeatedly beckons to, stops or attempts to stop passers-by or
motor vehicles without cause; or repeatedly interferes with the free passage of
other persons within the park.
   PARK. Any and all those public areas owned, operated or maintained by the
town and designated as a Town of Fletcher Recreational Park.
(Ord. O-98-12, passed 12-14-1998)
   PUBLIC PARK. Any publicly owned or maintained land which is designated by
the town as a park or recreational facility.
   REGISTERED SEX OFFENDER.  An individual who is registered by any state or
federal agency as a sex offender and whose name is published on any state or
federal REGISTERED SEX OFFENDER listing, including but not limited to the sex
offender registry established in G.S. Chapter 14, Art. 27A.
(Am. Ord. passed 6-13-2005)
§ 92.17 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The following shall be the rules and regulations of all of the
recreational facilities of the town and shall be strictly enforced.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person in any park, playground,
ballfield, tennis court or any other recreational facilities thereof, owned and
controlled by the town, to disregard the following:
      (1)   Park hours of operation.
         (a)   Fletcher Community Park.  Monday through Sunday dawn to dusk.
         (b)   Kate’s Park. Monday through Saturday 7:30 a.m. to dusk; Sunday
1:00 p.m. to dusk (or unless extended by the Parks and Recreation Department).
(Am. Ord. passed 9-11-2000)
      (2)   Trespassers entering the park before or after park hours will be
prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law.
      (3)   Littering is expressly prohibited. All trash must be placed in
provided trash receptacles. Under no circumstances will household garbage or
waste generated outside the park be permitted to be disposed of in the park
facilities or on park grounds.
      (4)   Abusive language/disorderly conduct/fighting will not be tolerated.
This is a family park.
      (5)   The holding of any exhibition, ceremony or making of any speech
without permission from the Parks and Recreation Department will not be
allowed.
      (6)   Firearms and concealed weapons are prohibited.
      (7)   Alcohol beverages and illegal drugs are not allowed on park
grounds. The selling, delivering or attempting to sell or deliver any alcoholic
beverage or illegal substance is prohibited.
      (8)   Tobacco products of any kind are prohibited.
      (9)   Obey all traffic signs. All vehicles, including motorcycles, must
be parked in parking spaces provided. Service roads and walking paths are for
pedestrians and town vehicles only. It shall also be unlawful for failure to
obey all traffic officers or the persons being authorized and instructed to
direct traffic whenever and wherever needed in the park.
      (10)   Vehicles left unattended for more than 24 hours on park property
will be towed away at the owner’s expense.
      (11)   Defacing or intentionally damaging any town-owned facility or
monument is prohibited.
      (12)   Soliciting of any kind on park property is prohibited. This
includes the distribution of any handbills or circulars, or posting, placing or
erecting any bills, notices, paper or advertising devices not authorized by the
Parks and Recreation Department.
      (13)   Vendors are prohibited from any type of selling without prior
approval by Parks and Recreation Department.
      (14)   Cutting, picking, pulling or damaging trees, flowers, plants or
other vegetation is strictly prohibited.
      (15)   Dogs must be leashed at all times and no more than 4 feet from
owner. Dogs are not allowed in the children’s playground areas. Users are asked
to be considerate of others and owners must pick up dog’s excrement on park
grounds. All animal fecal matter must be removed by the owner and not left on
trails, fields or in other public areas.
      (16)   Walking trails will be used primarily by pedestrians. However,
persons on skateboards, skates and bicycles are welcome, but must use proper
precautions, travel at a safe speed, and stay on walking trails at all times.
All other motorized-type vehicles must be parked in parking spaces provided.
Motorized handicapped wheelchair (or similar accessory vehicles not to exceed
1,000 pounds) are allowed on walking trails. Driving or operating ATVs,
motorbikes or other motor vehicles on trails or park grounds is prohibited.
      (17)   Park grills are designed for charcoal only. It is unlawful to
gather and burn wood on town property or discharge fireworks, unless approved
by the town’s Fire Marshal. Personal grills in good operating conditions may be
used in designated picnic areas only. No open fires or campfires will be
permitted. Erecting tents, canopies or nailing decorations to park structures
is not allowed without permission from Parks and Recreation Department.
      (18)   Swimming in the park pond is prohibited.
      (19)   Fishing from the banks of Cane Creek is allowed with proper North
Carolina license.
      (20)   Hunting of any kind is prohibited.
      (21)   Hitting golf balls is prohibited.
      (22)   Flying model airplanes on park property is prohibited, unless at
an event approved by the Parks and Recreation Department.
      (23)   Flying of unmanned aircraft systems (UAS or "drones") on or above
park property is prohibited. Approval may only be granted by the Parks and
Recreation Department and must be in accordance with North Carolina Department
of Transportation regulations, North Carolina General Statutes and Federal
Aviation Administration guidelines.
      (24)   Fairground activities, flea market, garage sales and the like are
not allowed without proper approval and permit from Parks and Recreation
Department.
      (25)   Loitering, indecent conduct or any behavior which interferes with
visitors will not be tolerated.
      (26)   Use of park areas and facilities is at the user’s own risk. The
town assumes no responsibility or liability for misuse of park or of its
facilities.
      (27)   The Parks and Recreation Director or any town employee designated
by the Town Manager shall have the authority to eject from any facility any
person acting in violation of the rules and regulations posted for Fletcher
Community Park. If a person is ejected from any facility, this shall be done
verbally by an authorized town employee. The interfering with or hindering in
any manner any town employee or contracted individual from performing their
official duties is prohibited.
      (28)   Audio and musical devices should be operated at a volume not to
disturb other visitors, with the exception of Parks and Recreation activities
and authorized events.
      (29)   Benches, picnic tables and the like shall be “first come, first
served” unless otherwise designated by the Parks and Recreation Department.
      (30)   No rock or other projectile throwing is allowed. This includes
rockets fired or launched from the ground, with the exception of fireworks
displays approved by the town.
      (31)   Use of a site closed to public or facility already reserved to
other individuals.
      (32)   The using of any area or facility for commercial purposes are
prohibited, without prior approval by the Parks and Recreation Department.
      (33)   Horseback riding is not permitted unless authorized by the Parks
and Recreation Director (See Rule 14, above).
      (34)   Alterations, modifications and/or additions to parks and
facilities are not permitted without prior approval from the Parks and
Recreation Director.
      (35)   Temporary housing (i.e. motor homes, RVs, tents, house trailers)
may not be parked overnight with occupants inside. Only at the discretion of
the Town Council may overnight camping be permitted.
      (36)   The throwing of rocks, bottles and the like or climbing on
equipment not designated for such climbing will be prohibited.
(Ord. O-98-12, passed 12-14-1998)
      (37)   Effective July 1, 2005, registered sex offenders shall be
prohibited from entering all of the town’s public parks.
         (a)   It shall constitute a general offense against the regulations of
the Town of Fletcher for any person or persons registered with the State of
North Carolina and or any other state or federal agency to enter knowingly into
or on any public park owned, operated or maintained by the town.
         (b)   The Town Manager shall be charged with posting this regulation
at the main entrance of each park within 30 days of the passage of this
division.
(Am. Ord. passed 6-13-2005; Am. Ord. passed 5-8-2017)
Penalty, see §
92.99
Cross-reference:
   Alcoholic beverages and illegal drugs prohibited, see
Chapter 130 of this code of ordinances
   Gathering and burning wood; discharge of fireworks prohibited, see
Chapter 93
   Prohibition of firearms and concealed weapons, see
Chapter 131
   Unattended vehicles towed at owner’s expense, see
Chapter 94
   Volume of audio and musical devices, see
Chapter 90
Statutory reference:
   Abusive language, disorderly conduct or fighting, see G.S. § 14-132
   Cutting, picking, pulling or damaging vegetation, see G.S. § 14-128
   Defacing or intentionally damaging town facility or monument, see G.S. § 14-
32
   Littering, see G.S. § 14-399
   Trespassing before or after hours, see G.S. § 14-159.13
   Use of walking trails; motorized vehicles restricted, see G.S. § 20-175
§ 92.18 LEASE OR RENTAL.
   Any person or persons entering into a lease or rental agreement of any
recreation facility or recreation area agrees to hold harmless the town. The
sponsor shall assume full responsibility. Rates shall be charged, and a rate
schedule shall be updated and approved by the Parks and Recreation Commission.
Failure to abide by the listed rules and regulations will result in forfeiture
of future rental use of the town’s facilities.
(Ord. O-98-12, passed 12-14-1998)
§ 92.19 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person who violates any provision of the rules and regulations may be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. The Town of Fletcher Police Department may
issue citations or take other legal measures as may be allowed to enforce the
terms and provisions of the rules and regulations set forth for Fletcher
Community Park.
(Ord. O-98-12, passed 12-14-1998) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.20 RENTAL FEES.
   (A)   The revenue pricing policy for the town parks system attached to Ord.
O-99-9 is hereby adopted by reference as if set out in full herein, being
approved by the Town Council as unanimously recommended by the Parks and
Recreation Commission.
   (B)   The Town Council also authorizes the Parks and Recreation Advisory
Board to approve of any changes to the fee and charges schedule as deemed
necessary. Any other changes to the policy must be approved by the Town
Council.
(Ord. O-99-9, passed 12-13-1999; Am. Ord. passed 10-10-2005; Am. Ord. passed 5-
8-2017)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any violation of division (A) of §
92.01 shall be punishable as provided in G.S. § 14-4, and shall be subject to a
fine not to exceed $50.
(Ord. O-00-11, passed 8-14-2000)
   (C)   Any violation of §§
92.15 through
92.19 shall be an infraction punishable by a fine of not more than $50, plus
court costs. If any violation continues, each day’s violation may be considered
a separate offense. Flagrant misuse of parks and recreation facilities will
result in a forfeiture of future use or reservation privileges.
(Ord. O-98-12, passed 12-14-1998)
   (D)   Anyone who is found in violation of §
92.17(B)(36) shall be subject to a fine of not less than $500 per offense and/
or 30 days in jail as outlined in G.S. § 14-4(a). Each and every entry into the
park, regardless of the time period involved, shall constitute a separate
offense under this division. This division (D) is effective July 1, 2005.
(Am. Ord. passed 6-13-2005)
CHAPTER 93: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
   
93.01   Intent
   
93.02   Adoption
   
93.03   Administration and enforcement
   
93.04   Inspectors and duties
   
93.05   Permits
   
93.06   Establishment of fire limit districts
   
93.07   Open burning
   
93.08   Appendices
   
93.09   Modifications
   
93.10   Fee schedule
   
93.11   Additional requirements
Cross-reference:
   Offenses related to fire, see
Chapter 132 of this code of ordinances
§ 93.01 INTENT.
   It is the intent of this chapter to prescribe regulations consistent with
nationally recognized standards of good practice for the safeguards of lives
and properties within the incorporated limits of the town from the hazards of
fire, explosion, and use or release of hazardous materials. This chapter shall
not be construed to hold the town or those charged with the enforcement of this
chapter, responsible for any damages to persons or properties because of herein
authorized inspection or the failure to inspect or the permits issued or denied
or by the approval or disapproval of equipment.
(Ord. O-97-10, passed 1-12-1998; Ord. O-05-03, passed 4-11-2005)
§ 93.02 ADOPTION.
   The Fire Prevention Ordinance for the town shall be the current "North
Carolina State Building Codes, (i.e. Fire Prevention)," including all chapters
and sections, and as it may be amended from time to time and from this point on
shall be called the “Fletcher Fire Prevention Ordinance." A copy of the
Fletcher Fire Prevention Ordinance shall be kept, updated, and on file at the
Town Hall.
(Ord. O-97-10, passed 1-12-1998; Ord. O-05-03, passed 4-11-2005)
§ 93.03 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   The Fletcher Fire Prevention Ordinance shall be administered and enforced in
accordance with all applicable provisions of the current "North Carolina State
Building Code, Administration and Enforcement." Violations of the Fletcher Fire
Prevention Ordinance may be enforced and penalized by any means authorized by
North Carolina General Statutes and the current "North Carolina State Building
Code."
(Ord. O-97-10, passed 1-12-1998; Ord. O-05-03, passed 4-11-2005)
 § 93.04 INSPECTORS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Inspectors and duties. A schedule of fire prevention inspections shall
exceed the minimum requirements and provisions of the current "North Carolina
Fire Prevention Code." Frequency of inspections shall be established and may be
amended from time to time. Fire Marshal(s), Code Enforcement Officer(s), and
Fire Inspector(s) shall be appointed by the Town Manager to enforce the Fire
Prevention Ordinance and conduct these inspections. These appointments shall
continue during good behavior and satisfactory service, and they shall not be
removed from office without cause. Inspections personnel shall be certified by
the North Carolina Code Officials Qualification Board and duly sworn or
affirmed according to North Carolina State Law. Personnel authorized to enforce
the Fire Prevention Ordinance shall have the right to enter any premises,
without a warrant, in the event of an emergency situation constituting an
immediate threat to human life or property or the public safety. Fire Marshal
(s), Code Enforcement Officer(s), and Fire Inspector(s), in conjunction with
the Chief of the fire district, shall investigate or cause to be investigated,
the origin, cause, and circumstances of fire occurring in the town. Assistance
may be obtained from any agency necessary. Such investigation shall begin as
soon as possible after the occurrence of the fire. The Fletcher Police
Department, Fletcher Fire & Rescue Inc. or Mills River Fire & Rescue, Inc., and
the Henderson County Fire Marshal's Office shall be promptly advised of any
incident to be found involving arson, incendiarism, or other illegal activity.
All rights to privacy will be observed.
   (B)   Fire inspection schedule. All buildings regulated by the N.C. State
Fire Code shall be required to be inspected on an annual basis. The Fire
Marshal (or designee) shall conduct additional inspections as deemed necessary,
but not less frequently than required by the N.C. Fire Prevention Code, and
when possible, town ordinance.
(Ord. O-97-10, passed 1-12-1998; Ord. O-05-03, passed 4-11-2005)
§ 93.05 PERMITS.
   Permits shall be required for all activities prescribed in the current
"North Carolina Fire Prevention Code." Permit applications shall be reviewed by
Fire Marshal(s), Inspector(s), or Code Enforcement Officer(s) and if conditions
allow shall be approved.
(Ord. O-97-10, passed 1-12-1998; Ord. O-05-03, passed 4-11-2005)
§ 93.06 ESTABLISHMENT OF FIRE LIMIT DISTRICTS.
   (A)   In accordance with N.C.G.S. 160A-435, the town shall hereby establish
a primary fire limit district. This shall include the principal business
portions of the town designated as the C-1 and CBD zoning districts.
   (B)   In accordance with N.C.G.S. 160A-436, and the requirements of the
current International Building Code (Appendix D), within the primary fire
limits of the town, no frame or wooden building or structure or addition
thereto shall hereafter be erected, altered, repaired, or moved (either into
the limits or from one place to another within the limits), except upon the
permit of the local inspection department approved by the Town Council and by
the Commissioner of Insurance or his or her designee. The Town Council may make
additional regulations for the prevention, extinguishment, or mitigation of
fires within the primary fire limits.
( Ord. O-05-03, passed 4-11-2005)
§ 93.07 OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   This section is intended to promote the public health, safety and
welfare and to safeguard the health, comfort, living conditions, safety and
welfare of the citizens of the town by regulating the air pollution and fire
hazards of open burning and outdoor burning.
   (B)   This section applies to all outdoor burning and open burning within
the town.
      (1)   This section does not apply to grilling or cooking food using
charcoal, wood, propane or natural gas in cooking or grilling appliances.
      (2)   This section does not apply to burning for the purpose of
generating heat in a stove, furnace, fireplace or other heating device within a
building used for human or animal habitation.
      (3)   This section does not apply to the use of propane, acetylene,
natural gas, gasoline, kerosene, or similar fuel in a device intended for
heating, construction or maintenance activities.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CAMPFIRE. A small outdoor fire intended for recreation or cooking, but
not including a fire intended for disposal of waste wood or refuse pressure-
treated with preservatives; and does not contain resins or glues as in plywood
or other composite wood products.
      CONSTRUCTION and DEMOLITION WASTE. Building waste materials; including
but not limited to, waste shingles, insulation, lumber, treated wood, painted
wood, wiring, plastics, packaging, and rubble that results from construction,
remodeling, repair and demolition operations on a house, commercial or
industrial building, or other structure.
      FIRE CHIEF. The Chief of Fletcher Fire and Rescue or other person
designated by the FIRE CHIEF.
      MUNICIPALITY. A county, township, city or village.
      OPEN BURNING. Kindling or maintaining a fire where the products of
combustion are emitted directly into the ambient air without passing through a
stack or chimney. This includes burning in a burn barrel.
      OUTDOOR BURNING. Open burning or burning in an outdoor wood-fired boiler
or patio wood burning unit.
      OUTDOOR WOOD-FIRED BOILER. A wood fired-boiler, stove or furnace that is
not located within a building intended for habitation by humans or domestic
animals.
      PATIO WOOD-BURNING UNIT. A chiminea, patio warmer, or other portable
wood-burning device used for outdoor recreation and/or heating.
      REFUSE. Any waste material except trees, logs, brush, stumps, leaves,
grass clippings and other vegetative matter.
   (D)   General prohibition on outdoor burning and open burning. Open burning
and outdoor burning are prohibited in the town unless the burning is
specifically permitted by this section.
   (E)   Open burning of refuse. Open burning of refuse is prohibited.
   (F)   Burning trees, logs, brush stumps, leaves and grass clippings. Open
burning of trees, log stumps, leaves and grass clippings is prohibited.
   (G)   Campfires. Campfires shall not be permitted in the town unless the
campfire is located at least 25 feet from any structure and 25 feet from any
property line. The campfire shall be no larger than four square feet and shall
be surrounded by bricks at least two tiers high.
   (H)   Fire suppression training. Notwithstanding divisions (D) and (E) of
this section, structures and other materials may be burned for fire suppression
training only in accordance with the following provisions:
      (1)   The burn must be exclusively for fire suppression training. The
burning shall not be used as a means to dispose of waste material including
tires and other hazardous materials.
      (2)   Any standing structure that will be used in fire suppression
training must be inspected by a licensed asbestos inspector. Notification of
this inspection must be submitted to the North Carolina Department of
Environmental Quality Air Division, at least ten business days prior to burning
a standing structure. The notification must be submitted using Form EQP 5661,
"Notification of Intent to Renovate/Demolish".
      (3)   All asbestos must be removed prior to conducting the fire
suppression training. If the structure is a residential dwelling the owner may
remove the asbestos or have it removed by a licensed abatement contractor. If
it is a commercial building all asbestos must be removed by a licensed
abatement contractor.
      (4)   (a)   All ash shall be disposed of in an approved landfill or an
alternate location approved by the North Carolina Department of Environmental
Quality.
         (b)   The following additional provisions are optional when burning
for fire suppression training purposes:
            1.   Asphalt shingles and asphalt siding or plastic siding shall be
removed prior to the practice burn unless the Fire Chief determines that they
are necessary for the fire practice.
            2.    At least 48 hours before a planned practice burn, residents
within 1,000 feet of the site of the proposed burn shall be notified.
            3.   All fire suppression training should conform to the guidelines
established by the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) Standard on Live
Fire Training Evolutions (NFPA 1403)
   (I)   Liability. A person utilizing or maintaining an outdoor fire in
violation of this section shall be responsible for all suppression costs caused
by the violation.
   (J)   Burning permit application. Burning permits are issued by the NC
Forestry Service are not associated with the Town of Fletcher or Fletcher Fire
and Rescue. The permits are not allowed in the town limits of Fletcher and only
allowed in unincorporated areas of the county.
(Ord. O-97-10, passed 1-12-1998; Ord. O-05-03, passed 4-11-2005; Ord. O-19-11,
passed 10-14-2019)
§ 93.08 APPENDICES.
   Effective January 12, 2004, the town adopted Appendices B, C, and D of the
N.C. Fire Prevention Code as part of the Fletcher Fire Prevention Ordinance.
The Fire Marshal (or designee) shall have the authority to use discretion in
the application and enforcement of these standards.
(Ord. O-05-03, passed 4-11-2005)
§ 93.09 MODIFICATIONS.
   Modifications to the Fire Prevention Ordinance may not conflict with the
North Carolina State Building Code or North Carolina Law unless adopted as
ordinance and approved by the North Carolina Building Code Council before
becoming effective.
(Ord. O-97-10, passed 1-12-1998; Ord. O-05-03, passed 4-11-2005)
§ 93.10 FEE SCHEDULE.
   Fees for required inspections and operational/construction permits shall be
charged in accordance with the fees and charges schedule adopted by reference,
attached to Ordinance O-05-03.
(Ord. O-05-03, passed 4-11-2005)
§ 93.11 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   Key boxes. Key boxes shall be installed on all new construction (excluding
residential occupancies), on existing construction where nuisance or repeated
alarms occur, on access gates or other locations where access is delayed, and
on any other occupancy where the Fire Marshal (or designee) deems them
necessary.
(Ord. O-05-03, passed 4-11-2005)
CHAPTER 94: ABANDONED, NUISANCE AND JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Administration
   
94.02   Definitions
   
94.03   Notification; time to comply; civil penalties
Prohibitions
   
94.15   Abandoned vehicle unlawful; removal authorized
   
94.16   Nuisance vehicle unlawful; removal authorized
   
94.17   Junked motor vehicle regulated; removal authorized
Removal of Vehicle
   
94.30   Removal of abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicles; pre-towing
notice requirements
   
94.31   Exceptions to prior notice requirements
   
94.32   Removal of vehicles; post-towing notice requirements
   
94.33   Right to probable cause hearing before sale or final disposition of
vehicle
   
94.34   Redemption of vehicle during proceedings
   
94.35   Sale and disposition of unclaimed vehicle
   
94.36   Conditions of removal
   
94.37   Protection against criminal or civil liability
   
94.38   Exceptions
   
94.39   Unlawful removal of impounded vehicle
Abandoned Manufactured Homes
   
94.55   Notification; time to comply; civil penalties
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Police Department and Zoning Administrator of the town shall be
responsible for the administration and enforcement of this chapter. The Police
Department shall be responsible for administering the removal and disposition
of vehicles determined to be abandoned on the public streets and highways
within the town, and on property owned by the town. The Zoning Administrator
shall be responsible for administering the removal and disposition of
abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicles located on private property.
   (B)   The town may, on an annual basis, contract with private tow truck
operators or towing businesses to remove, store and dispose of abandoned
vehicles, nuisance vehicles and junked motor vehicles in compliance with this
chapter and applicable state laws.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to limit the legal
authority or powers of officers of the Town Police Department and Fire
Department in enforcing other laws or in otherwise carrying out their duties.
(Ord. O-95-5, passed 11-13-1995)
§ 94.02 DEFINITIONS.
    For the purpose of this chapter, certain words and terms are defined as
herein indicated:
   ABANDONED MANUFACTURED HOME. A manufactured home that has not had legal
power or was not properly connected to a permitted septic or sewer system and
water supply in the last 6 months, not to be interpreted to include a
manufactured home parked or stored in accordance with a valid zoning permit.
      (1)   Is left upon a public street or highway in violation of a law or
ordinance prohibiting parking;
      (2)   Is left on a public street or highway for longer than 7 days;
      (3)   Is left on property owned or operated by the town for longer than
24 hours; or
      (4)   Is left on private property without the consent of the owner,
occupant or lessee thereof, for longer than 2 hours.
   AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL.  The supervisory employee of the Police Department or
the Zoning Administrator respectively, designated to authorize the removal of
vehicles under the provisions of this chapter.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE. As authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-303.2 the
term means a vehicle that does not display a current license plate lawfully
upon that vehicle, and that:
      (1)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked;
      (2)   Cannot be self-propelled or moved in the manner in which it
originally was intended to move; or
      (3)   Is more than 5 years old and appears to be worth less than $100.
   MOTOR VEHICLE or VEHICLE.  All machines designed or intended to travel over
land by self-propulsion or while attached to any self-propelled vehicle.
   NUISANCE VEHICLE. A vehicle on public or private property that is determined
and declared to be a health or safety hazard, a public nuisance and unlawful,
including a vehicle found to be:
      (1)   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes, other insects, rats or
other pests;
      (2)   A point of heavy growth of weeds or other noxious vegetation over 8
inches in height;
      (3)   A point of collection of pools or ponds of water;
      (4)   A point of concentration of quantities of gasoline, oil or other
flammable or explosive materials as evidenced by odor;
      (5)   One which has areas of confinement which cannot be operated from
the inside, such as trunks, hoods and the like;
      (6)   So situated or located that there is a danger of it falling or
turning over;
      (7)   One which is a point of collection of garbage, food waste, animal
waste or any other rotten or putrefaction of matter of any kind;
      (8)   One which has sharp parts thereof which are jagged or contain sharp
edges of metal or glass; or
      (9)   Any other vehicle specifically declared a health and safety hazard
and a public nuisance by the Town Council.
(Ord. O-95-5, passed 11-13-1995 ; Am. Ord. O-09-01, passed 1-12-2009)
§ 94.03 NOTIFICATION; TIME TO COMPLY; CIVIL PENALTIES.
   (A)   For abandoned, junked or nuisance vehicles on private property, the
owner of the property shall be notified via first-class mail of potential
violation of this chapter. An on-site meeting shall be scheduled and conducted
to determine the status of reported vehicle(s). If 1 or more vehicles are found
to be in violation, the owner will have a 30 day period to bring the vehicle(s)
into compliance either by removal or demonstrating that the vehicle(s) is/are
either operable or displaying a current and valid registration and license
plate. The Administrator may use discretion in granting an extension to this 30
days if it is demonstrated that the offender is working in good faith to bring
the violation into compliance.
   (B)   If the vehicle(s) is/are not brought into compliance within the 30 day
period, then the Administrator may issue a civil penalty in the amount of $50
per day per vehicle for every day the violation continues to exist. Failure to
pay civil penalties could result in a civil action by the town as well as other
remedies as specified in Article 17 of the town’s Land Development Code (LDC).
   (C)   If the violation is not corrected following the above action, then the
town may pursue authorization of removal of the vehicle(s) in the manner
described in subsequent sections of this chapter.
(Ord. O-09-01, passed 1-12-2009)
PROHIBITIONS
§ 94.15 ABANDONED VEHICLE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a vehicle to cause or allow the vehicle to be abandoned, as the
term is defined herein.
   (B)   Upon investigation, proper authorizing officials of the town may
determine that a vehicle is an abandoned vehicle and order the vehicle removed.
(Ord. O-95-5, passed 11-13-1995) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.16 NUISANCE VEHICLE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee or occupant of the real
property upon which the vehicle is located, to leave or allow the vehicle to
remain on the property after it has been declared a nuisance vehicle.
   (B)   Upon investigation, the Zoning Administrator may determine and declare
that a vehicle is a health or safety hazard and a nuisance vehicle as defined
above, or order the vehicle removed.
(Ord. O-95-5, passed 11-13-1995) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.17 JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE REGULATED; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
the possession of a junked motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee or occupant
of the real property upon which a junked motor vehicle is located, to leave or
allow the vehicle to remain on the property after the vehicle has been ordered
removed.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to have more than 1 junked motor vehicle, as
defined herein, on the premises of public or private property. Single,
permitted junked motor vehicle must strictly comply with the location and
concealment requirements of this section.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, person entitled to the possession
of a junked motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee or occupant of the real
property upon which a junked motor vehicle is located to fail to comply with
the location requirements or the concealment requirements of this section.
   (D)   Subject to the provisions of division (C), upon investigation, the
Zoning Administrator may order the removal of a junked motor vehicle as defined
in this chapter after finding in writing that the aesthetic benefits of
removing the vehicle outweigh the burdens imposed on the private property
owner. These findings shall be based on a balancing of the monetary loss of the
apparent owner against corresponding gain to the public by promoting or
enhancing community, neighborhood or area appearance. The following among other
relevant factors may be considered:
      (1)   Promotion of the comfort, happiness and emotional stability of area
residents;
      (2)   Protection of property values;
      (3)   Indirect protection of public health and safety;
      (4)   Preservation of the character and integrity of the community; and
      (5)   Promotion of tourism and other economic development opportunities.
   (E)   Permit concealment or enclosure of junked motor vehicle:
      (1)   One vehicle.
         (a)   One junked motor vehicle, in its entirety, can be located in the
rear yard if the junked motor vehicle is entirely concealed from public view
from a public street and from abutting premises by an acceptable covering.
         (b)   The Zoning Administrator has the authority to determine whether
any junked motor vehicle is adequately concealed as required by this provision.
The covering must remain in good repair and must not be allowed to deteriorate.
The covering or enclosure must be compatible with the objectives stated in the
preamble of this chapter.
      (2)   More than one junked motor vehicle. Any other junked motor vehicle
(s) must be kept in a garage or building structure that provides a complete
enclosure so that the junked motor vehicle(s) cannot be seen from a public
street or abutting property. A GARAGE or BUILDING STRUCTURE means either a
lawful, nonconforming use or a garage or building structure erected pursuant to
the lawful issuance of a building permit and which has been constructed in
accordance with all zoning and building code regulations.
(Ord. O-95-5, passed 11-13-1995) Penalty, see §
10.99
REMOVAL OF VEHICLE
§ 94.30 REMOVAL OF ABANDONED, NUISANCE OR JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES; PRE-TOWING
NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as set forth in §
94.31 below, an abandoned, nuisance or junked vehicle which is to be removed
shall be towed only after notice to the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of the vehicle is given. In the case of a nuisance vehicle or a
junked motor vehicle, if the names and mailing addresses of the registered
owner or person entitled to the possession of the vehicle, or the owner, lessee
or occupant of the real property upon which the vehicle is located can be
ascertained in the exercise of reasonable diligence, the notice shall be given
by first-class mail. The person who mails the notice(s) shall retain a written
record to show the name(s) and address(es) to which mailed and the date mailed.
If such names and addresses cannot be ascertained or if the vehicle to be
removed is an abandoned motor vehicle, notice shall be given by affixing on the
windshield or some other conspicuous place on the vehicle a notice indicating
that the vehicle will be removed by the town on a specified date (no sooner
than 7 days after the notice is affixed). The notice shall state that the
vehicle will be removed by the town on a specified date, no sooner than 7 days
after the notice is affixed or mailed, unless the vehicle is moved by the owner
or legal possessor prior to that time.
   (B)   With respect to abandoned vehicles on private property, nuisance
vehicles and junked motor vehicles to which notice is required to be given, if
the registered owner or person entitled to possession does not remove the
vehicle but chooses to appeal the determination that the vehicle is abandoned,
a nuisance vehicle or, in the case of a junked motor vehicle, that the
aesthetic benefits of removing the vehicle outweigh the burdens, such appeal
shall be made to the Council in writing, heard at the next regularly scheduled
meeting of the Council, and further proceedings to remove the vehicle shall be
stayed until the appeal is heard and decided.
(Ord. O-95-5, passed 11-13-1995)
§ 94.31 EXCEPTIONS TO PRIOR NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The requirement that notice be given prior to the removal of an
abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle may, as determined by the
authorizing official, be omitted in those circumstances where there is a
special need for prompt action to eliminate traffic obstructions or to
otherwise maintain and protect the public safety and welfare. These findings
shall, in all cases, be entered by the authorizing official in the appropriate
daily records.
   (B)   Circumstances justifying the removal of vehicles without prior notice
include:
      (1)   Vehicles abandoned on the streets. For vehicles left on the public
streets and highways, the Council hereby determines the immediate removal of
those vehicles may be warranted when they are:
         (a)   Obstructing traffic;
         (b)   Parked in violation of an ordinance prohibiting or restricting
parking;
         (c)   Parked in a non-stopping or standing zone;
         (d)   Parked in loading zones;
         (e)   Parked in bus zones; or
         (f)   Parked in violation of temporary parking restrictions imposed
under code sections.
      (2)   Other abandoned or nuisance vehicles. With respect to abandoned or
nuisance vehicles left on town-owned property other than the streets and
highways and on private property, the vehicles may be removed without giving
prior notice only in those circumstances where the authorizing official finds a
special need for prompt action to protect and maintain the public health,
safety and welfare. By way of illustration and not of limitation, such
circumstances include vehicles blocking or obstructing ingress or egress to
businesses and residences, vehicles parked in a location or manner as to pose a
traffic hazard and vehicles causing damage to public or private property.
(Ord. O-95-5, passed 11-13-1995)
§ 94.32 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES; POST-TOWING NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle which has been ordered
removed may, as directed by the town, be removed to a storage garage or area by
the town truck operator or towing business contracting to perform such services
for the town. Whenever such a vehicle is removed, the authorizing town official
shall immediately notify the last known registered owner of the vehicle, which
notice is to include the following:
      (1)   The description of the removed vehicle;
      (2)   The location where the vehicle is stored;
      (3)   The violation with which the owner is charged, if any;
      (4)   The procedure the owner must follow to redeem the vehicle; and
      (5)   The procedure the owner must follow to request a probable cause
hearing on the removal.
   (B)   The town shall attempt to give notice to the vehicle owner by
telephone; however, whether or not the owner is reached by telephone, written
notice, including information set forth in divisions (A)(1) through (A)(5)
above shall also be mailed to the registered owner’s last known address, unless
this notice is waived in writing by the vehicle owner or his or her agent.
   (C)   If the vehicle is registered in North Carolina, notice shall be given
within 24 hours. If the vehicle is not registered in the state, notice shall be
given to the registered owner within 72 hours from the removal of the vehicle.
   (D)   Whenever an abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle is removed,
and the vehicle has no valid registration or registration plates, the
authorizing town official shall make reasonable efforts, including checking the
vehicle identification number, to determine the last known registered owner of
the vehicle and to notify him or her of the information set forth in divisions
(A)(1) through (A)(5) above.
(Ord. O-95-5, passed 11-13-1995)
§ 94.33 RIGHT TO PROBABLE CAUSE HEARING BEFORE SALE OR FINAL DISPOSITION OF
VEHICLE.
   After removal of an abandoned vehicle, nuisance vehicle or junked motor
vehicle, the owner or any other person entitled to possession is entitled to a
hearing for the purpose of determining if probable cause existed for removing
the vehicle. A request for hearing must be filed in writing with the county
magistrate designated by the Chief District Court Judge to receive such hearing
requests. The magistrate will set the hearing within 72 hours of receipt of the
request, and the hearing will be conducted in accordance with the provision of
G.S. § 20-219.11, as amended.
(Ord. O-95-5, passed 11-13-1995)
§ 94.34 REDEMPTION OF VEHICLE DURING PROCEEDINGS.
   At any stage in the proceedings, including before the probable cause
hearing, the owner may obtain possession of the removed vehicle by paying the
towing fee, including any storage charges or by posting a bond for double the
amount of the fees and charges to the tow truck operator or towing business
having custody of the removed vehicle. Upon regaining possession of a vehicle,
the owner or person entitled to the possession of the vehicle shall not allow
or engage in further violations of this chapter.
(Ord. O-95-5, passed 11-13-1995)
§ 94.35 SALE AND DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLE.
   Any abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle which is not claimed by the
owner or other party entitled to possession will be disposed of by the town
truck operator or towing business having custody of the vehicle. Disposition
shall be carried out in coordination with the town and in accordance with G.S.
Chapter 44A, Article 1 of the North Carolina General Statutes.
(Ord. O-95-5, passed 11-13-1995)
§ 94.36 CONDITIONS OF REMOVAL.
   As a general policy, the town will not remove a vehicle from private
property if the owner, occupant or lessee of the property could have the
vehicle removed under applicable state law procedures. In no case will a
vehicle be removed by the town from private property without a written request
of the owner, occupant or lessee, except in those cases where a vehicle is a
nuisance vehicle or is a junked motor vehicle which has been ordered removed by
the Town Zoning Inspector. The town may require any person requesting the
removal of an abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle from private property
to indemnify the town against any loss, expense or liability incurred because
of the removal, storage or sale thereof.
(Ord. O-95-5, passed 11-13-1995)
§ 94.37 PROTECTION AGAINST CRIMINAL OR CIVIL LIABILITY.
   No person shall be held to answer in any civil or criminal action to any
owner or other person legally entitled to the possession of an abandoned,
nuisance or junked motor vehicle, for disposing of the vehicle as provided in
this chapter.
(Ord. O-95-5, passed 11-13-1995)
§ 94.38 EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall apply to any vehicle:
   (A)   Which is located in a bona fide automobile graveyard or junkyard, as
defined in G.S. § 136-143, in accordance with the Junkyard Control Act, G.S. §§
136-141 et seq.;
   (B)   Which is in an enclosed building;
   (C)   No more than two, which are on the premises of a business enterprise
being operated in a lawful place and manner if the vehicle is necessary to the
operation of the enterprise; or
   (D)   Which is in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a
lawful place and manner by the town.
(Ord. O-95-5, passed 11-13-1995)
§ 94.39 UNLAWFUL REMOVAL OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or attempt to remove from any
storage facility designated by the town any vehicle which has been impounded
pursuant to the provisions of this code unless and until all towing and
impoundment fees which are due, or bond in lieu of such fees, have been paid.
(Ord. O-95-5, passed 11-13-1995) Penalty, see §
10.99
ABANDONED MANUFACTURED HOMES
§ 94.55 NOTIFICATION; TIME TO COMPLY; CIVIL PENALTIES.
   (A)   Abandoned manufactured homes, as defined previously, shall be
prohibited.
   (B)   The owner of a property with an abandoned manufactured home shall be
notified via first-class mail of potential violation of this chapter. An on-
site meeting shall be scheduled and conducted to determine the status of the
reported structure(s). If such structure(s) are found to be in violation, the
owner will have a 30 day period to either remove or dismantle the structure.
The Administrator may use discretion in granting an extension to this 30 day
period if it is demonstrated that the offender is working in good faith to
bring the violation into compliance.
   (C)   If the structure(s) is/are not brought into compliance within the 30
day period, then the Administrator may issue a civil penalty in the amount of
$50 per day per vehicle for every day the violation continues to exist. Failure
to pay civil penalties could result in a civil action by the town as well as
other remedies as specified in Article 17 of the town’s Land Development Code
(LDC).
(Ord. O-09-01, passed 1-12-2009) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 95: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   Authority and territorial application
   
95.03   General duties of law enforcement officers responsible for animal
enforcement
   
95.04   Citations
   
95.05   Tranquilizer guns
   
95.06   Interference or concealment
   
95.07   Public nuisances prohibited
   
95.08   Confinement of female dog during estrus (heat)
   
95.09   Dangerous/potentially dangerous dogs restricted
   
95.10   Mistreatment of animals prohibited
   
95.11   Destruction of animals that cannot be seized or confined by reasonable
means
   
95.12   Impoundment
   
95.13   Voluntary relinquishment of animals
   
95.14   Redemption of unvaccinated animal
   
95.15   Euthanasia of wounded, diseased and unwanted animals
   
95.16   Relation to hunting laws
   
95.17   Fees
   
95.18   Collection of dogs and cats for resale prohibited
   
95.19   Notice in case of injury
   
95.20   Restraint/confinement of domestic animals required
   
95.21   Animal abandonment
   
95.22   Prohibition against giveaways in public places
   
95.23   Aggressive dog controls
   
95.24   Prohibition of possession of inherently dangerous or wild animals
Rabies Control
   
95.30   Compliance with state rabies laws; supplement to state rabies laws
   
95.31   Vaccination of dogs, cats and other pets
   
95.32   Report and confinement of dogs and cats biting persons or showing
symptoms of rabies
   
95.33   Destruction or confinement of animal bitten by known rabid animal
   
95.34   Area-wide emergency quarantine
   
95.35   Postmortem rabies testing
   
95.36   Unlawful killing or releasing of certain animals
   
95.37   Failure to surrender dog or cat for quarantine or euthanasia
   
95.38   Spay-neuter assistance program
Companion Animal Registry
   
95.50   Companion animal registration
   
95.51   Enforcement
   
95.52   Compliance with existing laws
Livestock
   
95.60   Allowing livestock to run at large forbidden
   
95.61   Impounding livestock at large; right to recover costs and damages
   
95.62   Notice and demand when owner known
   
95.63   Notice when owner not known
   
95.64   Determination of damages by selected landowners or by referee
   
95.65   Notice of sale and sale where owner fails to redeem or is unknown;
application of proceeds
   
95.66   Illegally releasing or receiving impounded livestock misdemeanor
   
95.67   Impounded livestock to be fed and watered
   
95.68   Right to feed impounded livestock; owner liable
   
95.69   Domestic fowl running at large after notice
   
95.70   Codification of General Statutes
 
   
95.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 95.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADEQUATE FOOD. The provision at suitable intervals, not to exceed 24 hours,
of a quantity of wholesome foodstuff suitable for the species and age,
sufficient to maintain a reasonable level of nutrition for the animal.
   ADEQUATE SHELTER. Proper and adequate shelter that will protect the animal
from adverse weather and will allow the animal to stand, sit, and lie down
without restriction and is kept humanely clean and sanitary.
   ADEQUATE WATER. The access to a sufficient supply of clean, fresh water
provided at suitable intervals for the animal's physical needs and the climatic
conditions.
   ADOPTION. The legal taking of ownership voluntarily and accepting all
responsibilities and liabilities therein.
   ADULT. A person 18 years of age or older who has not been judicially
declared incompetent.
   AGGRESSIVE ANIMAL. Any domestic animal with a history established through
any document verbal or written warnings for attacking or threatening people,
domestic animals or livestock without provocation while on or off the owner's
property and as determined by any sworn law enforcement officer. Examples of
aggressive behavior include but are not limited to:
      (1)   Any domestic animal when unprovoked bites, claws, or attempts to
bite or claw any person;
      (2)   Any domestic animal found to menace, chase, threaten any person;
      (3)   Any domestic animal which engages in or is found to be trained to
engage in fighting;
      (4)   Any domestic animal that terrorizes a person such as by repeated
unprovoked aggressive encounters or by pinning the person in an area without a
clear and reasonable escape; or
      (5)   Any domestic animal approaching a person where the individual must
fend the animal off by yelling, brandishing an object or discharging a weapon.
   ANIMAL ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any sworn law enforcement officer employed by
the town or the Chief of Police's designee charged with the enforcement of this
chapter and the regulation of animals and animal owners within the incorporated
and satellite annexed areas of the town.
   ANIMAL SERVICES CENTER.  The Henderson County Animal Shelter, and any other
designated facilities, operated and maintained by the county for the purpose of
impounding animals under the authority of the Henderson County and town animal
ordinances or the General Statutes for care, confinement, return to owner,
adoption or euthanasia.
   ANIMAL SERVICES DIRECTOR. The director placed in supervision of the
Henderson County Animal Services Center.
   AT LARGE. An animal when:
      (1)   Not on the owner's property;
      (2)   Not under control of a competent person or unrestrained by a leash
or harness; or
      (3)   Not controlled by other similar physical means.
   CAT. A domestic feline of either sex.
   COMPANION ANIMAL. Any dog or cat.
   COMPETENT PERSON. A legally competent person of suitable age and discretion
to keep an animal under sufficient control in order to prevent harm to the
animal, humans, other animals or property.
   COUNTY. Henderson County, North Carolina.
   COUNTY DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC HEALTH.  The Director of the Henderson County
Department of Public Health.
   DANGEROUS/POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG. Any dog whose behavior constitutes a
risk of severely injuring or killing a human domestic animal or livestock; or
which, by demonstrated behavior, is commonly accepted as dangerous. The
following criteria shall be used in identifying a dangerous dog:
      (1)   A dog that, without provocation, has killed or inflicted severe
injury on a person;
      (2)   Any dog owned or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose of
dog fighting, or any dog trained for dog fighting;
      (3)   A dog that is determined hereunder to be potentially dangerous
because the dog has engaged in 1 or more behaviors listed below. The following
criteria shall be used in identifying a potentially dangerous dog:
         (a)   A dog that has inflicted a bite on a person that resulted in
broken bones, disfiguring lacerations, or requiring surgery or hospitalization;
         (b)   A dog that has killed or inflicted severe injury upon a domestic
animal or livestock when not on the owner's real property;
         (c)   A dog that has approached a person when not on the owner's
property in an apparent attitude of attack;
      (4)   A dog shall not be deemed dangerous solely because it bites,
attacks, or menaces:
         (a)   Anyone assaulting or threatening the owner or trespassing on the
owner's property;
         (b)   Any person or other animal that has provoked, tormented, or
abused it; or
         (c)   While protecting or defending its young.
   DAY. A period of 24 hours, including Saturdays, Sundays and holidays.
   DEPARTMENT. As specified may be the Fletcher Police Department, Henderson
County Animal Services Department, and/or Henderson County Sheriffs Department.
   DOG. A domestic canine of either sex.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal whose physiology has been determined or
manipulated through selective breeding which does not occur naturally in the
wild, or which can be vaccinated against rabies with an approved rabies
vaccine, and which has an established rabies quarantine observation period.
   EUTHANASIA.  The causing of death in any animal by using any humane method
approved by the American Veterinary Medical Association or the North Carolina
Veterinary Medical Association.
   EXPOSED TO RABIES. An animal or human bitten by or exposed to the saliva or
neural tissue of any animal known or suspected to have been infected with
rabies.
   EXTRA-TERRITORIAL JURISDICTION.  Area/property within 1 mile of the
corporate limits, and on all property owned by or leased to the town wherever
located pursuant to G.S. § 160A-286.
   FALSE REPORT. Any complaint which is filed more than 3 times by 1 person or
common household within a period of 48 hours; and in which such complaint is
clearly insufficient on its face and is brought about with the intent to
embarrass, disturb, harass, or otherwise annoy.
   GENERAL STATUTES. The North Carolina General Statutes, as amended.
   HARBORING AN ANIMAL. Feeding or sheltering an animal 7 days or more unless
the animal is being boarded for a fee at a licensed kennel.
   HAVEN. A nonprofit organization that provides care for an animal (same as
RESCUE). A haven must comply with the companion animal permit program unless it
falls under state law.
   HYBRID. An animal which is the product of the breeding of a domesticated
animal with a non-domesticated animal, including but not limited to other
hybrid animals or wolves.
   IMPOUND. To apprehend, seize, catch, trap, net, quarantine, tranquilize, or
confine an animal in a humane manner.
   INCORPORATED AREA . Any area located within any incorporated municipality
located wholly or in part within Henderson County.
   INHERENTLY DANGEROUS ANIMAL. Any live animal, including hybrids, which due
to their inherent nature, may be considered dangerous to humans and include but
is not limited to:
      (1)   Canidae, including any member of the dog (canid) family not
customarily domesticated by man, or any hybrids thereof, including wolf hybrids
which are a cross between a wolf and a domestic dog, but not including domestic
dogs (Canis Familiaris);
      (2)   Felidae, including any member of the cat family weighing over 15
pounds not customarily domesticated by man, or any hybrids thereof, but not
including domestic cats (Felis catus);
      (3)   Ursidae, including any member of the bear family, or any hybrids
thereof;
      (4)   Venomous reptiles.
   LIVESTOCK. A term for animals that shall include, but shall not be limited
to, equine animals, bovine animals, sheep, goats, llamas, fowl and swine. This
does not include animals defined as DOMESTIC ANIMALS.
   MICROCHIP. An electronic identification device that is intended to be
implanted within an animal.
   OWNER. Any person, group of persons, firm, partnership, corporation,
organization, or association owning, keeping or harboring; or any person who
shelters, feeds, or takes care of an animal for 7 or more consecutive days
unless said animal is being boarded for a fee. An occupant of any premises on
which a dog or cat remains or customarily returns is an owner under this
chapter. If a person under the age of 18 years is an owner subject to the
provisions of this chapter, the head of the household in which such person
under the age of 18 years resides shall also be an owner under this chapter and
therefore subject to prosecution under this chapter. Such household head may
himself or herself be under the age of 18 years. If not a member of a
household, a person under the age of 18 years shall himself be the responsible
person. There may be more than 1 owner responsible for an animal.
   OWNER'S REAL PROPERTY. Any real property owned or leased by the owner, but
not including any public right-of-way or common area.
   PET SHOP/STORE. Any person, partnership or establishment engaging in the
commercial enterprise to acquire animals for the purpose of resale or trade.
Pet shops must possess a current license from the State Department of
Agriculture.
   PROVOCATION. With respect to an animal that has bitten or attacked a person,
domestic animal or livestock, that the animal was physically abused such as
hit, kicked, agitated or teased, struck by a person with an object or part of a
person's body, or that any part of the animal's body is pulled, pinched, or
squeezed by a person or the animal was physically threatened.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. An animal that:
      (1)   Frequently runs at large as determined by 1 verbal or written
warning;
      (2)   Damages, soils, or defecates on private property other than
property possessed or controlled by the animal owner or on public walks and
recreation areas unless such waste is immediately removed and properly disposed
of by the animal owner or handler as determined by more than 1 verbal or
written warning;
      (3)   Causes unsanitary or unsafe conditions;
      (4)   Causes a disturbance by excessive barking or other noisemaking; or
chases vehicles, or molests, attacks, or interferes with persons or other
domestic animals or livestock on public property including public roads
adjacent to the owner's property as determined by more than one verbal or
written warning.
   QUARANTINE ORDER. An order to secure any dog, cat or other animal specified
by state law which has bitten a person for a mandatory 10 day observation
period as required by G.S. §§ 130A-196 to 130A-199. QUARANTINE ORDERS may also
be issued by the local Health Director for up to 6 months when a domestic
animal suffers a rabies exposure.
   RABIES EXPOSURE. Any bite or other event in which a person or animal has
been suspected of coming in contact with the saliva or nervous tissue of an
animal possibly having rabies.
   SECURE ENCLOSURE. An enclosure, including a house, from which an animal
cannot escape unless freed by the owner. A law enforcement officer, in his/her
discretion, may determine whether or not there is a secure enclosure on the
premises.
   STRAY. A domestic animal within the incorporated or satellite annexed areas
of the town wandering at large or lost or which does not bear evidence of the
identification of any owner or whose owner cannot be found.
   SUSPECTED OF HAVING RABIES. An animal that has bitten, or exposed saliva or
neural tissue to, a person or another animal; or a wild animal that has bitten
a person or domestic animal.
   TOWN. The Town of Fletcher, North Carolina.
   TOWN OF FLETCHER ANIMAL APPELLATE BOARD. An appeal board responsible for
hearing appeals for animals which have been deemed dangerous or aggressive by
the Chief of Police or his designee. This Board shall consist of two town
employees and one town resident appointed by the Chief of Police.
   TRESPASS. Wrongful invasion of the property of another without
authorization.
   UNALTERED. An animal that has not been spayed or neutered.
   UNFOUNDED. Any complaint without merit or validity and in which a reasonable
and prudent person would find a lack of merit or validity readily apparent.
   UNINCORPORATED AREA. Any area not within the incorporated or satellite
annexed areas of the town and considered to be in the county's jurisdiction.
   VACCINATION. The administration of the rabies vaccine as required by G.S. §
130A-185.
   WILD. An animal living in a state of nature; not tamed or domesticated. This
also includes but is not limited to feral cats.
(Ord. O-17-16, passed 11-13-2017; Am. Ord. passed 5-14-2018)
§ 95.02 AUTHORITY AND TERRITORIAL APPLICATION.
   (A)   Purpose. As determined by North Carolina General Statutes, the
Henderson County Animal Services Center and/or the Town of Fletcher:
      (1)   Prevents the abuse and neglect of animals (G.S. § 153A-127);
      (2)   Protects the public health, safety and welfare (G.S. § 160A-174);
      (3)   Enforces regulations regarding the possession or harboring of
dangerous/potentially dangerous dogs (G.S. § 160A-187);
      (4)   Protects the public and domestic animals from rabies (G.S. § 130A-
185); and
      (5)   Educates the public regarding the proper care for animals.
   (B)   This chapter is adopted pursuant to the power granted the Town of
Fletcher in G.S. §§ 160A-174, 160A-175, 160A-182, 160A-186, and 160A-187. This
chapter shall apply to all incorporated and satellite annexed areas of the
town. The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by the town Police
Department.
(Ord. O-17-16, passed 11-13-2017; Am. Ord. passed 5-14-2018)
§ 95.03 GENERAL DUTIES OF LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS RESPONSIBLE FOR ANIMAL
ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Duties and responsibilities:
      (1)   Enforcing all town ordinances relating to the care, custody and
control of domestic animals;
      (2)   When not conducted by Henderson County Sheriffs Department Animal
Enforcement Deputies, investigate all reported animal bites or other human
physical contact with a suspected rabid animal, enforcing quarantine ordered
for any dog or cat involved and submitting bite reports and reports of human
contacts to the Henderson County Director of Public Health;
      (3)   Investigating complaints with regard to animals arising under this
chapter;
      (4)   Protecting animals from neglect; investigating animal mistreatment,
as defined in §
95.10;
      (5)   Seizing and arranging for impoundment, where deemed necessary, of
any animal involved in a violation of this chapter or the North Carolina
General Statutes;
      (6)   Keeping, or causing to be kept, accurate and detailed records of:
         (a)   Seizure, impoundment and disposition of all animals being
transported and taken into custody of the Henderson County Animal Services
Center or designated veterinarian facility for medical treatment;
         (b)   Bite cases, violations and complaints, and investigation of
same, including names and addresses of persons bitten, date, circumstances and
breed;
         (c)   All monies derived from fees and penalties;
         (d)   Any other matters deemed necessary by the Chief of Police.
(Ord. O-17-16, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 95.04 CITATIONS.
   Any sworn law enforcement officer employed by the town Police Department may
issue citations to any person who has violated provisions of this chapter, in
accordance with §
95.99
(Ord. O-17-16, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 95.05 TRANQUILIZER GUNS.
   Sworn law enforcement officers employed by the town are authorized to store
at the town Police Department tranquilizer guns approved for use and to use
such tranquilizer guns when necessary to enforce sections of this chapter or
applicable laws for control of wild, dangerous, or diseased animals.
(Ord. O-17-16, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 95.06 INTERFERENCE OR CONCEALMENT.
   (A)   Interference. It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with,
hinder, molest, resist or obstruct any employee of the Department whether
sworn, or non-sworn while in the performance of any duty authorized by law or
ordinance, or to seek to release any domestic animal in the custody of such
employees or sworn, or non-sworn law enforcement officers (including from
traps, cages, or other enclosures) except as specifically provided or
authorized by the Department.
   (B)   Concealment of dogs and cats. It shall be unlawful for any person to
conceal, for the purpose of evading the rabies vaccination or dangerous dog/
potentially dangerous dog requirement of the law, any unlicensed (if licensing
requirement adopted) or unvaccinated dog or cat from any employee or sworn/non-
sworn law enforcement officer of the Department.
   (C)   Filing false reports. It shall be unlawful for any person to file a
false report with the Department, or to provide false information to an officer
involving any investigation of any reported violation of this chapter. Any
person found violating this provision shall be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor
and shall be fined not more than $500.
   (D)   Frivolous or unfounded complaints. It shall be unlawful for any person
to repeatedly file frivolous or unfounded complaints with the Department in
regards to animal control in order to intimidate or harass any member of the
Department or any animal owner, or to otherwise hinder or interfere with any
function of the Department in regards to animal control. Any person found
violating this provision shall be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor and shall be
fined not more than $500.
(Ord. O-17-16, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 95.07 PUBLIC NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Animal care constituting a nuisance. It shall be unlawful for any
person to own, keep, or maintain a companion animal in such a manner as to
constitute a public nuisance as defined herein.
      (1)   Maintaining animals in an unsanitary environment that results in
odors considered excessive to a reasonable person; or, in an environment that
is dangerous to the animal or to the public health, safety, welfare; or failure
to maintain a condition of good order and cleanliness that reduces the
probability of transmission of disease.
      (2)   Maintaining the owner's property in a manner that is offensive,
annoying or dangerous to the public health, safety or welfare of the community
because of the number, type, variety, density, or location of animals on the
property. This includes the keeping, possessing, or harboring of wild or feral
animals that threaten the public health, safety or welfare.
      (3)   Maintaining an animal that is diseased and dangerous to the public
health.
      (4)   Harboring, keeping, owning, or possessing an animal that is at
large or is repeatedly at large.
   (B)   Animal behavior constituting a nuisance.  It shall be unlawful for an
owner to permit an animal to habitually do the following, but not limited to:
chases bicycles, motor vehicles or pedestrians, damages private or public
property, turns over garbage cans, deposits feces on another's private property
or on public property, or an animal running at-large. The prohibition against
running at-large does not apply to animals in designated off-leash areas.
   (C)   In addition to any other enforcement remedies available under this
chapter, if a law enforcement officer determines an animal to be a nuisance
under this section, then such officer is authorized to order the owner to
confine such animal in accordance with the law enforcement officer's
instructions, including a permanent above-ground fence or tethering or chaining
inside a fence; this does not include natural barriers. It shall be unlawful
for the owner to fail to comply with such an order or with the instructions in
the order. In addition, any animal determined to be a nuisance under this
section must be micro chipped within 10 days of the nuisance determination. Law
enforcement officers with the Police Department shall be allowed to make
periodic inspections.
   (D)   Animal owners, where nuisances have been determined, shall be notified
and ordered to abate said nuisance within 5 days by whatever means necessary.
Failure to comply within this time frame shall constitute a separate offense
for each day thereafter. No civil penalty shall accrue during the 5-day warning
period.
   (E)   Reporting. Upon receipt of a detailed complaint to the Police
Department, the owner shall be notified by certified or registered mail or by
hand delivery.
   (F)   Appeal. The owner shall have 3 days to appeal the nuisance
determination to the Town of Fletcher Animal Appellate Board.
   (G)   Nothing in this provision is intended to conflict with the Town of
Fletcher nuisance ordinance, noise ordinance or other applicable section of the
Town of Fletcher Code.
   (H)   In addition, any animal determined to be a nuisance under this section
must be microchipped at the owner's expense within 5 days of the nuisance
determination or appeal determination.
(Ord. O-17-16, passed 11-13-2017; Am. Ord. passed 5-14-2018)
§ 95.08 CONFINEMENT OF FEMALE DOG DURING ESTRUS (HEAT).
   Any owner of a female dog during its estrus (heat) period shall confine said
animal in a building or secure enclosure in such a manner that the dog will not
be in contact with male dogs or attract other animals. This section shall not
be construed to prohibit the intentional breeding of animals within an enclosed
area on the premises of the owner of the animal that is being bred.
(Ord. O-17-16, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 95.09 DANGEROUS/POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOGS RESTRICTED.
   (A)   General provisions. It shall be unlawful for any person to own or in
any way maintain or harbor a dog that is dangerous/potentially dangerous,
except as provided in this chapter. Notwithstanding any exemption listed below,
any dog that has killed a person shall be immediately seized and euthanized by
the Henderson County Animal Services Center. If any dog has killed a person and
is immediately and continually acting in a dangerous/aggressive manner, then
any sworn officer of the Police Department may immediately euthanize the dog as
safely and humanely possible by use of a Department issued firearm.
      (1)   Reporting requirement.
         (a)   A report must be made concerning any:
            1.   Attack or biting by a dog upon a person, livestock, or
domestic animal;
            2.   Transfer, gift, sale or other conveyance of ownership or
possession of a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog;
            3.   Confinement to a veterinary facility; or
            4.   Removal from territorial jurisdiction of the county.
         (b)   An animal's death must be reported by any of the following
individuals:
            1.   Owner, keeper or harborer of a dog deemed dangerous/
potentially dangerous or of a dog that has attacked or bitten a person or
domestic animal;
            2.   Victim or a person witnessing such an attack or biting;
            3.   Veterinarian treating a domestic animal for such an attack or
biting; or
            4.   Health care professional treating a person for such an attack
or biting.
      (2)   The report must be made to a law enforcement agency within 24 hours
of the event.
      (3)   Failure to report an incident within 24 hours may result in
criminal and civil penalties under this chapter and personal liability in
subsequent incidents.
   (B)   Exemptions. The provisions of this chapter do not apply to dogs
causing injuries when:
      (1)   Used by law enforcement agencies to carry out official law
enforcement duties;
      (2)   Functioning lawfully as hunting or herding dogs, or in controlling
predators on the property of, or under control of, the owner when performing
duties appropriate to said functions;
      (3)   Protecting the owner or owner's premises from trespassers and other
criminal perpetrators while on its owner's premises; or
      (4)   Protecting itself or its young from assault, torment, or abuse.
   (C)   Declaration of dangerous/potentially dangerous dog. The Chief of
Police or his/her designee shall have the authority to declare a dog to be a
dangerous/potentially dangerous dog. Any determination that a dog is dangerous/
potentially dangerous shall be made in writing, summarizing the available
evidence and shall be delivered or mailed by certified or registered mail to
the owner. The written determinations shall order compliance with the
appropriate provisions of this chapter and may impose reasonable conditions to
maintain the public health and safety.
   (D)   Appeal. Any person who owns a dog that has been declared dangerous/
potentially dangerous shall have the right to appeal this decision to the Town
of Fletcher Animal Appellate Board.
      (1)   Manner of appeal. The owner of a dog declared dangerous/potentially
dangerous must request an appeal of the determination in writing. The written
appeal must be submitted to the Chief of Police, and must be postmarked within
3 calendar days of the receipt by the owner of notice of declaration.
      (2)   Pending the appeal, the owner of a dog declared dangerous/
potentially dangerous shall comply with the provisions of this section.
      (3)   Hearing procedures. Once properly appealed, the Town of Fletcher
Animal Appellate Board shall conduct a public, quasi-judicial hearing to
determine whether the declaration of the animal as dangerous/potentially
dangerous is correct.
      (4)   Outcome. If the dog is affirmed by the Town of Fletcher Animal
Appellate Board as being dangerous/potentially dangerous, then the owner shall
comply with the terms of divisions (E), (F) an (G) of this section. Any person
who owns a dog affirmed dangerous/potentially dangerous by the this Board or
its designee has the right to appeal this determination to the Superior Court.
   (E)   Enclosures and control measures for dangerous/potentially dangerous
dogs. If a dog has been determined to be dangerous/potentially dangerous, as
specified in this section, the dog may be retained upon the owner satisfying
the following conditions:
      (1)   The owner must insure that the dog, at all times on and off the
owner's property, remains securely enclosed as per this chapter or controlled
and muzzled as described below. Failure to do so shall subject the owner to
penalty under this chapter:
         (a)   Confine the dog within the owner's residence; or
         (b)   Erect and confine the dog (except when muzzled and controlled as
required below), within 30 days in a securely enclosed and padlocked pen with a
concrete bottom and secure top. The structure must be secured by a child-
resistant lock. Pending construction of such pen, the dog must be confined
within the owner's residence; or
         (c)   The animal must be muzzled and under restraint by a competent
person who, by means of a leash or chain, has such animal firmly under physical
restraint at all times when not in a secure building or enclosure;
         (d)   Any dog deemed dangerous shall not be permitted in public
recreation areas, including dog parks, parks or greenways.
      (2)   The owner must post a warning sign of at least 120 square inches
that is visible to any adjoining property from each exposure of the residence
or the structure in which the dangerous/ potentially dangerous dog is confined.
The sign must have an approved graphic representation of an appropriate animal
such that the dangerousness of the animal is communicated to those who cannot
read, including young children.
      (3)   Microchip. Within 5 days of the determination or appeal
determination, the owner of a dangerous/potentially dangerous dog must
demonstrate to Animal Enforcement that such dog had a microchip implanted.
      (4)   Inspection. Animal Enforcement shall cause periodic inspections to
be made of the premises where the dangerous/potentially dangerous dog is kept
to assure compliance with the provisions of this chapter. The owner must permit
these inspections at any reasonable time without notice to the owner from the
Animal Enforcement Officers.
      (5)   Control measures.
         (a)   All control measures required by this section must be met
immediately upon the determination that the animal is dangerous/potentially
dangerous except for the construction of the enclosure discussed in division
(1)(b) of this provision. The owner has 30 days to construct the enclosure
during which time the animal must be confined indoors and may only be permitted
outside under the control of a competent person by leash or chain and the
animal must be muzzled. Failure to meet all control measures may result in the
immediate impoundment of the animal and civil and criminal penalties.
         (b)   If the owner has no place to keep the animal while the structure
is being constructed, the animal may be kept at the Henderson County Animal
Services Center or at a private establishment approved by the Chief of Police
at the owner's expense.
         (c)   All animals deemed dangerous or potentially dangerous must be
spayed or neutered within 30 days of the determination or an appeal
determination.
   (F)   Notification. Subject to state statute.
   (G)   Notification prior to transfer. Prior to any transfer to a new owner
(with or without consideration) of a dangerous/potentially dangerous dog, the
owner must provide to the Chief of Police a written statement, signed before a
notary by the transferee (on a form obtained from the Animal Services Center),
indicating the transferee's understanding of the transferee's obligations
hereunder as an owner of a dangerous/potentially dangerous dog.
   (H)   Immediate impoundment. Any dangerous/potentially dangerous dog kept in
violation of this section may be immediately impounded upon issuance of any
warrant for the same, pending the outcome of the criminal action. If the owner
is convicted of a criminal offense of keeping a dangerous/potentially dangerous
dog in violation of this section, in addition to any criminal penalties
imposed, the Henderson County Animal Services Director or his/her designee may
euthanize the dog. Nothing herein shall be construed to in any way limit the
use of civil penalties for a violation of this section.
      (1)   Cost of impoundment. Costs of impoundment at the Henderson County
Animal Services Center shall be paid by the owner or the person liable for the
animal at a daily rate as determined by Henderson County. In instances where
the Henderson County Animal Services Center must impound the animal at a
private facility or kennel, the person liable for the animal will pay the rate
established by those facilities.
      (2)   Release from impoundment.
         (a)   No dog deemed dangerous or potentially dangerous that has been
impounded by the Henderson County Animal Services Center shall be released to
the owner from impoundment except upon proof submitted by the owner or person
liable for the animal that all the elements of this chapter have been met as
verified by the Chief of Police or his designee. This shall not apply in
instances where criminal charges have been brought against the owner.
         (b)   If criminal charges have been brought against the owner for
failure to comply with this chapter or for interference with the operations of
the Henderson County Animal Services Center, no dog deemed dangerous shall be
released from Henderson County Animal Services until determined by a court of
competent jurisdiction. During this time while the dog is impounded, it cannot
be euthanized and the cost of impoundment shall be charged to the owner.
         (c)   No dog deemed dangerous or potentially dangerous may be adopted.
(Ord. O-17-16, passed 11-3-2017; Am. Ord. passed 5-14-2018)
§ 95.10 MISTREATMENT OF ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, keeping or responsible for an
animal to deprive, or cause the animal to be deprived of adequate food,
adequate water, adequate shelter (as defined in §
95.01) and necessary medical attention.
   (A)   Necessary medical attention. No person owning, keeping, or responsible
for an animal shall fail to supply the animal with necessary medical attention
or vaccines when the animal suffers from illness, injury or disease.
   (B)   Adequate shelter.
      (1)   When confinement prohibited. No animal may intentionally be
confined in a building, enclosure, car, boat, vehicle or vessel of any kind
when to do so would expose the animal to heat or cold harmful to its health.
      (2)   Standards for chaining. No animal may be chained outdoors
unattended without a chain/ cable of suitable length designed and placed to
prevent choking or strangulation, with the area free of obstacles and humanely
clean so that the animal may have access to food, water, and shelter. It shall
be illegal to tether, chain, stake out, tie up or otherwise similarly restrict
any and all birds unless a certified wildlife rehabilitation facility.
   (C)   An owner of an animal shall not permit injury or inflict pain upon
such animal from an improperly fitting or embedded collar or harness.
   (D)   It shall be illegal to own, keep, or harbor an animal for the purpose
of fighting other animals; or attacking other animals or people except for
protecting the owner or owner's real property. It shall be illegal to sponsor,
promote, organize animal fights, train animals for fighting, or provide animals
for fighting including but not limited to dog fighting and cock fighting.
Evidence of training animals to fight shall include but not be limited to:
alterations to the animal for fighting such as removing spurs or a comb; tying
animals to antagonize them and the discovery of a fighting ring or location.
   (E)   An owner of an animal shall not hit, physically abuse, or torment the
animal.
(Ord. O-17-16, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 95.11 DESTRUCTION OF ANIMALS THAT CANNOT BE SEIZED OR CONFINED BY REASONABLE
MEANS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, a dog or cat that
cannot be seized by reasonable and normal means, trapped in a humane, live-
capture animal trap, or tranquilized, may be humanely destroyed in the field by
law enforcement officers.
   (B)   Vicious, dangerous/potentially dangerous animals so designated, wild
animals, or an animal attacking a human being, another pet, or livestock may be
immediately destroyed, if such destruction is necessary for the protection of
the public health and safety or police department personnel.
(Ord. O-17-16, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 95.12 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   In general. Any animal found being mistreated or kept under unsanitary
or inhumane conditions, as provided in §
95.10; any animal found to be a public nuisance, as provided in §
95.07; or any dog or cat found to be not wearing a currently valid rabies
vaccination tag off the owner's property as required shall be seized,
impounded, and confined by a law enforcement officer and confined in the
Henderson County Animal Services Center in a humane manner. Impoundment of such
animal shall not relieve the owner thereof of any penalty which may be imposed
for violation of any provision of this chapter occurring prior to the date of
the impoundment.
   (B)   Notice to owner.  Immediately upon impounding an animal, the Chief of
Police or his designee, shall make reasonable efforts to notify the owner and
inform such owner of the conditions whereby the animal may be redeemed.
   (C)   Redemption by owner. The owner of an animal impounded under this
chapter may redeem the animal and regain possession thereof in accordance with
the rules and fees set by the Town Council in the policies for operation of the
Henderson County Animal Services Center and by complying with all applicable
provisions of this chapter and by paying all fees and civil penalties due. Fee
rates shall be available for public inspection in the office of the Clerk to
the Henderson County Board of County Commissioners and at the Henderson County
Animal Services Center. The owner of the impounded animal shall be liable for
the daily cost of impoundment to the Henderson County Animal Services Center,
as established in the fee schedule. The owner must have proof of current rabies
vaccination or purchase a rabies vaccine voucher. The owner of any dogs and
cats impounded for running at large in the county without a microchip or those
impounded for mistreatment must purchase a voucher for microchip installation
prior to release at the owner's expense unless there is a pending criminal
action in the matter. All fees and expenses must be paid prior to the release
of the animal. Animal and owner must be in compliance with state and federal
law prior to redemption.
   (D)   Adoption or euthanasia of unredeemed dog or cat.
      (1)   If any impounded stray dog or cat or abandoned animal is not
redeemed by the owner within 72 hours of impoundment, then such animal may be
offered for adoption or destroyed in a humane manner. Animals that are
voluntarily turned over to the Henderson County Animal Services Center by the
owner may be adopted or if adoption attempts are unsuccessful within a
reasonable period (or immediately if in the opinion of the Henderson County
Animal Services Director adoption efforts would be fruitless or in violation of
this chapter), are subject to euthanasia.
      (2)   No animal owner may be permitted to claim his/her animal under the
provisions of this section unless and until he/she shall comply with the
provisions of the policies of the Henderson County Animal Services Center.
   (E)   Suspected rabid dogs or cats are not to be redeemed or adopted.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, dogs or cats impounded
which appear to be suffering from rabies shall not be redeemed or adopted but
shall be dealt with in accordance with G.S. Chapter 130A.
   (F)   Final disposition of all unclaimed animals shall be arranged for by
the Henderson County Animal Services Director. The Henderson County Animal
Services Director or designee shall retain sole authority to determine the
final disposition of each animal in (its) custody once that animal becomes the
property of the County of Henderson and shall not place any animal for adoption
that is classified in this chapter as prohibited.
   (G)   The Henderson County Animal Services Center will not adopt out any
animal that demonstrates or has demonstrated aggressive behavior or any animal
that appears to be unhealthy.
(Ord. O-17-16, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 95.13 VOLUNTARY RELINQUISHMENT OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   Owners wishing to relinquish animals in their possession may do so by
delivering same to the Henderson County Animal Services Center. Such animals
will be subject to the impoundment provisions set out in §
95.12, except that no attempt to contact the owner is required.
   (B)   Owners must also affirmatively represent in writing:
      (1)   That he or she is the legal owner of the animal;
      (2)   That the owner permits the animal to be placed for adoption or
humanely destroyed;
      (3)   That the owner will indemnify and hold the Henderson County Animal
Services Center and Town of Fletcher harmless for fees, by reason of
destruction of, or placement for adoption of, said animal;
      (4)   That the owner transfers ownership of said animal to the Henderson
County Animal Services Center and releases the town Police Department from any
and all future claims with respect to said animal; and
      (5)   Reason for surrender for data collection purposes and to notify
potential adopted owners of any significant problems.
      (6)   If owner decides they want animal back after relinquishing, all
reclaim or adoptions fees may apply.
(Ord. O-17-16, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 95.14 REDEMPTION OF UNVACCINATED ANIMAL.
   (A)   Proof of vaccination. Unless proof of a current rabies vaccination can
be furnished, every person who redeems a dog or cat at the Henderson County
Animal Services Center must obtain (and pay the fee for) a rabies vaccination
to be administered within the time period as set below or receive a citation
for failure to vaccinate. Animals leaving the Henderson County Animal Services
Center must either have proof of current rabies vaccination or purchase of
rabies vaccine voucher. Animals must be vaccinated after 4 months.
   (B)   Payment. Payment for the rabies vaccination provided for in this
section will be the responsibility of the person redeeming the dog or cat. The
owner must pay all related fees and fines prior to the release of the animal.
(Ord. O-17-16, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 95.15 EUTHANASIA OF WOUNDED, DISEASED AND UNWANTED ANIMALS.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, any animal impounded
which is badly wounded or diseased (not suspected of rabies) and has no
identification shall be subject to euthanasia immediately upon approval of the
Henderson County Animal Services Director or his/her designee. If the animal
has identification, the Henderson County Animal Services Center shall attempt
to notify the owner before euthanizing such animal.
(Ord. O-17-16, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 95.16 RELATION TO HUNTING LAWS.
   Nothing in this chapter is intended to be in conflict with the North
Carolina General Statutes regulating, restricting, authorizing or otherwise
affecting dogs while used in lawful hunting.
(Ord. O-17-16, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 95.17 FEES.
   Animal Services fees will be set as needed within this chapter. All such
fees owed must be paid prior to the release of any impounded animal.
(Ord. O-17-16, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 95.18 COLLECTION OF DOGS AND CATS FOR RESALE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to collect living companion animals
within the town for the purpose of resale. The term COLLECT shall include but
is not limited to home solicitations or the setting of traps on any land within
the town for the purpose of reselling animals.
(Ord. O-17-16, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 95.19 NOTICE IN CASE OF INJURY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who causes injury to a domestic animal
by any means, specifically including, but not limited to, hitting a domestic
animal with any vehicle, within 24 hours of such injury, to fail to notify at
least 1 of the following:
   (A)   The owner of the animal;
   (B)   Town of Fletcher police officer;
   (C)   Any other appropriate law enforcement official; or
   (D)   The Henderson County Animal Services Center.
(Ord. O-17-16, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 95.20 RESTRAINT/CONFINEMENT OF DOMESTIC ANIMALS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person owning or having charge, care, custody or control of any
domestic animal shall cause, permit or allow the same to be or to run at large
except while on the private property or premises of the person owning or having
charge, care, custody or control of such domestic animal.
   (B)   When not on the owner's property, a domestic animal shall be under the
control of a competent person and restrained by a leash, harness or other
similar means of physical control.
   (C)   This section pertains to all domestic animals with the following
exceptions:
      (1)   Dogs used for control of livestock as long as said animal is in the
process of controlling livestock.
      (2)   Dogs used or trained for hunting as long as said animal is in the
process of being trained by a trainer and/or owner or on a legal hunt in the
presence of the owner.
      (3)   Dogs used or trained for exhibition, performance, or obedience, or
similar event, as long as said animal is in the process of participating or
training for in a kennel club, field trial or similar event.
      (4)   Dogs used for law enforcement while training and/or acting in the
line of duty.
      (5)   Dogs may be allowed to run at large in off-leash areas of such
properties as may be designated by Henderson County or the town that shall have
the authority to establish such rules and regulations as reasonably necessary
for the operation of such properties. Dogs in designated off-leash areas must
be accompanied by their owner, be under vocal control, in the line of sight,
and not cause a public nuisance, safety hazard, harass people or other domestic
or wild animals.
(Ord. O-17-16, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 95.21 ANIMAL ABANDONMENT.
   Unless otherwise specified by this chapter, animals, including domestic and
livestock, that have been abandoned by their owner shall become the property of
Henderson County. For the purpose of this chapter, an ABANDONED ANIMAL shall be
defined as an animal that is on public property or is reported on private
property by the property owner whose owner is unknown and cannot be determined
by a reasonable search by law enforcement officers.
   (A)   Adoption and euthanasia. Animals that have been abandoned shall be
held by the Henderson County Animal Services Department for 72 hours unless
otherwise specified by this chapter. After 72 hours, Henderson County Animal
Services may adopt out or humanely destroy any abandoned animal.
   (B)   Redemption. Any person claiming to be the owner of an animal must pay
the reclaim fee, boarding fee, any veterinary costs and any other costs
incurred by the town and/or Henderson County for the animal prior to the animal
being released. REDEMPTION is defined as reclaim for lost, abandoned animals,
or animals that have violated this chapter and shall not include animals held
under quarantine. In the case of cats and dogs, no animal shall be released
without being microchipped. In the case of livestock, Henderson County Animal
Services may require some proof from the person of ownership of this animal
prior to its release.
   (C)   Owner search. Law enforcement officers shall conduct a reasonable
search for the owner of the abandoned animal which may include but is not
limited to a microchip scan, an investigation of the neighborhood, information
supplied on the Henderson County Animal Services website, or notices on local
media outlets.
   (D)   Willful abandonment. Any person found to be willfully releasing
animals into the community, including but not limited to leaving animals by the
side of the road, releasing animals into parks or leaving animals in parking
lots shall be guilty of a misdemeanor as defined elsewhere in this chapter and
may incur civil and criminal penalties. People may lawfully relinquish animals
to the Henderson County Animal Services Center without penalty.
(Ord. O-17-16, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 95.22 PROHIBITION AGAINST GIVEAWAYS IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   It shall be unlawful to display any animal in a public place for the purpose
of selling, trading, or giving the animal away or used as a prize or
inducement. For the purpose of this section, PUBLIC PLACE shall be defined as
any place open to the general public including but not limited to malls,
supermarkets, parking lots, flea markets, farmer's markets, road right-of-ways,
and parks. This section does not apply to state regulated pet shops, commercial
kennels, licensed animal shelters, veterinarian offices, licensed stockyards or
livestock auctions or 501(c)(3) non-profits who adopt out animals with proof of
rabies vaccination and alteration.
(Ord. O-17-16, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 95.23 AGGRESSIVE DOG CONTROLS.
   (A)   General provisions. It shall be unlawful for any person to own or in
any way maintain or harbor an animal that is an aggressive animal except as
provided in this section.
   (B)   Conflict of laws. This section is not intended to conflict with any
other provisions of state or local law including, but not limited to dangerous/
potentially dangerous dog provisions.
   (C)   Determination. The Chief of Police or any sworn law enforcement
officer may determine that an animal is aggressive.
      (1)   The determination must be made in writing and provided to the owner
or keeper of the animal.
      (2)   Appeal. Any appeals under this provision must be made in writing to
the Henderson County Animal Services Director or postmarked within 3 calendar
days from the time of the determination.
         (a)   Upon receipt of the appeal, the Town of Fletcher Animal
Appellate Board shall hear the appeal at its next regularly scheduled meeting.
         (b)   From the time of the determination to the final decision of the
appeal, the animal must be kept in the manner determined for aggressive
animals.
   (D)   Control measures.
      (1)   Restraint.  An animal deemed aggressive must be under restraint by
a competent person who by means of a leash, chain or rope has the animal under
control at all times. Voice command is not an adequate restraint. Aggressive
dogs may be permitted in public recreation areas including parks, dog parks, or
greenways but only if the animal is muzzled.
      (2)   Secure enclosure. When not under the restraint of a competent
individual as described above, the animal must be in a secure enclosure. A
secure enclosure for the purpose of this section is either a building or a
permanent fence in the yard with a padlock. Animal Enforcement Officers shall
determine whether the fence is adequate. Chaining, tethering or tying up is not
a secure enclosure unless accompanied with a fence.
      (3)   Microchipping. Any animal deemed aggressive must be microchipped
within 5 days of the determination.
      (4)   Signage. The owner of an aggressive animal must post a warning
sign, of at least 120 square inches, that is to be visible to any adjoining
property from each exposure of the residence or the structure in which the
aggressive animal is confined. Each sign must have an approved graphic
representation of an appropriate animal such that the dangerousness of the
animal is communicated to those who cannot read, including young children.
      (5)   Transfer. Prior to any transfer to a new owner or to a new property
(with or without consideration) of a deemed aggressive animal, the owner must
provide to the Henderson County Animal Services Department and town Police
Department a written statement stating where the animal is going and who the
new owner of the animal is. The transferring owner must make sure the new owner
is aware and understands the precautions the owner must take as owner of an
aggressive animal.
      (6)   Inspection. Law enforcement officers shall cause periodic
inspections to be made of the premises where the animal is kept to assure
compliance with the provisions of this chapter. The owner must permit these
inspections at any reasonable time without notice to the owner from the law
enforcement officers.
      (7)   No dog deemed aggressive may be adopted out.
   (E)   Penalties and consequences of noncompliance.
      (1)   Penalty. Penalties for violations of aggressive animals can be
found in §
95.99.
      (2)   Impoundment. Animals that have been deemed aggressive and found
running astray or being kept in a manner in violation of this chapter shall be
impounded at the Animal Services Center. The animal shall not be returned to
the owner until all fines, fees and related costs have been paid.
      (3)   Authority to immobilize or kill an aggressive dog. If any animal
deemed aggressive, dangerous or potentially dangerous is running at large in
public places or on private property without the permission of the owner or
occupant of the property and such animal cannot be safely taken up and
impounded, such animal may be slain by any law enforcement official or Animal
Enforcement Officer.
   (F)   Exceptions. No animal shall be deemed aggressive in instances where:
      (1)   The person is unlawfully present on the premise occupied by the
owner or keeper;
      (2)   The behavior is committed against a person who has teased, abused,
tormented, or assaulted the animal;
      (3)   Where the person is committing or attempting to commit a crime;
      (4)   The animal is involved in a hunt with its owner; or
      (5)   Animal is protecting the owner or the animal's young.
(Ord. O-17-16, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 95.24 PROHIBITION OF POSSESSION OF INHERENTLY DANGEROUS OR WILD ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner to keep, possess, harbor, or have
under their control an inherently dangerous animal or a wild animal within the
town.
   (B)   Exceptions. Persons with a valid and current government-issued license
shall be exempt. Person must currently hold the license.
   (C)   Recapturing. The owner of any inherently dangerous animal or wild
animal shall reimburse the town and/or Henderson County for all costs incurred
while attempting to recapture any escaped inherently dangerous mammal. If the
animal is sheltered or euthanized the owner shall also pay these costs.
      (1)   Law enforcement officers may take and impound an animal under these
provisions at any time for the protection of public health, safety, and
welfare.
      (2)   If an animal cannot be taken safely by law enforcement or if proper
and safe housing cannot be found for the animal, law enforcement may
immediately destroy the animal.
   (D)   Testing. In the event genetic testing is performed on the animal and
if the test provides positive returns, the owner may be held civilly liable for
the cost of testing.
(Ord. O-17-16, passed 11-13-2017)
RABIES CONTROL
§ 95.30 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE RABIES LAWS; SUPPLEMENT TO STATE RABIES LAW.
   (A)   Failure to comply is unlawful. It shall be unlawful for any animal
owner or other person to fail to comply with the state public health laws
relating to the control of rabies.
   (B)   Providing procedure. It is the purpose of this chapter to supplement
the General Statutes by providing procedure for the enforcement of state laws
relating to rabies control (in addition to the criminal penalties provided by
the General Statutes).
(Ord. O-17-16, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 95.31 VACCINATION OF DOGS, CATS AND OTHER PETS.
   (A)   Failure to vaccinate is unlawful. It shall be unlawful for an owner to
fail to provide current vaccination against rabies for any dog or cat 4 months
of age or older. Should it be required by the Henderson County Director of
Public Health that other pets be vaccinated in order to prevent a threatened
epidemic or to control an existing epidemic, it shall be unlawful for an owner
to fail to provide current vaccination against rabies for that pet.
   (B)   Current rabies vaccination. The owner of every dog and cat over 4
months of age shall have the animal vaccinated against rabies. The time or
times of vaccination shall be established by the State Veterinary Commission.
Rabies vaccine shall be administered as required in G.S. § 130A-185.
   (C)   Adopted animals. Every dog or cat adopted from the Henderson County
Animal Services Center shall be vaccinated by a licensed veterinarian or
certified rabies vaccinator within 30 days of adoption unless the animal is
under 4 months and then it shall be vaccinated when medically possible or when
animal is brought back for spay or neuter surgery. If the animal is over 4
months and not vaccinated prior to adoption, a rabies vaccine voucher shall be
purchased. Owners shall have the burden to provide vaccine information to law
enforcement officers after the animal received the vaccine. If proof of
vaccination is not provided to Henderson County Animal Services within 30 days
of adoption, Henderson County Animal Services shall keep the deposit. In
addition, the adopted animal may be impounded by law enforcement officers and/
or penalties may be assessed against the owner.
   (D)   Failure to vaccinate; penalty. The owner of a dog or cat not having a
current rabies vaccination shall be subject to a civil penalty as determined in
this chapter if such owner does not produce a valid and current rabies
vaccination tag or form within 5 days of the demand for same by an Animal
Enforcement Officer or law enforcement officer. Failure to produce the tag or
form under this division is a separate offense for each animal.
   (E)   Certification of vaccination. The owners of dogs and cats 4 months of
age or older shall have the dogs or cats vaccinated against rabies with an
approved vaccine administered by a licensed veterinarian. The veterinarian
shall issue the owner of the animal a vaccination certificate and such owner
shall retain such certificate until vaccination is renewed. At the time of
vaccination, an owner shall be issued a metal tag by the veterinarian showing
the information required by North Carolina state law.
   (F)   Tag required to be worn. Every owner of a cat or dog shall affix a
rabies tag on the dog or cat at all times while off its owner's premises. It
shall be unlawful for any person other than the owner to remove the tag from
the dog or cat. Tags do not have to be worn in the following situations:
confinement on owner's premises, animal shows, obedience trials, tracking
tests, field trials, training schools or events by a recognized organization,
or supervised hunting.
   (G)   Tag, certificate, etc. not transferable. No person shall use a rabies
tag or veterinarian certificate or receipt for any dog or cat than for the dog
or cat to which the rabies tag, veterinarian certificate or receipt was issued.
   (H)   Owner to provide proof of vaccination. Any law enforcement officer may
at any reasonable time require an owner to provide proof of rabies vaccination
for any animals. Any owner not possessing a current rabies tag, certificate or
receipt for such dog or cat over 4 months of age shall fall under division (J)
below regarding enforcement.
   (I)   Impoundment. Any animal found off the owner's property not wearing the
required vaccination tag or an animal that has been under investigation by law
enforcement in the last 30 days and did not have proper rabies identification
at the time or subsequently on or off the owner's property shall be impounded
by any law enforcement officer. During the impoundment period, the law
enforcement officer shall make reasonable efforts to locate the animal's owner.
No animal shall be released until it is vaccinated against rabies, has a rabies
voucher or the Henderson County Animal Services Center is presented with
evidence of its current vaccination. An animal impounded under this section
shall be released to its owner upon payment of all applicable fees, payment for
care during the impoundment and cost of vaccination when necessary.
   (J)   Enforcement.
      (1)   If an animal is found without a rabies tag on the owner's property,
the owner shall have 5 calendar days to obtain proper proof of vaccination and
present to law enforcement.
         (a)   After 5 days, law enforcement may check the vaccination on the
animal and if there is still no proof of rabies vaccination, the owner shall be
assessed a rabies fine for 5 days.
         (b)   If after 5 days, the owner has proof of rabies vaccination for
the animal(s), no fine shall be assessed.
      (2)   If an animal is found off the owner's property, the animal shall be
impounded for 72 hours for owner reclaim. Prior to release, the animal's
vaccination history shall be verified and a rabies vaccine voucher shall be
purchased if required.
(Ord. O-17-16, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 95.32 REPORT AND CONFINEMENT OF DOGS AND CATS BITING PERSONS OR SHOWING
SYMPTOMS OF RABIES.
   (A)   Quarantine. Every dog or cat that has bitten a person or that shows
symptoms of rabies shall be confined immediately and shall be promptly reported
to the Henderson County Animal Services Center, and thereupon shall be securely
quarantined, at the direction of the Henderson County Animal Services Center,
for 10 days commencing from the time of the bite. Animals quarantined under
this section shall be confined at the expense of the owner.
      (1)   All dogs and cats shall be housed at the Henderson County Animal
Services Center unless approved by the Henderson County Public Health Director
or his/her designee in writing.
      (2)   Animals may be quarantined in approved veterinary quarantine at the
veterinarian's office. This must be approved by the Henderson County Director
of Public Health in writing. In instances where this option is used, the owner
must sign a document produced by Henderson County/Town of Fletcher where the
owner accepts all liability for the animal. At the end of the quarantine, the
owner or the veterinarian must provide documentation stating the animal does
not have rabies and has been properly vaccinated against rabies.
      (3)   Animals quarantined at the Henderson County Animal Shelter must be
claimed no more than 24 hours after the end of the quarantine period. After
this period the animal shall be considered relinquished to Henderson County
Animal Services.
   (B)   Authority to seize animals for noncompliance. If the owner or the
person who controls or possesses the dog or cat refuses to confine the animal
as required by this section, the Henderson County Director of Public Health may
order seizure of the animal and its confinement for 10 days in such a place as
the Henderson County Director of Public Health designates, at the expense of
the owner.
   (C)   Disposition of animal other than dog, cat or ferret. An animal other
than a dog or cat or ferret that bites a person shall be immediately euthanized
and its head forwarded to the North Carolina State Laboratory of Public Health
for rabies testing.
   (D)   Quarantine of stray animals. In the case of stray animals whose
ownership is not known, the supervised quarantine required by this section
shall be at the Henderson County Animal Services Center.
   (E)   Authority to euthanize unclaimed animals. If any animal is unclaimed
after a 10-day confinement, then the Henderson County Animal Services Director
may have the animal euthanized.
   (F)   Release from quarantine. If rabies does not develop within the 10-day
quarantine period under this section, the animal may be released from
quarantine to its owner.
   (G)   Report of bites. Every physician or other medical practitioner who
treats a person or persons for any animal bite or scratch or any person having
knowledge of an animal bite or scratch shall within 12 hours, report such
treatment to the Henderson County Animal Services Center giving the name, age,
sex and precise location of the bitten/scratched person or persons and such
other information as the officer or agency may require.
   (H)   Euthanization of wounded, diseased or suffering animals. Badly
wounded, diseased, or suffering animals that are suspected of having rabies may
be humanely euthanized immediately and the head forwarded for rabies testing.
(Ord. O-17-16, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 95.33 DESTRUCTION OR CONFINEMENT OF ANIMAL BITTEN BY KNOWN RABID ANIMAL.
   (A)   Animals not vaccinated against rabies that are bitten by or exposed to
a known rabid animal or rabies suspect shall be immediately destroyed, unless
the owner agrees to strict isolation of the animal at a veterinary hospital for
a period of up to 6 months at the owner's expense unless a similar quarantine
facility is approved by the Henderson County Public Health Director.
   (B)   If the animal has a current rabies vaccination, it shall be
revaccinated within 72 hours of the bite.
(Ord. O-17-16, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 95.34 AREA-WIDE EMERGENCY QUARANTINE.
   (A)   Quarantine ordered. When reports indicate a positive diagnosis of
rabies in an animal found within Henderson County or any adjacent county, the
Henderson County Director of Public Health may order an area-wide quarantine
for such period, as he/she deems necessary. Upon invoking such emergency
quarantine, no dog or cat may be taken or shipped from Henderson County without
written permission of the Henderson County Director of Public Health. The
Henderson County Director of Public Health can place a moratorium on adoptions
of animals from the County Shelter. All law enforcement officers are duly
authorized by G.S. § 130A-195 to seize, impound or shoot any dog or cat found
not under control in the Henderson County during an emergency quarantine.
During the quarantine period, the Henderson County Director of Public Health
shall be empowered to provide for a program of mass immunization by the
establishment of temporary emergency rabies vaccination facilities
strategically located throughout the county.
   (B)   Extension of quarantine. In the event there are additional positive
cases of rabies occurring during the period of quarantine, such period of
quarantine may be extended at the discretion of the Henderson County Director
of Public Health.
(Ord. O-17-16, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 95.35 POSTMORTEM RABIES TESTING.
   (A)   Testing of dogs or cats under observation. If a dog or cat dies while
under observation for rabies, the dog or cat shall be submitted to the Western
Animal Disease Diagnostic Laboratory for shipment to the State Laboratory of
Public Health for rabies testing.
   (B)   Surrender of dead dog or cat. The carcass of any dead dog or cat
exposed to rabies shall be surrendered to the Henderson County Animal Services
Center. The animal shall be submitted to the State Laboratory of Public Health
for rabies testing.
(Ord. O-17-16, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 95.36 UNLAWFUL KILLING OR RELEASING OF CERTAIN ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to kill or release any dog or cat that
is under observation for rabies, suspected of having been exposed to rabies, or
having bitten a human; or to remove such dog or cat from Henderson County
without written permission from the Henderson County Director of Public Health.
Violation of this section shall be subject to penalties as prescribed in §
95.99.
(Ord. O-17-16, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 95.37 FAILURE TO SURRENDER DOG OR CAT FOR QUARANTINE OR EUTHANASIA.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to surrender any dog
or cat for quarantine or euthanasia as required in this chapter when demand is
made therefor by the Henderson County Director of Public Health or his/her
designee.
(Ord. O-17-16, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 95.38 SPAY-NEUTER ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.
   (A)   Purpose. To promote spay and neuter of domestic dogs and cats by
providing funds and education for alteration for Henderson County residents on
spay and neuter services and issues.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, ADOPTION means not commercially sold
and includes all rescues, havens, shelters or other animal welfare, non-profit
organizations in Henderson County, in addition to the County Animal Services
Center.
   (C)   Assistance Program.
      (1)   Authority. Henderson County Animal Services is authorized to
establish, equip, operate, maintain and provide spay/neuter services for
Henderson County dogs and cats. Animal Services is likewise authorized to
contract with any individual, corporation, nonprofit organization, governmental
body or any other group for the purpose of providing alteration services for
Henderson County cats and dogs.
      (2)   Assistance Fund. Henderson County Animal Services Center may
establish a Spay and Neuter Assistance Program Fund to collect and distribute
funds to assist eligible residents of Henderson County with financial resources
for animal alteration. These monies may also be used toward education program
costs. Funds collected at the Henderson County Animal Services Rabies Clinics
shall be contributed to this Fund.
      (3)   SNAP voucher program. Vouchers may be available at the Henderson
County Animal Services Center to low-income residents of Henderson County which
may be redeemed for spay/neuter services at designated local providers.
      (4)   Boarding charge. Henderson County Animal Services shall establish a
return date by which a person submitting an animal for alteration shall pick up
the animal or be subject to a reasonable boarding fee as established by
Henderson County to commence after the return date. If the animal is not picked
up within 5 business days of the return date, Animal Services shall consider
the animal abandoned and/or relinquished and may adopt out or euthanize the
animal as necessary.
   (D)   Education program.
      (1)   Written information. Henderson County will prepare and distribute
educational information to Henderson County pet owners regarding responsible
pet ownership and retention, importance of animal alteration, and resources to
assist eligible pet owners have their animals altered.
      (2)   Educational events. Henderson County may coordinate with related
organizations and individuals to provide Henderson County residents with
classes, events, and other activities to enhance the community's awareness of
animal issues including animal overpopulation, responsible pet ownership and
retention and the importance of alteration.
      (3)   Henderson County may prepare and distribute educational information
regarding responsible pet ownership, animal alteration, spay/neuter assistance,
and resources for assistance with other issues.
(Ord. O-17-16, passed 11-13-2017)
COMPANION ANIMAL REGISTRY
§ 95.50 COMPANION ANIMAL REGISTRATION.
   No household shall own, house, or care for more than 10 domestic animals on
their property without registering with Henderson Count Animal Services Center.
   (A)   Law enforcement shall be permitted to inspect all registered parties
at any time. Refusal of inspection shall be grounds for registry revocation.
   (B)   The owner must notify Animal Services if the number of animals
increases.
(Ord. O-17-16, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 95.51 ENFORCEMENT.
   Failure to comply with the provisions of this subchapter may result in
criminal or civil penalties as contemplated in §
95.99. Violators with more than 10 animals who are not registered or have
excess animals from their registry must pay $50 per additional animal more than
10 per day they are in violation. Excess animals may also be impounded at the
owner's expense. Excess animals impounded under this subchapter must be
reclaimed within 24 hours of impoundment or become the immediate property of
Henderson County.
(Ord. O-17-16, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 95.52 COMPLIANCE WITH EXISTING LAWS.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to conflict or supplant any
federal, state laws, rules or regulations especially those concerning the
licensing of kennels, shelters or pet shops. Nor shall anything in this
subchapter conflict with any state, or local, laws regarding land use.
(Ord. O-17-16, passed 11-13-2017)
LIVESTOCK
§ 95.60 ALLOWING LIVESTOCK TO RUN AT LARGE FORBIDDEN.
   If any person shall intentionally, willfully, knowingly or negligently allow
his livestock to run at large, he shall be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor.
(Ord. O-17-16, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 95.61 IMPOUNDING LIVESTOCK AT LARGE; RIGHT TO RECOVER COSTS AND DAMAGES.
   Any person may take up any livestock running at large or straying and
impound the same; and such impounder may recover from the owner the reasonable
costs of impounding and maintaining the livestock as well as damages to the
impounder caused by such livestock, and may retain the livestock, with the
right to use with proper care until such recovery is had. Reasonable costs of
impounding shall include any fees paid in order to locate the owner.
(Ord. O-17-16, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 95.62 NOTICE AND DEMAND WHEN OWNER KNOWN.
   If the owner of impounded livestock is or becomes known to the impounder,
actual notice of the whereabouts of the impounded livestock must be immediately
given to the owner and the impounder must then make demand upon the owner of
the livestock for the costs of impoundment and the damages to the impounder, if
any, caused by such livestock.
(Ord. O-17-16, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 95.63 NOTICE WHEN OWNER NOT KNOWN.
   If the owner of the impounded livestock is not known or cannot be found, the
impounder shall inform the Henderson County Register of Deeds that he has
impounded the livestock and provide the Register of Deeds with a description of
the livestock. The Register of Deeds shall record the information in a book
kept for that purpose, and shall charge the impounder a fee of $10. The
Register of Deeds shall immediately publish a notice of the impoundment of the
animal by posting a notice on the Courthouse door. The notice on the Courthouse
door shall be posted for 30 days, and shall contain a full description of the
livestock impounded, including all marks or brands on the livestock, and shall
state when and where the animal was taken up. The impounder shall publish once,
in some newspaper published and distributed in the county, a notice containing
the same information as the notice posted by the Register of Deeds. The fees
for publishing the notice shall be paid by the impounder.
(Ord. O-17-16, passed 11-13-17)
§ 95.64 DETERMINATION OF DAMAGES BY SELECTED LANDOWNERS OR BY REFEREE.
   If the owner and impounder cannot agree as to the cost of impounding and
maintaining such livestock, as well as damages to the impounder caused by such
livestock running at large, then such costs and damages shall be determined by
3 disinterested landowners, 1 to be selected by the owner of the livestock, 1
to be selected by the impounder and a third to be selected by the first 2. If
within 10 days a majority of the landowners so selected cannot agree, or if the
owner of the livestock or the impounder fails to make his selection, or if the
2 selected fail to select a third, then the Henderson County Clerk of Superior
Court of the county where the livestock is impounded shall select a referee.
The determination of such costs and damages by the landowners or by the referee
shall be final.
(Ord. O-17-16, passed 11-13-17)
§ 95.65 NOTICE OF SALE AND SALE WHERE OWNER FAILS TO REDEEM OR IS UNKNOWN;
APPLICATION OF PROCEEDS.
   If the owner fails to redeem his livestock within 3 days after the notice
and demand as provided herein is received or within 3 days after the
determination of the costs and damages as provided in this subchapter, then,
upon written notice fully describing the livestock, stating the place, date,
and hour of sale posted at the Courthouse door and 3 or more public places in
the township where the owner resides, and after 10 days from such posting, the
impounder shall sell the livestock at public auction. If the owner of the
livestock remains unknown to the impounder, then, 30 days after publication of
the notice required herein, the impounder shall post at the Courthouse door and
3 public places in the township where the livestock is impounded a written
notice fully describing the livestock, and stating the place, date, and hour of
sale. After 20 days from such posting, the impounder shall sell the livestock
at public auction. The proceeds of any such public sale shall be applied to pay
the reasonable costs of impounding and maintaining the livestock and the
damages to the impounder caused by the livestock. Reasonable costs of
impounding shall include any fees paid pursuant to this subchapter in an
attempt to locate the owner of the livestock. The balance, if any, shall be
paid to the owner of the livestock, if known, or, if the owner is not known,
then to the school fund of the county where the livestock was impounded.
(Ord. O-17-16, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 95.66 ILLEGALLY RELEASING OR RECEIVING IMPOUNDED LIVESTOCK MISDEMEANOR.
   If any person willfully releases any lawfully impounded livestock without
the permission of the impounder or receives such livestock knowing that it was
unlawfully released, he shall be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor.
(Ord. O-17-16, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 95.67 IMPOUNDED LIVESTOCK TO BE FED AND WATERED.
   If any person shall impound or cause to be impounded any livestock and shall
fail to supply to the livestock during the confinement a reasonably adequate
quantity of good and wholesome feed and water, he shall be guilty of a Class 3
misdemeanor.
(Ord. O-17-16, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 95.68 RIGHT TO FEED IMPOUNDED LIVESTOCK; OWNER LIABLE.
   When any livestock is impounded under the provisions of this chapter and
remains without reasonably adequate food and water for more than 24 hours, any
person may lawfully enter the area of impoundment to supply the livestock with
food and water. Such person shall not be liable in trespass for such entry and
may recover of the owner or, if the owner is unknown, of the impounder of the
livestock, the reasonable costs of the food and water.
(Ord. O-17-16, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 95.69 DOMESTIC FOWL RUNNING AT LARGE AFTER NOTICE.
   (A)   If any person shall permit any turkeys, geese, chickens, ducks or
other domestic fowl to run at large on the lands of any other person while such
lands are under cultivation in any kind of grain or feedstuff or while being
used for gardens or ornamental purposes, after having received actual or
constructive notice of such running at large, he shall be guilty of a Class 3
misdemeanor.
   (B)   If it shall appear to any magistrate that after 3 days notice any
person persists in allowing his fowl to run at large in violation of this
section and fails or refuses to keep them upon his own premises, then said
magistrate may, in his discretion, order the Sheriff or other officer to kill
the fowl when they are running at large as herein provided.
(Ord. O-17-16, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 95.70 CODIFICATION OF GENERAL STATUTES.
   This subchapter codifies G.S. Chapter 68, Article 3, its subsequent
amendments, additions, or deletions, and the case law of the State of North
Carolina arising thereunder.
(Ord. O-17-16, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   The following penalties shall pertain to violations of this chapter.
   (A)   Misdemeanor. The violation of any provision of this chapter shall be a
misdemeanor and any person convicted of such violation shall be punishable as
provided in G.S. § 14-4 or other applicable law. Each violation of this chapter
(or if a continuing violation, each day in which the violation continues) is a
separate offense. Each violation for each animal is a separate offense. Payment
of a fine imposed in criminal proceedings pursuant to this subsection does not
affect the liability for fees or civil penalties imposed under this chapter.
   (B)   Enforcement. Enforcement of this chapter may include any appropriate
equitable remedy, injunction or order of abatement issuing from a court of
competent jurisdiction pursuant to G.S. §§ 153A-123(d) and (e).
   (C)   Issuance of a citation. Issuance of a citation for violation of this
chapter is directed toward and against the owner. The purpose of issuing a
citation is to affect the conduct of the owner by seeking to have the owner
insure compliance with this chapter. The issuance of a citation hereunder shall
not affect the prosecution of a violation hereof as a misdemeanor as provided
above. A citation shall:
      (1)   Give notice of the violation(s) alleged of the owner;
      (2)   State the civil penalties for such violation(s);
      (3)   State the date by which any penalties for such violation(s) must be
paid; and
      (4)   State that the county may initiate after such date a civil action
to collect the civil penalties which are and may become due.
   (D)   Civil penalties. In addition to and independent of any criminal
penalties and other sanctions provided in this chapter, violations of this
chapter may also subject the offender to the civil penalties hereinafter set
forth.
      (1)   The Henderson County Animal Services Director, or any sworn law
enforcement officer may issue to the known owner of any animal, or to any other
violator of the provisions of this chapter, a citation. Citations so issued may
be delivered in person or mailed by certified or registered mail to the person
charged if that person cannot be readily found. The citation shall impose upon
the violator a minimum civil penalty of $50 or such greater amounts for
offenses as may be set by ordinance. The imposed civil penalty shall be paid in
full to the town within 30 days of receipt of the citation assessing the civil
penalty. This civil penalty is in addition to other fees or costs authorized by
this chapter. Civil penalties issued by Henderson County shall be paid in full
to Henderson County within 30 days of receipt of the citation assessing the
civil penalty.
      (2)   In the event that the owner of an animal or other alleged violator
does not respond to the above-described citation, or the applicable civil
penalty is not paid within the time period prescribed, a civil action may be
commenced to recover the penalty and costs associated with collection of the
penalty, and/or a criminal summons may be issued against the owner or other
alleged violator of this chapter and upon conviction, the owner shall be
punished as provided by state law. The Chief of Police is expressly authorized
to initiate and pursue small claims actions in District Court to collect civil
penalties and fees due to the Department and may call on the town's legal
counsel for assistance as needed.
      (3)   Each violation of this chapter is a separate fine. Each day in
violation and each animal kept in violation are considered separate offenses
and may be fined for each individually.
      (4)   The following civil penalties are hereby established for each
incident violation of this chapter.
Animal Service Civil Penalty Fee Schedule
Section Violated Description Civil Penalty Fee
Animal Service Civil Penalty Fee Schedule
Section                                                                        Civil
Violated Description                                                           Penalty
                                                                               Fee
95.06    Interference with Animal Enforcement Officer or agent (per incident)  $500
95.06(B) Concealment of an animal to evade ordinance (per day of violation)    $100
         Public nuisance:                                                       
            First violation                                                 Warning
95.07       Second violation                                                only
            Third (and subsequent) violation (per day of violation          $50
                                                                               $100
         Keeping a dangerous/potentially dangerous dog:                         
            Unattended/loose/unrestrained (per day)                         $500
95.09       Without tattoo/microchip (per day)                              $500
            Failing to notify of change of address or death (per day)       $500
            Failing to present proof of transferee responsibility (per day) $1,000
95.10    Mistreatment of an animal (per day)                                   $500
95.22    Prohibition of giveaways in public places (per incident, per animal)  $50
         Keeping an aggressive animal:                                          
95.23       Unattended/loose/unrestrained (per day)                         $250
            Without tattooing/microchip (per day)                           $100
            Failing to notify of change of address or death (per day)       $100
 
      (5)   Any person who fails to pay a fine within period of 30 days after
receiving citation shall be deemed to have committed a misdemeanor and a
warrant may be issued for the person's arrest. Prosecution under this section
shall require proof of the occurrence of the underlying facts giving rise to
the notice of citation.
      (6)   The owner of a dangerous or potentially dangerous animal shall be
strictly liable in civil damages for any injuries or property damage the animal
inflicts upon a person, his property or another animal as per G.S. § 67-4.4.
      (7)   Violations taking place over continuous days shall be capped at 10
days per animal per violation unless there is evidence suggesting that the
person has tried to interfere with law enforcement officers or obstruct justice
in which case additional fines may accrue.
      (8)   The final determination regarding the imposition and amount of
fines shall be determined by the town and alternative settlements shall be
allowed where appropriate.
   (E)   Interference. It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with,
hinder, molest, resist or obstruct any employee or agent of the Police
Department or the town in the performance of any duty authorized by law or
ordinance, or to seek to release any domestic animal in the custody of such
employees or agents (including from traps, cages, or other enclosures) except
as specifically provided or authorized by the Department.
   (F)   Rabies control - civil penalties. In addition to and independent of
any criminal penalties and other sanctions provided in §§
95.30 through
95.37, violation of §§
95.30 through
95.37 may also subject the offender to the civil penalties hereinafter set
forth.
      (1)   The Henderson County Animal Services Director or law enforcement
officers may issue to the known owner of any animal, or to any other violator
of the provisions of this chapter, a citation. Citations so issued may be
delivered in person or mailed by certified or registered mail to the person
charged if that person cannot be readily found. The citation shall impose upon
the violator a minimum civil penalty of $50 or such greater amounts for
offenses as may be set by this chapter. The imposed civil penalty shall be paid
in full to the Henderson County Animal Services Center within 30 days of
receipt of the citation assessing the civil penalty. This civil penalty is in
addition to other fees or costs authorized by this chapter.
      (2)   In the event that the owner of an animal or other alleged violator
does not appear in response to the above-described citation or the applicable
civil penalty is not paid within the time period prescribed, a civil action may
be commenced to recover the penalty and costs associated with collection of the
penalty, and/or criminal summons may be issued against the owner or other
alleged violator of this chapter. Upon conviction, the owner shall be punished
as provided by state law. The Sheriff is expressly authorized to initiate and
prosecute small claims actions in District Court to collect civil penalties and
fees due to the Henderson County Sheriffs Department.
      (3)   The following civil penalties are hereby established and subject to
revision by the Henderson County Board of County Commissioners for each
incident violation of this chapter.
 
Animal Service Civil Penalty Fee Schedule
Section Violated Description                                Civil Penalty Fee
                 Failure to have current rabies vaccination  
95.31            for an animal                              $100
                 (per day, not including quarantine time)
95.36            Killing or release of an observed animal   $500
95.37            Failure to surrender an animal for rabies  $250
                 quarantine (per day)
 
   (G)   Livestock. A violation of §§
95.60 through
95.69 is a Class 3 misdemeanor.
(Ord. O-17-16, passed 11-13-2017)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS REGISTRATION
      
111.   ITINERANT MERCHANTS, SALESPERSONS, PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, PAWNBROKERS
      
112.   TAXICABS
      
113.   CABLE TELEVISION REGULATIONS
      
114.   GARAGE AND YARD SALES
      
115.   MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS
      
116.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS REGISTRATION
Section
General Provisions
   
110.001   Construction of chapter
   
110.002   Definitions
Business Registration Requirement
   
110.015   Business registration
   
110.016   Who must register
   
110.017   Period of business registration; due date
   
110.018   Proration of fee
   
110.019   Refunds
   
110.020   Separate business
   
110.021   Exemptions
Business Registration
   
110.035   Application
   
110.036   Changes in the business conducted by owner during the registration
year
Enforcement and Collections
   
110.055   Tax Collector to investigate
   
110.056   Duty to permit verification
   
110.057   Enforcement
Business Registration Fees
   
110.080   Registration fees
   
Appendix A: Exemptions
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.001 CONSTRUCTION OF CHAPTER.
    This chapter is enacted for town public safety and well-being and for
general informational purposes. In addition, issuance of a business
registration pursuant to this chapter does not excuse a business owner from
compliance with any other applicable statute. This chapter does not prevent the
town from imposing permit fees on additional businesses or from increasing or
decreasing the amount of any business registration fee or permit.
(Ord. O-98-6, passed 6-8-1998; Am. Ord. passed - - )
Statutory reference:
   Regulating and licensing businesses, trades, and the like, see G.S. § 160A-
194
§ 110.002 DEFINITIONS.
    For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Includes each trade, occupation, profession, business and
franchise licensed under this chapter.
   PERSON. Any individual, trustee, executor, other fiduciary, corporation,
unincorporated association, partnership, sole proprietorship, company, firm or
other legal entity.
(Ord. O-98-6, passed 6-8-1998; Am. Ord. passed - - )
BUSINESS REGISTRATION REQUIREMENT
§ 110.015 BUSINESS REGISTRATION.
   An annual business registration application with payment of the associated
fee is hereby required for each business physically located within the town,
even on a temporary basis, in the amount set forth in §
110.080.
(Ord. O-98-6, passed 6-8-1998; Am. Ord. passed - - )
§ 110.016 WHO MUST REGISTER.
   Each person who conducts a business within this town is subject to this
chapter.
   (A)   A person CONDUCTS BUSINESS when he or she engages in 1 act of any
business regulated under this chapter.
   (B)   He or she conducts the business WITHIN THE TOWN if he or she maintains
a physical business location in the town, even on a temporary basis; or either
personally or through agents, he or she:
      (1)   Solicits business within town limits; or
      (2)   Picks up or delivers goods or delivers services within the town
limits.
(Ord. O-98-6, passed 6-8-1998; Am. Ord. passed - - )
§ 110.017 PERIOD OF BUSINESS REGISTRATION; DUE DATE.
   (A)   Annual registration. A business registration issued pursuant to this
chapter is good for the 12-month period beginning July 1 and ending June 30.
Renewal notices are automatically sent to each registered business owner in
July of each year and the fee is due before August 1. However, if a person
begins a business after July 1, the fee for that year is due before the
business is begun.
   (B)   Registrations for periods shorter than 1 year. A business registration
may be issued for a period of less than a full registration year if the
business opens after July 1. A person may not commence a business located
within the town and regulated under such a provision until the registration fee
is paid, and may not continue the business beyond the period for which the fee
has been paid unless the registration is renewed.
(Ord. O-98-6, passed 6-8-1998; Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 110.018 PRORATION OF FEE.
   If a business registers 90 days or less before the business registration
year ends on June 30, the normal registration fee is due and will cover the
current registration year and the immediate upcoming registration year.
(Ord. O-98-6, passed 6-8-1998; Am. Ord. passed - - )
§ 110.019 REFUNDS.
    If for any reason an owner discontinues his or her business during the
registration year, he or she is not entitled to a refund.
(Ord. O-98-6, passed 6-8-1998; Am. Ord. passed - - )
§ 110.020 SEPARATE BUSINESS.
   (A)    A separate registration fee must be paid for each business location,
even under common ownership, unless 2 or more places of business under common
ownership are located contiguous to each other and communicate as a unit. In
addition, a separate business registration must be paid for each unrelated
business conducted by the same owner at any 1 location.
   (B)   Premises on which cars are sold, if owned and operated by a licensed
dealer under the same name, shall not be considered a separate place of
business when the business is conducted within the corporate limits.
(Ord. O-98-6, passed 6-8-1998; Am. Ord. passed - - )
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 160A-211(a)(this referenced statute has now
been repealed)
§ 110.021 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Generally. Generally, except as otherwise provided in this section or
by state law, no person is exempt from the business registration permit and fee
payment required by this chapter. See Appendix A for exempted professions.
   (B)   Charitable organizations. A person who operates a business for a
religious, educational, civic, patriotic, charitable or fraternal purpose, when
the entire gross income of the business is used for that purpose, is exempt
from paying a business registration fee required by this chapter.
(Ord. O-98-6, passed 6-8-1998; Am. Ord. passed - - )
BUSINESS REGISTRATION
§ 110.035 APPLICATION.
   (A)    A person shall apply to the Tax Collector for a business registration
required by this chapter prior to opening their business in the town.
   (B)   The application, which shall be submitted on a form provided by the
Tax Collector, with payment due upon form submission, shall contain:
      (1)   The name of the applicant and whether it is an individual, a
partnership, a corporation or some other entity;
      (2)   The nature of the business;
      (3)   Where the business is conducted;
      (4)   An address to which may be mailed notices and statements required
by this chapter; and
      (5)   Whether the business is one regulated by the State Occupational
Licensing Board subject to G.S. Chapter 93B, and if so, the serial number of
the state license the applicant currently holds.
   (C)   The business registration is to be renewed each year on July 1, with
payment due by August 1, with no additional application being required unless
basic operational and business contact information has changed.
(Ord. O-98-6, passed 6-8-1998; Am. Ord. passed - - )
§ 110.036 CHANGES IN THE BUSINESS CONDUCTED BY OWNER DURING THE REGISTRATION
YEAR.
   A business owner or his or her assignee shall report a change in the
information contained in the business registration application to the Tax
Collector within 10 days after the change occurs.
(Ord. O-98-6, passed 6-8-1998; Am. Ord. passed - - )
ENFORCEMENT AND COLLECTIONS
§ 110.055 TAX COLLECTOR TO INVESTIGATE.
   If the Tax Collector has reason to believe that a person is conducting a
business in the town in violation of this chapter, he or she shall conduct an
investigation to determine the presence of an unregistered business.
(Ord. O-98-6, passed 6-8-1998; Am. Ord. passed - - )
§ 110.056 DUTY TO PERMIT VERIFICATION.
   Each person who conducts business in the town shall permit the Tax Collector
or local law enforcement officer to enter his or her business premises during
normal business hours to verify the nature of the business conducted therein.
(Ord. O-98-6, passed 6-8-1998; Am. Ord. passed - - )
§ 110.057 ENFORCEMENT.
   In addition to the remedies set forth in this section, and pursuant to G.S.
§ 160A-175(d), the town may seek an injunction against any person conducting a
business in violation of this chapter.
   (A)   A notice of violation shall be issued to the individual or business
notifying them that a violation of this section must be corrected within 30
days.
   (B)   If the violation is still not corrected within the prescribed time
period, then a citation in the amount of $50 shall be issued per violation.
   (C)   If the violation is still not corrected following issuance of the
aforementioned citations, then the town may pursue an injunction in the
appropriate court of law commanding the defendant to correct the violation.
(Ord. O-98-6, passed 6-8-1998; Am. Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. passed - - )
SCHEDULE OF BUSINESS REGISTRATION FEES
§ 110.080 REGISTRATION FEES.
   The business registration fee is $25 per business, with the following
exceptions:
   (A)   Licensed contractor. $10 for a licensed contractor who provides a copy
of a current state issued contractor license.
   (B)   Barber or beauty shop. $2.50 per chair for a barber shop or beauty
salon, with a maximum fee of $25.
(Ord. O-98-6, passed 6-8-1998; Am. Ord. passed - - )
APPENDIX A: EXEMPTIONS
   (A)   An attorney-at-law;
   (B)   A physician, a veterinarian, a surgeon, an osteopath, a chiropractor,
a chiropodist, a dentist, an ophthalmologist, an optician, an optometrist, a
massage and bodywork therapist, or another person who practices a professional
art of healing;
   (C)   A professional engineer, as defined in G.S. § 89C-3;
   (D)   A registered land surveyor, as defined in G.S. § 89C-3;
   (E)   An architect;
   (F)   A landscape architect;
   (G)   A photographer, a canvasser for any photographer, or an agent of a
photographer in transmitting photographs to be copied, enlarged, or colored;
   (H)   A real estate broker as defined in G.S. § 93A-2;
   (I)   A real estate appraiser, as defined in G.S. § 93E-1-4;
   (J)   A person who solicits or negotiates loans on real estate as agent for
another for a commission, brokerage, or other compensation;
   (K)   A funeral director, an embalmer, or a funeral service licensee
licensed under G.S. § 90-210.25;
   (L)   An individual licensed under G.S. Ch. 143, Art. 9F, the Home Inspector
Licensure Act;
   (M)   A certified public accountant; and
   (N)   A TNC (Transportation Network Company) service regulated under G.S.
Ch. 20, Art. 10A.
(Ord. O-98-6, Appendix 1, passed 6-8-1998; Am. Ord. passed - - )
Statutory reference:
   G.S.§ 105-41
CHAPTER 111: ITINERANT MERCHANTS, SALESPERSONS, PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS,
PAWNBROKERS
Section
General Provisions
   
111.001   Construction of chapter
   
111.002   Effective date
   
111.003   Definitions
Solicitation Permit
   
111.015   Application requirements
   
111.016   Who must apply
   
111.017   Permit period; due date
   
111.018   Refunds
   
111.019   Exemptions
Issuance of Permits
   
111.030   Application
   
111.031   Refusal or revocation of a permit
   
111.032   Issuance of permit; prerequisite fee payment
Permit Fees
   
111.050   Permit issuance; definitions and fees
Enforcement and Collection
   
111.060   Law enforcement to investigate
   
111.061   Duty to carry license
   
111.062   Enforcement of ordinance
   
111.063   Effective date
Pawnbrokers
   
111.085   Approval of Council before license issued
   
111.086   Records to be kept
   
111.087   Inspection of records
   
111.088   Dealing with minors
   
111.089   Bond
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.001 CONSTRUCTION OF CHAPTER.
    This chapter is to be construed to require an application and the payment
of the associated fee allowed under its terms for business activities involving
solicitation either door-to-door or on town streets by a business entity or
person. This regulation is to protect our citizens and to help ensure they are
treated professionally and with respect by salespersons of all types and at all
times. Issuance of a permit pursuant to this chapter does not excuse an
applicant from compliance with any other applicable ordinance or statute. In
addition, this chapter does not prevent the town from imposing permit fees on
additional businesses or from increasing or decreasing the amount of any
business registration fee or permit.
(Ord. O-95-6, passed 12-11-1995; Am. Ord. passed - - )
Statutory reference:
   Local regulation not affected, see G.S. § 66-258
   Regulation of solicitation campaigns, flea markets, and itinerant merchants,
see G.S. § 160A-178
   Regulation of begging, see G.S. § 160A-179
§ 111.002 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter will be enforced April 1, 1996.
(Ord. O-95-6, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 111.003 DEFINITIONS.
    When used in this chapter (unless the context requires a different
meaning):
   BUSINESS.  Includes each trade, occupation, profession, business and
franchise regulated under this chapter.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. A merchant, other than an established retail merchant or
business, who transports goods to a building, vacant lot, alley, or the like,
and offers the goods for retail sale.
   PEDDLER. A person who travels from place to place with inventory and offers
that inventory for retail sale.
   PERSON. Includes an individual, trustee, executor, other fiduciary,
corporation, unincorporated association, partnership, sole proprietorship,
company, firm or other legal entity.
   SALESPERSON. Any individual employed, contracted, appointed, or authorized
by a business who attempts to solicit a sale or secure business on behalf of
that business.
   SOLICITOR. Any business, group, individual, salesperson, itinerant merchant,
or peddler who systematically initiates door-to-door contact with the public or
person-to-person contact on public streets to sell an inventory of goods, who
has the goods on his or her person or offers the goods for delivery at a later
date by the merchant's designee; or seeks to secure business, trade,
appointments, or donations through personal engagement, interviews, or by
providing information for customer consideration.
(Ord. O-95-6, passed 12-11-1995; Am. Ord. passed - - )
SOLICITATION PERMIT
§ 111.015 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   An application for a solicitation permit with payment of the
associated fee is hereby required for each door-to-door solicitor operating
within the town. This application and fee apply regardless of the solicitor's
physical home base location, be it inside or outside the Town of Fletcher, or
whether solicitation is or is not their primary sales approach.
   (B)   Any business maintaining a physical location within the town, or
itinerant merchant or peddler maintaining a temporary physical location within
the town, and utilizing solicitors to sell its products is hereby also required
to have a business registration, as explained in
Ch. 110.
(Ord. O-95-6, passed 12-11-1995; Am. Ord. passed - - )
§ 111.016 WHO MUST APPLY.
   Each person who conducts a business and utilizes solicitors to sell its
product(s) or further its business within this town is subject to this chapter.
   (A)   A person CONDUCTS BUSINESS when he or she engages in 1 act of business
regulated under this chapter.
   (B)   He or she utilizes solicitors if he or she uses paid or commission-
based employees, contract personnel, or salespersons to initiate door-to-door
contact with the public or person-to-person contact with the public on town
streets in order to sell their product(s), secure business, or make
appointments.
(Ord. O-95-6, passed 12-11-1995; Am. Ord. passed - - )
§ 111.017 PERMIT PERIOD; DUE DATE.
   (A)   A permit issued pursuant to this chapter is approved for a period of
time specific to each applicant. The desired solicitation period is requested
by the applicant when completing the application for solicitation permit. No
standard or automatic permit period exists.
   (B)   The solicitation permit expires no later than 7:00 p.m. on the last
day approved for solicitation.
   (C)   Solicitation permits can be renewed after the expiration of the
initial permit with the completion and approval of a new application for
solicitation permit and payment of the required fee. No additional background
check will be required unless the Police Chief or his or her designee
determines the applicant's previous actions warrant such.
(Ord. O-95-6, passed 12-11-1995; Am. Ord. passed - - )
§ 111.018 REFUNDS.
    If for any reason a solicitor discontinues his or her solicitation during
the approved permit period, he or she is not entitled to a refund.
(Ord. O-95-6, passed 12-11-1995; Am. Ord. passed - - )
§ 111.019 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Generally. Generally, except as otherwise provided in this section or
by state law, no person or business conducting door-to-door solicitation in the
town is exempt from the application for solicitation permit and fee payment
required by this chapter.
   (B)   Charitable organizations. A business operating for religious,
educational, civic, patriotic, or charitable purposes and whose entire gross
business income is used for such a purpose, is exempt from the solicitation
permit requirement unless door-to-door solicitation is done more than twice per
year. This exemption is granted unless such solicitations become more frequent
and/or resident complaints are received by local law enforcement.
   (C)   Fee exemption. A business with a valid town business registration who
desires to utilize solicitors is required to complete the application for
solicitation permit and be approved for such, but the required solicitation
permit fee is waived.
   (D)   Permit exemptions. Businesses or individuals who utilize telephone,
mail, electronic, or in-store face-to-face means for business solicitation are
exempt from the solicitation permit requirement. Peddlers who locate at a
farmer's market and sell farm or nursery products or crafts or goods they have
produced or who sells goods at an auction conducted by a licensed auctioneer
are also exempt from the solicitation permit requirements.
(Ord. O-95-6, passed 12-11-1995; Am. Ord. passed - - )
ISSUANCE OF PERMITS
§ 111.030 APPLICATION.
   (A)    A person shall apply to the Tax Collector for each solicitation
permit or business registration as required by this chapter.
   (B)   Each solicitor listed on the solicitation permit must present
acceptable picture identification in-person to designated local law enforcement
personnel and submit to a personal background check. Acceptable picture
identification is defined as: authentic U.S. issued driver's license, learner's
permit, or identification cards with photos which are required to be presented,
verified, and photocopied at the time of the application process. Department of
Corrections cards, international driver's license and ID cards, business issued
ID, and Social Security cards are not acceptable forms of identification.
   (C)   The solicitation application, which shall be submitted on forms
provided by the town, shall contain:
      (1)   The name of the applicant with address and phone number;
      (2)   The nature of the business;
      (3)   The names and identification of each solicitor and the vehicle
information for each vehicle the solicitor(s) will use during the course of
solicitation; and
      (4)   Any other information the town determines necessary to process the
application and perform the solicitor personal background search.
(Ord. O-95-6, passed 12-11-1995; Am. Ord. passed - - )
§ 111.031 REFUSAL OR REVOCATION OF A PERMIT.
   Local law enforcement will conduct the background check within 2 days of
receipt of a completed application with acceptable identification. The Chief of
Police or his or her designee shall approve or deny the application after
reviewing the application for solicitation permit and background check.
   (A)   Providing incomplete or misleading information, misrepresenting the
facts on the application, or refusing to provide requested application
information are sufficient reasons for refusing the issuance of a permit.
   (B)   The Police Chief or his or her designee has the authority to deny or
revoke a permit for "just" cause.
   (C)   Conduct inappropriate for door-to-door solicitation such as
intimidation, yelling, trying to pressure, coerce or harass residents, preying
on particular groups such as the elderly, or soliciting in legally posted "No
Soliciting" residential or commercial areas, and the like are sufficient
reasons for revocation of a solicitation permit and may subject the solicitor
to ordinance violation charges by local law enforcement.
(Ord. O-95-6, passed 12-11-1995; Am. Ord. passed - - )
§ 111.032 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; PREREQUISITE FEE PAYMENT.
   (A)   After receipt of the completed application and completed background
check, if the Chief of Police or his or her designee believes that no reason
exists for refusal of a solicitation permit under §
111.031, he or she shall approve the application. The applicant shall be
notified of the approval and the fee amount due, based on the number of days
approved for solicitation, which must be paid by cash prior to issuance of the
permit.
   (B)   Upon payment of the fee, the solicitor will be given a copy of the
approved permit, which must be carried in the solicitor's immediate possession
while conducting door-to-door solicitation within the town.
(Ord. O-95-6, passed 12-11-1995; Am. Ord. passed - - )
PERMIT FEES
§ 111.050 PERMIT ISSUANCE; DEFINITIONS AND FEES.
   (A)   Businesses. All businesses and persons soliciting within the municipal
limits of the Town of Fletcher, as defined by this chapter, shall be required
to secure a permit from the Town of Fletcher.
   (B)   Fees. The fee shall be $5 per day for the number of days for which the
solicitation permit is approved.
   (C)   Payment method. The solicitation permit fee is payable in cash only.
(Ord. O-95-6, passed 12-11-1995; Am. Ord. passed - - )
ENFORCEMENT AND COLLECTION
§ 111.060 LAW ENFORCEMENT TO INVESTIGATE.
   If local law enforcement has reason to believe that a person is soliciting
door-to-door in the town in violation of this chapter, law enforcement shall
investigate and take appropriate action.
(Ord. O-95-6, passed 12-11-1995; Am. Ord. passed - - )
§ 111.061 DUTY TO CARRY LICENSE.
   (A)   While conducting door-to-door solicitation within the town, the
solicitor must carry in his/her immediate possession the approved solicitation
permit which was provided by the town upon payment of the permit fee.
   (B)   Solicitors must present their permit to town residents if asked prior
to engaging the resident. If a solicitor will not or cannot show their approved
Town of Fletcher solicitation permit, residents are instructed to contact law
enforcement immediately.
(Ord. O-95-6, passed 12-11-1995; Am. Ord. passed - - )
§ 111.062 ENFORCEMENT OF ORDINANCE.
   Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-175(d), the town may seek an injunction against any
person who conducts a business in violation of this chapter.
   (A)   A notice of violation shall be issued to the individual or business
notifying them that a violation of this section must be corrected within 30
days.
   (B)   If the violation is still not corrected within the prescribed time
period, then a citation in the amount of $50 shall be issued per violation.
   (C)   If the violation is still not corrected following issuance of the
aforementioned citations, then the town may pursue an injunction in the
appropriate court of law commanding the defendant to correct the violation.
(Ord. O-95-6, passed 12-11-1995; Am. Ord. passed - - )
§ 111.063 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter will be enforced April 1, 1996.
(Ord. O-95-6, passed 12-11-1995)
PAWNBROKERS
§ 111.085 APPROVAL OF COUNCIL BEFORE LICENSE ISSUED.
    Before a business registration shall be issued under the provisions of this
code to any person desiring to engage in business as a pawnbroker within the
town, the business registration application shall first be submitted by the
business and approved by the Manager and Town Council.
(Ord. O-97-5, passed 5-12-1997; Am. Ord. passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to license, regulate, see G.S. § 66-397
§ 111.086 RECORDS TO BE KEPT.
   Every pawnbroker shall keep a book in which shall be legibly written, at the
time of the loan, an account and description of the goods, articles or things
pawned or pledged, the amount of money loaned thereon, the time of pledging the
same, the rate of interest to be paid on the loan, and the name and residence
of the person pawning or pledging the goods, articles or things.
(Ord. O-97-5, passed 5-12-1997)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see G.S. § 66-391
§ 111.087 INSPECTION OF RECORDS.
   The records kept by pawnbrokers shall at all reasonable times be open to the
inspection of town officers.
(Ord. O-97-5, passed 5-12-1997)
§ 111.088 DEALING WITH MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner, manager or employee of any pawnbroker to
buy or receive from any minor any goods, articles or other thing, unless the
minor shall have in his or her possession the written consent of his or her
parent or guardian; provided that this provision shall not apply to any minor
who is married or who has had the disability of nonage removed.
(Ord. O-97-5, passed 5-12-1997)
§ 111.089 BOND.
   A $1,000 secured bond is required to be held by the Town of Fletcher during
the operation of the business.
(Ord. O-97-5, passed 5-12-1997)
Statutory reference:
   Pawnbrokers, see G.S. §§ 66-385 et seq.
CHAPTER 112: TAXICABS
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Insurance or other security
   
112.02   Inspection of vehicles
   
112.03   Condition of taxicab
   
112.04   Vehicle equipment
   
112.05   Identification of vehicles/drivers
   
112.06   Depots, terminals and stands
   
112.07   Conduct of drivers
   
112.08   Drivers’ manifests
   
112.09   Operation from outside the town
Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity
   
112.20   Required
   
112.21   Application
Vehicles for Hire
   
112.35   Hearing and declaration of public convenience and necessity
   
112.36   Issuance
   
112.37   Term
   
112.38   Assignment, sale or transfer
   
112.39   Suspension or revocation; authorized
   
112.40   Suspension or revocation; appeal from Clerk
   
112.41   Suspension or revocation; cessation of operations
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 INSURANCE OR OTHER SECURITY.
   Every person operating taxicabs within the corporate limits of the town,
other than taxicabs operated under the jurisdiction of the Utilities Commission
of the state, shall furnish and keep in effect, for each taxicab operated, a
policy of insurance which shall at all times be subject to approval by the Town
Manager. This policy shall establish by state law, and condition on such
operating responding in damages for any liability incurred on the account of
any injuries to persons resulting from the operation of the taxicab. The policy
of insurance shall be filed with the Town Clerk.
(Ord. O-04-10, passed 10-11-2004)
§ 112.02 INSPECTION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a taxicab in the Town
of Fletcher without first having the same inspected by the taxicab inspector
and found to be in compliance with this chapter, the state’s vehicle safety
inspection requirements and are capable of providing safe and sanitary
transportation. The taxicab inspector shall require reasonable inspection of
each cab operated in the town no less than every 6 months, or at any other time
deemed appropriate by the Chief of Police.
   (B)   If, after inspection, any vehicle is found to be unsafe, unsanitary or
does not conform to this chapter, the taxicab inspector shall give written
notice to the owner, and the vehicle shall not thereafter be operated as a
taxicab until the taxicab inspector determines upon reinspection that the
vehicle has been placed back into safe and sanitary condition.
(Ord. O-04-10, passed 10-11-2004)
§ 112.03 CONDITION OF TAXICAB.
   Every vehicle operating shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition at
all times. The owner shall keep the body of the taxicab, both interior and
exterior, safe and clean and its general appearance shall be kept as close as
possible to the manufacturer’s original appearance with respect to sheet metal
and finish of car (normal wear and tear expected). Any exterior body damage
with a repair cost to exceed $750 shall be repaired and inspected by the
taxicab inspector prior to utilizing the vehicle for service.
(Ord. O-04-10, passed 10-11-2004)
§ 112.04 VEHICLE EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   All taxicabs operated within the town shall be equipped and maintained
in a satisfactory condition so as to comply with the General Statutes of North
Carolina and the provisions of this chapter, as well as complying with the
following:
      (1)   Have the body of a sedan or enclosed type, and be of not less than
4-passenger capacity;
      (2)   Have 4 doors, two leading into the passenger’s compartment and two
leading into the driver’s compartment, so constructed that they can be opened
from the inside and outside;
      (3)   Have all windows, vents and doors in proper working condition;
      (4)   Be equipped with sufficient heater to heat the interior of the
taxicab in cold weather;
      (5)   Have all windshields and side and rear glasses clean and free of
cracks and clear of dirt and obstructions to clear view;
      (6)   Have the front and rear bumpers of original manufacture’s design
and attachments, which shall be in place and in proper repair;
      (7)   Have headlights, tail lamps and turn signals in good working
condition and as installed by the original manufacturer;
      (8)   Have sufficient interior lights that a passenger could see into the
vehicle at night before entering;
      (9)   Be equipped for a functional number of seatbelts equal to the
passenger capacity of the vehicle;
      (10)   All seating upholstery covering shall be nonabsorbent and washable
material and shall be free of cuts or tears; and
      (11)   Be equipped with a taxi meter which records and indicates the
charge or fare calculated according to the distance traveled, waiting time,
traffic delay, initial charge, number of passengers and other authorized
charges. The taximeter must be visible to the passengers.
   (B)   Prior to operating additional or replacement taxicabs in connection
with a certificate, the owner shall file an amendment with the Town Clerk and
the vehicle shall be inspected and approved by the taxicab inspector. In
addition, an owner who permanently retires any or all the taxicabs associated
with a certificate shall file an amendment with the Town Clerk within 10 days
of the vehicle’s retirement. The Town Clerk shall notify the taxicab inspector
upon receipt of the amendment.
(Ord. O-04-10, passed 10-11-2004)
§ 112.05 IDENTIFICATION OF VEHICLES/DRIVERS.
   (A)   Every taxicab shall have displayed thereon, the corporate name or the
assumed name under which the owner operates with the company’s telephone
number. This information shall appear in the form of magnetic sign affixed to
the sides or back of the taxicab. All lettering shall be no less than 2-1/
2 inches in height and not less than 1/2-inch stroke. The material shall be
such that will weather the elements and be legible at all times.
   (B)   Every taxicab shall have displayed thereon a stoplight approximately
affixed to the taxicab. The stoplight shall be illuminated at all times when
transporting a passenger.
   (C)   Every taxicab shall display a card inside the vehicle with the
driver’s name and photograph to be visible to any and all passengers in the
taxicab.
(Ord. O-04-10, passed 10-11-2004)
§ 112.06 DEPOTS, TERMINALS AND STANDS.
   (A)   No taxicab shall operate on the streets of the town unless the taxicab
shall have a depot or terminal on private property. No taxicab shall be
permitted to use the streets of the town except for the purpose of
transporting, loading and unloading of passengers and their baggage.
   (B)   Each depot or terminal used by an owner for his or her taxicab shall:
      (1)   Be used in compliance with the town’s land development code;
      (2)   Be kept in a clean, safe and sanitary condition; and
      (3)   Have sufficient private off-street parking to accommodate those
vehicles owned, operated and controlled by the owner during times of non-use.
(Ord. O-04-10, passed 10-11-2004)
§ 112.07 CONDUCT OF DRIVERS.
   (A)   Drivers shall be clean in dress and person.
   (B)   When requested by a passenger, the driver shall give a receipt showing
the company’s name, driver’s name, date/place/time of trip, origin and
destination, and amount of fare charged.
   (C)   Whenever any taxicab is occupied by a passenger, the driver shall not
permit any other person to occupy the taxicab, except by specific request
originating with the original passenger.
(Ord. O-04-10, passed 10-11-2004)
§ 112.08 DRIVERS’ MANIFESTS.
   (A)   Every taxicab driver shall maintain a daily manifest upon which is
recorded all trips made during each day; showing the time and place of origin,
the destination of each trip, the total amount of each trip and the amount
charged to each customer. The driver at the end of the driver’s shift shall
turn in the forms to the owner of the taxicab. The forms for such records may
be requested by the town, and shall be of a character approved by the taxicab
inspector.
   (B)   All manifests shall be maintained for a minimum of 90 days by the
taxicab owner and shall be made available to the town taxicab inspector upon
demand.
(Ord. O-04-10, passed 10-11-2004)
§ 112.09 OPERATION FROM OUTSIDE THE TOWN.
   A person driving for a taxicab with no town license may bring passengers
into the town, but he or she shall not solicit any passengers for any
destination within or without the town.
(Ord. O-04-10, passed 10-11-2004)
CERTIFICATE OF PUBLIC CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY
§ 112.20 REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate, either directly or
indirectly, any taxicab in the town without having first obtained a certificate
of public convenience and necessity from the Town Council authorizing the
operation.
(Ord. O-04-10, passed 10-11-2004)
§ 112.21 APPLICATION.
   Application for a certificate required by this chapter shall be in writing
and filed with the Town Clerk.
(Ord. O-04-10, passed 10-11-2004)
VEHICLES FOR HIRE
§ 112.35 HEARING AND DECLARATION OF PUBLIC CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY.
   (A)   No certificate required by this chapter shall be granted until the
Town Council, after a hearing, declares by resolution that public convenience
and necessity require the proposed taxicab service.
   (B)   In determining whether public convenience and necessity require the
operation of a taxicab, the following considerations shall be controlling:
      (1)   Whether the demand for public convenience and necessity requires
such additional taxicab service within the town;
      (2)   The adequacy of existing mass transportation and taxicab service;
      (3)   The financial responsibility and experience of the applicant for
the certificate;
      (4)   The ability of the applicant to earn a fair return of the capital
invested;
      (5)   The effect which the additional taxicab service may have upon
traffic congestion and parking;
      (6)   Whether the additional taxicab service will result in a greater
hazard to the public, and whether the safe use of the streets by the public,
both vehicular and pedestrian, will be preserved; and
      (7)   Any other relevant facts as may be deemed advisable and necessary.
(Ord. O-04-10, passed 10-11-2004)
§ 112.36 ISSUANCE.
   A certificate required by this chapter shall be issued to the business owner
(d/b/a) by the Town Clerk after the resolution therefor has been adopted by the
Town Council.
(Ord. O-04-10, passed 10-11-2004)
§ 112.37 TERM.
   A certificate of public convenience and necessity issued under this chapter
shall continue in full force and effect so long as the holder thereof continues
in the operation of the taxicab business for which the certificate is
originally issued in the town in compliance with all provisions of this
chapter, subject to the provisions of this division relative to revocation of
the certificate. The certificate shall ipso facto cease as of the time of
cessation of the operation; provided, however, that upon resumption of the
operation the former holder shall be entitled to apply for a new certificate in
accordance with this chapter.
(Ord. O-04-10, passed 10-11-2004)
§ 112.38 ASSIGNMENT, SALE OR TRANSFER.
   No certificate issued under this chapter may be assigned, sold or
transferred unless and until the taxicab inspector, on written application
setting forth the purpose, terms and conditions of the assignment or transfer
shall, after investigation, refer the application to the Town Council for
approval or disapproval. The approval of the Town Council, in writing, shall be
necessary, and without such approval, no certificate may be assigned, sold or
transferred. Any attempt at a sale, transfer or assignment shall be totally
null and void and of no effect.
(Ord. O-04-10, passed 10-11-2004)
§ 112.39 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION; AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   By Council. A certificate issued under this chapter may be revoked for
the violation, by the holder therefor, of any applicable provision of this
code, federal or state law or town ordinance, rule or regulation, or for the
existence of any of the conditions set forth in divisions (B) and (C) of this
section, or other good cause shown, by the Town Council after 10-days’ written
notice of a hearing hereon to the holder of the certificate.
   (B)   By Town Clerk. A certificate issued under this chapter may be
suspended temporarily for a period not to exceed 6 months by the Town Clerk at
any time for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   The owner’s past record is found to be unsatisfactory;
      (2)   The owner fails to operate the taxicab in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter;
      (3)   The owner shall cease to operate any taxicab for a period of 30
consecutive days;
      (4)   The taxicab is operated at a rate of fare other than that
prescribed by the Town Council; or
      (5)   For any other reason which the Town Clerk may deem warrants
suspension.
   (C)   A certificate issued under this chapter may be suspended temporarily
for a period to not exceed 1 year by the Town Clerk, for any of the following
reasons:
      (1)   The owner’s certificate has been suspended twice within a 12-month
period; or
      (2)   The owner is convicted of:
         (a)   A felony involving bodily injury or use of a deadly weapon;
         (b)   A violation of any federal or state statute or town ordinance
relating to the possession or sale of alcoholic beverages;
         (c)   A violation of any federal or state statute or town ordinance
relating to prostitution;
         (d)   A violation of any federal or state statute or town ordinance
relating to the use, possession or sale of drugs; or
         (e)   For any other reason which the Town Clerk may deem warrants
suspension.
(Ord. O-04-10, passed 10-11-2004)
§ 112.40 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION; APPEAL FROM CLERK.
   A suspension of a certificate shall be in writing, and any aggrieved party
shall have a right of appeal to the Town Council, which appeal shall be filed
with the Town Clerk within 10 days after the suspension. The Town Council shall
give at least 10-days’ public notice of the hearing on appeal, and the notice
shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the town. The
action of the Town Council shall be final.
(Ord. O-04-10, passed 10-11-2004)
§ 112.41 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION; CESSATION OF OPERATIONS.
   Any owner or operator shall immediately cease operation upon receipt of
written notice of suspension or revocation of his or her certificate and not
resume operation until the certificate is restored or the suspension expires.
   (A)   A notice of violation shall be issued to the individual or business
notifying them that a violation of this section must be corrected within 30
days.
   (B)   If the violation is still not corrected within the prescribed time
period, then a citation in the amount of $50 shall be issued per violation.
   (C)   If the violation is still not corrected following issuance of the
aforementioned citations, then the town may pursue an injunction in the
appropriate court of law commanding the defendant to correct the violation.
(Ord. O-04-10, passed 10-11-2004; Am. Ord. passed - - )
CHAPTER 113: CABLE TELEVISION REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
113.001   Purpose
   
113.002   Title
   
113.003   Definitions
   
113.004   Timeliness
   
113.005   Law governs
Franchise Requirements
   
113.020   Franchise applications
   
113.021   Grant of franchise
   
113.022   Use of public rights-of-way
   
113.023   Use of grantee facilities
   
113.024   Franchise required
   
113.025   Term of franchise
   
113.026   Franchise nonexclusive
   
113.027   Transfer of ownership or control
   
113.028   Franchise renewal
   
113.029   Police powers
   
113.030   Franchise fees
   
113.031   Forfeiture or revocation
   
113.032   Receivership and foreclosure
Administration and Enforcement
   
113.045   Equal opportunity policy
   
113.046   Notices
   
113.047   Failure to enforce is no waiver of terms
   
113.048   Rights reserved to grantor
   
113.049   No recourse against grantor
   
113.050   Failure to comply
   
113.051   Regulatory authority
   
113.052   Supervision of franchise
   
113.053   Rates and charges
   
113.054   Performance bond
   
113.055   Liability and insurance
   
113.056   Indemnification
   
113.057   Books and records available to the grantor
   
113.058   Reports required
   
113.059   Records required
Construction Standards
   
113.075   Authority to construct
   
113.076   Construction and technical standards
   
113.077   System construction schedule
   
113.078   Extension of service
   
113.079   Use of streets
   
113.080   Construction reporting requirements
   
113.081   Tests and performance monitoring
Service Regulations
   
113.095   General service standards
   
113.096   Services to subscribers and users
   
113.097   Installations, connections and other grantee services
   
113.098   Customer service standards
   
113.099   Continuity of service mandatory
   
113.100   Protection of subscriber privacy mandatory
   
113.101   Nondiscrimination required
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 113.001 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The Town of Fletcher finds that the development of cable television
systems has the potential of having a great benefit and impact upon the people
in the incorporated areas of the town. Because of the complex and rapidly
changing technology associated with cable television, the town further finds
that the public convenience, safety and general welfare can best be served by
establishing regulatory powers which should be vested in the town or those
persons the town shall designate. It is the intent of this chapter and
subsequent amendments to provide for and specify the means to advance and
protect the public interest in these matters, and any franchise issued pursuant
to this chapter shall be deemed to include this finding as an integral part
thereof.
   (B)   Further, it is recognized that cable television systems have the
capacity to provide entertainment and information services to the town’s
residents, and may have the capacity to provide a variety of broad band,
interactive communications services to institutions and individuals. For these
purposes, the following goals underlie the regulations contained herein:
      (1)   Cable television services should be provided to the maximum number
of town residents at the most reasonable cost;
      (2)   The system should be capable of accommodating both the present and
reasonably foreseeable future state-of-the-art cable television needs of the
town;
      (3)   The systems authorized by this chapter shall be responsive to the
needs and interests of the local community, and shall provide the widest
possible diversity of information sources and services to the public; and
      (4)   Each of the goals enumerated in divisions (B)(1) through (3) above
shall be sought taking into account the costs and benefits to the residents of
the town.
§ 113.002 TITLE.
   (A)   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as Town of Fletcher’s
Cable Television Ordinance. This chapter shall take effect and be in force from
and after its adoption for the grant of any new franchise or renewal of any
franchise existing at the time of adoption.
   (B)   This chapter shall be governed by and subject to the Communications
Act of 1984, being 47 U.S.C. §§ 151 et seq., as amended, including any future
amendments relating to telecommunications and cable television communications,
and other applicable laws.
§ 113.003 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADDITIONAL SERVICE. Any cable service other than basic service provided over
the system.
   BASIC SERVICE. A separately available tier to which subscription is required
for access to any other tier of service. BASIC SERVICE TIER shall, at a
minimum, consist of the following: all signals carried in fulfillment of the
Cable Act, §§ 614 and 615; any public, educational and governmental access
programming required in this chapter or the franchise; any signal of any
television broadcast station that is provided by the cable operator to any
subscriber, except a signal which is secondarily transmitted by a satellite
carrier beyond the local service area of the station. Additional signals may be
added to the basic tier by the grantee.
   CABLE ACT. See definition of Communications Policy Act below.
   CABLE SERVICE. The 1-way transmission to subscribers of video programming or
other programming service, together with subscriber interaction, if any, which
is required for selection or use of the video programming or other programming
service.
   CABLECAST SIGNAL. A nonbroadcast signal that originates within the
facilities of the system.
   CHANNEL. A 6 megahertz (MHz) frequency band, which is capable of carrying
either 1 standard video signal, a number of audio, digital or other nonvideo
signals, or some combination of the signals. One CHANNEL of high definition
television may utilize more than 6 MHz.
   COMMERCIAL SUBSCRIBER. A subscriber who receives a service in a place of
business where the service may be utilized in connection with a business, trade
or profession.
   COMMUNICATIONS POLICY ACT or CABLE ACT. The Cable Communications Policy Act
of 1984 and the Telecommunications Consumer Protection and Competition Act of
1992 as they may be amended or succeeded.
   CONVERTER. An electronic device which converts signals to a frequency not
susceptible to interference within the television receiver of a subscriber, and
any channel selector which permits a subscriber to view all signals delivered
at designated converter dial locations at the set.
   COUNCIL. The Town of Fletcher Town Council.
   DISCRETE CHANNEL. A channel which can only be received by the person and/or
institution intended to receive signals on the channel.
   DOWNSTREAM SIGNAL. A signal originating from or provided by system to a
subscriber terminal or other terminal including video, audio or digital signals
or any other type of data or information for either programs or other uses such
as security alert services, and the like.
   DROP. A coaxial, fiber or other connection from feeder cable to the
subscriber/user residence or place of business.
   FAIR MARKET VALUE. The price that a willing buyer would pay to a willing
seller for a going concern based on the system valuation prevailing in the
industry at the time.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission and any legally appointed
successor.
   FRANCHISE. The nonexclusive rights granted pursuant to this chapter to
construct, operate and maintain a system along the public rights-of-way within
all or a specified area in the town. Any authorization, in whatever form
granted, shall not mean or include any license or permit required for the
privilege of transacting and carrying on a business within the town as required
by other ordinances and laws of the town, state or federal governments.
   FRANCHISE AREA. The entire town for which a franchise is granted under the
authority of this chapter. If not otherwise stated in the franchise, the
FRANCHISE AREA shall be the entire town, or any territories thereafter annexed
by the town.
   FRANCHISE FEE. The percentage, as specified by the town, of the franchisee’s
gross annual revenues from all sources payable (as permitted by the Cable Act,
being 47 U.S.C. §§ 521 et seq.) in exchange for the rights granted pursuant to
this chapter and the franchise agreement.
   FRANCHISEE or GRANTEE. The natural person(s), partnership(s), domestic and
foreign corporation(s), association(s), joint venture(s) or organization(s) of
any kind which has been legally granted a franchise by the town and its lawful
successor, transferee or assignee.
   GRANTOR. The Town of Fletcher as represented by the Council acting within
the scope of its jurisdiction.
   GROSS ANNUAL REVENUES. All receipts received directly or indirectly by the
grantee, from providing cable services within the town, including but not
limited to basic subscriber and additional service monthly fees, pay cable
fees, installation and reconnection fees, leased channel fees, converter
rentals and advertising revenues; provided, however, that this shall not
include any taxes or copyright fees on services furnished by the grantee.
   HEADEND. The electronic control center of the system including components
that amplify, filter and convert incoming broadcast and other television and
electronic signals for distribution over the cable system.
   INSTALLATION. The connection of the system from the drop cable to
subscribers’ terminals.
   LOCKOUT DEVICE. A method whereby the cable operator shall, without charge,
and upon request of a subscriber, fully scramble or otherwise fully block the
audio and video programming of each channel carrying the programming so that
one not a subscriber does not receive it.
   MONITORING. Observing a communications signal, or the absence of a signal,
where the observer is not a party to the communication, whether the signal is
observed by visual or electronic means, for any purpose whatsoever.
   NARROWCASTING. The ability to distribute cable programming to a particular
segment or segments of the cable subscribers.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, association, organization, corporation
or any lawful successor or transferee of the individual, partnership,
association, organization or corporation.
   PLANT MILE. A linear mile of cable as measured on the street or easement
from pole to pole or pedestal to pedestal.
   PUBLIC WAY or PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY. The surface, the air space above the
surface, and the area below the surface of any public street, highway, lane,
path, alley, sidewalk, boulevard, drive, bridge, tunnel, park, parkways,
waterways, utility easements or other public RIGHT-OF-WAY, now or hereafter
held by the town, which shall entitle the town and the grantee to the use
thereof for the purpose of installing and maintaining the system. No reference
herein, or in any franchise, to the PUBLIC WAY shall be deemed to be a
representation or guarantee by the town that its title to any property is
sufficient to permit its use for the purpose, and the grantee shall, by its use
of the terms, be deemed to gain only the rights to use property in the town as
the town may have the undisputed right and power to give or as granted by
federal or state law.
   REASONABLE NOTICE. Written notice addressed to the grantee at its principal
office within the town or the other office as the grantee has designated to the
town as the address to which notice shall be transmitted to it, which notice
shall be certified and postmarked not less than 7 business days prior to that
day in which the party giving the notice shall commence any action which
requires the giving of notice. In computing the 7 days, holidays recognized by
the town shall be excluded.
   RESIDENT. Any person residing in the town as otherwise defined by applicable
law.
   RESIDENTIAL SUBSCRIBER. A subscriber who receives a service in an individual
dwelling unit where the service is not to be utilized in connection with a
business, trade or profession.
   SALE. Any sale, exchange, barter or offer for sale.
   SCHOOL. Any state-accredited public or nonprofit educational institution,
including primary and secondary schools, colleges and universities, both public
and private.
   SCRAMBLE. To rearrange the content of the signal of the programming so that
programming cannot be viewed or heard in an understandable manner.
   SERVICE AREA. The entire geographic area within the franchise area.
   STATE. The State of North Carolina.
   SYSTEM. A facility, consisting of a set of closed transmission paths and
associated signal generation, reception and control equipment that is designed
to provide cable service which includes video programming and which is provided
to multiple subscribers within a community; but the term does not include any
of the following:
      (1)   A facility that serves only to retransmit the television signals of
1 or more television broadcast stations;
      (2)   A facility that serves only subscribers in 1 or more multiple-
dwelling units under common ownership, control or management, unless the
facility or facilities uses any public rights-of-way;
      (3)   A facility of a common carrier which is subject in whole or in part
to the provision of Title 11 of the Cable Act, being 47 U.S.C. §§ 521 et seq.,
except that the facility shall be considered a cable system to the extent that
the facility is used in the transmission of video programming directly to
subscribers; or
      (4)   Any facilities of any electric utility used solely for operating
its electric utility systems.
   TOWN. The Town of Fletcher, North Carolina, a political subdivision of the
State of North Carolina.
   TRANSFER. The disposal by the grantee, directly or indirectly, by gift,
assignment, lease, voluntary sale, assets acquisition, merger, consolidation or
otherwise, of 50% or more at 1 time of the ownership of, controlling interest
in or ability to control system, or 50% cumulatively over the term of the
franchise of the interest to a corporation, partnership, limited partnership,
trust or association, or person or group of persons acting in concert.
   TRUNK LINE. The major distribution cable used in cable communications, which
divides into feeder lines which are tapped for service to subscribers.
   UPSTREAM SIGNAL. A signal originating from a subscriber terminal to another
point in the system including video, audio or digital signals or any other type
of data or information for either programs or other uses, such as security
alert services and the like.
   USER. A person or organization utilizing channel or equipment and facilities
for purpose of producing and/or transmission of material, as contrasted with
receipt thereof in a subscriber capacity.
§ 113.004 TIMELINESS.
   Whenever this chapter or an agreement shall set forth any time for an act to
be performed by or on behalf of the grantee, the time shall be deemed of the
essence and any failure of the grantee to perform within the time allotted
shall always be sufficient grounds for the town to invoke an appropriate
penalty including possible revocation of the franchise.
§ 113.005 LAW GOVERNS.
   In any controversy or dispute under this chapter, the laws of the State of
North Carolina shall apply, and venue shall be in state court and shall be
exclusively in Henderson County.
FRANCHISE REQUIREMENTS
§ 113.020 FRANCHISE APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Applicants for an initial franchise shall submit to the town a written
application utilizing, if available, a standard format provided by the town, at
the time and place designated by the town for accepting applications. The
application shall include, at a minimum, the following:
      (1)   Applicant’s proper business, corporate or partnership name;
      (2)   If a corporation, applicant shall also state the corporation’s
process agent address for service of notice, provide a certified copy from the
North Carolina Secretary of State of authorization to do business in the state;
      (3)   If a partnership, application shall also contain names and
addresses of all partners, names and addresses of general partner(s)
responsible for overseeing the management of the franchise;
      (4)   Financial statement certified by a certified public accountant;
      (5)   Insurance bonds and certificates; and
      (6)   Any other material required by this chapter or reasonably requested
by the town.
   (B)   In awarding a franchise, the town shall enter into agreement with
franchisee upon any reasonable conditions it may require and subject to the
provisions of this chapter and applicable law.
   (C)   An application fee in an amount to be determined by the Town Council
shall be paid for each initial franchise at the time of application for
franchise, which fee shall be in the form of cash, certified check or money
order to defer the cost of studying, investigating and otherwise processing the
application and which shall be in consideration thereof and not refundable or
returnable in whole or in part. To offset the effects of inflation, the amount
of the application fee provided for herein, is subject to reasonable increase
in accord with the annual rate of inflation.
   (D)   Any administrative fee associated with the renewal of a franchise
agreement shall be negotiated in the renewed franchise agreement.
   (E)   Any conditions attached to the payment of an application fee shall be
enumerated in the franchise agreement.
§ 113.021 GRANT OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   Grant. In the event that the town shall grant to a grantee a
nonexclusive, revocable for cause franchise to construct, operate and maintain
a system within the town, the franchise shall constitute both a right and an
obligation to provide the services of a system as regulated by the provisions
of this chapter and the franchise.
   (B)   Event of conflict. The franchise shall be granted under the terms and
conditions contained herein, consistent with and subject to all applicable
statutory requirements. In the event of conflict between the terms and
conditions of this chapter or the franchise, or the statutory terms and
conditions on which the town can grant a franchise, the statutory requirements
shall control.
   (C)   Generally applicable ordinances. Any franchise granted by the town is
hereby made subject to the general ordinance provisions now in effect and
hereafter made effective. Nothing in the franchise shall be deemed to waive the
requirements of the various codes and ordinances of the town or other
applicable law regarding permits, fees to be paid or manner of construction.
§ 113.022 USE OF PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   Insofar as permitted by law and for the purpose of operating and maintaining
a system in the town, the grantee may erect, install, construct, repair,
replace, reconstruct and retain in, on, over, under, upon, across and along the
public ways within the town the wires, cables, conductors, ducts, conduits,
vaults, manholes, amplifiers, appliances, pedestals, attachments and other
property and equipment as are necessary to the operation of the systems;
provided, however, that grantee complies with all design, construction, safety
and performance provisions contained in this chapter, the franchise agreement,
and other applicable local ordinances.
§ 113.023 USE OF GRANTEE FACILITIES.
   No poles shall be erected by the grantee without the town’s prior approval,
which shall not be unreasonably withheld, with regard to location, height, type
and any other pertinent aspect. However, no location of any pole of the grantee
shall be a vested right, and the poles shall be removed or modified by the
grantee at its own expense whenever the town reasonably determines that the
public convenience would be enhanced thereby. Grantee shall utilize existing
poles and conduits, where possible. The town shall have the right, during the
life of the franchise, to install and maintain free of charge upon the poles
owned by the grantee, any wire and pole fixtures that do not unreasonably
interfere with the cable system operations of the grantee; provided the town
shall at all times indemnify and hold grantee harmless against any and all
claims which might arise as a result of the town’s use.
§ 113.024 FRANCHISE REQUIRED.
   No system shall be allowed to occupy or use the streets of the town or be
allowed to operate in the town without a franchise.
§ 113.025 TERM OF FRANCHISE.
   The term of any franchise granted pursuant to this chapter shall be stated
in the franchise.
§ 113.026 FRANCHISE NONEXCLUSIVE.
   The franchise discussed herein is nonexclusive. The town specifically
reserves the right to grant at any time the additional franchises for a system
it deems appropriate.
§ 113.027 TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL.
   (A)   Transfer of franchise. Any franchise granted hereunder cannot in any
event be sold, transferred, leased, assigned or disposed of, including but not
limited to by force or voluntary sale, merger, consolidation, receivership or
other means without the prior consent of the town, which shall not be
unreasonably withheld.
   (B)   Transfer threshold. The grantee shall promptly notify the town of any
actual or proposed change in or transfer of, or acquisition by any other party
of, control of the grantee. The word CONTROL as used herein is not limited to
major stockholders but includes actual working control in whatever manner
exercised. A rebuttable presumption that a transfer of control has occurred
shall arise upon the disposal by the grantee, directly or indirectly, by gift,
assignment, voluntary sale, merger, consolidation or otherwise, of 50% or more,
at 1 time, of the ownership or controlling interest in the system, or 50%
cumulatively over the term of the franchise of the interest to a corporation,
partnership, limited partnership, trust or association, or person or group of
persons acting in concert. The town shall exercise its power to approve a
transfer of ownership or control in a manner consistent with § 617 of the
Communications Act (47 U.S.C. § 537).
   (C)   Process. Every transfer, sale, lease, assignment or disposition of,
including but not limited to by force or voluntary sale, merger, consolidation,
receivership or other means or acquisition of control of the grantee, shall
make the franchise subject to cancellation unless and until the town shall have
consented thereto, which consent will not be unreasonably withheld. For the
purpose of determining whether it shall consent to the transfer, sale, lease,
assignment or disposition of, including but not limited to by force or
voluntary sale, merger, consolidation, receivership or other means or
acquisition of control of the grantee, the town may inquire into the legal,
financial, character, technical and other public interest qualifications of the
prospective controlling party, and the grantee shall assist the town in any
inquiry. Failure to provide all information reasonably requested by the town as
part of the inquiry may be grounds for denial of the proposed transfer, sale,
lease, assignment or disposition of, including but not limited to by force or
voluntary sale, merger, consolidation, receivership or other means or
acquisition of control of the grantee. If the town finds that the transfer,
after considering the legal, financial, character, technical and other public
interest qualifications of the applicant, is satisfactory, the town will
transfer and assign the rights and obligations of the franchise as in the
public interest. The consent of the town to the transfer shall not be
unreasonably withheld.
   (D)   Assumption of control. The town agrees that any financial institution
having a pledge of the franchise or its assets for the advancement of money for
the construction and/or operation of the system shall have the right to notify
the town that it or its designee satisfactory to the town will take control and
operate the system. Further, the financial institution shall also submit a plan
for the operation that will insure continued service and compliance with all
franchise obligations during the term the financial institution exercises
control over the system. The financial institution shall not exercise control
over the system for a period exceeding 1 year, unless extended by the town at
its discretion and during the period of time it shall have the right to
petition for transfer of the franchise to another grantee.
   (E)   Regulation of transfer. The consent or approval of the town to any
transfer of the grantee shall not constitute a waiver or release of the rights
of the town in and to the streets, rights-of-way, or areas appurtenant thereto,
and transfer shall, by its terms, be expressly subject to the terms and
conditions of this chapter and the franchise.
   (F)   Construction requirement. In the absence of extraordinary
circumstances, the town will not approve any transfer or assignment of the
franchise prior to completion of construction of the proposed initial system.
   (G)   Signatory requirement. Any approval by the town of transfer shall be
contingent upon the prospective controlling party becoming a signatory to the
franchise.
   (H)   Exceptions. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, no consent shall
be required for any transfer to any person controlling, controlled by or under
the same common control of the grantee, so long as the grantee continues to
guarantee the performance, under the terms of the ordinance and the franchise
agreement, of the transferee.
§ 113.028 FRANCHISE RENEWAL.
   The grantee shall own the system, but shall have no right to use of public
rights-of-way upon the completion of the franchise term. The town shall grant
or deny renewal of the franchise of a grantee in accordance with § 626 of the
Communications Act (47 U.S.C. § 546) or other applicable law.
§ 113.029 POLICE POWERS.
   (A)   Acknowledgments. In accepting the franchise, the grantee acknowledges
that its rights hereunder are subject to the police power of the town to adopt
and enforce general ordinances necessary to the safety and welfare of the
public, and it agrees to comply with all applicable general laws and ordinances
enacted by the town pursuant to the power.
   (B)   Conflict. Any conflict between the provisions of this chapter or the
franchise and any other present or future lawful exercise of the town’s general
police powers shall be resolved in favor of the latter, except that any
exercise that is not of general application in the jurisdiction or applies
exclusively to grantee or systems which contains provisions inconsistent with
this chapter shall prevail only if, upon the exercise, the town finds an
emergency exists constituting a danger to health, safety, property or general
welfare and the exercise is mandated by law.
§ 113.030 FRANCHISE FEES.
   (A)   Application of franchise fee.
      (1)   The town finds the following:
         (a)   The public ways of the town and state to be used by the grantee
in the operation of its system within the boundaries of the franchise area are
valuable public properties acquired and maintained at great expense to its
taxpayers;
         (b)   The grant to the grantee to the public ways is a valuable
property right without which the grantee would be required to invest
substantial capital in right-of-way costs and acquisitions; and
         (c)   The administration of this chapter or the franchise imposes upon
the town additional regulatory responsibility and expense.
      (2)   Therefore, a grantee of any franchise hereunder shall pay to the
town a franchise fee in an amount as designated in the franchise agreement. The
town reserves the right to change the franchise fee as stated in the franchise
agreement, by adopting an ordinance establishing the new franchise fee rate and
allowing reasonable notice to the grantee for administration of the change.
This franchise fee payment shall be in addition to any other fee and commence
as of the effective date of the franchise. The town shall be furnished a
statement of the payment by the Vice-President for Finance of the grantee,
reflecting the total amounts of gross annual revenues and computations for the
period covered by the payment.
   (B)   Franchise fee in addition to other tax. This payment shall be in
addition to any other tax or payment of general applicability owed by the
grantee to the governments or other taxing jurisdiction. Payment of the
franchise fee made by grantee to the town shall be in addition to any and all
taxes of general applicability which are now or may be required hereafter to be
paid by any federal, state or local law.
   (C)   Acceptance by the town. No acceptance of any payment by the town shall
be construed as a release or as an accord and satisfaction of any claim the
town may have for further or additional sums payable as a franchise fee under
this chapter or for the performance of any other obligation of the grantee.
   (D)   Failure to make required payment. In the event that any franchise
payment or recompute amount is not made on or before the dates specified
herein, grantee shall pay as additional compensation an interest charge,
computed from the due date, at the annual rate equal to the commercial prime
interest rate of the town’s primary depository bank plus 3% during the period
that the unpaid amount is owed.
   (E)   Quarterly payments. The franchise fee and any other costs, charges or
damages assessed shall be payable quarterly to the town. The grantee shall file
a complete and accurate verified statement of all gross annual revenue within
the franchise area during the period for which the quarterly payment is made,
and the payment shall be made to the town not later than 45 days after the
expiration of each calendar quarter. Quarterly computation dates are the last
day in the months of March, June, September and December.
   (F)   Audits. The town shall have the right to inspect the grantee’s income
records and the right to audit and to recompute any amounts determined to be
payable under this chapter. Audits shall be at the expense of the grantee if
the additional amount due is greater than 2% of the amount paid. Any additional
amount due to the town as a result of the audit shall be paid within 30 days
following written notice to the grantee by the town which notice shall include
a copy of the audit report.
§ 113.031 FORFEITURE OR REVOCATION.
   (A)   Grounds for revocation. The town reserves the right to revoke any
franchise granted hereunder and rescind all rights and privileges associated
with the franchise in accordance with the Communications Act and with the
procedures set forth herein in the following circumstances, each of which
represents a default and breach under the ordinance and the franchise grant:
      (1)   If the grantee shall default in the performance of any of the
material obligations under this chapter or under the documents, contracts and
other terms and provisions entered into by and between the town and the
grantee, including timely payment of any amounts owed;
      (2)   If the grantee shall fail to provide or maintain in full force and
effect the liability and indemnification coverage or the performance bond as
required herein;
      (3)   If the grantee shall violate any orders or rulings of any
regulatory body having jurisdiction over the grantee relative to this chapter
or the franchise and after notice thereof, shall continue the violation and not
remedy the same within 60 days;
      (4)   If the grantee practices any fraud or engages in any unfair or
deceptive act or practice with regard to the town or subscribers under the laws
of the state;
      (5)   The grantee’s construction schedule is delayed later than the
schedule contained in the franchise or beyond any extended date set by the
town;
      (6)   The grantee becomes insolvent, unable or unwilling to pay its debts
or is adjudged bankrupt;
      (7)   The grantee fails to restore service after 96 consecutive hours of
interrupted service, except when written approval of the interruption is
obtained from the town;
      (8)   The grantee misrepresents a material fact in the application for or
negotiation of the franchise or any extension or renewal thereof; and/or
      (9)   The grantee ceases to provide cable services for any reason that is
within the control of the grantee over the system.
   (B)   Effect of circumstances beyond control of grantee. The grantee shall
not be declared at fault or be subject to any sanction under any provision of
this chapter in any case, in which performance of any provision is prevented or
delayed due to an act of God for reasons beyond the grantee’s control and which
there are no reasonable measures available to the grantee to provide the
performance. A fault shall not be deemed to be beyond the grantee’s control if
committed by a corporation or other business entity in which the grantee holds
a controlling interest, whether held directly or indirectly.
   (C)   Court order. Grantor and grantee will abide by the terms of any stay
order issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (D)   Procedure prior to revocation. 
      (1)   The town shall make a written demand that the grantee comply with
any material requirement, limitation, term condition, rule or regulation or
correct any action deemed cause for revocation. If the failure, refusal or
neglect of the grantee continues for a period of 30 days following the written
demand, the town shall place its request for termination of the franchise upon
a regular Council meeting agenda. The town shall cause to be mailed by
certified mail to the grantee at least 10 days prior to the date of the Council
meeting, a written notice of this intent to request the termination and the
reason therefor, and the time and place of the meeting. Notice of the meeting
shall be published by the Town Clerk at least once, 10 days before the meeting
in a newspaper of general circulation within the town.
      (2)   The Council shall hear any persons interested therein, and shall
determine in its discretion, whether or not any failure, refusal or neglect by
the grantee was with just cause.
      (3)   If failure, refusal or neglect by the grantee was with just cause,
as reasonably defined by the town, the Council shall direct the grantee to
comply within the time and manner and upon the terms and conditions as are
reasonable.
      (4)   If the Council shall determine the failure, refusal or neglect by
the grantee was without just cause, then the Council shall, by resolution,
declare that the franchise of the grantee shall be terminated and bond
forfeited either conditionally or unconditionally.
      (5)   If the revocation of the franchise depends upon a finding of fact,
the finding of fact shall be made by the town only after an administrative
hearing, providing the grantee with a full and fair opportunity to be heard,
including without limitations the right to introduce evidence, the right to
production of evidence and to question witnesses. A transcript shall be made of
the hearings. The grantee shall have the right to appeal any administrative
decision to a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (E)   Disposition of facilities. In the event a franchise is revoked or
otherwise terminated, the town may, in its sole discretion, do any of the
following:
      (1)   Purchase the system under the procedures set forth in this chapter,
at a fair market price.
      (2)   Effect a transfer of the system to another person.
      (3)   Order the removal of the system facilities from the town within a
reasonable period of time as determined by the town or require the original
grantee to maintain and operate its system for a period of 6 months or until
the further time as is mutually agreed upon.
   (F)   Restoration of property. In removing its system, or part thereof, the
grantee shall refill, at its own expense, any excavation that shall be made by
it and shall leave all public ways and places in as good a condition or better
as that existing prior to the grantee’s removal of its system without affecting
the electrical or telephone cable, wires or attachments. The town may inspect
and approve the condition of the public ways and cables, wires, attachments and
poles after removal. The liability, indemnity, insurance and performance bond
as provided herein shall continue in full force and effect during the period of
removal and until the grantee has fully complied with the terms and conditions
of this chapter and the franchise.
   (G)   Restoration by town; reimbursement of costs. In the event of a failure
by the grantee to complete any restoration work required by the town within the
time as may be established by the town and to the satisfaction of the town, the
town may, following reasonable notice to the grantee, cause the work to be done
and the grantee shall reimburse the town the cost thereof within 30 days after
receipt of an itemized list of the cost, or the town may at its option recover
the costs through the performance bond provided by grantee. The town shall be
permitted to seek legal and equitable relief to enforce the provisions of this
section.
   (H)   Extended operation. Upon either the denial of renewal or revocation of
a franchise, the town may require the grantee to continue to operate the system
for a period of 6 months from the date of the denial or revocation, or until
the time beyond 6 months as is mutually agreed upon. The grantee shall, as
trustee for its successor in interest, continue to operate the system under the
terms and conditions of this chapter and the franchise. The town shall be
permitted to seek legal and equitable relief to enforce the provisions of this
section.
§ 113.032 RECEIVERSHIP AND FORECLOSURE.
   (A)   Termination by insolvency. The franchise granted hereunder shall, at
the option of the town, cease and terminate 120 days after the appointment of a
receiver or receivers or trustee or trustees to take over and conduct the
business of the grantee whether in a receivership, reorganization, bankruptcy
or other action or proceeding, unless the receivership or trusteeship shall
have been vacated prior to the expiration of the 120 days, or unless:
      (1)   The receivers or trustees shall have, within 120 days after their
election or appointment, fully complied with all the terms and provisions of
this chapter and the franchise granted pursuant hereto, and the receivers or
trustees within the 120 days shall have remedied all defaults under the
franchise; and
      (2)   The receivers or trustees shall, within the 120 days, execute an
agreement duly approved by the court having jurisdiction in the premises,
whereby the receivers or trustees assume and agree to be bound by each and
every term, provision and condition of the franchise herein granted.
   (B)   Termination by judicial action. In the case of a foreclosure or other
judicial sale of the plant, property and equipment of the grantee or any part
thereof, including or excluding the franchise, the town may serve notice of
termination upon the grantee and the successful bidder at the sale, in which
event the franchise and all rights and privileges of the grantee granted
hereunder shall cease and terminate 30 days after service of the notice,
unless:
      (1)   The town shall have approved the transfer of the franchise as
provided by this chapter; and
      (2)   The successful bidder shall have covenanted and agreed with the
town to assume and be bound by every term, provision and condition of the
franchise herein granted.
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 113.045 EQUAL OPPORTUNITY POLICY.
   Equal opportunity employment shall be afforded by the grantee to all
qualified persons, and no person shall be discriminated against in employment
because of race, color, religion, age, national origin, sex, HIV-positive
status, or handicap. Grantee shall comply with all equal opportunity provisions
enacted by federal, state and local authorities, and in particular § 634 of the
Communications Act (47 U.S.C. § 554), as well as all the provisions contained
in this chapter and the franchise.
§ 113.046 NOTICES.
   All notices from grantee to the town pursuant to this chapter and the
franchise shall be to the Town Manager or his or her designee. Grantee shall
maintain with the town, throughout the term of the franchise, an address for
service of notices by mail which address shall be noted in the franchise
agreement.
§ 113.047 FAILURE TO ENFORCE IS NO WAIVER OF TERMS.
   The grantee shall not be excused from complying with any of the terms and
conditions of this chapter or the franchise by any failure of the town upon any
1 or more occasions to insist upon or to seek compliance with any terms or
conditions.
§ 113.048 RIGHTS RESERVED TO GRANTOR.
   (A)   Right of inspection of records. The town shall have the right to
inspect all books, records, reports, maps, plans, financial statements and
other like materials of the grantee, at any time during normal business hours,
when necessary to ascertain the grantee’s compliance with this chapter, the
franchise and all applicable laws.
   (B)   Right of inspection of construction. The town shall have the right to
inspect all construction or installation work performed subject to the
provisions of the franchise and to make the tests as it shall find necessary to
ensure compliance with the terms of this chapter and all applicable laws.
   (C)   Right of inspection of property. At all reasonable times, grantee
shall permit examination by any duly authorized representative of the town of
the system, together with any appurtenant property of grantee situated within
or without the town when necessary to ascertain the grantee’s compliance with
this chapter, the franchise and all applicable laws.
   (D)   Right of intervention. The town shall have the right of intervention
in any suit or proceeding to which the grantee is party, and the grantee shall
not oppose the intervention by the town.
§ 113.049 NO RECOURSE AGAINST GRANTOR.
   Except when seeking equitable relief, the grantee shall have no recourse
whatsoever against the town or its officials, boards, commissions, agents or
employees for any loss, cost, expense or damage arising out of any provision or
requirements of the franchise or because of the enforcement of this chapter or
the franchise.
§ 113.050 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   Failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter shall subject the
grantee to all penalties provided by law and as enumerated in the franchise
agreement.
§ 113.051 REGULATORY AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The town shall exercise appropriate regulatory authority under the
provisions of this chapter, the Communications Act, and all applicable law.
This authority shall be vested in the Town Council and administered through the
Town Manager or his or her designee in order to provide day-to-day
administration and enforcement of the provisions of this chapter and any
franchise granted hereunder, and to carry out the town’s responsibilities with
regard to cable television.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter to the contrary,
the grantee shall at all times comply with all laws and regulations of the
local, state and federal government. In the event that any actions of the state
or federal government or any agency thereof, or any court of competent
jurisdiction upon final adjudication, substantially reduce in any way the power
or authority of the town under this chapter or the franchise, or if in
compliance with any local, state or federal law or regulation, the grantee
finds conflict with the terms of this chapter, the franchise or any law or
regulation of the town, then as soon as possible following knowledge thereof,
the grantee shall notify the town of the point of conflict believed to exist
between the law or regulation and the laws or regulations of the town, this
chapter and the franchise. The town or the grantee may notify the other party
that it wishes to renegotiate those provisions which are affected in any way by
the modification in regulations or other statutory authority. Thereafter, the
grantee and the town shall negotiate in good faith in the development of
alternate provisions which shall fairly restore the town to the maximum level
of authority and power permitted by law.
   (C)   The town reserves the right to exercise the maximum plenary (full)
authority, as may at any time be lawfully permissible, to regulate the system,
the franchise and the grantee. Should applicable legislative, judicial or
regulatory authorities at any time permit regulation not presently permitted to
the town, the town may, following good-faith negotiations, engage in any
additional regulation as may then be permissible, whether or not contemplated
by this chapter or the franchise, including without limitation, regulation
regarding franchise fees, taxes, programming, rates charged to subscribers and
users, consumer protection, or any other similar or dissimilar matter. The town
shall have the right to modify any of the provisions to the reasonable extent
as may be necessary to carry out the full intent and purpose of this chapter
and the franchise in accordance with federal and state law; provided, however,
no modifications shall increase the obligation of the grantee or limit the
rights of the grantee hereunder.
§ 113.052 SUPERVISION OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   The town shall have the following regulatory responsibility:
      (1)   Administration and enforcement of the provisions of this chapter
and any franchise granted hereunder to the full extent necessary to assure
compliance with the chapter and the franchise agreement;
      (2)   Award, renewal, extension or termination of a franchise pursuant to
the provisions of this chapter, the franchise and other applicable law; and
      (3)   Consent prior to transfer of any franchise granted hereunder.
   (B)   The town may but need not perform the following functions:
      (1)   Coordinate plans for expansion, interconnection and growth of cable
services;
      (2)   Analyze the possibility of integrating cable communications with
other local, state or regional cable television networks;
      (3)   Provide the administrative effort necessary for the conduct of
performance evaluations, and any other activities required for the
administration of the franchise;
      (4)   Monitor grantee’s process for handling citizen complaints and
periodically inspect and analyze the records related to the complaints;
      (5)   Receive applications for rate increases, if applicable, and provide
staff assistance in the analysis and recommendations thereto;
      (6)   Monitor grantee’s adherence to operational standards, service
requirements and line extension policies;
      (7)   Assure compliance with applicable laws and ordinances;
      (8)   Arrange tests and analysis of equipment and performance, as needed
to ensure compliance with this chapter and the franchise;
      (9)   Assure continuity in service;
      (10)   Receive for examination all data and reports required by this
chapter;
      (11)   Evaluate grantee’s performance; and
      (12)   Regulate rates and service, if applicable.
§ 113.053 RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Schedule filings. Grantee shall file with the town schedules which
shall describe all services offered, all rates and charges of any kind, and all
terms and conditions relating thereto. Grantee shall notify town and
subscribers in writing at least 30 days prior to the implementation of any
change in services offered, rate charges, or terms and conditions related
thereto, as may be required by law.
   (B)   Nondiscriminatory rates. To the extent required by applicable federal
or state law, grantee shall establish rates that are nondiscriminatory within
the same general class of subscribers which must be applied fairly and
uniformly to all subscribers in the franchise area for all services.
      (1)   Nothing contained herein shall prohibit the grantee from offering:
         (a)   Discounts to commercial and multiple-family dwelling subscribers
billed on a bulk basis;
         (b)   Promotional discounts;
         (c)   Reduced installation rates for subscribers who have multiple
services; or
         (d)   Discounts for senior citizens and/or low income residents.
      (2)   To the extent required by federal, state or local law or
regulation, grantee’s charges and rates for all services shall be itemized on
subscriber’s monthly bills.
   (C)   Town regulation. To the extent that federal or state law or
regulation, and in particular § 626 of the Communications Act (47 U.S.C. § 543)
and the regulations of the FCC, may now, or as the same may hereafter be
amended to, authorize the town to regulate the rates for any particular service
tiers, service packages, equipment or any other services provided by grantee,
the town shall have the right to exercise rate regulation to the full extent
authorized by law, or to refrain from exercising the regulation for any period
of time, at the sole discretion of the town.
   (D)   Ability to petition. If applicable, the town shall have the right to
petition the FCC or other appropriate agencies or organizations to obtain rate
regulation authority or to petition the federal body to review or regulate
rates in the town.
§ 113.054 PERFORMANCE BOND.
   (A)   Performance bond. Upon the effective date of the franchise, the
grantee shall obtain and maintain during the entire term of the franchise and
any extensions and renewals thereof, at its cost and expense, and file with the
town a corporate surety bond in an amount to be determined by Council and as
specified in the franchise agreement to guarantee the faithful performance of
the grantee of all its obligations provided under this chapter and the
franchise. Failure to timely obtain, file and maintain the bond shall
constitute a substantial violation within the meaning of this section.
   (B)   Conditions. The performance bond shall provide the following
conditions:
      (1)   There shall be recoverable by the town jointly and severally from
the principal and surety any and all fines and liquidated damages due to the
town and any and all damages, losses, costs and expenses suffered or incurred
by the town resulting from the failure of the grantee to faithfully comply with
the provisions of this chapter and the franchise; comply with all orders,
permits and directives of any town agency or body having jurisdiction over its
acts or defaults; pay fees due to the town; or pay any claims, liens or taxes
due the town which arise by reason of the construction, operation, maintenance
or repair of the cable system. The losses, costs and expenses shall include but
not be limited to attorney’s fees and other associated expenses.
      (2)   The total amount of the bond shall be forfeited in favor of the
town in the event:
         (a)   The grantee abandons the cable system at any time during the
term of the franchise or any extension thereto; or
         (b)   The grantee transfers the franchise without the express written
consent of the town.
   (C)   Reduction of bond. Upon written application by the grantee, the town
may, at its sole option, permit the amount of the bond to be reduced or waive
the requirements for a performance bond subject to the following conditions:
reductions granted or denied upon application by the grantee shall be without
prejudice to the grantee’s subsequent applications or to the town’s right to
require the full bond without notice at any time thereafter. However, no
application for reduction shall be made by the grantee within 1 year of any
prior application for reduction of within the first 5 years of the franchise.
   (D)   Use of performance bond. Prior to drawing upon the performance bond
for the purposes described in this section, the town shall notify the grantee
in writing by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, that
payment is due and the grantee shall make a full and complete payment. If the
grantee does not make the payment within 10 days from the mailing of the
notice, the town may withdraw the amount thereof, with interest and penalties,
from the performance bond.
   (E)   Notification. Within 3 days of a withdrawal from the performance bond,
the town shall send to the grantee, by certified mail, return receipt
requested, written notification of the amount, date and purpose of the
withdrawal.
   (F)   Replenishment of performance bond. No later than 30 days after mailing
to the grantee by certified mail notification as described in division (E)
above of a withdrawal pursuant to division (D) above, the grantee shall
replenish the performance bond in an amount equal to the amount so withdrawn.
Failure to make timely replenishment of the amount to the performance bond may
constitute a substantial violation of this chapter.
   (G)   Nonrenewal, alteration or cancellation of performance bond. The
performance bond required herein shall be in a form satisfactory to the town
and shall require 30 days’ written notice of any nonrenewal, alteration or
cancellation to both the town and the grantee. The grantee shall, in the event
of any cancellation notice, obtain, pay all premiums for and file with the town
written evidence of the issuance of replacement bond or policies within 30 days
following receipt by the town or the grantee of any notice of cancellation, and
failure to do so constitutes a substantial violation of this chapter.
   (H)   Inflation. To offset the effects of inflation the amounts of the bond
provided for herein, shall be increased by the annual rate of inflation at the
end of every 3-year period of the franchise, applicable to the next 3-year
period, upon the request of the town.
§ 113.055 LIABILITY AND INSURANCE.
   (A)   Certificate of insurance. Prior to commencement of construction, but
in no event later than 60 days after the effective date of the franchise and
thereafter, continuously maintain insurance as defined by this section and
throughout the duration of the franchise and any extensions or renewals
thereof, the grantee shall furnish to the town certificates of insurance,
approved by the town, for all types of insurance required under this section.
Failure to furnish the certificates of insurance in a timely manner shall
constitute a violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Filing. Any insurance policy or certificate thereof obtained by the
grantee in compliance with this section shall be filed and maintained with the
Town Manager or his or her designee during the term of the franchise, and may
be changed from time to time to reflect changing liability limits and/or to
compensate for inflation. Grantee shall immediately advise the town of any
litigation that may develop that would affect this insurance.
   (C)   No limit of liability. Neither the provisions of this section nor any
damages recovered by the town hereunder, shall be construed to limit the
liability of the grantee under any franchise issued hereunder or to limit
damages.
   (D)   Enforcement. All insurance policies maintained pursuant to this
chapter or the franchise shall contain the following, or a comparable,
endorsement:
“It is hereby understood and agreed that this insurance policy may not be
canceled by the insurance company nor the intention not to renew be stated by
the insurance company until 30 days after receipt by the Town Manager, by
registered or certified mail, of a written notice of the intention to cancel or
not to renew.”
   (E)   Hold harmless clause. All contractual liability insurance policies
maintained pursuant to this chapter or the franchise shall include the
following hold harmless clause:
“The grantee agrees to indemnify, save harmless and defend the town, its
officials, agents, servants and employees, and each of them against and hold it
and them harmless from any and all lawsuits, claims, demands, liabilities,
losses and expenses, including court costs and reasonable attorney’s fees, for
or on account of any injury to any person, or any death at any time resulting
from the injury, or any damage to any property, which may arise or which may be
alleged to have arisen out of or in connection with the work covered by the
franchise and performed or caused to be performed. The foregoing indemnity
shall apply except if the injury, death or damage is caused by the negligence
or other fault of the town, its agents, servants or employees, or any other
person indemnified hereunder.”
   (F)   State institution. All insurance policies provided under the
provisions of this chapter or the franchise shall be written by companies
authorized to do business in the state and approved by the State’s Commissioner
of Insurance.
   (G)   Named insured. At any time during the term of the franchise, the town
may request and the grantee shall comply with the request to name the town as
an additional named insured for all insurance policies written under the
provisions of this chapter or the franchise.
   (H)   Inflation. To offset the effects of inflation and to reflect changing
liability limits, all of the coverages, limits and amounts of the insurance
provided for herein will be increased at the end of every 3-year period of the
franchise at the annual rate of inflation, applicable to the next 3-year
period, upon the request of the town.
   (I)   General liability insurance. The grantee shall maintain, and by its
acceptance of any franchise granted hereunder specifically agree that it will
maintain throughout the term of the franchise, general liability insurance
insuring the grantee in the minimum of:
      (1)   Two million dollars for property damage per occurrence;
      (2)   Two million dollars for property damage aggregate;
      (3)   Four million dollars for personal bodily injury or death to any 1
person; and
      (4)   Five million dollars bodily injury or death aggregate per single
accident or occurrence.
   (J)   Policy inclusions. The general liability insurance must include, at a
minimum, coverage for all of the following comprehensive form, premises,
operations, explosion and collapse hazard, underground hazard, products/
completed operations hazard, contractual insurance, broad form property damage
and personal injury.
   (K)   Automobile liability insurance. The grantee shall maintain throughout
the term of the franchise, automobile liability insurance for owned, nonowned
or rented vehicles used by grantee, its agents, officials or employees in the
minimum amount of:
      (1)   One million dollars for bodily injury and consequent death per
occurrence;
      (2)   One million dollars for bodily injury and consequent death to any 1
person; and
      (3)   Five hundred thousand dollars for property damage per occurrence.
   (L)   Worker’s Compensation and employer’s liability insurance. The grantee
shall maintain throughout the term of the franchise, Worker’s Compensation and
employer’s liability, valid in the state, in the minimum amount of:
      (1)   Statutory limit for Worker’s Compensation; and
      (2)   One million dollars for employer’s liability.
§ 113.056 INDEMNIFICATION.
   (A)   Grantee shall, at its sole cost and expense, fully indemnify, defend
and hold harmless the town, its officers, boards and commissions, and town
employees against any and all claims, suits, actions, liability and judgments
for damages (including but not limited to costs and expenses for reasonable
legal fees and disbursements and liabilities assumed by the town in connection
therewith):
      (1)   To persons or property, in any way arising out of or through the
acts or omissions of grantee, its servants, agents or employees, or to which
grantee’s negligence shall in any way contribute unless caused solely by
negligence or other fault of the town, its agents, servants or employees, or
any other person indemnified hereunder;
      (2)   Arising out of any claim for invasion of the right of privacy, for
defamation of any person, firm or corporation, or the violation or infringement
of any copyright, trademark, trade name, service mark or patent, or of any
other right of any person, firm or corporation (excluding claims arising out of
or relating to town programming); and
      (3)   Arising out of grantee’s failure to comply with the provisions of
any federal, state or local statute, ordinances or regulation applicable to
grantee in its business hereunder.
   (B)   The foregoing indemnity is conditioned upon the following: the town
shall give grantee reasonable notice of the making of any claim or the
commencement of any action, suit or other proceeding covered by the provisions
of this section. Nothing herein shall be deemed to prevent the town from
cooperating with grantee and participating in the defense of any litigation by
its own counsel at its sole cost and expense. No recovery by the town of any
sum by reason of the liquidated damages required by this chapter shall be
subject to litigation by the company, except that any sum so received by the
town shall be deducted from any recovery which the town might have against the
company under the terms of this section.
§ 113.057 BOOKS AND RECORDS AVAILABLE TO THE GRANTOR.
   (A)   The grantee shall maintain an office within the town. The town shall
have the right to inspect at any time during normal business hours, all books,
records, maps, plans, income tax returns, financial statements, service
complaint logs, performance test results and other like materials of the
grantee when necessary to ascertain the grantee’s compliance with this chapter
or the franchise agreement. Access to the aforementioned records shall not be
denied by the grantee on the basis that the records contain proprietary
information.
   (B)   Grantee shall permit any duly authorized representative of the town to
examine and copy or transcribe any and all maps and other records kept or
maintained by grantee or under its control concerning the operations, finances,
affairs, transactions or property of grantee. If any of the maps or records are
not kept in the town, or upon reasonable request made available in the town,
and if the town shall determine that an examination of the maps or records is
necessary or appropriate to the performance of any of the town’s duties, then
all travel and maintenance expenses necessarily incurred in making the
examination shall be paid by grantee.
§ 113.058 REPORTS REQUIRED.
   The grantee shall file with the town, upon reasonable request the following.
   (A)   Regulatory communications. All reports required by the Federal
Communications Commission (FCC), including but not limited to annual proof of
performance tests and results, and Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) reports,
and all petitions, applications and communications of all types submitted by
grantee to the FCC, the Security and Exchange Commission (SEC), or any other
federal or state regulatory commission or agency, having jurisdiction over any
matter affecting operation of grantee’s system;
   (B)   Facilities report. An annual report setting forth the physical miles
of plant construction and plant in operation during the fiscal year will be
made available at the local office of the cable operator for review by town
officials as needed and upon reasonable request;
   (C)   Construction reports. Construction reports shall be sent to the town
30 days after the initial franchise agreement is awarded and monthly thereafter
until construction is completed as specified in this chapter;
   (D)   Proof of performance tests. Proof of performance test results
performed as required by the FCC shall be supplied to the town upon request;
   (E)   Test required by town. Tests required by town as specified in this
chapter shall be submitted within 30 days of notification;
   (F)   Grantee rules. The grantee’s schedule of charges, contract or
application forms of regular subscriber service policy regarding the processing
of subscriber complaints, delinquent subscriber disconnect and reconnect
procedures and any other terms and conditions adopted as the grantee’s policy
in connection with its subscribers shall be in accordance with applicable state
and federal laws, rules or regulations;
   (G)   Proof of bonds and insurance. Grantee shall submit to the town the
required performance bond, or a certified copy thereof, and insurance
certificates as required under the terms and conditions described in this
chapter;
   (H)   Financial and ownership reports. The following financial reports for
the franchise area shall be submitted to the town, upon reasonable notice and
as required by the town:
      (1)   A statement of gross annual revenues verifying all revenues from
the town franchise as certified by the Vice-President for Finance or an officer
of the grantee.
      (2)   An annual list of officers and members of the Council of grantee
and of any parent corporation.
   (I)   Additional reports. The grantee shall prepare and furnish to the town
at the times and in the form prescribed, the additional reports with respect to
its operation, affairs, transactions or property, as may be reasonably
necessary and appropriate to ascertain grantee’s compliance with this chapter
or the franchise agreement.
§ 113.059 RECORDS REQUIRED.
   The town may, from time to time, impose reasonable requests for information,
records and documents as may be reasonably necessary and appropriate to
ascertain grantee’s compliance with this chapter or the franchise agreement.
CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
§ 113.075 AUTHORITY TO CONSTRUCT.
   (A)   Authorization to commence construction and application procedures.
Within 30 days of the acceptance by the grantee of an initial franchise, the
grantee shall apply for any needed contracts for use of poles. Within 30 days
after completion of the make-ready survey identifying the routes of the system
facility, the grantee shall apply for all additional licenses from the state,
town or other necessary parties, such as the railroads for crossing under or
over their property. In any event, all necessary applications for permits,
licenses, certificates and authorizations shall be applied for in a timely
fashion so that the filing and processing shall not interfere with or cause
delay with the construction scheduled as outlined in the franchise. Failure to
make the timely application and timely filing shall constitute a substantial
violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Power to contract. Upon grant of the franchise and in order to
construct, operate and maintain a cable system in the town, the grantee may
enter into contracts with any public utility companies or any other owner or
lessee of any poles or underground areas located within the town; obtain right-
of-way permits from appropriate town, state and federal officials necessary to
cross or otherwise use highways or roads under their respective jurisdiction;
obtain permission from the Federal Aviation Administration to erect and
maintain antennae; and obtain whatever other permits a town, state or federal
agency may require.
§ 113.076 CONSTRUCTION AND TECHNICAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Compliance with construction and technical standards. Grantee shall
construct, install, operate and maintain its system in a manner consistent with
all laws, ordinances, construction standards, governmental requirements and FCC
technical standards. The grantee, through the system, shall provide uniform,
strong signals which are free from any significant distortion and interference.
The system shall be designed, constructed, operated and maintained for 24-
hours-a-day continuous operation. The system shall produce, for reception on
subscribers’ receivers which are in good working order, either monochrome or
color pictures (provided the receiver is color capable) which are free from any
significant interference or distortion which would cause any material
degradation of video or audio quality.
   (B)   System design. Any system operating within the town shall at a minimum
meet the following:
      (1)   The system will be spaced to permit a minimum operation, which
shall be stated in the franchise agreement;
      (2)   Grantee shall construct, install and maintain its system in a
manner that will enable it to add new services and associated equipment as it
becomes reasonable to provide them to subscribers, taking into account
availability, economic feasibility and marketability; and
      (3)   The system will utilize converters which will make the system
adaptable for the development of future services.
   (C)   Poles. Grantee will comply with the existing permitting process for
use of the public ways.
   (D)   Contractor qualifications. Any contractor or subcontractor proposed
for work of construction, installation, operation, maintenance and repair of
system equipment must be properly licensed under laws of the state and all
local ordinances.
   (E)   System equipment. The system erected by the grantee within the town
shall be so located as to cause minimum interference with the proper use of the
public ways, and to cause minimum interference with the rights and reasonable
convenience of property owners who adjoin any of the streets, alleys or other
public ways. No pole or other fixtures placed in any public ways by the grantee
shall be placed in such a manner as to interfere with normal travel on the
public way.
   (F)   Maps. The town does not guarantee the accuracy of any maps showing the
horizontal or vertical location of existing substructures. In public rights-of-
way, where necessary, the location shall be verified by excavation. Grantee may
make use of ULOCO or some other utilities location service and at grantee’s
expense.
   (G)   Quality of construction. Construction, installation, operation and
maintenance of the system shall be performed in an orderly and workmanlike
manner, in accordance with then current technological standards. All cables and
wires shall be installed, where possible, parallel with electric and telephone
lines. Multiple cable configurations shall be arranged in parallel and bundled
with due respect for engineering considerations.
   (H)   Construction standards. Grantee shall at all times comply with:
      (1)   National Electrical Safety Code (National Bureau of Standards);
      (2)   National Electrical Code (National Bureau of Fire Underwriters);
      (3)   Bell System Code of Pole Line Construction; and
      (4)   Applicable FCC or other federal, state and local regulations; and
standards as set forth in the franchise.
   (I)   Non-interference. In any event, the system shall not endanger or
interfere with the safety of persons or property in the franchise area or other
areas where the grantee may have equipment located.
   (J)   Antennae. Any antenna structure used in the system shall comply with
construction, marking and lighting of antenna structure standards as required
by federal and state law or regulation.
   (K)   OSHA. All worker facilities, conditions and procedures that are used
during construction, installation, operation and maintenance of the cable
system shall comply with the standards of the Occupational Safety and Health
Administration.
   (L)   Standby power. The grantee shall maintain equipment capable of
providing standby power for a minimum of 24 hours for the headend.
§ 113.077 SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE.
   The franchise shall specify the construction schedule for initial systems.
Failure to comply with the construction schedule shall constitute a breach of
the franchise and this chapter.
§ 113.078 EXTENSION OF SERVICE.
   The grantee shall extend its cable system and make cable service available
to every existing residentially zoned area within the franchise area and within
6 months for newly annexed areas, whenever the density of at least 20
residential dwelling units per cable plant mile, as measured from the existing
facilities of grantee’s cable system in the franchise area. For purposes of
this section, density per cable mile shall be computed by dividing the number
of residential dwelling units in the area by length, in miles or fractions
thereof, of the total length of aerial or underground cable necessary to make
service available to the residential dwelling units in the area in accordance
with the grantee’s system design parameters. The cable length shall be measured
from the nearest point that is located within the public ways. The total cable
length shall exclude the drop necessary to serve individual subscriber
premises. In the cases where residential density does not meet the density
requirement, consideration will be made for line extensions based on a cost
share basis as may be specified in the franchise agreement. The grantee may not
otherwise discriminate against low income or low-density areas. For good cause,
the grantee may request and the Town Manager may grant reasonable extension of
time, within which to provide services to those areas with less than 20 homes
per plant mile.
§ 113.079 USE OF STREETS.
   (A)   Underground installation. All installations shall be underground in
those areas of the town where public utilities providing telephone and electric
service are underground at the time of installation. In areas of the town where
either telephone or electric utility facilities are above ground at the time of
installation, grantee may install its service above ground, provided that at
the time as those telephone or electric utility facilities are either required
to be placed underground by the town or in fact are placed underground, the
grantee shall likewise place its services underground without direct additional
cost to the town or to the individual subscribers so served within the town.
Where not otherwise required to be placed underground by this chapter or the
franchise, the grantee’s system shall be located underground at the request of
the adjacent property owner, provided that the excess cost over the aerial
location shall be borne by the property owner making the request.
   (B)   Approvals. Prior to construction or alteration, grantee will obtain
all required construction permits.
   (C)   Interference with persons, improvements, public and private property
and utilities. The system shall be located, erected and maintained so that the
facilities shall:
      (1)   Not endanger or interfere with the health, safety or lives or
persons;
      (2)   Not interfere with any improvements the town or state may deem
proper to make;
      (3)   Not interfere with the free and proper use of public ways except to
the minimum extent possible during actual construction or repair;
      (4)   Not interfere with the rights and reasonable convenience of private
property owners, except to the minimum extent possible during actual
construction or repair; and
      (5)   Not obstruct, hinder or interfere with any gas, electric, water or
telephone facilities, easements, property rights or other utilities facilities’
easements located within the town.
   (D)   Restoration to prior condition. In case of any disturbance of
pavement, sidewalk, driveway or other surfacing, the grantee shall, at its own
cost and expense and in a manner approved by the town, replace and restore all
paving, sidewalk, driveway, landscaping or surface of any street or alley
disturbed, consistent with the practices of local utilities. The restoration
shall be undertaken within no more than 10 business days after the damage is
incurred and shall be completed as soon as possible thereafter. The closing
shall be at the expense of the grantee.
   (E)   Private property. Grantee shall be subject to all laws, ordinances or
regulations regarding private property or regulations regarding private
property in the course of constructing, installing, operating or maintaining
the system. Grantee shall promptly repair or replace all private property, both
real and personal, damaged or destroyed as a result of the construction,
installation, operation or maintenance of the system at its sole cost and
expense.
   (F)   Relocation of the facilities. In the event that at any time during the
period of the franchise, the town or state shall lawfully elect to alter, or
change, the grade of any street, alley or other public ways, the grantee, upon
reasonable notice by the proper authority, shall remove or relocate as
necessary its poles, wires, cables, underground conduits, manholes and other
fixtures at its own cost and expense.
   (G)   Cooperation with building movers. The grantee shall, on the request of
any person holding a building moving permit issued by the town, temporarily
raise or lower its wire to permit the moving of buildings. The expense of the
temporary removal, raising or lowering of wires shall be paid by the person
requesting the same, and the grantee shall have the authority to require the
payment in advance. The grantee shall be given not less than 15 working days
advance notice to arrange for the temporary wire changes.
   (H)   Tree trimming. The grantee shall have the authority, except when in
conflict with existing town ordinances, or other applicable law, to trim any
trees upon and overhanging public right-of-way so as to prevent the branches of
the trees from coming in contact with system facilities, except that at the
option of the town, the trimming may be done by it, or under its supervision
and direction, at the expense of the grantee.
   (I)   Easements. All necessary easements over and under private property
shall be arranged for by the grantee.
§ 113.080 CONSTRUCTION REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Progress report. Within 180 days of the granting of an initial
franchise agreement pursuant to this chapter, the grantee shall provide the
town with a written progress report detailing initial construction work
completed to date. The report shall include a description of the progress in
applying for any necessary agreements, licenses or certifications and any other
information the Town Manager may deem necessary. The content and format of the
report will be determined by the Town Manager and may be modified at his or her
discretion.
   (B)   Timeframe for reports. The written progress reports shall be submitted
to the Town Manager’s office on a monthly basis throughout the entire
construction process. The Town Manager or his or her designee may require more
frequent reporting, if he or she determines it is necessary to better monitor
the grantee’s progress.
   (C)   Subscriber information. Prior to the commencement of initial system
construction, the grantee shall produce an informational document to be
distributed to all residents of the area to be under construction, which shall
describe the activity that will be taking place.
§ 113.081 TESTS AND PERFORMANCE MONITORING.
   (A)   Tests. All testing of the system shall be done in accordance with the
rules and regulations of the FCC. In addition, the town, in its discretion may
require other testing and reports as it determines to be necessary to protect
the interests of the citizens of the town and when necessary to ascertain
grantee’s compliance with this chapter and the franchise agreement.
   (B)   FCC reports. A copy of any performance test reports required by the
FCC shall be submitted to the town upon request and with reasonable notice.
   (C)   Complaints. Whenever there have been similar complaints made or when
there exists other evidence, which, in the reasonable judgment of the town,
casts doubt on the reliability or quality of the grantee’s system, the town
shall have the right and authority to compel the grantee to test, analyze and
report on the performance of its system. The town may require additional tests,
full or partial repeat tests, different test procedures, or tests involving a
specific subscriber’s terminal. Reports on the tests shall be delivered to the
town no later than 30 days after the town formally notifies the grantee and
shall include the following information: the nature of the complaints which
precipitated the special tests; what system component was tested; the equipment
used, and procedures employed in the testing; the results of the tests; and
methods by which the complaints were resolved. The tests and analyses shall be
supervised by an engineer who shall sign all records of the special tests and
forward same to the town with a report interpreting the results of the tests
and recommending what actions should be taken by the town. All the tests shall
be at the expense of the grantee.
   (D)   Consultants. The town shall have the right, at its expense, to employ
or contract with qualified consultants and attorneys if necessary or desirable,
to assist in the administration of this or any other section of this chapter or
the franchise.
SERVICE REGULATIONS
§ 113.095 GENERAL SERVICE STANDARDS.
   The town reserves the right to enforce all relevant service rules and
regulations as set forth by federal, state and local governments. These rules
and regulations include but are not limited to FCC customer service
regulations, as hereafter amended by the FCC, and the town’s rate and service
regulation ordinance, as hereafter amended by the town from time to time.
§ 113.096 SERVICES TO SUBSCRIBERS AND USERS.
   (A)   Service. Concurrently with the activation of the system in the town,
the grantee shall provide all services to subscribers as described herein and
as specified in the franchise agreement at rates detailed in the rate schedule.
      (1)   The system shall carry the broad categories of programming and
services listed in the franchise. Should the grantee desire to change the
selection of programs or services offered on any of its tiers, it shall
maintain the mix, quality and level of services provided over the system. Any
change in programs or services offered shall comply with the conditions and
procedures contained in the franchise, and shall be reported to the town at
least 30 days prior to the proposed implementation. The grantee shall use its
good-faith efforts to ensure diversity of programming.
      (2)   Basic service shall be offered to subscribers throughout the term
of this chapter and the franchise.
   (B)   Emergency override. The grantee shall, without charge, provide,
service and maintain public emergency override facilities to the town, as
described in the franchise agreement and as prescribed by the Communications
Act and the FCC.
§ 113.097 INSTALLATIONS, CONNECTIONS AND OTHER GRANTEE SERVICES.
   (A)   Standard installations. Standard installation shall consist of a
service not exceeding 200 feet from a single point or pedestal attachment to
the customer’s residence. Service drops in excess of 200 feet and concealed
wiring in the home shall be charged to the subscriber based upon time and
material. The desire of the subscriber as to the point of entry into the
residence shall be observed whenever possible. Runs in building interiors shall
be as unobtrusive as possible. The grantee shall use due care in the process of
installation and shall repair any damage to the subscriber’s property caused by
the installation. The restoration shall be undertaken within no more than 10
days after the damage is incurred and shall be completed as soon as possible
thereafter.
   (B)   Deposits. Any deposit required by grantee of subscribers shall bear
interest at a rate consistent with other service providers that require
deposits, which interest shall belong to the subscriber.
   (C)   Antennas and antenna switches. The grantee shall not, as a condition
to providing cable service, require any subscriber or potential subscriber, to
remove any existing antenna structures for the receipt of over-the-air
television signals. The grantee shall install, upon the request of the
subscriber, an RF or antenna switch where required for the provision of
services provided by the grantee as required by federal law.
   (D)   Lockout devices. The grantee shall provide to the potential
subscriber, as part of its installation literature, information concerning the
availability of a lockout device for use by a subscriber. The grantee may
require a reasonable deposit or purchase price for the use of this device, as
set forth in the rate schedule. The lockout device described herein shall be
made available to all subscribers requesting it beginning on the first day that
any cable service is provided.
   (E)   Reconnection. Grantee shall restore service to subscribers wishing
restoration of service provided subscriber shall first satisfy any previous
obligations owed.
   (F)   Free disconnection. Subscribers shall have the right to have cable
service disconnected without charge. The disconnection shall be made as soon as
practicable and in no case later than 15 days following notice to grantee of
same. A refund of unused service charges shall be paid to the customer within
30 days from the date of termination of service.
   (G)   Delinquent accounts. Grantee shall use all reasonable efforts to
collect on delinquent subscriber accounts. In all cases, the grantee shall
provide the subscriber with at least 10 working days’ written notice prior to
disconnection. The fee for reconnection shall not exceed the fee for a new
connection.
§ 113.098 CUSTOMER SERVICE STANDARDS.
   (A)   The company shall establish, operate and maintain in the town a
business office and maintenance and repair facility for the purpose of
receiving inquiries, requests and complaints concerning all aspects of the
construction, installation, operation and maintenance of the system and for the
payment of subscribers’ service charges.
   (B)   The grantee shall have a listed, local, toll-free or collect telephone
number for service calls and the telephone service shall be available 24 hours
a day, 7 days a week according to FCC guidelines. The number shall be made
available to subscribers and the general public.
   (C)   The grantee shall respond to and resolve subscribers’ complaints or
requests for service in connection with repairs and maintenance and
malfunctions of system facilities. The grantee shall respond as quickly as
possible to the complaints and requests, but shall in any case respond within
the guidelines published by the FCC. Complaints or requests which may pose a
potential health and safety hazard will be responded to immediately, following
notification of the grantee. In connection with billing complaints, the grantee
shall respond within timeframe established by the FCC.
   (D)   The grantee shall prepare and file with the town copies of all of its
rules and regulations in connection with the handling of inquiries, requests
and complaints. The grantee shall, by appropriate means, such as a card or
brochure, furnish information concerning the procedures for making inquiries or
complaints and furnish information concerning the town office responsible for
the administration of the franchise, including but not limited to the address
and telephone number of the office.
   (E)   The grantee shall keep full records, as prescribed by the FCC, in
connection with customer service standards.
   (F)   The town may review and monitor unresolved customer complaints.
§ 113.099 CONTINUITY OF SERVICE MANDATORY.
   (A)   It shall be the right of all subscribers to receive continuous,
uninterrupted service insofar as their financial and other obligations to the
grantee are honored.
   (B)   In the event that the grantee elects to rebuild, modify or sell the
system, or the town gives notice of intent to terminate or fails to renew its
franchise, the grantee shall cooperate with the town or new grantee or operator
in maintaining continuity of service to all subscribers for a period of 6
months or the other time as mutually agreed upon. During the period, grantee
shall be entitled to the revenues for any period during which it operates the
system, and shall be entitled to reasonable costs for the services when it no
longer operates the system.
   (C)   In the event the grantee fails to operate the system for 7 consecutive
days without prior approval of the town or without just cause, the town may, at
its option, operate the system or designate an operator until the time as
grantee restores service under conditions acceptable to the town or a permanent
operator is selected. If the town is required to fulfill this obligation for
the grantee, the grantee shall reimburse the town for all reasonable costs or
damages incurred by the town as the result of the grantee’s failure to perform.
§ 113.100 PROTECTION OF SUBSCRIBER PRIVACY MANDATORY.
   Grantee shall at all times protect the privacy of subscribers, as provided
in this chapter and other applicable federal, state, and local laws, and in
particular, § 631 of the Communications Act (47 U.S.C. § 551).
§ 113.101 NONDISCRIMINATION REQUIRED.
   Grantee shall not deny service, deny access or otherwise discriminate
against subscribers, channel users or general citizens on the basis of race,
color, religion, national origin, age, sex or handicap, provided the subscriber
shall pay all applicable fees for the service desired. Grantee shall comply at
all times with all other applicable federal, state and local laws and
regulations, and all executive and administrative orders relating to
nondiscrimination which are hereby incorporated and made part of this chapter
by reference.
CHAPTER 114: GARAGE AND YARD SALES
Section
General Provisions
   
114.01   Definitions
Regulations
   
114.15   Hours of operation
   
114.16   Reserved
   
114.17   Reserved
   
114.18   Reserved
   
114.19   Property permitted to be sold; display
   
114.20   Advertising and signs
   
114.21   Public nuisance
   
114.22   Inspections; authority of inspector
   
114.23   Parking
   
114.24   Exemptions
 
   
114.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARAGE SALES or YARD SALES. All general sales open to the public conducted
on or off residential premises in any residential zone as defined by the land
development code, for the purpose of disposing of personal property, including
but not limited to all sales entitled GARAGE, LAWN, YARD, ATTIC, PORCH, ROOM,
BACKYARD, RUMMAGE or PATIO SALES.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Property which is owned, utilized and maintained by an
individual or members of his or her residence and acquired in a normal course
of living in or maintaining a residence. It does not include merchandise which
was purchased for resale or obtained on consignment, nor does it include items
made specifically for sale at a sale as defined above.
REGULATIONS
§ 114.15 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   Sales shall be limited in time to no more than the daylight hours of 2
consecutive days.
(Ord. - -, passed 7-8-2013) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.16 through 114.18 RESERVED.
§ 114.19 PROPERTY PERMITTED TO BE SOLD; DISPLAY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for an individual to sell, or offer for sale
under authority granted by this chapter, property other than personal property.
   (B)   Personal property offered for sale may be displayed within the
residence, in a garage on the same premises, carport or in the rear yard, but
only in those designated areas. No personal property offered for sale under
this section shall be displayed on the front or side yard area of any premises
or in any public right-of-way. A vehicle offered for sale, however, may be
displayed on a permanently constructed driveway within the front or side yard.
Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.20 ADVERTISING AND SIGNS.
   Signs and advertising shall be permitted only as provided in the sign
ordinance section of the land development code for the town, and with the
following limitations:
   (A)   No sign or other form of advertisement, except media advertising,
shall be exhibited for more than 2 days prior to the day the sale is to
commence.
   (B)   Signs must be removed each day at the close of the sale activities or
by the end of daylight, whichever occurs first.
Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.21 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   The owner or tenant of the premises on which the sale or activity is
conducted shall be jointly and severally responsible for the maintenance of
good order and decorum on the premises during all hours of the sale. No
individual shall permit any loud or boisterous conduct on the premises nor
permit vehicles to impede the passage of traffic on any roads or streets in the
area of the premises. All individuals shall obey the reasonable orders of any
member of the Police or Fire Department of the town in order to maintain the
public health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. - -, passed 7-8-2013) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.22 INSPECTIONS; AUTHORITY OF INSPECTOR.
   A police officer or any other official designated by any town ordinance to
make inspections under the licensing or regulating ordinance or to enforce the
ordinances shall have the right of entry to any premises showing evidence of a
sale for the purpose of enforcement or inspection. He or she may summarily stop
the sale and take those steps as are necessary against any individual who
violates the provisions of this chapter.
§ 114.23 PARKING.
   All parking of vehicles shall be conducted in compliance with applicable
laws and ordinances. Further, the Police Department shall have authority to
enforce temporary controls to alleviate any special hazard or congestion
created by any sale.
Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.24 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following are exempted from the provisions of this chapter:
   (A)   Any person selling goods pursuant to an order of process of a court of
competent jurisdiction;
   (B)   Any person acting in accordance with his or her powers and duties as a
public official; and
   (C)   Any sale conducted by a duly licensed merchant or mercantile or other
business establishment from or at a place of business wherein the sale will be
permitted by the zoning regulations of the town or under the protection of the
nonconforming use section thereof, or any other sale conducted by a
manufacturer, dealer or vendor in which the sale would be conducted from
properly zoned premises and not otherwise prohibited in other ordinances; and
   (D)   Any bona fide charitable, educational, cultural or governmental
institution or organization when the proceeds from the sale are used directly
for the institution or organizations’ charitable purposes and the goods and
articles are not sold on a consignment basis.
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   If a violation of this chapter is not corrected, then a citation in the
amount of $50 shall be issued per violation.
(Ord. passed - - )
CHAPTER 115: MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
115.01   Purpose and objective
   
115.02   Definitions
   
115.03   Exemptions
   
115.04   Registration of massage therapists
   
115.05   Business registration of massage therapy establishments
   
115.06   Posting of registration
   
115.07   Revocation
   
115.08   Employees
   
115.09   Fees
   
115.10   Grandfather clause
   
115.11   Reciprocity
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVE.
    The therapeutic application of massage is one of the oldest healing arts
known to humankind, a practice which can provide many benefits to an
individual’s state of health and well-being. In the interest of public health,
safety, welfare and morals, and to protect the public from unqualified
practitioners and unethical businesses, massage establishment registration and
massage therapist registration provisions and regulations specified in this
chapter are hereby adopted.
(Am. Ord. passed - - )
§ 115.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning.
   BUSINESS OR PROFESSION OF MASSAGE THERAPY. Includes the massage or treatment
of any person for a fee or for other good or valuable consideration from the
person treated.
   MASSAGE, THERAPEUTIC MASSAGE, BODYWORK. Synonymous with MASSAGE THERAPY.
   MASSAGE THERAPIST. Any person, whether male or female, who is engaged in the
practice of massage therapy, and who receives compensation for his or her
services.
   MASSAGE THERAPY. Any form of manipulation of the muscles, skin or other soft
tissue of the body, by kneading, stroking, pressing, tapping or movement of
extremities, whether applied by hand, arm or foot or aided by mechanical
device.
   MASSAGE THERAPY ESTABLISHMENT. Any business or establishment wherein massage
therapy is practiced, including establishments commonly known as health clubs,
physical culture studios, massage clinics or similar establishments by whatever
name designated.
§ 115.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The practice of massage therapy shall not include and is distinct from
the practice of medicine, surgery, osteopathy, nursing, chiropractic, physical
therapy or podiatry. Requirements of this chapter shall have no application to
and effect upon:
      (1)   Physicians, surgeons, chiropractors, osteopaths, physical
therapists or podiatrists duly licensed to practice in this state, and
registered or licensed practical nurses governed by the state nursing practices
act;
      (2)   Athletic directors or trainers who are affiliated with an approved
educational institution or professional sports team and whose work is limited
to athletic team members; or
      (3)   Licensed cosmetologists, barbers or beauty culturists who do not
give or hold themselves out to give massage treatments other than are
customarily given in the establishments, solely for the purpose of
beautification.
   (B)   No other persons not duly qualified and licensed as a massage
therapist under this chapter, whether employed by physicians, chiropractors,
osteopaths, podiatrists, or not, may render massage therapy as a professional
or business endeavor or for or in exchange of any type of valuable
consideration or remuneration.
§ 115.04 REGISTRATION OF MASSAGE THERAPISTS.
   (A)   No person shall engage in the business or profession of massage
therapy unless the person shall have first applied for and received a massage
therapy registration as required by this section.
   (B)   Applicants must provide the Tax Collector with a copy of their North
Carolina Board of Massage and Bodywork Therapy state license. This requirement
shall apply to all applicants, and no individual seeking to practice massage
therapy in the town shall be exempted therefrom except as expressly provided in
§
115.03.
   (C)   The application for a massage therapist registration required by this
section shall be upon a form approved by the town and shall be filed with the
Tax Collector for the town. If the therapist is also the business owner, two
additional registration forms are required as explained in §
115.05. The massage therapist registration application shall be given under
oath and shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name, age and residence address of the applicants;
      (2)   The North Carolina Board of Massage and Bodywork Therapy state
license number, effective and expiration date;
      (3)   A complete statement of the previous businesses or occupations of
the applicant for the 2 years immediately preceding the date of the
application;
      (4)   The date and place of the applicant’s birth and the residence
address or addresses of the applicant for the 3 years immediately preceding the
date of application;
      (5)   A complete statement of all convictions of the applicant for any
felonies and any offense involving sexual misconduct, whether for this
jurisdiction or any other, including G.S. §§ 14-177 through 14-199, and G.S. §§
14-203 through 14-208, or any federal statute relating to prostitution, or of
any governmental unit concerning or related to the business or profession of
massage; and
Statutory reference:
   G.S. §§ 14-204.1,14-205, 14-207, and 14-208 have been repealed. New §§ 14-
205.1 through 14-205.4 have been enacted.
      (6)   A complete statement of any revocation of any license or
registration granted by any governmental unit to the applicant to engage in the
business or profession of massage therapy.
   (D)   Upon payment of the registration fee, as set out in §
115.09, and upon submission of all the information required by the application
under this chapter, the Tax Collector shall transmit a copy of the application
to the Police Department for an investigative report. The Police Department
shall report the results of the investigation within a reasonable time, not to
exceed 30 days. A massage therapist registration shall be granted immediately
if all requirements described in this chapter are met, unless it appears that
any applicant is under the age of 18 years, has deliberately falsified the
application, has had a previously issued license or registration to engage in
the business or profession of massage revoked, or the record of the applicant
reveals a conviction as set out in division (C)(5) of this section.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to perform massage therapy upon a
person under the age of 18 years unless consent therefor has been given by the
person’s parent, guardian or custodian.
(Am. Ord. passed - - ) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.05 BUSINESS REGISTRATION OF MASSAGE THERAPY ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a massage therapy establishment unless the
person shall have first obtained a business registration from the town and
applied for and received the massage therapy establishment registration
provided by this section.
   (B)   Every application for a massage therapy establishment registration
prescribed in this section shall include two forms approved by the town and
supplied by and filed with the Tax Collector: the business registration, which
is required for any business operating within the town limits, and a
registration application for the massage therapy establishment. If the business
owner is also working as a massage therapist, a massage therapist registration
application is required. In addition, every massage therapist working at the
business is required to have an individual massage therapist registration.
Every massage therapy business establishment registration and massage therapist
registration application shall be made under oath and shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   If the applicant is a person, the name and residence address of the
person; if the applicant is a partnership, corporation or association, the name
and residence address of all principal officers of the partnership, corporation
or association;
      (2)   The address of the premises where the massage therapy establishment
shall be located;
      (3)   A complete statement of all convictions of any person whose name is
required to be given in division (B)(1) above for any offense as previously set
out herein;
      (4)   A complete statement of any revocation by any governmental unit of
any license or registration to operate a massage therapy establishment or to
engage in the business or profession of massage therapy held by any person
whose name is required to be given in division (B)(1) of this section; and
      (5)   The name and address of any massage therapy establishment or other
establishment owned or operated by any person whose name is required to be
given in division (B)(1) of this section wherein the business or profession of
massage is carried on.
   (C)   The Tax Collector shall transmit a copy of the application to the
police for an investigative report and to the Planning and Zoning Department of
the town to determine if the proposed establishment is in compliance with all
zoning ordinances. The police and the Planning and Zoning Department shall,
within a reasonable time, not to exceed 30 days, report the results of their
examinations to the Tax Collector.
   (D)   An application in proper form, accompanied by all reports required
herein, shall be submitted to the Town Council, which shall approve the
application if the Town Council determines that:
      (1)   The application contains no misstatement of fact;
      (2)   The applicant and any person having legal or beneficial ownership
interest in the proposed establishment is over the age of 18 years and has not
been convicted of any crime involving sexual misconduct, as set forth in this
chapter;
      (3)   The proposed establishment conforms to all requirements of
applicable zoning ordinances; and
      (4)   The applicant or any person having a legal or beneficial ownership
or interest in the proposed establishment has not, for the 3-year period
preceding the application, had a previously issued license or registration for
engaging in the business or profession of massage or a license or registration
to operate a massage business revoked.
(Am. Ord. passed - - ) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.06 POSTING OF REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Every massage therapist shall post the massage therapist registration
required by this chapter in his or her work area at all times.
   (B)   Every person registered under §
115.05 as a massage therapy establishment shall display the business
registration and massage therapy establishment registration in a prominent
place at all times.
(Am. Ord. passed - - )
§ 115.07 REVOCATION.
   (A)    No registration(s) under this chapter shall be revoked until after
due notice and a hearing shall have been held before the Town Council to
determine just cause for revocation. The burden of proving just cause for
revocation shall be on the town. Notice of the hearing shall be given in
writing and served at least 10 days prior to the date of the hearing thereon.
The notice shall state the grounds of the complaint against the holder of the
registration and shall designate the time and place where the hearing will be
held.
   (B)   The notice shall be served by the Police Department upon the
registration holder by delivering the same personally or by leaving the notice
at the place of business or residence of the registration holder in the custody
of a person of suitable age and discretion. In the event the registration
holder cannot be found, and the service of the notice cannot be otherwise made
in the manner herein provided, a copy of the notice shall be mailed,
registered, postage fully prepaid, addressed to the registration holder at his
or her place of business or residence at least 10 days prior to the date of the
hearing.
   (C)   The registration of a massage therapist issued pursuant to this
chapter may be revoked upon 1 or more of the following grounds:
      (1)   The registrant has violated any provision of this chapter;
      (2)   The registrant has been convicted of a crime involving sexual
misconduct, including those set out in §
115.04(C)(5);
      (3)   The registrant is guilty of fraudulent, false, misleading or
deceptive advertising, including the use of the term MASSAGE THERAPY or MASSAGE
to describe, promote or advertise any type of business activity or service
offered which is expressly not massage therapy, or has otherwise fraudulently
engaged in practicing massage therapy;
      (4)   The registrant has fraudulently obtained a registration pursuant to
the provisions of this chapter;
      (5)   The registrant allows the use of his or her registration by an
unregistered person; or
      (6)   The registrant is addicted to the habitual use of alcohol,
narcotics or other drugs, to an extent as to incapacitate the person for the
safe and normal performance of his or her professional duties.
   (D)   The registration of a massage therapy establishment issued pursuant to
this chapter may be revoked upon 1 or more of the following grounds:
      (1)   The registrant has violated any provision of this chapter;
      (2)   The registrant, or any agent of the registrant, employs and/or
permits any individual to perform massage therapy on the premises of the
registrant’s massage therapy establishment when that individual has not been
issued the registration required by §
115.04;
      (3)   The registrant, or the legal or beneficial owner of any interest of
the registrant, is convicted of any crime involving sexual misconduct,
including but not limited to those set out in §
115.04(C)(5);
      (4)   Any employee of the registrant is convicted of any crime involving
sexual misconduct, including but not limited to those set out in §
115.04(C)(5);
      (5)   The registrant is guilty of fraudulent, false, misleading or
deceptive advertising, including the use of the term MASSAGE THERAPY or MASSAGE
to describe, promote or advertise any type of business activity or service
offered which is expressly not massage therapy, or has otherwise fraudulently
engaged in the business or profession of massage therapy; or
      (6)   The registrant violates any zoning, building or fire prevention
ordinance.
(Am. Ord. passed - - ) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.08 EMPLOYEES.
   (A)    No person registered under §
115.05 as a massage therapy establishment shall allow or permit any person to
massage or treat any person upon the premises operated by the registrant or in
any other location under his or her authority or at his or her direction unless
the person giving the massage or treatment is registered under this chapter
pursuant to §
115.04.
   (B)   Violation of this section shall be grounds for revocation of the
registration issued to the violator.
(Am. Ord. passed - - )
§ 115.09 FEES.
   (A)    The application fee for a registration for a massage therapy
establishment shall be an amount to be determined by Council from time to time.
   (B)   The application fee for a massage therapist shall be an amount to be
determined by Council from time to time.
   (C)   Under this chapter, a massage therapist in business as a sole
practitioner shall only be required to pay the application fee set out in
division (A) above.
   (D)   The business registration fee for a massage therapy establishment
shall be $25 in accordance with
Ch. 110.
(Am. Ord. passed - - )
§ 115.10 GRANDFATHER CLAUSE.
   (A)    Any person who has been engaged in the business or profession of
massage therapy in this town for 3 or more continuous years may be granted a
registration pursuant to the provisions of this chapter if:
      (1)   Proof of continuous service is provided to the Tax Collector for
the town.
      (2)   Three letters of reference from massage therapists regulated under
this chapter or other licensed health care professionals, attesting to the
sound moral character, professional qualifications and the competence of the
person, are provided to the Tax Collector.
      (3)   An appropriate application is submitted under this chapter, and the
individual pays the required registration fee.
   (B)   In addition, any person previously registered to engage in the
business or profession of massage therapy in the town shall be exempt from the
requirements of §
115.04(C), and shall be granted a registration pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter if:
      (1)   Proof of previous registration is provided to the Tax Collector;
      (2)   The person pays the application fee; and
      (3)   The registration is renewed as required in this chapter on the
first anniversary of the original issuance of the registration and annually on
July 1 for the business registration.
(Am. Ord. passed - - )
§ 115.11 RECIPROCITY.
    Any person who has been duly licensed in another state or municipality to
practice massage therapy, which state or municipality has and maintains a
standard of practice substantially the same or more stringent than that
maintained under this chapter, and who has been lawfully and continuously
engaged in the practice for 2 or more years immediately before filing his or
her application to practice under this chapter, and who shall submit a duly
attested license from the regulatory authority of the state or municipality in
which he or she is registered, certifying to the fact of his or her
registration, may be granted a massage therapist registration to practice
without otherwise being required to qualify.
(Am. Ord. passed - - )
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A notice of violation shall be issued to the individual or business
notifying them that a violation of this section must be corrected within 30
days.
   (B)   If the violation is still not corrected within the prescribed time
period, then a citation in the amount of $50 shall be issued per violation.
   (C)   If the violation is still not corrected following issuance of the
aforementioned citations, then the town may pursue an injunction in the
appropriate court of law commanding the defendant to correct the violation.
(Am. Ord. passed - - )
CHAPTER 116: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
General Provisions
   
116.01   Purpose
   
116.02   Definitions
Licensing
   
116.15   Licensing of sexually oriented businesses
   
116.16   Issuance of license
   
116.17   Annual business license
   
116.18   Fees
   
116.19   Inspection of sexually oriented business
   
116.20   Denial or revocation of license
   
116.21   Posting of license
Regulations and Operation
   
116.35   Location of sexually oriented business
   
116.36   Hours of operation
   
116.37   Patronage of sexually oriented business by minors and employment of
minors
   
116.38   Regulations pertaining to sexually oriented businesses
   
116.39   Prohibited conduct on premises of sexually oriented businesses
   
116.40   Regulations pertaining to the exterior portions of sexually oriented
businesses
 
   116.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 116.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate sexually oriented
businesses in order to protect public health, safety and welfare of citizens
and visitors and to establish reasonable and uniform regulations to prevent the
deleterious location of sexually oriented businesses within the town. The
provisions of this chapter have neither the purpose nor effect of imposing a
limitation or restriction on the content of any communicative materials,
including sexually oriented materials; similarly it is not the intent nor
effect of this chapter to restrict or deny access by adults to sexually
oriented materials protected by the First Amendment, or to deny access by the
distributors and exhibitors of sexually oriented entertainment to their
intended market. Neither is it the intent nor effect of this chapter to condone
or legitimize the distribution of obscene material.
   (B)   The following sections were designed to address 2 very distinct
issues:
      (1)   The town wants to minimize the potential secondary impacts of
sexually oriented businesses on those identified sensitive uses, i.e.
residential districts, schools, churches, daycare centers and the like; and
      (2)   The town wants to provide an area where people can exercise their
First Amendment right to expression without infringing on other peoples’
rights. In allowing these uses, the town has had to balance its constitutional
obligations with the need to guarantee that the local economy and quality of
life are not impeded.
§ 116.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted or invited, wherein
coin-operated or slug-operated or electronically, electrically or mechanically
controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors or other image-
producing devices are maintained to show images to 5 or fewer persons per
machine at any 1 time, and where the images so displayed are distinguished or
characterized by the depicting or describing of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE. A bookstore:
      (1)   Which receives a majority of its gross income during any calendar
month from the sale of publications (including books, magazines and other
periodicals) which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on
matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas, as defined in this section; or
      (2)   Having as a preponderance of its publications books, magazines and
other periodicals which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on
matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas, as defined in this section.
   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, restaurant or similar commercial
establishment that for at least 10% of its business hours in any day features:
      (1)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or semi-nudity;
      (2)   Live performances that are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities;
      (3)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other
photographic reproductions that are characterized by the depiction or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; or
      (4)   Persons who engage in lewd, lascivious or erotic dancing or
performances that are intended for the sexual interests or titillation of an
audience or customers.
   ADULT ESCORT. A person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a
companion, guide or date for another person for the purpose of participating
in, engaging in, providing or facilitating specified sexual activities.
   ADULT ESCORT AGENCY. A person or business that furnishes, offers to furnish,
or advertises to furnish adult escorts as one of its business purposes for a
fee, tip or other consideration.
   ADULT LIVE ENTERTAINMENT. Any performance of or involving the actual
presence of real people which exhibits specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas, as defined in this section.
   ADULT LIVE ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS. Any establishment or business wherein
adult live entertainment is shown for observation by patrons.
   ADULT MEDIA CENTER. Includes but is not limited to an adult bookstore and an
adult video store, and means any place:
      (1)   Which receives more than 50% of its gross income during any
calendar month from the sale, rental or both of books, periodicals, magazines,
video tapes, CD-ROM, computer software, movies or other products offered in
photographic, print, electronic, magnetic or digital or other imaging media,
which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting,
describing or presenting specified anatomical areas as defined in G.S. § 14-
202.10(10), specified sexual activities as defined in G.S. § 14-202.10(11), or
sexually oriented devices as defined in G.S. § 14-202.10(9), or any combination
thereof; or
      (2)   Having more than 25% of its merchandise inventory consisting of
books, periodicals, magazines, video tapes, CD-ROM, computer software, movies
and other products offered in photographic, print, electronic, magnetic or
digital or other imaging media which are distinguished or characterized by
their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or presenting specified
anatomical areas as defined in G.S. § 14-202.10(10), specified sexual
activities as defined in G.S. § 14-202.10(11), or sexually oriented devices as
defined in G.S. § 14-202.10(9), or any combination thereof. The 25% threshold
described herein means 25% of the number of items, or 25% of the display space
in which items are presented for sale, rental or both, or 25% of the wholesale
value as reflected on the purchase records of the ADULT MEDIA CENTER or 25%of
the retail value of the items, it being the intent of this division (2) that
any of the thresholds shall bring the ADULT MEDIA CENTER within the operation
of this chapter. A commercial establishment may have other business purposes on
the same building site that do not involve the offering for sale or rental of
material depicting or describing specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas and still be categorized as ADULT MEDIA CENTER. The other
business purposes will not serve to exempt the commercial establishments from
being categorized as an ADULT MEDIA CENTER so long as one of its business
purposes is the offering for sale or rental for consideration the specified
materials which depict or describe specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
   ADULT MERCHANDISE. Any product dealing in or with explicitly sexual material
as characterized by matter depicting, describing or relating to specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT MINI MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An enclosed building with viewing booths
designed to hold patrons which is used for presenting motion pictures, a
preponderance of which are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas as defined in this section, for observation by
patrons therein.
   ADULT MOTEL. A hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment that:
      (1)   Offers accommodation to the public for any form of consideration
and provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films,
motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other photographic reproductions
that are characterized by the depiction or description of specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas; and has a sign visible from the
public rights-of-way that advertises the availability of this adult type of
photographic reproductions;
      (2)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less
than 12 hours; or
      (3)   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to subrent the room
for a period of time that is less than 12 hours.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An enclosed building or premises used for
presenting motion pictures, a preponderance of which are distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, as defined in this
section, for observation by patrons therein. ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER does
not include any adult mini motion picture theater as defined in this section.
   ADULT THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar commercial
establishment that, for at least 10% of its business hours in any day, features
persons who appear in a state of nudity or live performances that are
characterized by the exposure of specified anatomical areas or by specified
sexual activities.
   ADULT VIDEO STORE. A commercial establishment that, as one of its principal
business purposes, offers for sale or rental for any form of consideration any
1 or more of the following: books, magazines, periodicals or other printed
matter, or photographs, films, motion picture, video tapes or cassettes, video
reproductions, CD-ROMs, slides or other visual representations which depict or
describe specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; or any
combination thereof.
   BOTTOMLESS. A state of nudity or semi-nudity where a person exposes to view
a human bare buttock, anus, male genitals or female genitals.
   EMPLOYEE OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. A person who performs any service
on the premises of a sexually oriented business on a full-time, part-time or
contract basis, whether or not the person is denominated an employee,
independent contractor, agent or otherwise and whether or not the person is
paid a salary, wage or other compensation by the operator of the business.
EMPLOYEE does not include a person exclusively on the premises for repair or
maintenance of the premises or equipment on the premises, or for the delivery
of goods to the premises.
   LAP. The area between a person’s knees and his or her waist.
   NON-ADULT USE BUSINESSES. Any business or establishment not defined as a
sexually oriented business in this section.  NON-ADULT USE BUSINESSES shall not
display or merchandise adult, sexually oriented implements and paraphernalia,
including but not limited to: dildos, auto sucks, sexually oriented vibrators,
edible underwear, benwa balls, inflatable orifices, anatomical balloons with
orifices, simulated and battery operated vaginas and similar sexually oriented
devices.
   NUDE MODEL STUDIO. Any place where a person who appears in a state of nudity
or displays specified anatomical areas is provided to be observed, sketched,
drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed or similarly depicted by other persons
who pay money or any form of consideration. There is excepted from this
definition any studio which is part of a school for artists who are regularly
enrolled in a course of instruction in the arts, in which the use of nude
models involves less than 10% of the course hours.
   NUDITY or STATE OF NUDITY. The appearance of a human bare buttock, anus,
male genitals, female genitals, female breast without a fully opaque complete
covering of the breast below a point immediately above the top of the areola,
or human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state even if completely and
opaquely covered.
   PATRON. Any person who is physically present on the premises of a sexually
oriented business and who is not an owner, employee, agent, subcontractor or
independent contractor of the business, or any entertainer or performer at the
business.
   SEMI-NUDE. A state of dress in which clothing covers no more than the human
bare buttock, anus, male genitals, female genitals or female breast at a fully
opaque complete covering of the breast below a point immediately above the top
of the areola, or human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. A business which offers its customers or patrons
any device, activity or demonstration depicting specified sexual activities, or
which is intended to appeal to sexual interests, titillation or arousal of the
customer or patron. A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS shall include an adult
establishment as defined in G.S. § 14-202.10(2) and, in addition, without
limitation: adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult video store, adult cabaret,
adult media center, adult live entertainment business, adult motel, adult
motion picture theater, adult mini motion picture theater, adult theater, adult
escort agency and nude model studio.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS ACTIVITIES. Those activities usually provided
for, promoted or offered by a sexually oriented business as defined herein,
whether or not as the principal business purpose or as a sideline or accessory
business purpose and whether or not in connection with or on the same premises
with a business which is not a sexually oriented business.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED DEVICES. Any artificial or simulated specified anatomical
area or other device or paraphernalia that is designed principally for
specified sexual activities, but shall not mean any contraceptive device.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered:
         (a)   Human genitals, pubic region;
         (b)   Buttock; or
         (c)   Female breast below a point immediately above the top of the
areola.
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
      (1)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
      (2)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy;
      (3)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic regions,
buttocks or female breasts; or
      (4)   Penetration of any person’s anus or any female person’s vaginal
opening with any object, whether animate or inanimate.
   TOUCH or TOUCHING. Any form of intentional, physical, bodily contact,
whether exposed or clothed parts of either body are involved.
LICENSING
§ 116.15 LICENSING OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   The following license provisions and regulations are ordained for the
purpose of operating a sexually oriented business:
   (A)   No person shall operate a sexually oriented business unless the person
has received a sexually oriented business license as provided by this section.
   (B)   Every application for a sexually oriented business license prescribed
herein shall be upon a form approved by the town and shall be filed with the
Town Clerk. An application shall be made under oath and shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   If the applicant is a natural person, the name and residence
address of the person including any aliases or other names by which the
applicant is known or which the applicant has used at any time; the residence
and business addresses for the past 2 years, the business and home telephone
numbers, occupation, date and place of birth, social security number, driver’s
license number and a recent photograph of the applicant. If the applicant is a
partnership, corporation, association or other entity, the same information is
a requirement for all corporate officers, directors and any individuals having
a 10% or greater interest in the corporation, partnership, association or other
entity;
      (2)   The address of the premises where the proposed sexually oriented
business is proposed to be located;
      (3)   A complete statement of all convictions of any person whose name is
required to be given in division (B)(1) above for any sexually related crime;
prostitution or any violation of any law relative to prostitution; or of any
crime involving sexual misconduct as codified in the laws of the United States,
this or any other state, including but not limited to convictions of violations
of any crime of moral turpitude, any offense under G.S. Chapter 90, any crime
of moral turpitude or the same offenses as codified in the laws of the United
States or of any other state;
      (4)   A complete statement of any denial and/or revocation of any
license, including the grounds and reasons theretofore, to operate a sexually
oriented business by any governmental unit listed by name and address of any
person whose name is required to be given in division (B)(1) above for the 5
years preceding the date of the filing of this application;
      (5)   A complete statement of any conviction for violation of any
statute, law, ordinance or regulation concerning the operation of a sexually
oriented business by any governmental unit listed by name and address of any
person whose name is required to be given in division (B)(1) above for the 5
years preceding the date of the filing of this application;
      (6)   A description of any other business proposed to be operated on the
same premises or on adjoining premises owned or controlled by the applicant or
any other person or entity listed in division (B)(1) above;
      (7)   All applicants, and any individual listed in division (B)(1) above,
shall submit to fingerprinting by a Henderson County Sheriff. The fingerprint
cards shall be submitted to the State Bureau of Investigation for processing.
Returned fingerprint cards and any criminal histories shall be kept on file in
the Town of Fletcher;
      (8)   A site plan showing the floor layout, customer area and location of
the structure to be used as a sexually oriented business on the property in
accordance with all the requirements outlined in this chapter;
      (9)   A current certificate and straight-line drawing prepared by a
registered land surveyor depicting the property lines and the structure
containing the proposed sexually oriented business and its distance from
existing land uses, to include but not be limited to: residential zoning
districts, other sexually oriented businesses, churches or any structure or
building being used as a church or religious facility, libraries, schools,
state licensed child daycare centers, public playgrounds, public swimming
pools, public parks and any outdoor recreational use; and
      (10)   A statement signed under oath that the applicant has personal
knowledge of the information contained in the application, that the information
contained therein is true and correct, the applicant consents to the
investigation of his or her background by the town to verify the information
provided, and that the applicant has read and understands the provisions of
this chapter regulating sexually oriented businesses.
   (C)   In addition to the above requirements, every licensed sexually
oriented business shall maintain a current list of all employees employed by
the licensee showing: the legal name, current stage name, current address,
current phone number, date of birth and current driver’s license number. In
addition, the licensee of a sexually oriented business shall maintain a record
updated at least every 6 months of the height, weight, hair and eye color,
scars, tattoos and a passport quality photograph of each employee.
   (D)   The records required by this section shall be kept available and open
for inspection by the Police Department at any time, or the state or county
health departments, or by the Director of Planning and Development or his or
her authorized representative at any time the sexually oriented business is
open for business.
§ 116.16 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The Town Clerk shall transmit a copy of the completed application,
containing all the required information outlined in this section to the
Henderson County Sheriff’s department for an investigative report, the Planning
Board to determine compliance with all zoning, building regulations and
ordinances, and the Henderson Fire Department to determine compliance with any
law relating to fire protection.
   (B)   The Sheriff, Planning Board and Fire Department shall, within a
reasonable time not to exceed 45 working days, report the results of their
examinations to the Town Clerk.
   (C)   If the Sheriff, Planning Board and Fire Department do not respond
within 45 working days to the Town Clerk, then the application and conditional
use site plan is to be deemed to meet the approval of any nonresponding
department or board.
   (D)   A completed application accompanied by all required information
outlined in this section and all reports and recommendations as outlined in
this section, shall be submitted to the Town Clerk and placed on the agenda of
the next regularly scheduled Town Council meeting.
   (E)   Upon the receipt of the application for a sexually oriented business
license, the Town Council shall review the conditional use application, the
site plan and the sexually oriented business license application and approve
the issuance of the license if the Board determines that:
      (1)   The application contains no misstatement of fact;
      (2)   Neither the applicant nor any person or entity having any legal or
beneficial ownership interest in the application, has not been convicted of a
sexually related crime, prostitution or a violation of any law relative to
prostitution, crime involving sexual misconduct as codified in the laws of the
United States, this or any other state, including but not limited to
convictions of violations of any crime of moral turpitude, any offense under
G.S. Chapter 90, any crime of moral turpitude or the same offenses as codified
in the laws of the United States or any other state;
      (3)   The applicant conforms to all requirements of applicable zoning,
building and fire prevention codes; and
      (4)   Neither the applicant nor any person, corporation, partnership,
association or other entity having a legal or beneficial ownership interest in
the applicant has, within the 5-year period preceding the application, had a
previously issued license for engaging in any sexually oriented business that
has been suspended or revoked anywhere.
   (F)   If the Town Council has not approved or denied the sexually oriented
business application within 60 days from receiving the completed application
and conditional use application, the license shall be deemed granted.
§ 116.17 ANNUAL BUSINESS LICENSE.
   (A)   A license granted pursuant to this chapter shall be subject to annual
review upon the written application of the applicant and a finding by the town
that the applicant has not been convicted of any specified criminal activity as
defined within this chapter or committed any act during the existence of the
previous license, which would be grounds to deny the initial license
application. The renewal of the license shall be subject to the payment of the
fee as set forth in §
116.18.
   (B)   The license required under this chapter is annual and shall be valid
for a period of 12 months. The license fees shall be due and payable in the
same manner as prescribed for other privilege licenses issued by the town.
   (C)   Application for renewal of a business license shall be made at least
30 days before the expiration date to the Town Tax Collector. When made less
than 30 days before the expiration date, the expiration of the license will not
be affected.
   (D)   Any violation of the licensing provisions in this chapter will result
in the denial of the renewal application.
   (E)   All licenses shall be issued for a business conducted at a specific
location and all fees shall be nonrefundable and shall be nontransferable to
any person, partnership, corporation, association or other entity.
§ 116.18 FEES.
   (A)   Every application for a sexually oriented businesses license, whether
for a new license or for renewal of an existing license, shall be accompanied
by a nonrefundable application and investigation fee as enumerated in the
consolidated fee schedule, a copy of which is on file in the office of the
Clerk and is available for public inspection and copying.
   (B)   Sexually oriented businesses shall be required to pay all applicable
business and privilege license fees.
§ 116.19 INSPECTION OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS.
   An applicant or licensee shall permit representatives of the Sheriff’s
Department, local Fire Department, the Town of Fletcher Planning Department, or
the Henderson County Health Department to inspect the premises of any sexually
oriented business for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the law, at any
time it is occupied or open for business. Failure or refusal by any person to
permit a lawful inspection of the premises during regular business hours shall
be punishable in accordance with town code and in addition may result in the
revocation of the privilege license.
§ 116.20 DENIAL OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Before the Town Council revokes a license issued pursuant to this
chapter, or if the Town Council determines reasonable grounds exist to deny an
application for a license pursuant to this chapter, the Town Council shall
cause a written notice to be sent by certified mail to the licensee or
applicant affected, at the address stated in the license or application. The
notice shall advise the affected party of a right to appear before the Town
Council, with or without legal counsel, at a stated time and place for the
purpose of presenting any evidence relevant to the revocation or denial and for
the purpose of hearing all evidence submitted and examining or cross-examining
any person providing the evidence.
   (B)   A license issued pursuant to this section may be revoked by action of
the Town Council if the Town Council determines that:
      (1)   The licensee has violated any provision of this chapter;
      (2)   The licensee, or the legal or beneficial owner of any interest in
the licensee, is convicted of any felony; prostitution or any violation of any
law relative to prostitution; crime involving sexual misconduct; as codified in
the laws of the United States, this or any other state, including but not
limited to convictions of violations of any crime of moral turpitude, any
offense under G.S. Chapter 90, or the same offenses as codified in the laws of
the United States or any other state;
      (3)   Any employee or contract personnel of the licensee is convicted of
any felony; prostitution or any violation of any law relative to prostitution;
crime involving sexual misconduct; or any offense against public morality and
decency as codified in the laws of the United States, this or any other state,
including but not limited to convictions of violations of any of the offenses
enumerated in G.S. §§ 14-27.20, any crime of moral turpitude, any offense under
G.S. Chapter 90, or the same offenses as codified in the laws of the United
States or any other state, which arises out of or in the course of the business
of the licensee;
      (4)   The licensee has knowingly, willingly or intentionally operated a
sexually oriented business during a period of time when the licensee’s license
was suspended for any reason;
      (5)   The licensee has knowingly, willingly or intentionally allowed
prostitution on the premises; or
      (6)   The licensee has knowingly, willingly or intentionally violated
state ABC laws, being G.S. Chapter 18B.
   (C)   A license issued pursuant to this chapter is immediately terminated
and of no further force and effect if the licensee moves or ceases operating a
sexually oriented business at the location stated in the application for
license pursuant to this section. For the purposes of this chapter, indicators
of the cessation of operation shall include but not be limited to:
      (1)   Cessation of town or commercial water service; or
      (2)   Cessation of legally provided electrical service provided and
consumed for the use in question for a period of 2 consecutive months.
   (D)   When the town revokes a license, the revocation shall continue for 1
year and the licensee shall not be issued a sexually oriented business license
for 1 year from the date the revocation became effective. If, subsequent to
revocation, the town finds that the basis for the revocation has been corrected
or abated, the applicant may be granted a license if at least 90 days have
elapsed since the date the revocation became effective.
   (E)   After denial of an application, or denial of a renewal of an
application or revocation of any license, and all administrative measures have
been exhausted, the applicant or licensee may seek immediate judicial review of
the board action in the Superior Court of Henderson County.
§ 116.21 POSTING OF LICENSE.
   Every person, corporation, partnership or association licensed under this
chapter shall display the license in a prominent place.
REGULATIONS AND OPERATION
§ 116.35 LOCATION OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS.
   (A)   As specified in the Town of Fletcher land development code, a sexually
oriented business may not:
      (1)   Locate within 1,000 feet in any direction from a residential zoning
district;
      (2)   Locate within 1,000 feet in any direction from a building in which
a sexually oriented business is located;
      (3)   Locate within 1,000 feet in any direction from a building in which
a church is located;
      (4)   Locate within 1,000 feet in any direction from a building in which
a library, school or a state licensed child daycare center is located; and
      (5)   Locate within 1,000 feet in any direction from any lot or parcel on
which a public playground, public swimming pool, public ocean or estuarine
access, or public park is located.
   (B)   Measurement shall be made in a straight line, without regard to the
intervening structures or objects, from the nearest portion of the building or
structure used as the part of the premises where a sexually oriented business
is conducted to the nearest portion of a building or structure of a use listed
above.
Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.36 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   No sexually oriented business shall be open for business before 8:00
a.m. or after 2:00 a.m. daily, local time.
   (B)   No business, nor any owner, agent or employee licensed under §
116.16, shall admit customers or prospective customers, or remain open for
business, or allow, permit or condone any customer or patron upon the premises
of a sexually oriented business before 8:00 a.m. or after 2:00 a.m. daily,
local time.
Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.37 PATRONAGE OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS BY MINORS AND EMPLOYMENT OF
MINORS.
   (A)   No business, nor any owner, agent or employee licensed under this
chapter shall allow, permit or condone the patronage of any person under the
age of 18 years upon the licensed premises. A violation of this division (A)
shall be grounds for revocation of any license issued to the violator pursuant
to this chapter.
   (B)   No business, corporation, partnership, association or other entity
licensed pursuant to this chapter shall employ any person under the age of 18
years. A violation of this division (B) shall be grounds for revocation of any
license issued to the violator pursuant to this chapter.
Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.38 REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   (A)   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented
business which exhibits on the premises a film, video cassette, live
entertainment, sells adult oriented merchandise, including books, magazines,
novelty items, computer software, videos or shows other video reproductions
which depicts specified sexual activities, shall comply with the following
requirements:
      (1)   Upon application for a sexually oriented business license, the
application shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan
thereof specifying the location of 1 or more manager’s stations and the
location of all overhead lighting fixtures and designating any portion of the
premises in which patrons will not be permitted. A manager’s station may not
exceed 32 square feet of floor area. The diagram shall also designate the place
in which the business license will be conspicuously posted, if granted. A
professionally prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer’s or architect’s
blueprint shall be required; however, each diagram should be oriented to the
north or to some designated street and should be drawn to a designated scale or
with marked dimensions sufficient to show the various internal inches.
      (2)   No alteration in the configuration of a manager’s station may be
made without prior approval of the Zoning Enforcement Officer or other person
as he or she or the Town Council may designate from time to time.
      (3)   It is the duty of the owners and operator of the premises to ensure
that at least 1 employee is on duty and situated in each manager’s station at
all times when a patron is inside the premises to ensure that no illegal
activity is taking place within the establishment.
      (4)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in a manner that
there is an unobstructed view from a manager’s station of the entire area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding
restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction or surveillance
equipment, books or any items offered for sale. If the premises has 2 or more
manager’s stations, then the interior of the premises shall be configured in a
manner that there is an unobstructed view of the entire area of the premises to
which any patron is permitted access for any purpose from at least one of the
manager’s stations, excluding restrooms. The view required in this division (A)
(4) shall be by direct line of sight from the manager’s station.
      (5)   It shall be the duty of the owner(s) and operator(s), and it shall
be the duty of any agent(s) and employee(s) present in the premises to ensure
that the view area specified in division (A)(4) above remains unobstructed by
any doors, walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials at all times
and to ensure that no patron is permitted access to any area of the premises
that has been designated as off-limits to patrons.
      (6)   Sexually oriented businesses shall be equipped with overhead
lighting fixtures of sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which
patrons are permitted access. It shall be the duty of the owners and operator,
and it shall be the duty of any agents and employees present in the premises,
to ensure that this illumination is maintained at all times when any patron is
present within the premises.
      (7)   Adult motion picture theaters, adult mini motion picture theaters
and adult theaters shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access. It shall be the duty of the owners and operator, and it shall be the
duty of any agents and employees present in the premises, to ensure that this
illumination is maintained at all times when any patron is present within the
premises.
      (8)   Adult motion picture theaters and adult theaters shall be in an
enclosed building with no less than 100 fixed seats. No private viewing rooms
or semi-private booths are allowed.
      (9)   An adult mini motion picture theater shall not allow more than 1
person in a viewing room at any time.
      (10)   No owner or operator shall allow openings of any kind to exist
between viewing rooms within an adult mini motion picture theater.
      (11)   The owner or operator of an adult mini motion picture theater
shall, during each business day, regularly inspect the walls between the
viewing rooms to determine if any openings or holes exist.
      (12)   The owner or operator of an adult mini motion picture theater
shall cause all floor coverings in viewing rooms to be nonporous, easily
cleanable surfaces, with no rugs or carpeting.
      (13)   The owner or operator of an adult mini-motion picture theater
shall cause all wall and ceiling surfaces in viewing rooms to be constructed of
or permanently covered by nonporous, easily cleanable material.
   (B)   A person having a duty under divisions (A)(1) through (13) above is in
violation of this chapter if he or she knowingly, willfully or intentionally
fails to fulfill that duty.
Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.39 PROHIBITED CONDUCT ON PREMISES OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person in a sexually
oriented business to appear in a state of full nudity or to depict specified
sexual activities.
   (B)   No owner, operator, manager, employee, entertainer or contract
personnel, nor any customer or patron, shall appear bottomless or in a state of
full nudity while on the premises of a sexually oriented business.
   (C)   No owner, operator, manager, employee, entertainer or contract
personnel, nor any customer or patron, shall perform any specified sexual
activities as defined in this chapter, wear or use any device or covering
exposed to view which stimulates or simulates any specified anatomical area,
use artificial devices or inanimate objects to perform or depict any of the
specified sexual activities, as defined in this chapter, or participate in any
act of prostitution while on the premises of a sexually oriented business.
   (D)   No owner, operator, manager, employee, entertainer or contract
personnel, nor any customer or patron, shall knowingly touch, fondle or caress
any specified anatomical area of another person, knowingly permit another
person to touch, fondle or caress any specified anatomical area of his or hers,
whether the specified anatomical areas are clothed, unclothed, covered or
exposed, or sit on or in or otherwise occupy the lap of anyone while on the
premises of a sexually oriented business.
   (E)   No owner, operator, manager, employee, entertainer or contract
personnel shall knowingly or intentionally appear in a semi-nude condition
unless the person, while semi-nude, is at least 10 feet from any patron or
customer and on a stage that is at least 2 feet from the floor.
   (F)   No employee shall solicit any pay or gratuity from any patron or
customer while the employee is in a state of semi-nudity while on the premises
of a sexually oriented business.
   (G)   No private dance, viewing, projection or meeting areas shall be
allowed within a sexually oriented business.
Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.40 REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO THE EXTERIOR PORTIONS OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED
BUSINESSES.
   It shall be unlawful for an owner or operator of a sexually oriented
business to allow the merchandise or activities of the establishment to be
visible from any point outside the establishment.
Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A notice of violation shall be issued to the individual or business
notifying them that a violation of this section must be corrected within 30
days.
   (B)   If the violation is still not corrected within the prescribed time
period, then a citation in the amount of $50 shall be issued per violation.
   (C)   If the violation is still not corrected following issuance of the
aforementioned citations, then the town may pursue an injunction in the
appropriate court of law commanding the defendant to correct the violation.
(Ord. passed - - )
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
131.   WEAPONS
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PROPERTY
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
Alcoholic Beverages; Consumption and Possession
   
130.01   Definitions
   
130.02   Consumption on public streets and municipal property prohibited
   
130.03   Open containers
   
130.04   Possession during special events prohibited
   
130.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned, nuisance and junked motor vehicles, see
Chapter 94 of this code of ordinances
   Noise offenses, see
Chapter 90
   Public drunkenness or disorderly conduct, see §
133.01
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; CONSUMPTION AND POSSESSION
§ 130.01 DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to the common meanings of words, the following definitions shall
be applicable herein:
   MALT BEVERAGE. Beer, lager, malt liquor, ale, porter and any other brewed or
fermented beverage containing at least 0.5% and not more than 6% alcohol by
volume.
   OPEN CONTAINER. A container whose seal has been broken or a container other
than the manufacturer’s unopened original container.
   PUBLIC STREET. Any highway, road, street, avenue, boulevard, alley, bridge
or other way within and/or under the control of the town and open to public
use, including the sidewalks of any such STREET.
   UNFORTIFIED WINE. Wine that has an alcoholic content produced only by
natural fermentation or by the addition of pure cane, beet or dextrose sugar,
and that has an alcoholic content of not more than 17% alcohol by volume.
(Ord. O-95-7, passed 11-13-1995)
Statutory reference:
   Malt beverage defined, see G.S. § 18B-101(9)
   Open container defined, see G.S. § 18B-300(c)
   Unfortified wine defined, see G.S. § 18B-101(15)
§ 130.02 CONSUMPTION ON PUBLIC STREETS AND MUNICIPAL PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person who is not an occupant of a motor
vehicle to consume malt beverages and/or unfortified wine on the public street.
   (B)    Furthermore, it shall be unlawful for any person to consume malt
beverages and/or unfortified wine on any property, whether located inside or
outside the corporate limits, owned, occupied or controlled by the town,
including but not limited to public buildings and the grounds appurtenant
thereto, municipal parking lots, public parks, playgrounds, recreational areas,
tennis courts and other athletic fields.
(Ord. O-95-7, passed 11-13-1995) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 OPEN CONTAINERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person who is not an occupant of a motor
vehicle to possess any open container of malt beverage and/or unfortified wine
on the public streets.
   (B)   Furthermore, it shall be unlawful for any person to possess any open
container of malt beverage and/or unfortified wine on any property, whether
located inside or outside the corporate limits, owned, occupied or controlled
by the town, including but not limited to public buildings and the grounds
appurtenant thereto, municipal parking lots, public parks, playgrounds,
recreational areas, tennis courts and other athletic fields.
(Ord. O-95-7, passed 11-13-1995) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 POSSESSION DURING SPECIAL EVENTS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess malt beverages and/or
unfortified wine on public streets, alleys or parking lots which are
temporarily closed to regular traffic for special events, unless the governing
body adopts a resolution making other provisions for the possession of malt
beverages and/or unfortified wine at the special event.
(Ord. O-95-7, passed 11-13-1995) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   Violation of §§
130.01 through
130.04 shall constitute a misdemeanor punishable in accordance with G.S. § 14-
4.
(Ord. O-95-7, passed 11-13-1995)
CHAPTER 131: WEAPONS
Section
Concealed Weapons Prohibited; Notice Required
   
131.01   Posting of signs required
   
131.02   Location of signs
   
131.03   Exemptions
Firearms
   
131.15   Display or possession of weapons on town property and on public
streets
   
131.16   Discharge of firearms
   
131.17   Possession of firearms by child
   
131.18   Display of firearms on municipal property prohibited
   
131.99   Penalty
CONCEALED WEAPONS PROHIBITED; NOTICE REQUIRED
§ 131.01 POSTING OF SIGNS REQUIRED.
   The Town Administrator is hereby ordered to post appropriate signage on each
park, building or portion of a building now or hereafter owned, leased as
lessee, operated, occupied, managed or controlled by the town, as well as the
appurtenant premises to the buildings, indicating that concealed handguns are
prohibited therein.
(Ord. O-95-08, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 131.02 LOCATION OF SIGNS.
   (A)   The signs shall be visibly posted on the exterior of each entrance by
which the general public can access the building, appurtenant premises or park.
   (B)   The Town Administrator shall exercise discretion in determining the
necessity and appropriate location for other signs posted on the interior of
the building, appurtenant premises or park.
(Ord. O-95-08, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 131.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   Exemptions to this subchapter are as follows:
   (A)   Officers and enlisted personnel of the armed forces of the United
States when discharging their official duties as such and acting under orders
requiring them to carry arms and weapons;
   (B)   Civil officers of the United States while in the discharge of their
official duties;
   (C)   Officers and soldiers of the militia and the national guard when
called into actual service;
   (D)   Sworn law enforcement officers;
   (E)   Hendersonville County Animal Control Officers while in the discharge
of their official duties as such and acting under orders requiring them to
carry arms and weapons; and
   (F)   Employees of the town, a utility company, or a contractor to the town
may possess tools approved by their employer so long as the tools are not used
as a weapon.
(Ord. O-95-08, passed 12-11-1995)
FIREARMS
§ 131.15 DISPLAY OR POSSESSION OF WEAPONS ON TOWN PROPERTY AND ON PUBLIC
STREETS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to display or be in
possession of any gun, firearm, knife, dagger, blackjack, club, sling shot,
metallic knuckles, razor, bow and arrow or other deadly weapon of any kind on
any town property or on the public streets and sidewalks of the town;
      (2)   Except that law enforcement officers and members of the armed
forces of any federal, state or local government may carry and discharge their
guns or firearms while lawfully acting within the scope of their official
duties.
   (B)   No person shall fire or discharge any air rifle, spring-type rifle or
BB gun or similar device upon any public street or sidewalk or upon any
property owned by the town.
Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.16 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to discharge a firearm:
      (1)   Carelessly or heedlessly in wanton disregard for the safety of
others; or
      (2)   Without due caution or circumspection and in a manner so as to
endanger any person or property; or
      (3)   Resulting in the unlawful property damage or bodily injury of
another.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to discharge a firearm on the property
of another without his or her permission.
   (C)   It is unlawful to discharge a firearm in any manner which actually
results in the projectile leaving the property on which it was fired.
   (D)   This section shall not be construed as prohibiting discharge of a
firearm when used:
      (1)   In lawful defense of person or property;
      (2)   To take birds or animals pursuant to Chapter 113, Subchapter IV of
the North Carolina General Statutes (G.S. §§ 113-127 et seq.)
      (3)   Pursuant to lawful directions of law enforcement officers;
      (4)   By persons lawfully engaged in pest control or the taking of
dangerous animals;
      (5)   By members of the armed forces acting in the line of duty; or
      (6)   At historical ceremonial or commemoration functions held for such
purpose, provided that in no event shall live ammunition be used or discharged.
(Am. Ord. O-09-8, passed 8-10-2009; Am. Ord. O-09-9, passed 8-10-2009) Penalty,
see §
131.99
Cross-reference:
   Parades, see
Chapter 91 of this code of ordinances
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. §§ 160A-189, 160A-183
   Weapons in parades, see G.S. § 14-277.2
§ 131.17 POSSESSION OF FIREARMS BY CHILD.
   See G.S. § 14-316.
§ 131.18 DISPLAY OF FIREARMS ON MUNICIPAL PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to display firearms while upon public
property of the town. This section shall not apply to any law officer in the
discharge of his or her duty or to any individual to defend that individual’s
home or person or to prevent the commission of a felony.
Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person in violation of §§
131.01 through
131.03 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be fined $500
or imprisoned for 6 months or both.
      (2)   Weapons possessed in violation of this subchapter are hereby
declared to be contraband. The Chief of Police or his or her designee shall
hold the weapon for disposal pursuant to court order. In the absence of any
such court order, the weapon shall be destroyed.
(Ord. O-95-08, passed 12-11-1995)
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PROPERTY
Section
General Provisions
   
132.01   Destruction of public property, shrubs, flowers and the like
   
132.02   Obstructing natural flow of water
Fire Protection
   
132.15   False alarms
   
132.16   Roping off space adjacent to fire
   
132.17   Right to use and occupy streets
   
132.18   Driving over fire hose
   
132.19   Interfering with firefighters or firefighting equipment
Cross-reference:
   Fire prevention, see
Chapter 93 of this code of ordinances
   Noise provisions, see
Chapter 90
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 132.01 DESTRUCTION OF PUBLIC PROPERTY, SHRUBS, FLOWERS AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall willfully break, disfigure, damage or deface any public
property or shrubbery, flowers or ornamental figures within any cemetery,
churchyard or other public place.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Damaging municipal property, see G.S. §§ 14-127, 14-128 and 160A-174
§ 132.02 OBSTRUCTING NATURAL FLOW OF WATER.
   (A)   No person shall erect any dam or obstruction of any kind which shall
prevent the natural flow of water and cause the same to be collected in pools
upon any lot or in any street or alley.
   (B)   No person shall do or cause to be done any work the effect of which
will cause the formation of pools.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the owner of a
lot from filling up the same as may be found desirable if adequate drainage is
provided through or across the same, to care for the surface water thereby
collected or diverted from its natural flow.
Penalty, see §
10.99
FIRE PROTECTION
§ 132.15 FALSE ALARMS.
   No person shall give or cause to be given a false fire alarm by any means.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 14-286
§ 132.16 ROPING OFF SPACE ADJACENT TO FIRE.
   The Fire Department or the police are hereby authorized to set off, by rope
or otherwise, the portions of the streets or lots adjacent thereto as may be
deemed necessary for properly fighting any fire, and it shall be unlawful for
any person, except owners of burning or endangered property, to cross over or
enter the enclosure without the permission of the police or firefighters.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.17 RIGHT TO USE AND OCCUPY STREETS.
   (A)   No person, after being forbidden by an officer of the town, shall ride
or drive a vehicle through any street, alley or square on which the Fire
Department is assembled for practice or for active service during the progress
of a fire.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to congregate on the streets or alleys near a
fire in a manner which would interfere with the activities of the Fire
Department.
   (C)   The apparatus of the fire department responding to an alarm of fire
shall have the right-of-way in and upon all streets, lanes, alleys and other
public ways.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. §§ 20-156, 20-157
§ 132.18 DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   No person shall drive any vehicle or animal willfully or carelessly over the
hose of the Fire Department laid in any street, alley or square.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 20-157
§ 132.19 INTERFERING WITH FIREFIGHTERS OR FIREFIGHTING EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   No person shall interfere with a firefighter in the discharge of his
or her duty or hinder him or her in the performance of his or her duty, nor
shall any person other than members of the Fire Department loiter about any
fire station or change, handle or meddle in any manner with any fire engine or
any other fire apparatus.
   (B)   No person shall interfere carelessly or willfully with the fire alarm
system or injure the poles, wires, boxes or other apparatus connected
therewith.
   (C)   No person shall injure, deface, open the valves of, tamper with or
otherwise use the fire hydrants of the town, except Fire Department personnel
while engaged in the official performance of their firefighting duties.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. §§ 58-82-1 et seq. and 14-286
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY
Section
Offenses Against Public Peace
   
133.01   Public drunkenness or disorderly conduct
   
133.02   Disturbing public meeting or exhibition
   
133.03   Loitering for the purpose of engaging in drug-related activities
Offenses Against Safety
   
133.20   Abandoned iceboxes or refrigerators
Molotov Cocktails and Firebombs
   
133.40   Definitions
   
133.41   Manufacture or possession of Molotov cocktails or firebombs
   
133.42   Possession of restricted materials
   
133.43   Provisions cumulative
Curfew for Minors
   
133.55   Purpose
   
133.56   Definitions
   
133.57   Offense
   
133.58   Exceptions
   
133.59   Defense
   
133.60   Enforcement
   
133.61   Restricted hours
   
133.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Firearms, see
Chapter 131 of this code of ordinances
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
§ 133.01 PUBLIC DRUNKENNESS OR DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   See G.S. § 14-288.4.
Cross-reference:
   Additional alcohol-related offenses, see
Chapter 130 of this code of ordinances
§ 133.02 DISTURBING PUBLIC MEETING OR EXHIBITION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb, in the manner described in
G.S. § 14-288.4, any public meeting or exhibition, whether held in a house or
other building or out of doors, in any manner whatsoever.
Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.03 LOITERING FOR THE PURPOSE OF ENGAGING IN DRUG-RELATED ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      KNOWN UNLAWFUL DRUG USER POSSESSOR or SELLER. A person who has been
convicted in any court within this state of any crime involving the use,
possession or sale of any substance referred to in the North Carolina
Controlled Substances Act, G.S. Chapter 90, Art. 5 who has been convicted of
any violation of any substantially similar law of any other state or of the
United States.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any public street, public highway, public sidewalk, public
vehicular area (as defined in G.S. § 20-4.01), public park and/or plaza, other
publicly owned or leased property, public transportation facility, school and
school grounds or property, common areas of apartment and condominium
communities, common areas of public housing projects, any place of business or
amusement which is open to the public, any private property which adjoins any
of the above described areas and to which the public has ready access, any
other property which is open to the public, whether publicly or privately
owned, and any motor vehicle in or on the above-described areas.
      REPEATEDLY. Three or more times.
   (B)   Prohibited; violation determination. It shall be unlawful for a person
to remain or wander about in a public place for the purpose of engaging in a
violation of any provision of the North Carolina Controlled Substances Act
(G.S. Chapter 90, Art. 5). The conduct or factors that can be considered in
determining whether a person is remaining or wandering in a public place for
the purpose of violating any provision of G.S. Chapter 90, Art. 5, include but
are not limited to the following:
      (1)   Repeatedly beckoning to, stopping or attempting to stop passers-by
or attempting to engage passers-by in conversation;
      (2)   Repeatedly stopping or attempting to stop motor vehicles;
      (3)   Repeatedly interfering with the free passage of other persons;
      (4)   Being a known unlawful user, possessor or seller;
      (5)   Repeatedly passing to or receiving from passers-by, whether on foot
or in vehicles, money or objects;
      (6)   Attempting to flee or evade a police officer;
      (7)   Being at a location frequented by persons who use, possess or sell
controlled substances;
      (8)   Occupying a vehicle which is registered to a known unlawful drug
user, possessor or seller or which has been recently involved in illegal drug-
related activity; or
      (9)   Stopping, conversing with the occupant(s) of, handing money or any
object to the occupant(s) of, or receiving money or any object from the
occupant(s) of a vehicle which is registered to a known unlawful drug user,
possessor or seller or which has been recently involved in illegal drug-related
activity.
Penalty, see §
133.99
OFFENSES AGAINST SAFETY
§ 133.20 ABANDONED ICEBOXES OR REFRIGERATORS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow or permit any abandoned
or unused icebox, refrigerator, safe, box, bin or any other receptacle, or any
other dangerous or hazardous article which might cause injuries to persons, to
remain on his or her premises or to be placed on his or her premises, without
first having removed all locks, latches, catches or fasteners from the doors so
that the doors will not close and fasten.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, put, or cause to be
placed or put any of the articles and receptacles mentioned in this section,
whether the locks, latches and the like, have been removed or not, on the lands
or premises of any other person or along or on the sidewalks, streets, or
alleys of the town.
Penalty, see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Precautions required in regard to discarding or abandoning iceboxes and
refrigerators, see G.S. § 14-318.1
MOLOTOV COCKTAILS AND FIREBOMBS
§ 133.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIREBOMB. Any type of object designed or constructed so that upon being
propelled it will explode or ignite its area of impact.
   MOLOTOV COCKTAIL. Any breakable container or any container which is designed
in such a manner that on being propelled it will at impact empty its contents,
is filled with a flammable fluid or substance, and is fitted with a fuse or
wick.
§ 133.41 MANUFACTURE OR POSSESSION OF MOLOTOV COCKTAILS OR FIREBOMBS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to manufacture, possess, transport or
use any Molotov cocktail or other firebomb.
Penalty, see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Municipality’s authority to regulate explosives, see G.S. § 160A-183
§ 133.42 POSSESSION OF RESTRICTED MATERIALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or group of persons to possess all the
items or materials needed to manufacture Molotov cocktails or other firebombs,
other than on his or her or their own premises.
Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.43 PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall be cumulative and in addition to any
other ordinance or general statute of the state on this subject.
CURFEW FOR MINORS
§ 133.55 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to protect juveniles from victimization
and exposure to criminal activity by establishing a curfew for juveniles under
the age of 16 years in the Town of Fletcher. The curfew subchapter is intended
to reinforce and promote the role of the parent in training and guiding
children, and promote the health, safety and welfare of both juveniles and
adults by creating an environment offering better protection and security for
all concerned.
§ 133.56 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DIRECT ROUTE. The shortest reasonable path of travel or a commonly used
route to reach a final destination without any detour or stop along the way.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstance or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action. The term includes but is not limited to a
fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident or any situation requiring
immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or death. This term shall
also include any action that is reasonably necessary in order to respond to the
medical needs of a family member of the juvenile regardless of whether the
juvenile’s action is taken in order to prevent death or serious bodily injury.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Any privately owned place of business operated for profit to
which the public has access or is invited, including but not limited to any
place of amusement or entertainment.
§ 133.57 OFFENSE.
   (A)   A juvenile commits an offense by being present in or remaining in any
public place or on the premises of any establishment within the town during the
restricted hours.
   (B)   A parent or guardian of a juvenile commits an offense if he or she
knowingly permits, or by insufficient control, allows the juvenile to remain in
any public place or on the premises of any establishment within the town during
the restricted hours. The term KNOWINGLY includes knowledge that a parent
should reasonably be expected to have concerning the whereabouts of a juvenile
in that parent’s legal custody. This requirement, is intended to hold a
neglectful or careless parent up to a reasonable community standard of parental
responsibility through an objective test. It shall, therefore, be no defense
that a parent was completely indifferent to that activities or conduct or
whereabouts of the juvenile.
   (C)   (1)   The owner, operator or any employee of an establishment commits
an offense if he or she knowingly allows a juvenile to remain upon the premises
of the establishment during the restricted hours. The term KNOWINGLY includes
knowledge that an operator or employer should reasonably be expected to have
concerning the patrons of an establishment.
      (2)   The standard for KNOWINGLY shall be applied through an objective
test, whether a reasonable person in the operator’s or employee’s position
should have known that the patron was a juvenile in violation of this section.
   (D)   It shall be a violation of this subchapter for any person 16 years of
age or older to aid or abet a juvenile in the violation of division (A) above.
   (E)   It shall be a violation of this subchapter for a parent or guardian to
refuse to take custody during the restricted hours of a juvenile for whom the
parent or guardian is responsible.
Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.58 EXCEPTIONS.
   This subchapter does not apply to a minor who is:
   (A)   Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian;
   (B)   On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
   (C)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
   (D)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home from
an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
   (E)   Involved in an emergency;
   (F)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police department about the minor's presence;
   (G)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
   (H)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
   (I)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed in
accordance with state law.
§ 133.59 DEFENSE.
   It is a defense to prosecution under §
133.57(C) that the owner, operator or employee of an establishment promptly
notified the Police Department that a juvenile was present on the premises of
the establishment during the restricted hours and refused to leave.
§ 133.60 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Before taking any enforcement action under this subchapter, a police
officer shall ask the apparent offender’s age and reason for being in the
public place or establishment during restricted hours.
   (B)   The officer shall not prepare a juvenile arrest report, issue a
citation or make an arrest under this subchapter unless the officer reasonably
believes that an offense has occurred and that, based on any response and other
circumstances, no exception or defense in §§
133.58 and
133.59 is present.
§ 133.61 RESTRICTED HOURS.
   Restricted hours are as follows:
   (A)   Sunday through Thursday, 11:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m; and
   (B)   Friday through Saturday, 12:01 a.m. to 6:00 a.m.
Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 133.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)    No arrest or charge is permitted hereunder unless the circumstances
establish probable cause to believe that the person intended to violate 1 or
more of the provisions of G.S. Chapter 90, Art. 5. A violation of this division
(B) shall subject the offender to the penalties set forth in §
10.99.
   (C)   (1)   A juvenile who violates any provision of §§
133.55 through
133.61 is subject to be adjudicated delinquents. The court may, in its
discretion, impose any dispositions alternative(s) that are provided in the
North Carolina Juvenile Code for any juvenile who is delinquent.
      (2)   Any person other than a juvenile who violates any provision of this
subchapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine not
to exceed $100, and imprisonment in the discretion of the court in accordance
with G.S. § 14-4.
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
151.   LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE
      
152.   HISTORIC RESOURCES PRESERVATION
CHAPTER 150: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Street Standards
   
150.01   Purpose
   
150.02   Eligibility of road
   
150.03   Department of Transportation standards
   
150.04   Dedication of road to the town
STREET STANDARDS
§ 150.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to set minimum standards for the
dedication of private roads to the Town of Fletcher to be included within its
street system.
(Ord. O-98-04, passed 5-11-1998 ; Am. Ord. O-12-02, passed 3-12-2012)
§ 150.02 ELIGIBILITY OF ROAD.
   Any citizen who desires to dedicate his or her private road to the town must
first present a petition and a map or plat of the street which complies with
G.S. § 136-102.6 to the Town Council at a regular, scheduled Town Council
meeting. The petition must be signed by 100% of property owners whose land
abuts the proposed road to be dedicated to the town, and the road must lie
wholly within the town limits. The Town Council will then direct the Town Clerk
to verify the validity of the petition. After verification by the Town Clerk
that the proposed street meets the requirements of this chapter and state law,
the Town Council will call for a public hearing on the issue within 90 days.
(Ord. O-98-04, passed 5-11-1998; Am. Ord. O-12-02, passed 3-12-2012)
§ 150.03 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION STANDARDS.
   In order for the Town Council to consider accepting any private road into
the town street system, that road must be in current accordance with the
minimum right-of-way and construction standards established by the Board of
Transportation for acceptance for the state highway system. A certificate of
approval issued by the District Engineer of the Division of Highways of the
Department of Transportation (or a certificate of approval from a state
certified engineer) on a map or plat of the road shall be sufficient to comply
with the requirements of this section.
(Ord. O-98-04, passed 5-11-1998; Am. Ord. O-12-02, passed 3-12-2012)
§ 150.04 DEDICATION OF ROAD TO THE TOWN.
   Upon approval for acceptance of the private road into the town street system
by the Town Council, the road and the minimum right-of-way will be dedicated to
the town and become public rights-of-way. The petitioners must present a final
plat of the road and the dedicated rights-of-way to the town that meets or
exceeds the requirements of G.S. § 136-102.6.
(Ord. O-98-04, passed 5-11-1998; Am. Ord. O-12-02, passed 3-12-2012)
CHAPTER 151: LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE
Section
   
151.01   Land development code; adopted
§ 151.01 LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE; ADOPTED.
   (A)   The land development code of the Town of Fletcher is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in full herein. Copies are available through town
offices.
   (B)   Effective date of this section is March 6, 2006.
(Ord. O-06-1, passed 11-14-2005)
CHAPTER 152: HISTORIC RESOURCES PRESERVATION
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Purpose
   
152.02   Definitions
Historic Preservation Commission
   
152.15   Creation
   
152.16   Appointment
   
152.17   Qualifications
   
152.18   Powers and duties
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 PURPOSE.
   The historical heritage of Henderson County and its municipalities is a
valuable and important asset. By endeavoring to preserve historic districts and
landmarks, the Town of Fletcher seeks:
   (A)   To safeguard the heritage of the county and its municipalities, by
preserving districts and landmarks therein that embody important elements of
its culture, history, architectural history or prehistory; and
   (B)   To promote the use and conservation of such districts and landmarks
for the education, pleasure and enrichment of the residents of the county,
towns and state as a whole.
(Ord. O-05-8, passed 11-14-2005)
§ 152.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.  The Henderson County Board of Commissioners.
   COMMISSIONERS. The members of the Henderson County Board of Commissioners.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT. An area containing buildings, structures or places which
have a special character and ambiance, based on 1 or more of the following:
      (1)   Historic value;
      (2)   Notable architectural features representing 1 or more periods or
styles of architecture of an era of history; and
      (3)   The cultural and aesthetic heritage of the community, and which
area constitutes a specific physical area of such significance to warrant its
conservation, preservation and protection from adverse influences.
   HISTORIC PROPERTY. Any site, landmark, structure, artifact, above or below
the ground or water, which is so designated by ordinance of either the Town
Council or the County Board of Commissioners.
   RESOURCES COMMISSION. The Historic Resources Commission of Henderson County.
   RESOURCES COMMISSIONERS. The duly appointed members of the Historic
Resources Commission of Henderson County.
(Ord. O-05-8, passed 11-14-2005)
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION
§ 152.15 CREATION.
   (A)   There is hereby established, by authority of G.S. Chapter 160A, Art.
19, pt. 3C of the North Carolina General Statutes, a joint historic resources
commission to be known as the Henderson County Historic Resources Commission
(the Commission).
   (B)   The Commission shall consist of not fewer than four and not more than
9 members appointed by the Board of Commissioners as provided below.
(Ord. O-05-8, passed 11-14-2005)
§ 152.16 APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   In making appointments to the Commission, the Board of Commissioners
shall appoint 4 members who do not reside in any municipality which adopts this
chapter, and 1 member who resides within the territorial limits of each
municipality which adopts this chapter. For each municipality which adopts this
chapter, the Board of Commissioners shall appoint the member who is required to
reside in the municipality from a list of nominees supplied by the
municipality.
   (B)   At the time of original appointments to the Resources Commission,
Henderson County staff shall assign each of the seats initially to a term of 1,
2 or 3 years. Subsequent appointments of each of the seats on the Resources
Commission shall be for a term of 3 years, so that after the expiration of
initial appointments, the term of each Resources Commissioner shall be for 3
years, with the terms of approximately 1/3 of the membership of the Resources
Commission expiring each year.
(Ord. O-05-8, passed 11-14-2005)
§ 152.17 QUALIFICATIONS.
   Each of the members of the Commission shall have demonstrated experience,
education or interest in history, architecture, archaeology or related fields.
(Ord. O-05-8, passed 11-14-2005)
§ 152.18 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Commission is authorized and empowered to undertake such actions
reasonably necessary to the discharge and conduct of its duties and
responsibilities as outlined in this chapter and the N.C. General Statutes,
including but not limited to the following:
   (A)   Undertake an inventory of properties of historical, prehistorical,
architectural, archaeological and/or cultural significance;
   (B)   Seek and secure funding and assistance as necessary and desirable to
complete the inventory of properties of historical, prehistorical,
architectural, archaeological and/or cultural significance;
   (C)   Recommend to the county and any municipalities which have adopted this
chapter individual buildings, structures, sites, areas or objects within the
respective zoning jurisdiction to be designated as historic landmarks, and
areas within the respective zoning jurisdiction to be designated as historic
district;
   (D)   Recommend to the county and any municipalities which have adopted this
chapter proposed ordinances regarding historic landmarks, historic districts
and amendments to the same, as requested by the Board of Commissioners or by
the governing board of the municipalities. It is anticipated that each of the
counties and any municipalities which have adopted this chapter may, due to
their unique characters and natures, have different ordinances regarding
historic landmarks and historic districts, with differing degrees of protection
of the same, and any recommendations from the Resources Commission shall be
guided by the Board of Commissioners or by the governing board of the
municipalities;
   (E)   Recommend to the county and any municipalities which have adopted this
chapter that designation of any area as a historic district or part thereof, or
of any building, structure, site, area or object as a historic landmark, be
revoked or removed for cause;
   (F)   Review and act upon proposals for alteration or demolition of
designated landmarks and for alteration, demolition or new construction within
historic districts, pursuant to this chapter;
   (G)   Report violations of this chapter, or other ordinances affecting
historic landmarks and properties within historic districts, to the local
official responsible for enforcing this chapter;
   (H)   Act as, establish or designate a group, body or committee to give
advice to owners of historic landmarks or property within a historic district
concerning the treatment of the historical and visual characteristics of their
property, such as color schemes, gardens and landscape features, minor
decorative elements, and for the informal review of major additions and new
construction;
   (I)   Conduct an educational program on historic landmarks and district
within the county;
   (J)   Publish information, or otherwise inform the public about any matters
pertinent to its purview, duties, organization, procedures, responsibilities,
functions or requirements;
   (K)   Cooperate with state, federal and local governments in pursuing the
purposes of this chapter. The local governing body or the Commission when
authorized by the appropriate local governing body may contract with the state,
the United States of America, or any agency of either, or with any other
organization, provided the terms are not inconsistent with state or federal
law;
   (L)   Communicate with other boards or commissions in Henderson County or
with agencies of the county or other governmental units to offer or request
assistance, aid, guidance or advice concerning matters under its purview or of
mutual interest;
   (M)   Prepare and recommend the official adoption of a historic preservation
element as part of the county’s comprehensive plan and a municipality’s
comprehensive plan, at the request of the local governing body;
   (N)   Accept funds to be used for preservation purposes that are granted to
the Commission by private individuals, organizations and local governing
bodies;
   (O)   Act as the appeal board from decisions of the staff of Henderson
County or of any municipality which has adopted this chapter regarding the
enforcement of any ordinance of Henderson County or of any municipality which
designates the Resources Commission as its appeal board. For any appeals
arising from within any such municipality heard by any committee or
subcommittee of the Resources Commission, the Resources Commissioner residing
in the municipality shall be a member of the committee or subcommittee
determining the appeal; and
   (P)   Organize itself and conduct its business, including any meetings or
hearings necessary to carry out the purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. O-05-8, passed 11-14-2005)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Chapter
      
I.   FRANCHISES, CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
      
II.   EXTRATERRITORIAL BOUNDARIES
      
III.   ANNEXATIONS
TABLE I: FRANCHISES, CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
R-99-15  - -         Brenmor to RMG
                     Granting a franchise to Duke Energy Corporation for
O-00-3   - -         construction, operation and maintenance of an electrical
                     utilities and telecommunications system, for a period of
                     30 years beginning April 1, 2000
                     Granting a nonexclusive franchise to U.S. Cable Television
O-95-2   5-8-1995    Group, L.P. for transmission and distribution system for
                     television and radio programs and other communication
                     services, for a period of 15 years
                     Granting a nonexclusive franchise to Brenmor Cable
O-98-3   2-9-1998    Partners, L.P. for transmission and distribution system
                     for television and radio programs and other communication
                     services, for a period of 15 years
                     Granting a nonexclusive gas franchise to Public Service
O-01-6   6-11-2001   Company of North Carolina, Incorporated, to construct,
                     operate and maintain a gas utility system, for a period of
                     30 years
 
TABLE II: EXTRATERRITORIAL BOUNDARIES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
O-99-1   2-8-1999    Establishing extraterritorial jurisdiction boundaries
 
TABLE III: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
            Annexing property, beginning at a point in the southern margin of the right-of-
O-   9-14-  way (ROW) of Airport Road (SR 3526) and at the center of the French Broad River,
92-3 1992   being parcels A, B, C and D of the property shown on Cabinet Slides 1246 and 1247
            of the County Register of Deeds office
O-   3-8-   Annexing 2 properties, known as 6750 Hendersonville Highway (as amended), being
93-2 1993   1.2 acres and 0.22 acre respectively
O-   3-8-   Annexing 1.86 acres, as shown on survey entitled “property of Donald J. and Peggy
93-3 1993   A. Rhodes,” beginning at a point in the center of Hoopers Creek Road (SR 1569)
            and Burney Mountain Road (SR 1552)
O-   3-14-  Annexing 1.88 acres, beginning on a concrete monument at the point of
94-1 1994   intersection of the northeasterly ROW for U.S. 25 with the southwest ROW line for
            Ramp A to Interstate 26
O-   4-10-  Annexing 11.58 acres, beginning at an iron rod set in the line dividing Buncombe
95-1 1995   and Henderson Counties, located south 11º 27' 10" west 894.31 feet from the N.C.
            Geodetic Survey (N.C.G.S.) monument named “Port”
O-   3-11-  Amending the street address of property annexed in Ord. O-93-2
96-1 1996
            Annexing property, beginning at a black gum tree near a branch, a corner of T.D.
O-   5-10-  Wilkie and a corner of the original C.D. Wilkie tract and running north 45º 44'
99-3 1999   east 315.41 feet to a stake at a culvert in the southwestern margin of Flynn Cove
            Road
O-   7-12-  Annexing 3 tracts, namely:
99-6 1999
          Beginning in the center of the French Broad River, thence with the original line,
            south 81º 52' 27" east 1,240.67 feet to the Airport Road right-of-way;
          All of the property described as “Tract C” on a survey for Broadpointe Center
            recorded in Slide 2295 of the office of the County Register of Deeds; and
            Beginning at a rod/cap set at the easternmost corner of “Tract B” shown on a plat
          of Broad Pointe Center, recorded on Slide 2295 in the office of the County
            Register of Deeds, 0.49 acre
            Annexing 11.70 acres, more or less, beginning at a point in the centerline of the
O-   7-12-  ROW of Fanning Bridge Road (SR 1149) at the edge of the French Broad River and
99-7 1999   the centerline of a concrete bridge, located north 30º 53' 41" east 90.47 feet
            from the N.C.G.S. monument named “Banning”
            Annexing 1.85 acres, more or less, beginning at an existing iron pin located at
O-   8-9-   the southernmost corner of property as conveyed to Clyde M. and Betty R. Penley
99-8 1999   and running with the northeastern boundary of property now or formerly owned by
            the Fletcher Brick Company
O-   4-10-  Annexing 42,905 square feet of property, beginning at a set iron pin located
00-1 2000   south 25º 04' 15" west 960.0 feet from the N.C.G.S. monument named “Butler”
            Annexing 65.20 acres, more or less, being Tract 2 and Tract 3 of the survey
O-   5-8-   entitled “Darlyne Ballard Jarrett” dated April 5, 1999, beginning at a sycamore
00-2 2000   tree at the westernmost corner of the Jarrett tract and running with the northern
            line of the Raymond H. and Faye D. Tatham tract south 81º 46' 27" west 121.48
            feet to a 1-inch iron pipe
O-   9-11-  Annexing 109.62 acres, beginning on a railroad spike set in the center of the
00-  2000   pavement of Jackson Road (SR 1539), lying south 80º 11' 00" west 3,870.11 feet in
13          grid distance from N.C.G.S. monument named “Tate”
            Annexing property shown on a survey entitled “Property of William M. Martin” and
O-   12-11- excepting any and all property deeded in fee simple from William M. Martin and
00-  2000   wife Wille Dee Martin to the Department of Transportation; beginning at a spike
14          in the eastern ROW margin of U.S. Highway 25, which spike being located north 36º
            07' 47" west 1,095.86 feet from N.C.G.S. grid monument named “Butler”
O-   4-9-   Annexing 2 properties, being:
01-3 2001
            The north portion of the 2.84 acre tract as conveyed by Mary Etta Lewis to
            Josephine Baldwin, beginning at a stake in the branch, the beginning corner of
          the 2.84 acre tract, standing south 5º west 261 feet from the northeast corner of
            the original tract, and running thence with the east line of the tract south 5º
            west 249 feet to a water oak, 1.42 acres, more or less; and
            The south portion of the 2.84 acre tract, beginning at a water oak in the east
          line of the original tract, standing south 5º west 510 feet from the northeast
            corner of that tract, 1.42 acres, more or less
            Annexing 38.28 acres, more or less, beginning at an iron rod with a cap found at
O-   5-14-  the intersection of the northern edge of the ROW for N.C. 280 with the eastern
01-2 2001   edge of the ROW for Broadpointe Drive, which point being located north 43º 16'
            14" east a distance of 156.04 feet and north 47º 21' 42" east a distance of 60.06
            feet from the N.C.G.S. monument named “Boyleston;” effective May 27, 2002
            Annexing a 93.97-acre parcel as shown on the map recorded in Plat Slide 3630 in
O-   5-14-  the office of the Register of Deeds, subject to the ROW for Rockwell Drive and
01-4 2001   the sewer ROW as shown in Plat Cabinet B, Slide 320A; conveying also therewith an
            easement containing 1.28 acres for a greenway
            Annexing 3.34 acres, the tract as shown on Slide 3857 of the Henderson County
O-   10-8-  Registry of Plats, beginning at a #5 rebar with identification cap located north
01-9 2001   10º 18' 27" east 37.76 feet and north 21º 54' 36" west 112.86 feet from a #5
            rebar with identification cap set at the intersection of Hoopers Creek Road (SR
            1553) and Burney Mountain Road (SR 1552)
O-          Annexing 0.75 acre, the tract as shown on Slide 3857 of the Henderson County
01-  10-8-  Register of Plats, beginning at a #5 rebar with identification cap located north
10   2001   10º 18' 27" east 37.76 feet from a #5 rebar with identification cap set at the
            intersection of Hoopers Creek Road (SR 1553) and Burney Mountain Road (SR 1552)
            Annexing 2.27 acres, as recorded on Slide 4238 in the County Registrar of Deeds
O-   11-12- office, beginning at the southwest corner of land identified in DB 500 and
02-6 2002   proceeding north 14º 00' 00" west 175.32 feet along the western boundary of that
            tract
O-   3-10-  Annexing 45.36 acres in Hoopers Creek Township, beginning on an existing 1-inch
03-2 2003   iron pipe, which lies south 74º 58' 58" east, 3,571.63 feet ground distance,
            3,570 feet grid distance from the N.C.G.S. monument named “Tate”
O-   5-10-  Annexing property referenced on Slide 2513 in the office of the Register of Deeds
04-3 2004   of Henderson County, as amended June 15, 2004
O-   5-10-  Annexing Lot Nos. 2 and 4 as shown on a plat of Family Subdivision of the B.G.
04-4 2004   Bagwell estate recorded on Plat Slide 2513 in the office of the Register of Deeds
            of Henderson County
O-   6-14-  Annexing 2 properties in Hoopers Creek Township:
04-6 2004
            On the west or southwest side of U.S. 25, and beginning at a point in the west or
          southwest margin of that highway, corner of the Fishborne property; and a 20-foot
            ROW along the inside of the southeasternmost boundary of the property described
            in Deed Book 734, Page 477; and
          Beginning at an iron pin in the southern margin of the ROW of U.S. 25, running
            south 30º 30' west 340 feet to an iron pin, being 12 acres
O-   10-11- Annexing 2 properties, being:
04-9 2004
            Lot 2, 4.21 acres, beginning on a survey nail set in the ROW of Hoopers Creek
          Road, which marks the southeastern corner of the Charles Lee Edwards property;
            and
          Lot 1, 0.78 acre, beginning on a #5 rebar found in a fence, which marks the
            northwestern corner of the Charles Lee Edwards property
O-   3-14-  Annexing property, beginning at a concrete monument found in the eastern property
05-1 2005   line of the Salvage Disposal property, being the northwest corner of the Eula E.
            Wilkie property
O-   10-10- Annexing 6.54 acres, beginning at an existing spike at the centerline of a bridge
05-6 2005   spanning an unnamed creek, being the common corner of the Tammy Branks property,
            9DB644/Page 157, and the Wylma C. Justice property, Slide 3062
O-   7-10-  Annexing 33.58 acres, beginning at an iron pin at the southwest corner of the
06-5 2006   Brickton Associates, LLC property, being in the centerline of Old Hendersonville
            Road
O-   8-6-   Annexing 21.38 acres and being the property standing in the name of Christopher
07-2 2007   Cyclone Covey and wife, Janet L. Covey deed book 1238 page 621 and the reaming
            portion of deed book 621 page 513 not included in deed book 1238 page 621
O-   8-6-   Annexing 6.50 acres and being the property standing in the name of Southern
07-3 2007   Concrete Materials, Inc. deed book 642 page 593
O-          Annexing Meritor property “tract B” containing 70.542 acres beginning on a
08-  2-11-  concrete monument, the monument marking the northwest corner of the Price
01   2008   property as described in Deed Book 833, Page 153 of the Henderson County Register
            of Deeds
O-   2-3-   Approving an annexation between the City of Asheville and the Town of Fletcher
20-  2020   designating a non-contiguous, approximately 2.01-acre property located at 9 Brian
01          Boulevard as not subject to annexation by Fletcher
           
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
G.S. Section Code Section
G.S. Section              Code Section
1-593                     10.05
                          33.99;
                          92.99;
14-4                      95.99;
                          110.080;
                          130.99;
                          133.99
14-4(a)                   10.99;
                          92.99
14-4(b)                   70.99
14-27.20                  116.20
14-32                     92.17
14-127                    132.01
14-128                    92.17;
                          132.01
14-132                    92.17
14-159.13                 92.17
14-177–14-199           115.04
14-202.10(2)              116.02
14-202.10(9)              116.02
14-202.10(10)             116.02
14-202.10(11)             116.02
14-203–14-208           115.04
14-205.1 through 14-205.4 115.04
Ch. 14, Art. 27A          92.16
14-225.1                  Ch. 91
14-277.2                  Ch. 91;
                          131.16
14-286                    132.15;
                          132.19
14-288                    34.11
14-288.4                  133.01;
                          133.02
14-288.8(c)               34.05
14-316                    131.17
14-318.1                  133.20
14-399                    92.17
Ch. 18B                   116.20
18B-101(9)                130.01
18B-101(15)               130.01
18B-300(c)                130.01
19A-20 et seq.            90.03
Ch. 20, Art. 10A          Ch. 110, App. A
20-4.01                   133.03
20-4.01(3)(d)             70.01
20-4.01(27)(d)(1)         70.01
20-37.6(E)(1)(3)          71.041
20-141(f)                 70.39
20-156                    132.17
20-157                    132.17;
                          132.18
20-161(E)                 71.075
20-162                    71.001
20-162.1                  71.005
20-163                    71.004
20-169                    Ch. 91
20-175                    92.17
20-219.11                 94.33
Ch. 44A, Art. 1           94.35
58-82-1 et seq.           132.19
66-258                    111.001
66-385 et seq.            111.089
66-391                    111.086
66-397                    111.085
67-4.4                    95.99
Ch. 68, Art. 3            95.70
89C-3                  Ch. 110, App. A
                          116.15;
Ch. 90                    116.16;
                          116.20
Ch. 90, Art. 5            133.03;
                          133.99
90-210.25                 Ch. 110, App. A
93A-2                     Ch. 110, App. A
Ch. 93B                   111.030;
                          110.035
93E-1-4                   Ch. 110, App. A
105-41 (repealed)         Ch. 110, App. A
105-249                   111.019
105-249.1                 111.019
113-127 et seq.           131.16
Ch. 130A                  95.12
                          95.01;
130A-185                  95.02;
                          95.31
130A-195                  95.34
130A-196 -130A-199        95.01
130A-251 et seq.          Ch. 91
136-102.6                 150.02;
                          150.04
136-141 et seq.           94.38
136-143                   94.38
Ch. 143, Art. 8           32.06
Ch. 143, Art. 9F          Ch. 110, App. A
143-129(a)                32.07
143-129(g)                32.03
153A-123(d), (e)          95.99
Ch. 160A, Art. 4A         Charter, §
                          2.1
Ch. 160A, Art. 7, pt. 2   30.01
Ch. 160A, Art. 7, pt. 3   Charter, §
                          5.1
Ch. 160A, Art. 12         33.02
Ch. 160A, Art. 19, pt. 3C 152.15
160A-23                   Charter, §
                          2.2
160A-101                  30.01;
                          30.02
160A-102                  30.01;
                          30.02
160A-174                  95.02;
                          132.01
160A-175                  10.99;
                          95.02
160A-175(d)               111.062
160A-178                  111.001
160A-179                  111.001
160A-182                  95.02
160A-183                  131.16;
                          133.41
160A-186                  95.02
160A-187                  95.02
160A-189                  131.16
160A-194                  110.001
160A-211(a) (repealed)    110.020
160A-211(b)               110.080
160A-286                  95.01
160A-301                  71.001
160A-303                  94.02
160A-303.2                94.02
160A-361                  31.15
160A-362                  31.16
160A-435                  93.06
160A-436                  93.06
163-292                   30.02
163-294                   Charter, §
                          4.1
163-297(a)(2)             Charter, §
                          4.1
164-7                     10.14
Ch. 166A                  34.11
166A-8                    34.01
                          
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
R-99-15  - -         TSO I
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.       Date Passed Code Section
O-00-3         - -         TSO I
O-91-1         2-28-1991   Ch. 73, Sched. I
                           72.01-
                           72.03;
O-91-4         10-28-1991  72.99; Ch. 73, Scheds.
                           II,
                           III
O-92-1         2-13-1992   31.15-
                           31.19
O-92-3         9-14-1992   TSO III
O-93-1         1-11-1993   31.30-
                           31.39
O-93-2         3-8-1993    TSO III
O-93-3         3-8-1993    TSO III
O-93-5         8-24-1993   33.01;
                           33.99
O-93-8         12-13-1993  31.30
O-94-1         3-14-1994   TSO III
O-94-3         4-11-1994   31.01
O-94-07        7-11-1994   31.16
O-95-1         4-10-1995   TSO III
O-95-2         5-8-1995    TSO I
O-95-3         7-10-1995   31.35;
                           31.36
                           94.01;
                           94.02;
O-95-5         11-13-1995  94.15-
                           94.17;
                           94.30-
                           94.39
                           130.01-
O-95-7         11-13-1995  130.04;
                           130.99
                           111.001-
                           111.003;
                           111.015-
                           111.019;
O-95-6         12-11-1995  111.030-
                           111.032;
                           111.050;
                           111.060-
                           111.063
                           131.01-
O-95-08        12-11-1995  131.03;
                           131.99
O-96-1         3-11-1996   TSO III
O-96-2         4-8-1996    31.40
O-96-5         9-9-1996    30.01
O-97-1         1-13-1997   Ch. 73, Sched. I
O-97-3         3-10-1997   Ch. 73, Sched. I
O-98-01        4-13-1997   93.01-
                           93.07
O-97-5         5-12-1997   111.085-
                           111.089
                           50.01-
O-97-9         9-8-1997    50.08;
                           50.10;
                           50.11
                           93.01-
O-97-10        1-12-1998   93.05;
                           93.07;
                           93.09
O-98-2         2-9-1998    33.02
O-98-3         2-9-1998    TSO I
O-98-04        5-11-1998   150.01-
                           110.001;
                           110.002;
                           110.015-
                           110.021;
O-98-6         6-8-1998    110.035-
                           110.036;
                           110.055-
                           110.057;
                           110.080
O-98-6, App. 1 6-8-1998    Ch. 110, App. A
                           72.15-
                           72.17;
O-98-10        7-13-1998   72.99; Ch. 73, Scheds.
                           II,
                           III
                           92.15-
O-98-12        12-14-1998  92.19;
                           92.99
O-99-1         2-8-1999    TSO II
O-99-2         2-15-1999   31.16
O-99-3         5-10-1999   TSO III
O-99-5         7-12-1999   50.01;
                           50.07
O-99-6         7-12-1999   TSO III
O-99-7         7-12-1999   TSO III
O-99-8         8-9-1999    TSO III
O-99-9         12-13-1999  92.20
O-00-1         4-10-2000   TSO III
O-00-2         5-8-2000    TSO III
O-00-6         7-10-2000   91.01
O-00-07        7-10-2000   Ch. 73, Sched. IV
O-00-08        7-10-2000   50.11
O-00-10        8-14-2000   90.01-
                           90.04
O-00-11        8-14-2000   92.01;
                           92.99
                           71.001-
                           71.003;
                           71.005-
                           71.009;
                           71.020-
O-00-12        8-14-2000   71.027;
                           71.040-
                           71.046;
                           71.060-
                           71.062;
                           71.075;
                           71.999
-              9-11-2000   92.17
O-00-13        9-11-2000   TSO III
O-00-14        12-11-2000  TSO III
O-01-3         4-9-2001    TSO III
O-01-2         5-14-2001   TSO III
O-01-4         5-14-2001   TSO III
O-01-6         6-11-2001   TSO I
O-01-07        8-13-2001   50.09
O-01-8         8-13-2001   90.02
O-01-9         10-8-2001   TSO III
O-01-10        10-8-2001   TSO III
O-02-2         4-8-2002    Ch. 73, Sched. I
O-02-4         9-9-2002    Ch. 73, Sched. I
O-02-5         11-11-2002  91.15-
                           91.19
O-02-6         11-12-2002  TSO III
O-03-2         3-10-2003   TSO III
O-03-4         1-12-2004   50.05
O-04-1         2-9-2004    91.02
O-04-3         5-10-2004   TSO III
O-04-4         5-10-2004   TSO III
O-04-6         6-14-2004   TSO III
O-04-9         10-11-2004  TSO III
                           112.01-
                           112.09;
O-04-10        10-11-2004  112.20;
                           112.21;
                           112.35-
                           112.41
O-05-02        2-14-2005   Ch. 74, Sched. I
O-05-1         3-14-2005   TSO III
O-05-03        4-11-2005   93.01–
                           93.11
                           92.16;
-              6-13-2005   92.17;
                           92.99
O-05-5         7-11-2005   50.01
-              10-10-2005  92.20
O-05-6         10-10-2005  TSO III
                           152.01;
O-05-8         11-14-2005  152.02;
                           152.15-
                           152.18
O-06-1         11-14-2005  151.01
O-06-3         3-13-2006   Ch. 73, Sched. I
O-06-5         7-10-2006   TSO III
                           90.15;
O-06-2         1-8-2007    90.16;
                           90.99
O-07-2         8-6-2007    TSO III
O-07-3         8-6-2007    TSO III
O-08-01        2-11-2008   TSO III
O-08-3      11-11-2008  Adopting Ordinance
                           94.02,
O-09-01        1-12-2009   94.03,
                           94.55
O-09-8         8-10-2009   131.16
O-09-9         8-10-2009   131.16
O-12-02        3-12-2012   150.01–
                           150.04
O-12-09        12-10-2012  70.05
O-13-06        4-8-2013    70.06
- -            7-8-2013    114.15,
                           114.21
O-14-7         6-9-2014    72.17
O-15-01        1-12-2015   70.06
O-15-01        2-9-2015    70.06
O-15-01        7-13-2015   70.06
                           50.01;
                           50.06;
O-17-04        2-13-2017   50.07;
                           50.12;
                           50.99
                           92.01;
-              5-8-2017    92.17;
                           92.20
                           95.01–
                           95.24;
                           95.30–
                           95.38;
O-17-16        11-3-2017   95.50–
                           95.52;
                           95.60–
                           95.70;
                           95.99
                           95.01;
                           95.02;
-              5-14-2018   95.07;
                           95.09;
                           95.23
O-19-11        10-14-2019  93.07
O-20-01        2-3-2020    TSO III
-              - -         110.057
-              - -         111.062
-              - -         112.41
-              - -         114.99
-              - -         115.99
-              - -         116.99
O-23-04        4-10-2023   Ch. 73, Sched. I
                           110.001;
                           110.002;
                           110.015–
                           110.021;
-              - -         110.035;
                           110.036;
                           110.055–
                           110.057;
                           110.080;
                           Ch. 110, App. A
                           111.001;
                           111.003;
                           111.015–
                           111.019;
-              - -         111.030–
                           111.032;
                           111.050;
                           111.060;
                           111.061;
                           111.085
                           115.01;
-              - -         115.04–
                           115.11
O-23-11        11-13-2023  30.02
                          
 
