TOWN OF FOUR OAKS, NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2023 S-4 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. passed 2-13-2023
State legislation current through 2022 A.L.S. #3
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
CHARTER
Section
   
1.1   Incorporation and Corporate Powers
   
1.2   Certain Powers Enumerated
   
1.3   Enumerated Powers Not Exclusive
   
2.1   Corporate Limits
   
3.1   Creation, Salary and Composition of Mayor and Board of Commissioners
   
3.2   Mayor and Mayor Pro Tem
   
3.3   Board of Commissioners Rules
   
3.4   [Reserved]
   
3.5   Meetings of the Board of Commissioners
   
3.6   Quorum
   
3.7   Introduction and Passage of Ordinances and Resolutions
   
4.1   Municipal Elections
   
4.2   [Reserved]
   
4.3   [Reserved]
   
4.4   Ballots
   
4.5   Election of Mayor and Board of Commissioners
   
5.1   Town Attorney
   
5.2   Powers and Duties of Town Attorney
   
6.1   Town Clerk
   
6.2   Duties of Town Tax Collector
   
6.3   Duties of Town Accountant
   
6.4   Duties of Town Treasurer
   
7.1   Custody of Town Money
   
7.2   Independent Audit
   
8.1   Pubic Records
   
8.2   Personal Interest
   
8.3   Continuance of Contracts
   
9.1   Saving Clause
   
9.2   Repealing Clause
   
9.3   Effective Date of Charter
AN ACT TO REVISE AND CONSOLIDATE THE CHARTER OF THE TOWN OF FOUR OAKS, NORTH
CAROLINA.
The General Assembly of North Carolina do enact:
SECTION 1.1. INCORPORATION AND CORPORATE POWERS.
   The inhabitants of the Town of Four Oaks, North Carolina, within the
boundaries as established in Section
2.1 of this charter or as hereafter established in the manner provided by law,
shall continue to be a body politic and corporate by name the Town of Four
Oaks, and under that name shall have perpetual succession; may use a corporate
seal; may sue and be sued; may acquire property within or without its
boundaries for any municipal purpose, in fee simple or lesser interest or
estate, by purchase, gift, devise, lease or condemnation and may sell, lease,
hold, manage and control such property as its interests may required; and,
except as prohibited by the Constitution of North Carolina or restricted by
this charter, the Town of Four Oaks shall have and may exercise all municipal
powers, functions, rights, privileges and immunities of every name and nature
whatsoever.
SECTION 1.2. CERTAIN POWERS ENUMERATED.
   The following shall be deemed to be a part of the powers conferred upon the
Town of Four Oaks by this Section:
   (a)   To levy, assess and collect taxes and to borrow money within the
limits prescribed by general law; and to levy and collect special assessments
for benefits conferred.
   (b)   To furnish all local public services; to purchase, hire, construct,
own, maintain and operate or lease local public utilities; to acquire, by
condemnation or otherwise, within or without the corporate limits, property
necessary for any such purpose, subject to restrictions imposed by general law
for the protection of other communities; and to grant local public utility
franchises and regulate the exercise thereof.
   (c)   To make local public improvements and to acquire, by condemnation, or
otherwise, property within or without its corporate limits necessary for such
improvements; and also to acquire an excess over that needed for any such
improvement, and to sell or lease such excess property with restrictions, in
order to protect and preserve the improvement.
   (d)   To issue and sell bonds on the security of any such excess property,
or of any public utility owned by the town, or of the revenue thereof, or of
both, including in the case of a public utility, if deemed desirable by the
town, a franchise stating the terms upon which, in case of foreclosure, the
purchaser may operate such utility.
   (e)   To organize and administer public libraries.
   (f)   To adopt and enforce within its limits local police, sanitary and
other similar regulations not in conflict with general laws.
   Except as otherwise provided in this Act the board of commissioners shall
have authority to determine by whom and in what manner that powers granted by
this Section shall be exercised.
SECTION 1.3. ENUMERATED POWERS NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The enumeration of particular powers by this charter shall not be held or
deemed to be exclusive but, in addition to the powers enumerated therein or
implied thereby, or appropriate to the exercise of such powers, it is intended
that the Town of Four Oaks shall have, and may exercise, all powers which,
under the Constitution of North Carolina, it would be competent for this
charter specifically to enumerate. All powers of the town, whether expressed or
implied, shall be exercised in the manner prescribed by this charter, or, if
not prescribed therein, then in the manner provided by ordinance or resolution
of the board of commissioners.
SECTION 2.1 CORPORATE LIMITS.  
   The corporate limits of the town shall be as follows:
   BEGINNING at a black jack oak a short distance North of paved road and
across road from colored church, being the northwest corner, and runs then N.
73 E. 2343 feet to a monument on north side of a small branch; thence S. 28 E.
1431 feet to a monument; then S. 3.15 E. crossing railroad and highway 2021
feet to a monument in edge of Old Smithfield Road; thence S. 25 E. 898 feet to
a stake in paved road intersection; then S. 34.30 W. down center of road 396
feet; S. 25 W. 622 feet; S. 37.30 W. 358 feet; S. 48 W 525 feet to road and
Juniper Branch intersection; thence up Juniper Branch as follows: N. 42 W. 122
feet; N. 39 W. 100 feet; N. 30.30 W. 100 feet; N. 39.30 W. 154 feet; N. 28.30
W. 312 feet; N. 17.30 W. 350 feet to a stake (pointers); thence leaving said
branch N. 60.30 W. 1480 feet to a stake, storm sewer in road; then S. 67 W. 268
feet to a stake in small branch; thence up branch as follows: N. 47 W. 94 feet;
N. 44 W. 90 feet; N. 50 W. 165 feet; N. 47 W. 114 feet; N. 63.30 W. 75 feet; N.
67.30 W. 116 feet; N. 72 W. 148.5 feet; N. 40 W. 180 feet; N. 25.30 W. crossing
railroad 120 feet; thence N. 68 E. 161 feet to a monument; thence N. 11 E. 2595
feet to the point of beginning, containing 306.5 acres, more or less, according
to a survey and map made by C.B. Flughum, Registered Surveyor, in July 1952.
Editor's Note:
   Tracts of land have been annexed to the town by ordinance of the governing
body. A current map of the corporate limits is available for public inspection
in the office of the Town Clerk/Manager.
SECTION 3.1. CREATION, SALARY AND COMPOSITION OF MAYOR AND BOARD OF
COMMISSIONERS.
   Except as otherwise provided in this charter all powers of the town shall be
vested in a board of commissioners of five members and a mayor nominated and
elected from the town at large in the manner hereinafter provided. The term of
office of the mayor and the board of commissioners shall be for four years and
until their successors are elected and qualified, and shall begin on the first
Monday in December next following their election. If a vacancy occurs in the
office of mayor or commissioners, it shall be filled for the remainder of the
unexpired term by a majority vote of the remaining members of the board of
commissioners. Each member of the board of commissioners shall receive a salary
the amount of which shall be prescribed by ordinance. Provided, however that
the present mayor and members of the board of commissioners shall continue to
receive the same salary until the same is changed as herein outlines. No
ordinance fixing or changing the salary of members of the board of
commissioners shall become effective during the current term of office of the
members of the board of commissioners enacting such ordinance. Members of the
board of commissioners shall be qualified electors of the town. A member of the
board of commissioners ceasing to possess any of the qualifications specified
in this Section, or convicted of a felony while in office, shall immediately
forfeit his office.
   Meetings of the Board of Commissioners. At seven o'clock on the first Monday
in December following a regular municipal election the board of commissioners
shall meet at the usual place for holding its meetings and the newly elected
members shall assume the duties of office. Thereafter the board of
commissioners shall meet at such times as may be prescribed by ordinance or
resolution, but not less frequently than once each month. Special meetings
shall be called by the clerk upon the written request of the mayor or two
members of the board of commissioners. Any such notice shall state the subject
to be considered at the special meeting and no other subject shall be there
considered.
   All meetings of the board of commissioners and of committees thereof shall
be open to the public, and the rules of the board of commissioners shall
provide that citizens of the town shall have a reasonable opportunity to be
heard at any such meetings in regard to any matter considered thereat.
SECTION 3.2. MAYOR AND MAYOR PRO TEM.
   At its first meeting in the month of May following a regular municipal
election the board of commissioners shall choose one of its members as vice
chairman, who shall act as mayor pro tem. The mayor shall preside at meetings
of the board of commissioners and shall exercise such other powers and perform
such other duties as are or may be conferred and imposed upon him by the
general laws of North Carolina, by this charter and the ordinances of the town.
He shall be recognized as the head of the town government for all ceremonial
purposes, by the courts for serving civil processes, and by the Governor for
purposes of military law. In time of public danger or emergency the mayor
shall, if so authorized and directed by vote of the board of commissioners,
take command of the police, maintain order and enforce the law. In case of the
absence or disability of the mayor, the mayor pro tem shall act as mayor during
the continuance of the absence or disability.
SECTION 3.3. BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS RULES.
   The board of commissioners shall be the judge of the election and
qualifications of its members and the mayor, and in such cases shall have power
to subpoena witnesses and compel the production of all pertinent books,
records, and papers but the decision of the board of commissioners in any such
case shall be subject to review by the courts. The board of commissioners shall
determine its own rules and order of business and keep a journal of its
proceedings.
SECTION 3.4. [RESERVED].
SECTION 3.5. MEETINGS OF THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.
   (a)   At seven o'clock on the first Monday in December following a regular
municipal election the board of commissioners shall meet at the usual place for
holding its meetings and the newly elected members shall assume the duties of
office. Thereafter the board of commissioners shall meet at such times as may
be prescribed by ordinance or resolution, but not less frequently than once
each month. Special meetings shall be called by the clerk upon the written
request of the mayor or two members of the board of commissioners. Any such
notice shall state the subject to be considered at the special meetings and no
other subject shall be there considered.
   (b)   All meetings of the board of commissioners and of committees thereof
shall be open to the public, and the rules of the board of commissioners shall
provide that citizens of the town shall have a reasonable opportunity to be
heard any such meetings in regard to any matter considered thereat.
SECTION 3.6. QUORUM.
   A majority of the members elected to the board of commissioners shall
constitute a quorum to do business, but a less number may adjourn from time to
time and compel the attendance of absent members in such manner and under such
penalties as may be prescribed by ordinance. The affirmative vote of a majority
of the members elected to the board of commissioners shall be necessary to
adopt any ordinances, resolutions, order or vote; except that a vote to
adjourn, or regarding the attendance of absent members, may be adopted by a
majority of the members present. No member shall be excused from voting except
on matters involving the consideration of his own official conduct or when his
financial interests are involved.
SECTION 3.7. INTRODUCTION AND PASSAGE OF ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
   (a)   Ordinances and resolutions shall be introduced in the board of
commissioners only in written or printed form. All ordinances, except
ordinances making appropriations and ordinances codifying or rearranging
existing ordinances or enacting a code of ordinances, shall be confined to one
subject, and the subject, or subjects of all ordinances shall be clearly
expressed in the title. Ordinances making appropriations. The yeas and nays
shall be taken upon the passage of all ordinances and resolutions and entered
upon the journal of the proceedings of the board of commissioners. The enacting
clause of all ordinances shall be: "Be it ordained by the Town of Four Oaks."
   (b)   When Ordinances and Resolutions Take Effect — Emergency Measures.
Ordinances making the annual tax levy, appropriation ordinance, ordinances and
resolutions pertaining to local improvements and assessments, ordinances and
resolutions providing for or directing any investigation of town affairs,
resolutions requesting information from administrative officers or directing
administrative action, and emergency measures shall take effect at the time
indicated therein. Except as otherwise prescribed in this charter, all other
ordinances and resolutions passed by the board of commissioners shall take
effect at the time indicated therein, but not less than thirty (30) days from
the date of their passage. An emergency measure is an ordinance or resolution
to provide for the immediate preservation of the public peace, property, health
or safety, in which the emergency claimed is set forth and defined in a
preamble thereto. The affirmative vote of at least four members of the board of
commissioners shall be required to pass any ordinance or resolution as an
emergency measure. No measure making or amending a grant, renewal or extension
of a franchise or other special privilege shall ever be passed as an emergency
measure. No situation shall be declared an emergency by the board of
commissioners except as defined in this Section, and it is the intention of
this charter that such definition shall be strictly construed by the courts.
   (c)   Authentication and Publication of Ordinances and Resolutions. Upon its
final passage each ordinance or resolution shall be authenticated by the
signature of the mayor and the town clerk and shall be recorded in a book kept
for that purpose. Within ten days after final passage, a notice setting forth
in brief the substance of each ordinance shall be published or posted at least
once in such manner as the board of commissioners may prescribe.
SECTION 4.1 MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS.
   (a)   The regular election for the choice of mayor and members of the board
of commissioners shall be held on Tuesday following the first Monday in
November in odd numbered years. The board of commissioners may by resolution
order a special election, fix the time for holding the same, and provide all
means for holding such special election.
   (b)   Regulations of elections. All elections shall be conducted in
accordance with the general State laws relating to municipal elections, except
as otherwise provided herein.
SECTION 4.2. [RESERVED].
SECTION 4.3. [RESERVED].
SECTION 4.4 BALLOTS.
   The full names of candidates nominated for mayor or board of commissioners
in accordance with the provisions of this charter, except such as may have
withdrawn, died or become ineligible, shall be printed on the official ballots
in the alphabetical order of the surnames in rotation without any party
designation. There shall be printed as many sets of ballots as there are
candidates. Each set of ballots shall begin with the name of a different
candidate, the other names being arranged thereafter in regular alphabetical
order, commencing with the name next in alphabetical order after the one that
standards first on such set of ballots. When the last name is reached in
alphabetical order it shall be followed by the name that begins with the first
letter represented in the list of names and by the others in regular order.
SECTION 4.5 ELECTION OF MAYOR AND BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.
   (a)   All members of the board of commissioners shall be elected at-large.
Every voter shall be entitled to vote for one candidate for mayor and for as
many candidates as there are members to be elected to the board of
commissioners. All candidates up to the number to be elected, who received the
largest number of votes shall be declared elected.
   (b)   Appointment of officers and employees. The board of commissioners may
appoint a town clerk, a treasurer, a tax collector, an accountant, a town
attorney, a chief of police, a fire chief, and such other officers and
employees as may be necessary, none of whom need be a resident of the town at
the time of appointment: Provided, that the board of commissioners may appoint
one person to file any two or more such positions. Such employees or officers
shall serve at the pleasure of the board of commissioners, and shall perform
such duties as may be prescribed by the board of commissioners. The board of
commissioners shall fix all salaries, prescribe bonds and require such oaths as
they may deem necessary.
SECTION 5.1. TOWN ATTORNEY.
   The attorney shall be an attorney at law who shall have practices in the
State of North Carolina for at least five years. He shall be the chief legal
advisor of and attorney for the town and all departments and officers thereof
in matters relating to their official powers and duties.
SECTION 5.2. POWERS AND DUTIES OF TOWN ATTORNEY.
   It shall be his duty, either personally or by such assistants as he may
designate, to perform all services incident to the department of law; to attend
all meetings of the board of commissioners; to give advice in writing, when so
requested; to the board of commissioners or the director any department; to
prosecute or defend, as the case may be, all suits or cases to which the town
may be a party; to prepare all contracts, bonds and other instruments in
writing in which the town is concerned, and to endorse on each his approval of
the form and correctness thereof; and to perform such other duties of a legal
nature as the board of commissioners may require. In addition to the duties
imposed upon the town attorney by this charter or required of him by ordinance
or resolution of the board of commissioners he shall perform any duties imposed
upon the chief legal officer of municipalities by law.
SECTION 6.1. TOWN CLERK.
   The board of commissioners shall choose a town clerk. The town clerk shall
keep the records of the board of commissioners and perform such other duties as
may be required by law or the board of commissioners.
SECTION 6.2. DUTIES OF TOWN TAX COLLECTOR.
   Duties of Town Tax Collector. Tax Collector shall collect all taxes,
licenses, fees, and other moneys belonging to the town government, subject to
the provisions of this charter and ordinance enacted thereunder, and he shall
diligently comply with and enforce the general laws of North Carolina relating
to the collection, sale and foreclosure of taxes by municipalities. It shall be
the duty of the tax collector do deposit daily in the town depository all money
belonging to the town.
SECTION 6.3. DUTIES OF TOWN ACCOUNTANT.
   The town accountant shall prepare the budget in accordance with the general
local government laws of North Carolina relating to the preparation of
municipal budgets. He shall have authority and shall be required: To maintain
accounting control over the finances of the town government, for which purpose
he is empowered to operate a set of general accounts embracing all the
financial transactions of the town, and such subsidiary accounts and cost
records as may be required by ordinance or by the board of commissioners for
purposes of administrative direction and financial control; to prescribe the
form of receipts, vouchers, bills, or claims to be filed by all departments and
agencies of the town government; to examine and approve all contract, orders
and other documents by which the town incurs financial obligations, having
ascertained before approval that moneys have been duly appropriated and
allotted to meet such obligations and will become available when the
obligations have become due and payable; to audit and approve all bills,
invoices, pay rolls, and other evidence of claims, demands, or charges against
the town government and to determine the regularity, legality, and correctness
of such claims, demands, or charges; to make monthly reports on all receipts
and expenditures of the town government to the mayor and board of commissioners
and to take monthly reports of funds, appropriations, allotments, encumbrances,
and authorized payments to the mayor, the board of commissioners and the head
of the department or agency directly concerned; to inspect and audit any
accounts or records of financial transactions which may be maintained by any
department or agency of the town government apart from or subsidiary to the
general accounts; and to perform such other duties pertaining to the financial
records of the town government as the board of commissioners may require by
ordinance.
SECTION 6.4. DUTIES OF TOWN TREASURER.
   The treasurer, if any, shall have custody of and shall disburse all moneys
belonging to the town government subject to the provisions of this charter and
ordinances enacted thereunder; shall have custody of all investments and
invested funds of the town or in possession of the town in a fiduciary
capacity, and shall keep a record of such investments, and shall have custody
of all bonds and certificates of town indebtedness including such bonds and
certificates unissued or cancelled, and the receipt and delivery of town bonds
and certificates for transfer, registration, or exchanges.
SECTION 7.1. CUSTODY OF TOWN MONEY.
   (a)   All moneys received by any department or agency of the town for or in
connection with the business of the town government shall be paid promptly into
the town depository. Such institution shall be designated by the board of
commissioners in accordance with such regulations and subject to such
requirements as to security for deposits and interest thereon as may be
established by ordinance. All interest on moneys belonging to the town shall
accrue to the benefit of the town government. All moneys belonging to the town
government shall be disbursed on vouchers signed by the mayor and counter-
signed by the town clerk.
   (b)   Issuance of bonds. The town may issue bonds for the purpose and in the
manner prescribed by the general laws of North Carolina or the issuance of
bonds by municipalities.
   (c)   Purchase procedure. Before making any purchase or contract for
supplies, materials, equipment, or contractual services, opportunity shall be
given for completion, under such rules and regulations, and with such
exceptions, as the board of commissioners may prescribe by ordinance. All
expenditures for supplies, materials, equipment, or contractual services
involving more than two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) shall be made
on a written contract, and such contract shall be awarded to the lowest
responsible bidder after such public notice and competition as may be
prescribed by ordinances.
   (d)   Contracts for town improvements. Any town improvement costing more
than two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) shall be executed by
contract except where such improvement is authorized by the board of
commissioners to be executed directly by a town department in conformity with
detailed plans, specifications and estimates. All such contracts for more than
two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) shall be awarded to the lowest
responsible bidder after such public notice and competition as may be
prescribed by ordinance, provided the board of commissioners shall have the
power to reject all bids and advertise again. Alterations in any contract may
be made when authorized by the board of commissioners.
   (e)   Contracts extending beyond one year. No contract involving the payment
of money out of the appropriations of more than one year (other than renewals
of continuing appropriations), shall be made for a period of more than ten
years; nor shall any such contract be valid unless made or approved by
ordinance. No ordinance providing for such a contract shall be valid unless
notice of the intention to pass the same were published in a newspaper of
general circulation within the town at least ten days before its passage by the
board of commissioners.
SECTION 7.2. INDEPENDENT AUDIT.
   As soon as practicable after the close of each fiscal year, an independent
audit shall be made of all accounts of the town government by qualified public
accountants, selected by the board of commissioners, who have no personal
interest directly or indirectly in the financial affairs of the town government
or of any of its officers. The results of this audit shall be published
immediately upon completion.
SECTION 8.1. PUBLIC RECORDS.
   All records and accounts of very office and department of the town shall be
open to inspection by any citizen or by any representative of the press at all
reasonable times and under reasonable regulations established by the board of
commissioners, except records and documents the disclosure of which would tend
to defeat the lawful purpose which they are intended to accomplish.
SECTION 8.2. PERSONAL INTEREST.
   Neither the mayor nor any member of the board of commissioners nor any
officer or employee of the town shall have a financial interest, direct or
indirect, in any contract with the town, or be financially interested, directly
or indirectly, in the sale of the town of any land, materials, supplies or
service, except on behalf of the town as an officer or employee. Any willful
violation of this section shall constitute malfeasance in office, and any
officer or employee of the town found guilty thereof shall thereby forfeit his
office or position. Any violation of this Section, with the knowledge express
or implied of the person or corporation contracting with the town shall render
the contract voidable by the board of commissioners.
SECTION 8.3. CONTINUANCE OF CONTRACTS.
   All contracts entered into by the town, or for its benefit, prior to the
taking effect of this charter, shall continue in full force and effect. Public
improvements for which legislative steps have been taken under laws or charter
provisions existing at the time this charter takes effect may be carried to
completion in accordance with the provisions of such existing laws and charter
provisions.
SECTION 9.1. SAVING CLAUSE.
   If any part of this charter shall be declared invalid by a court of
competent jurisdiction, such judgment shall not invalidate the remainder of the
charter. The provisions of this charter shall supersede all laws and ordinances
not consistent herewith, in so far as the Town of Four Oaks is affected
thereby.
SECTION 9.2. REPEALING CLAUSE.
   That all laws and clauses of laws in conflict with this charter be and the
same are hereby repealed.
SECTION 9.3. EFFECTIVE DATE OF CHARTER.
   This Act shall be in full force and effect from and after its ratification,
provided that the mayor and board of commissioners in office at the time this
charter takes effect shall continue in office until their successors are
elected and qualified.
   In the General Assembly read three times and ratified, this the 17th day of
February, 1953.
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter
         
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
11.   EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the Town of Four Oaks shall be
designated as the Code of Four Oaks and may be so cited.
(1992 Code, § 10.01)
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
(1992 Code, § 10.02)
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
(1992 Code, § 10.03)
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
(1992 Code, § 10.04)
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain,
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purposes of this code, the following words and
phrases shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COUNCIL or TOWN COUNCIL. The legislative body of the city.
      COUNTY. Johnston County, North Carolina.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of the municipality unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as applied to
any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of North Carolina.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TOWN, MUNICIPALITY or MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. The Town of Four Oaks, North
Carolina.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed; equivalent to the
words YEAR OF OUR LORD.
(1992 Code, § 10.05)
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of the municipality shall be by the
following rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of
the legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance:
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
"and/or", if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
(1992 Code, § 10.06)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
(1992 Code, § 10.07)
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
(1992 Code, § 10.08)
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the municipality exercising the powers, duties
or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
(1992 Code, § 10.09)
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
(1992 Code, § 10.10)
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this municipality for the transaction of all municipal
business.
(1992 Code, § 10.11)
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of such act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
(1992 Code, § 10.12)
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
(1992 Code, § 10.13)
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
(1992 Code, § 10.14)
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(1992 Code, § 10.15)
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall, in any way, be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
(1992 Code, § 10.16)
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to such
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
(1992 Code, § 10.17)
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (G.S. § 160A-69) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1985)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a "statutory reference"
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
   § 31.10 MAYOR.
      The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Town Council.
   (Ord. 10, passed 1-1-1980)
   Statutory reference:
      Powers and duties of the Mayor, see G.S. § 160A-67
(1992 Code, § 10.18)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless otherwise specifically provided, if any person shall violate
any provision of this code of ordinances, except any provision regulating the
operation or parking of vehicles, he or she shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned for not more than 30 days.
No fine shall exceed $50 per day unless the code provision expressly states
that the maximum fine is greater than $50 per day.
   (B)   A person may not be found responsible or guilty of a violation
punishable pursuant to division (A) of this section if, when tried for that
violation, the person produces proof of compliance with the provisions of this
code of ordinances through any of the following:
      (1)   No new alleged violations of the provision within 30 days from the
date of the initial alleged violation.
      (2)   The person provides proof of a good-faith effort to seek assistance
to address any underlying factors related to unemployment, homelessness, mental
health, or substance abuse that might relate to the person's ability to comply
with the provisions of this code of ordinances. (G.S. § 14-4(a), (c))
   (C)   Any provision of this code or any other ordinance of the town may be
enforced by an appropriate equitable remedy issuing from a court of competent
jurisdiction. In such case, the general court of justice shall have
jurisdiction to issue such orders as may be appropriate and it shall not be a
defense to the application of the town for equitable relief that there is an
adequate remedy at law.
   (D)   Any provision of this code or any other ordinance of the town that
makes unlawful a condition existing upon or use made of real property may be
enforced by injunction and order of abatement, and the general court of justice
shall have jurisdiction to issue the orders. When a violation of such a
provision occurs, the town may apply to the appropriate division of the general
court of justice for a mandatory or prohibitory injunction and order of
abatement commanding the defendant to correct the unlawful condition upon or
cease the unlawful use of the property. The action shall be governed in all
respects by the laws and rules governing civil proceedings, including the State
Rules of Civil Procedure in general and Rule 65 in particular.
      (1)   In addition to an injunction, the court may enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgement in the cause. An order of abatement may
direct that buildings or other structures on the property be closed, demolished
or removed; that fixtures, furniture or other movable property be removed from
buildings on the property; that grass and weeds be cut; that improvements or
repairs be made; or that any other action be taken that is necessary to bring
the property into compliance with this code or the ordinance.
      (2)   If the defendant fails or refuses to comply with an injunction or
with an order of abatement within the time allowed by the court, he or she may
be cited for contempt, and the town may execute the order of abatement. The
town shall have a lien on the property for the cost of executing an order of
abatement in the nature of a mechanic’s and materialperson’s lien.
      (3)   The defendant may secure cancellation of an order of abatement by
paying all costs of the proceedings and posting a bond for compliance with the
order. The bond shall be given with sureties approved by the clerk of superior
court in an amount approved by the judge before whom the matter is heard, and
shall be conditioned on the defendant’s full compliance with the terms of the
order of abatement within a time fixed by the judge.
      (4)   Cancellation of an order of abatement shall not suspend or cancel
an injunction issued in connection therewith.
   (E)   The provisions of this code and any other ordinance of the town may be
enforced by any, one, all or a combination of the remedies authorized and
prescribed by this section.
   (F)   Except as otherwise specifically provided, each day’s continuing
violation of any provision of this code or any other ordinance of the town
shall be a separate and distinct offense.
   (G)   Violation of this code and other ordinances of the town shall subject
the offender to a civil penalty to be recovered by the town in a civil action
in the nature of debt if the offender does not pay the penalty within the
prescribed period of time after he or she has been cited for violation thereof.
(G.S. § 160A-175)
(1992 Code, § 10.99)
CHAPTER 11: EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION
Section
   
11.01   Boundaries of the extraterritorial jurisdiction
§ 11.01 BOUNDARIES OF THE EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The boundaries of the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the town,
according to and as authorized by G.S. Chapter 160A, Article 19, extend to
distances not exceeding one mile from the corporate limits of the town as shown
on a map titled "Official Extraterritorial Boundary Map, Town of Four Oaks,
North Carolina", the map being adopted by reference and made a part hereof as
if set forth in full herein.
   (B)   The area contained within the one-mile jurisdiction shall be zoned as
indicted on the map attached to Ord. 81-1EF, which is hereby adopted by
reference and made a part of this code as if set forth in full herein.
(1992 Code, § 11.01) (Ord. 79-EJ, passed 7-2-1979; Ord. 81-1EJ, passed 3-2-
1981)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter
         
30.   FORM OF GOVERNMENT
         
31.   TOWN OFFICIALS
         
32.   TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
         
33.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
         
34.   TAXATION
         
35.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: FORM OF GOVERNMENT
Section
   
30.01   Operation of town government
§ 30.01 OPERATION OF TOWN GOVERNMENT.
   The town operates under the Mayor/Town Council form of government pursuant
to its Charter and applicable state law.
(1992 Code, § 30.01)
CHAPTER 31: TOWN OFFICIALS
Section
   
31.01   Town Clerk/Manager
   
31.02   Town Attorney
   
31.03   Tax Collector
   
31.04   Finance Officer
   
31.05   Budget Officer
   
31.06   Mayor
   
31.07   Town Council
§ 31.01 TOWN CLERK/MANAGER.
   (A)   There is hereby established the Office of Town Clerk/Manager.
   (B)   The Town Clerk/Manager shall give notice of meetings of the Town
Council, keep a journal of the proceedings of the Town Council, be the
custodian of all town records and shall perform any other duties that may be
required by law or the Town Council.
(1992 Code, § 31.01) (G.S. § 160A-171)
§ 31.02 TOWN ATTORNEY.
   (A)   There is hereby established the Office of Town Attorney.
   (B)   The Town Council shall appoint a Town Attorney to serve at its
pleasure and to be its legal adviser.
(1992 Code, § 31.02) (G.S. § 160A-173)
§ 31.03 TAX COLLECTOR.
   (A)   There is hereby established the Office of Tax Collector.
   (B)   The Town Council shall appoint a Tax Collector to serve for a term to
be determined by the Council and until his or her successor has been appointed
and qualified. The Town Council may remove the Tax Collector from office during
his or her term for good cause after giving him or her notice in writing and an
opportunity to appear and be heard at a public session of the Town Council. No
hearing shall be required, however, if the Tax Collector is removed for failing
to meet the prerequisites prescribed by G.S. § 105-352(b) for delivery of the
tax receipts. Unless otherwise provided by G.S. § 105-373, whenever any vacancy
occurs in this office, the governing body shall appoint a qualified person to
serve as Tax Collector for the period of the unexpired term.
   (C)   The Town Council shall appoint as Tax Collector a person of character
and integrity whose experience in business and collection work is satisfactory
to the Council.
   (D)   No Tax Collector shall be allowed to begin his or her duties until he
or she shall have furnished bond conditioned upon his or her honesty and
faithful performance in such amount as the governing body may prescribe. A Tax
Collector shall not be permitted to collect any taxes not covered by his or her
bond, nor shall a Tax Collector be permitted to continue collecting taxes after
his or her bond has expired without renewal.
   (E)   The compensation and expense allowances of the Tax Collector shall be
fixed by the Town Council.
   (F)    The Tax Collector shall take the oath required by Article VI, § 7 of
the North Carolina Constitution with the following sentence added to it: "That
I will not allow my actions as Tax Collector to be influenced by personal or
political friendships or obligations." The oath must be filed with the Town
Clerk/Manager.
(1992 Code, § 31.03) (G.S. § 105-349)
§ 31.04 FINANCE OFFICER.
   (A)   There is hereby established the Office of Finance Officer.
   (B)   The Town Council shall, at all times, have a Finance Officer to hold
office at the pleasure of the Council. The duties of the Finance Officer may be
imposed on the Budget Officer or any other officer or employee on whom the
duties of Budget Officer may be imposed.
(1992 Code, § 31.04) (G.S. § 159-24)
§ 31.05 BUDGET OFFICER.
   (A)   There is hereby established the Office of Budget Officer.
   (B)   The Town Council shall appoint a Budget Officer to serve at the will
of the Council.
(1992 Code, § 31.05) (G.S. § 159-9)
§ 31.06 MAYOR.
   For provisions concerning the Mayor, see Charter §§
3.1 and
3.2.
(1992 Code, § 31.06)
§ 31.07 TOWN COUNCIL.
   For provisions concerning the Town Council, see Charter §§
3.1,
3.3,
3.5 and
3.6.
(1992 Code, § 31.07)
CHAPTER 32: TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Planning Board
   
32.01   Members; terms; vacancies
   
32.02   Officers; rules; records
   
32.02   Meetings; quorum
   
32.04   Powers and duties
Board of Adjustment
   
32.15   Establishment; duties
PLANNING BOARD
§ 32.01 MEMBERS; TERMS; VACANCIES.
   (A)   The Planning Board shall consist of ten members, five of whom shall be
citizens of the town and five of whom shall be residents of the county residing
in the town's area of extraterritorial jurisdiction. The Town Council shall
appoint five members from the town and recommend five members from the area of
extraterritorial jurisdiction to be appointed by the County Board. In the event
the County Board fails to make the appointments requested within 90 days of
receipt of the request, the Town Council shall make the appointments.
   (B)   Two members from the town and two members from the extraterritorial
area shall be appointed for three-year terms, two members from the town and two
members from the extraterritorial area shall be appointed for two-year terms
and one member from both areas shall be appointed for one-year terms. As these
terms expire, new appointments shall be made for three-year terms. Vacancies
occurring for reasons other than expiration of terms, shall be filled for the
unexpired term only, by the legislative body responsible for original
appointment.
   (C)   Faithful attendance by the members is mandatory for retaining
membership on the Planning Board. Failure to attend three consecutive meetings
shall be deemed adequate reason for termination of membership on the Planning
Board by the Town Council. If a member has a legitimate excuse for not
attending a regular or special meeting of the Planning Board, he or she shall
notify the secretary of the Planning Board at least 24 hours before the
scheduled meeting time.
   (D)   All members of the Planning Board shall have equal voting power on all
matters of business. However, any member who is a party at interest to matters
under consideration by the Planning Board shall declare this interest prior to
a vote of the Planning Board on the question, and shall abstain from voting on
the question. The members may participate in the discussions prior to the vote.
(1992 Code, § 32.01)
§ 32.02 OFFICERS; RULES; RECORDS.
   (A)   Within 30 days after appointment, the Planning Board shall meet and
elect a Chairperson and create and fill those offices as it may determine. The
term of the Chairperson and other officers shall be one year, with eligibility
for reelection.
   (B)   The Planning Board shall adopt rules for transaction of business and
shall keep a record of its members' attendance, and its resolutions,
discussions, findings and recommendations, which record shall be a public
record.
(1992 Code, § 32.02)
§ 32.03 MEETINGS; QUORUM.
   (A)   The Planning Board shall hold at least one meeting monthly and all of
its meetings shall be open to the public.
   (B)   A quorum shall consist of a simple majority of the total membership of
the Planning Board.
(1992 Code, § 32.03)
§ 32.04 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Planning Board shall make careful studies of present conditions
and the probable future development of the town and its environs. These studies
may include, but shall not be limited to, land use surveys; population studies;
economic studies; school, park and recreation studies; traffic and parking
studies; urban renewal studies, housing and market analysis and annexation
studies.
   (B)   The Planning Board shall formulate and maintain a comprehensive plan
of the town and its environs for the purpose of achieving a coordinated,
adjusted and harmonious development of the town which would promote, in
accordance with present and future needs, the safety, morals, order,
convenience, prosperity and general welfare of its citizens; efficiency and
economy in the process of development; convenience of traffic; safety from fire
and other dangers; adequate light and air; healthful and convenient
distribution of population; provision of adequate open spaces; good civic
design and arrangement; wise and efficient expenditures of public funds; and
adequate provision for public utilities and other matters pertaining to the
public requirements. The comprehensive plan shall consist of a number of parts
which may include, but shall not be limited to, the following: a land use plan,
a major thoroughfare plan, a utilities plan, a plan for economic development, a
recreation plan, a school plan, a community facilities plan, a zoning plan and
plans for housing improvement.
   (C)   The Planning Board shall review and make recommendations to the Town
Council upon the extent, location, and design of all public structures and
facilities; the acquisition and disposal of public properties; the opening,
abandonment, widening, extension, narrowing or other change to streets and
other public ways; the construction, extension, expansion or abandonment of
utilities, whether publicly or privately owned; and on matters pertaining to
zoning and subdivision of land. However, in the absence of a recommendation
from the Planning Board after the expiration of 30 days from the date on which
the question has been submitted in writing to the Planning Board, the Town
Council may, if it deems wise, take final action.
   (D)   The Planning Board may conduct those public hearings as may be
required to gather information necessary for the drafting, establishment and
maintenance of the comprehensive plan.
(1992 Code, § 32.04)
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
§ 32.15 ESTABLISHMENT; DUTIES.
   All appeals which may be taken from decisions or orders of the Planning and
Zoning Administrator shall be heard and determined by the Board of
Commissioners. As the appeals body, the Board of Commissioners shall have the
power to fix the times and places of its meetings, to adopt necessary rules of
procedure and any other rules and regulations which may be necessary for the
proper discharge of its duties. The Board of Commissioners shall keep accurate
minutes of all its proceedings.
(1992 Code, § 32.15) (Ord. passed 2-13-2023)
CHAPTER 33: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
33.01   Operations Manual; adoption by reference
§ 33.01 OPERATIONS MANUAL; ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The town's Police Operations Manual, which is on file in the office of the
Town Clerk/Manager, is adopted and incorporated as part of this code of
ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
(1992 Code, § 32.25)
CHAPTER 34: TAXATION
Section
   
34.01   Tax levy to be in conformance with state law
   
34.02   Property taxes
§ 34.01 TAX LEVY TO BE IN CONFORMANCE WITH STATE LAW.
   All general taxes shall be levied as provided by the statutes of the state.
(1992 Code, § 33.01)
§ 34.02 PROPERTY TAXES.
   Property taxes shall only be imposed as specifically authorized by state
law. No property within the limits of the town shall be free from taxes, except
that property exempted by the Constitution.
(1992 Code, § 33.02)
CHAPTER 35: PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
   
35.01   Regulations adopted by reference
§ 35.01 REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The town's personnel regulations are hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. passed 12-1-2008)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      Chapter
         
50.   GARBAGE COLLECTION
         
51.   WATER SUPPLY AND DISTRIBUTION
         
52.   WATER AND SEWER CONNECTIONS
         
53.   FATS, OIL AND GREASE
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE COLLECTION
Section
   
50.01   Garbage container required
   
50.02   Placement of container
   
50.03   Yard waste
   
50.04   Construction material
   
50.05   Hazardous material
   
50.06   Recycled material
   
50.07   Violations
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 GARBAGE CONTAINER REQUIRED.
   (A)   Each household and commercial establishment within the town shall be
required to place household or commercial raw and small items of garbage inside
a large plastic waste container, covered by a lid. The receptacles shall have
the capacity of not less than ten gallons and not more than 33 gallons and
shall be kept in a sanitary condition. Residents and businesses are encouraged
to place garbage in plastic garbage bags before placing contents in the
receptacles. Exception: Restaurants/food establishments can contract a dumpster
(as required by Health Department regulations), as well as, large industrial
and commercial businesses.
   (B)   The municipality does not accept garbage/materials from outside the
city limits. Suspects that violate policy will be charged a standard pick-up
fee, in addition to the regular fee. Notice will be sent stating further
consequences.
   (C)   Having a county or any other landfill decal does not disqualify a
customer from garbage payment responsibility.
(Ord. 77-GC, passed 3-7-1977; Ord. passed 12-8-2008) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.02 PLACEMENT OF CONTAINER.
   The container may be placed at the rear of a residence/business or be placed
at the curbside in residential areas and at a conveniently accessible location
in the business district.
(Ord. passed 12-8-2008) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.03 YARD WASTE.
   (A)   Limbs will be collected at the length of four feet and no larger than
four inches in diameter. Limbs four to ten inches in diameter will be accepted
only at the length of two feet or less. Limbs should be neatly stacked behind
the curb.
   (B)   Leaves and mixed yard waste will be collected on a weekly basis. Yard
waste should not be placed in plastic bags.
   (C)   The town will not be responsible for collection of debris from land-
clearing operations.
(Ord. passed 12-8-2008)
§ 50.04 CONSTRUCTION MATERIAL.
   The town will not collect for any type of construction material. These
materials may consist of, but not be limited to, mortar, sand, steel, tin,
iron, aluminum or vinyl siding, wire, pipes, gutters, doors or windows.
(Ord. passed 12-8-2008)
§ 50.05 HAZARDOUS MATERIAL.
   The town will not collect hazardous material. These materials may consist
of, but not be limited to, car batteries, oil, paint, paint thinner, gas or
chemicals.
(Ord. passed 12-8-2008)
§ 50.06 RECYCLED MATERIAL.
   Currently, the town provides recycling for in-town residents only. These
materials may consist only of newspaper, glass (clear, brown or green in
color), aluminum cans and plastic containers (soft drink and milk jugs).
(Ord. passed 12-8-2008)
§ 50.07 VIOLATIONS.
   Any household or commercial establishment, which violates this chapter,
shall forfeit garbage collection service from the town.
(Ord. 77-GC, passed 3-7-1977; Ord. passed 12-8-2008)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)    Any violation of any provision of this chapter shall subject
the violator to a civil penalty in the sum of not more than $50 per day.
         (a)   A citation for the civil penalty shall be issued by the Police
Chief
         (b)   Each citation for a civil penalty must be paid within 168 hours
(seven days) of issuance.
      (2)   Each and every day that the violator continues in violation shall
be a separate and distinct offense.
   (B)   The municipality may also, and in addition, seek any and all
appropriate equitable remedies, injunctions and/or abatement orders from the
appropriate court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed 12-8-2008)
CHAPTER 51: WATER SUPPLY AND DISTRIBUTION
Section
   
51.01   Service contracts to conform with pertinent provisions
   
51.02   Mayor and Town Council or their agents shall supervise
   
51.03   Public Works Director
   
51.04   Water service pipes
   
51.05   Water connections required; separate connections
   
51.06   Connections to be made by or under supervision of town
   
51.07   Applications for connections
   
51.08   Connection fees
   
51.09   Right to enter premises
   
51.10   Water meters
   
51.11   Connections outside of town
   
51.12   Unauthorized use of water
   
51.13   Leaks responsibility of customer
   
51.14   Water for use of customers only
   
51.15   Injury to property and fixtures
   
51.16   Tampering with meters
   
51.17   Continuity of service
   
51.18   Water rates and charges
   
51.19   Water deposits
   
51.20   Meter reading; billing; collection; disconnection procedure
   
51.21   Suspension of service
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 SERVICE CONTRACTS TO CONFORM WITH PERTINENT PROVISIONS.
   All pertinent provisions of this chapter shall govern the terms and
conditions of the contract under which the town furnishes water service to any
person or whereby the town makes any water connections or performs any work of
any kind in connection with the furnishing of water service.
(Ord. 79-WS, passed 11-5-1979; Ord. passed 12-8-2008)
§ 51.02 MAYOR AND TOWN COUNCIL OR THEIR AGENTS SHALL SUPERVISE.
   The water sewer system shall be under the supervision of the Mayor, Town
Council, Public Works Director or appointed designee. The duty of enforcing
full compliance with all rules and regulations governing all connections with
the mains shall be vested in the Public Works Director.
(Ord. 79-WS, passed 11-5-1979; Ord. passed 12-8-2008)
§ 51.03 PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR.
   The Public Works Director shall perform the following duties.
   (A)   He or she shall have general supervision over all the operations of
the water sewer system.
   (B)   He or she shall see that all rules and regulations of the town are
enforced.
   (C)   He or she shall see that water sewer rates and assessments are
correctly recommended.
(Ord. 79-WS, passed 11-5-1979; Ord. passed 12-8-2008)
§ 51.04 WATER SERVICE PIPES.
   The town, or licensed plumber under permit of the town, shall tap the water
main for connections and extend all service pipes to the curbing where a stop
box will be placed over a meter and a stop cock, all of which shall be under
the exclusive control of the town. No person shall be allowed to turn the water
on or off at this point, except the town's agent.
(Ord. 79-WS, passed 11-5-1979; Ord. passed 12-8-2008) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05 WATER CONNECTIONS REQUIRED; SEPARATE CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Within 120 days after the main in any street is complete and ready to
use, the owner of every abutting lot where the water is needed for human use
shall cause such a lot to be connected with the water main. For existing
houses, the town will offer the owner the opportunity to connect with a reduced
tap rate. Should the owner elect not to connect at this point, but wants to do
so at a later date, he or she will have to pay full price for connection. New
constructions (resident/business) are required to connect.
   (B)   No service pipe shall be used for supplying more than one dwelling
house or principle building upon the premises or upon adjacent premises. This
section will be effective only against those persons who violate its provisions
after the adoption of this chapter and shall not be construed to require the
change or alteration of conditions existing on this adoption date.
   (C)   There shall be installed on each water line at a convenient place a
cut off backflow preventer for the control of the water service by the property
owner or his or her agent or his or her tenant. Diagram may be obtained from
Public Works Director.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any customer to make a cross connection
between the town's water system and any other source of water supply.
(Ord. 79-WS, passed 11-5-1979; Ord. passed 12-8-2008) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.06 CONNECTIONS TO BE MADE BY OR UNDER SUPERVISION OF TOWN.
   The construction of laterals for water connections, and the necessary
excavation therefor, shall be done by the town or, if done by a licensed
plumber, it shall be done under the town's supervision.
(Ord. 79-WS, passed 11-5-1979; Ord. passed 12-8-2008)
§ 51.07 APPLICATIONS FOR CONNECTIONS.
   Every application for a water connection shall be made to the town,
accompanied by the proper fees for making the connection.
(Ord. 79-WS, passed 11-5-1979; Ord. passed 12-8-2008)
§ 51.08 CONNECTION FEES.
   For extension of water service pipe and the tapping of mains, the town will
charge fees as recommended by the Public Works Director and established by the
Town Council. A copy of current connection fees shall be kept on file in the
office of the Town Clerk/Manager.
(Ord. 79-WS, passed 11-5-1979; Ord. passed 12-8-2008)
§ 51.09 RIGHT TO ENTER PREMISES.
   Whenever it becomes necessary to enter any premises, businesses or dwellings
for the purpose of inspecting water pipes, fixtures or meters, the Building
Inspector or an agent of the town may do so within reasonable hours. Should the
Inspector or agent be refused admittance, the supply of water shall be cut off
until the examination is made and the required information is obtained or until
repairs and alterations are made.
(Ord. 79-WS, passed 11-5-1979; Ord. passed 12-8-2008)
§ 51.10 WATER METERS.
   (A)   The water meters furnished by the town shall remain the property of
the town and will be serviced by the town.
   (B)   At the request of any customer, the town will test the accuracy of a
water meter alleged to be recording improperly.
(Ord. 79-WS, passed 11-5-1979; Ord. passed 12-8-2008)
§ 51.11 CONNECTIONS OUTSIDE OF TOWN.
   No connection of any water sewer line or system outside the town shall be
made to any part of the water sewer system without special permission from the
Town Council on such terms as the Council shall prescribe.
(Ord. 79-WS, passed 11-5-1979; Ord. passed 12-8-2008) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.12 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF WATER.
   Only the Public Works Director or appointed designee is authorized to turn
on water. If water is found to be in use without the knowledge of the Public
Works Director, or without being turned on by his or her or designee, or if
water is used for any other purpose than that paid for, the consumer of water
shall be guilty of a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 79-WS, passed 11-5-1979; Ord. passed 12-8-2008) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.13 LEAKS RESPONSIBILITY OF CUSTOMER.
   If a break occurs, or a defect is found, in any pipe or fixture causing or
permitting a leakage or waste of water, it shall be the duty of the owner of
the premises or the customer to have the break or defect repaired.
(Ord. 79-WS, passed 11-5-1979; Ord. passed 12-8-2008)
§ 51.14 WATER FOR USE OF CUSTOMERS ONLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove water from the system from
hydrants for any purpose except in case of fire, Fire Department training or
other emergency. Any person unlawfully receiving or using water shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor. However, the public may purchase water from the bulk meter
with prior authorization from the Public Works Director.
(Ord. 79-WS, passed 11-5-1979; Ord. passed 12-8-2008) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.15 INJURY TO PROPERTY AND FIXTURES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to injure, deface or destroy any
property of the town water sewer system, including the pipes, standpipes,
values, boxes, fire hydrants, fountains, service boxes, service valves, service
connections or any other fixtures, or in any way contaminate the town water
supply.
(Ord. 79-WS, passed 11-5-1979; Ord. passed 12-8-2008) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.16 TAMPERING WITH METERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, after the water has been disconnected
for failure to pay the water bill, to turn on the meter or to bypass the meter
or in any manner to obtain water at no cost. If the town determines the meter
has been tampered with, the meter will be removed and customer will be accessed
an unauthorized user's fee and/or any other fee as determined by the Public
Works Director, deemed necessary to restore the meter to the original state.
(Ord. 79-WS, passed 11-5-1979; Ord. passed 12-8-2008) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.17 CONTINUITY OF SERVICE.
   The town will not be liable for any damages that may result to any customer
from the shutting off of the water sewer service for any cause whatever, even
in cases where no motive is given, and no deduction from bills will be made in
consequence thereof.
(Ord. 79-WS, passed 11-5-1979; Ord. passed 12-8-2008)
§ 51.18 WATER RATES AND CHARGES.
   The rates for the water sewer service shall be recommended by the Public
Works Director and established by the Town Council, shall be due and payable
monthly and shall be collected in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter. A copy of the current rates and charges shall be kept on file in the
office of the Town Clerk/Manager.
(Ord. 79-WS, passed 11-5-1979; Ord. passed 12-8-2008)
§ 51.19 WATER DEPOSITS.
   (A)   Each renter or leasee applying for water sewer service shall make a
deposit in the amount fixed by the Town Council and is subject to change.
   (B)   Water and/or sewer service can be connected the same day the deposit
is paid if paid before 3:00 p.m. Deposits paid after 3:00 p.m. Monday through
Thursday will be connected the following day. Deposits paid on Friday after 3:
00 p.m. will be scheduled for connection on the following Monday.
(Ord. 79-WS, passed 11-5-1979; Ord. passed 12-8-2008; Ord. passed 2-9-2009)
§ 51.20 METER READING; BILLING; COLLECTION; DISCONNECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Meters will be read and bills rendered monthly, but the town may vary
dates or length of period covered, temporarily or permanently, if necessary or
desirable.
   (B)   Bills for water service will be figured in accordance with the rate
schedule then in effect and will be based on the amount consumed for the period
covered by the meter readings.
   (C)   Charges for service commence when the appropriate deposit and
application is rendered and the service connection is made, whether used or
not.
   (D)   Bills for water service are due when rendered and are delinquent after
the due date indicated on the bill. A penalty (in an amount fixed by the Town
Council) shall be added to delinquent bills and shall be paid by the customer.
   (E)   Delinquent amounts will be noted on the next following bill and are
due immediately. If not paid by cut-off date indicated, service will be
terminated.
      (1)   When it becomes necessary for the town to discontinue utility
service to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only
after delinquent amount and late fee (amount fixed by the Town Council) has
been paid in full; also, when terminated service has not been reinstated in
seven days of original cut-off date, the customer's account will be terminated
from the system and deposit will be applied to any balance due for service.
Once the account has been terminated from the system, at that point, the
customer will have to pay a new deposit and any outstanding balance due to get
service reinstated. It is the policy of the town to discontinue utility service
by reason of nonpayment of bills, following provision that:
         (a)   All bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth on
the bill;
         (b)   If any bill is not paid by or before original due date, the
delinquent balance will be indicated on the following bill, as well as, the
cut-off date for the unpaid past due balance; and
         (c)   Accounts that appear on the prepared cut-off listing after 1:00
p.m. on the cut-off date will be assessed a late/nonpayment fee in an amount
fixed by the Town Council and are subject to change.
      (2)   Request for delays or waiver will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence of
the bill rendered, service will be discontinued at the time specified.
      (3)   When water service is interrupted due to nonpayment, the following
procedure will apply to have service reconnected:
         (a)   Customers must pay any delinquent amount owed and the late/
nonpayment fee (at the amount of the current rate charged).
         (b)   Payments will be received for reconnects until 5:00 p.m. and the
service reconnection will be done for those making appropriate payment until 5:
00 p.m.
         (c)   If a member of the Town Board contacts an employee after hours
to implement a reconnect, the after hours charge (current rate set by the Town
Board) will apply.
         (d)   Payment for the after hour reconnection (additional charges
applied) must be in the drop box by 8:00 a.m. the next morning after the after-
hour reconnect occurred or water/sewer service will be disconnected again. If
disconnection occurs again, another nonpayment fee will be added to the total
due and no reconnection will occur until all fees and delinquent payments have
been paid in full.
   (F)   Failure to receive bills mailed shall not prevent the bills from
becoming delinquent nor relieve the customer from payment.
(Ord. 79-WS, passed 11-5-1979; Ord. passed 12-8-2008; Ord. passed 2-9-2009;
Ord. passed 2-11-2019; Ord. passed 4-8-2019)
§ 51.21 SUSPENSION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   When water service is discontinued and all bills are paid, including
any penalties that may be due, the deposit or potion thereof will be refunded.
   (B)   Upon discontinuance of service for nonpayment of bills, the deposit
will be applied toward the settlement of the account. Any remaining balance of
the deposit will be refunded to the customer. If the deposit is not sufficient
to cover the amount due, the town may proceed to collect the balance owed by
customer in any way provided by the law for collection of debts.
   (C)   Service discontinued for nonpayment of bills can be restored by
following statements in §
51.20.
   (D)   The town reserves the right to discontinue water service without
notice for any one or more of the following additional reasons:
      (1)   To prevent fraud or abuse;
      (2)   Customer's willful disregard of the town's rules and regulations;
      (3)   Emergency repairs;
      (4)   Insufficiency of supply due to circumstances beyond the town's
control;
      (5)   Legal process;
      (6)   Direction of public authorities; and
      (7)   Strike, riot, fire, flood, accident or any other unforeseen natural
or human-made catastrophe as determined by the Town Council and/or designee.
   (E)   The town may, in addition to prosecution by law, permanently refuse
service to any customer or his or her agent who tampers with a meter or other
measuring device.
(Ord. 79-WS, passed 11-5-1979; Ord. passed 12-8-2008)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)    Any violation of any provision of this chapter shall subject
the violator to a civil penalty in the sum of not more than $50 per day.
         (a)   A citation for the civil penalty shall be issued by the Police
Chief.
         (b)   Each citation for a civil penalty must be paid within 168 hours
of issuance.
      (2)   Each and every day that the violator continues in violation shall
be a separate and distinct offense.
   (B)   The municipality may also, and in addition, seek any and all
appropriate equitable remedies, injunctions and/or abatement orders from the
appropriate court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 79-WS, passed 11-5-1979; Ord. passed 12-8-2008)
CHAPTER 52: WATER AND SEWER CONNECTIONS
Section
   
52.01   Connection required
 
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01 CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   The owner of property within the limits of the town abutting the rights-of-
way of streets, alleys and easements within which water and sewer lines owned
and operated by the town are located, whether they be persons, firms,
corporations, shall be required to connect their premises with the water and
sewer lines of the town, and shall be charged for the connections and water and
sewer services pursuant to connection and fee schedules recommended by the
Public Works Director and adopted by the Town Council.
(Ord. 81-2WS, passed 7-7-1981; Ord. passed 12-8-2008) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)    Any violation of any provision of this chapter shall subject
the violator to a civil penalty in the sum of not more than $50 per day.
         (a)   A citation for the civil penalty shall be issued by the Police
Chief.
         (b)   Each citation for a civil penalty must be paid within 168 hours
of issuance.
      (2)   Each and every day that the violator continues in violation shall
be a separate and distinct offense.
   (B)   The municipality may also, and in addition, seek any and all
appropriate equitable remedies, injunctions and/or abatement orders from the
appropriate court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed 12-8-2008)
CHAPTER 53: FATS, OIL AND GREASE
Section
   
53.01   Regulatory background and purpose; intent
   
53.02   Definitions
   
53.03   Grease trap and interceptor installation, maintenance, record keeping
and removal
   
53.04   Enforcement
   
53.05   Public education policy
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01 REGULATORY BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE; INTENT.
   (A)   This chapter is written in order to comply with state requirements for
system-wide collection system permitting (15A NCAC 2T .0400; especially .0403);
and in accordance with the town's deemed system-wide permit # WQSD0013. State
requirements have stemmed from federal regulations for pretreatment (such as 40
CFR 403).
   (B)   This chapter is intended to aid in the prevention of sanitary sewer
blockages and obstructions caused by the introduction, discharge and
contribution of fats, oils, greases, grease complexes, scum, sludge and other
organic polar compounds into the town's wastewater collection system or the
downstream publicly owned treatment works by certain grease-producing
commercial, industrial, institutional and other non-residential activities.
This chapter is written in addition to any/all plumbing requirements as
required by North Carolina Building Code (especially Vol. II, Ch. 10). In the
event of any discrepancy in this chapter and North Carolina Building Code, the
more stringent criteria shall apply.
(Ord. passed 1-12-2009)
§ 53.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section.
   COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT and INDUSTRIAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any user that has the
potential to use, contribute to or otherwise impact the town's wastewater
collection system or POTW. Such establishments include, but are not limited to,
maintenance facilities, repair facilities and equipment cleaning facilities.
   COOKING ESTABLISHMENT. Any person primarily engaged in the activities of
cooking, preparing, serving or otherwise making available for human consumption
any form of foodstuff, and which uses one or more of the following cooking or
preparation methods in connection with such activities: cooking or preparation
by frying (all methods), baking (all methods) grilling, sauteing, rotisserie
cooking, broiling (all methods), boiling, blanching, roasting, toasting,
poaching, or any type of cooking or preparation that produces a hot non-potable
product in or on a receptacle that requires washing, rinsing or other form of
cleaning. Such establishments include, but are not limited to, restaurants,
cafeterias, extended care facilities, school cafeterias (public and private),
and daycare facilities where meals for more than six children are prepared,
served or otherwise made available for human consumption.
   GREASE. All greases, grease complexes, fats, oils, scum, sludge and all
other organic polar compounds derived from animal and/or plant sources that
contain multiple carbon chain triglyceride molecules. Such substances are
detectable and measurable using analytical procedures established in 40 CFR
136.
   GREASE TRAP/GREASE INTERCEPTOR. Device for separating and retaining
waterborne greases before the wastewater, which contains such grease, exits the
grease trap or interceptor into the town's wastewater collection system or
POTW. The GREASE TRAP OR INTERCEPTOR also collects settable solids generated by
or incidental to commercial, industrial and food preparation activities.
   NON-COOKING ESTABLISHMENT. Any person primarily engaged in the rendering or
preparation of pre-cooked foodstuffs that do not require or involve any form of
cooking. Such establishments include but are not limited to, establishments
that are primarily engaged in the rendering preparation of cold dairy and
frozen foodstuffs.
   TOWN. The town of Four Oaks, North Carolina and its utility service area.
   USER. Any person primarily engaged in any commercial, industrial,
institutional or other nonresidential activity who introduces, contributes or
discharges (or causes or permits the introduction, contribution or discharge
of) wastewater into the town's wastewater collection system or POTW, including
but not limited to any person who introduces, contributes or discharges
wastewater into the wastewater collection system or POTW through any mobile
source.
   WASTEWATER. Any substance introduced, contributed to, or discharged into the
town's wastewater collection system or publicly owned treatment works (POTW).
(Ord. passed 1-12-2009)
§ 53.03 GREASE TRAP AND INTERCEPTOR INSTALLATION, MAINTENANCE, RECORD KEEPING
AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   No later than one year after the adoption of this chapter, all non-
residential users with potential grease producing operations shall install
grease traps or interceptors designed to limit the introduction, contribution,
and discharge of greases into the town's wastewater collection system or POTW.
This requirement includes all cooking establishments and any other commercial
or industrial establishment that exceeds the allowable grease concentration of
this section. Grease traps and interceptors with appropriate sampling or
inspection points shall be installed at the user's expense whenever a grease
trap or interceptor is required to be installed as in division (F) of this
section. Grease traps and interceptors must have a minimum capacity of 1,000
gallons or more as required to effect a grease concentration maximum of 200 mg/
l.
   (B)   The town may approve alternative methods of compliance if the user
demonstrates that compliance with this chapter is impossible or impractical at
the time of adoption of this chapter as a result of limited space. However, any
proposed alternative method of compliance will be required to meet the
performance criteria specified in division (A) of this section, and the user
must adequately demonstrate to the satisfaction of the town that the proposed
alternative method will satisfy those performance criteria. In addition, any
alternative method must be cleaned at a more frequent interval than is required
of grease traps and interceptors under division (E) of this section. Prior to
approval of any proposed alternative method of compliance, documentation of the
proposed method's actual performance criteria must be submitted to the Public
Works Director for review and approval.
   (C)   Grease traps and interceptors may also be required in other facilities
as deemed necessary by the Public Works Director.
   (D)   Upon the prior written approval of the Public Works Director, non-
cooking establishments may be exempted from the requirements of this chapter
after an inspection of the subject premises and submission of adequate
supporting documentation, as deemed necessary in the sole and absolute
discretion of the Public Works Director. At a minimum, such supporting
documentation shall include: blueprints of the subject premises, a full and
detailed description of the operations and activities at the subject premises,
and a full and detailed list of all potential sources of grease at the subject
premises.
   (E)   Users shall empty and service grease traps and interceptors to comply
with the performance criteria in division (A) as often as necessary, but in any
event no longer than every 60 days. Under-the-counter types of grease traps and
interceptors shall be cleaned at least daily, and shall comply with the
performance criteria in division (A) of this section. There shall be no
reintroduction of wastewater back into the grease trap or interceptor unless
and until the wastewater has been proven to contain 200 mg/l or less of grease.
Under no circumstances shall the sludge or scum layer be reintroduced or
discharge into the town's wastewater collection system or POTW.
   (F)   Users shall supply an adequate sampling point downstream of the grease
trap or interceptor, prior to mixing with other sanitary flows, and an
accessible entry into each chamber of the grease trap or interceptor. The
minimum requirement for the sampling point shall be a four-inch vertical clean-
out.
   (G)   Users shall retain detailed records on-site for a minimum of three
years reflecting all maintenance carried out pursuant to this chapter. At a
minimum, such records shall contain the following information: date of service,
name of the employee involved, and a receipt reflecting all services rendered
by the water hauler providing the service.
   (H)   Users are required to keep the grease trap or interceptor free of
inorganic solids such as grit, towels, gloves, cigarettes, eating utensils, and
the like, which could clog or settle in the trap or interceptor, thereby
reducing the effective volume or capacity of the trap or interceptor.
   (I)   Users are required to ensure that all waste material removed from
grease traps and interceptors is disposed of in a manner that complies with all
federal, state, and local statutes, rules, regulations, policies and
ordinances.
   (J)   Except as provided herein, for a period of one year following the
adoption of this chapter, no enforcement actions will be taken under this
section for failure to achieve the performance criteria specified in division
(A). If, during such period, an obstruction of any of the town's sanitary sewer
main(s) occurs and causes a sewer overflow, spill, leak or other event with any
environmental impact, and such overflow, spill, leak or other event may be
attributed in part or in whole to a particular user, then the town will seek
enforcement action and possible penalties under §§
53.04 and
53.99. For purposes of this section, an overflow, spill, leak or other event
shall be deemed to have an environmental impact when such overflow or other
event involves an amount of wastewater equal to or in excess of 1,000 gallons
or an amount of wastewater reaches any body of surface water.
(Ord. passed 1-12-2009)
§ 53.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Designated staff of the Public Works Department shall conduct a
minimum of one compliance inspection annually. The Public Works Director may
direct staff to inspect any one or more commercial or industrial establishments
based on compliance history, collection system problems, and the like.
   (B)   Commercial or industrial establishments determined to be in non-
compliance with the requirements of this chapter that are linked to a
collection line blockage will be required to reimburse the town for expenses
associated with clean-up.
   (C)   Commercial or industrial establishments determined to be in non-
compliance with the requirements of this chapter that are linked to a
collection line blockage will be required to increase its interceptor cleaning
frequency.
   (D)   The town may assess penalties for failure to keep required records;
failure to clean in-floor or under-the-counter units and/or failure to clean
in-ground units regularly according to §
53.99; or according to any exceptions issued by the Public Works Director or
variances.
   (E)   The Public Works Director may grant exceptions or allow other
alternative methods of compliance in accordance with §
53.03(B). Any other exceptions beyond that provided for in §
53.03(B) must be requested as a variance request and granted by the Town Board
of Adjustment.
(Ord. passed 1-12-2009)
§ 53.05 PUBLIC EDUCATION POLICY.
   The town commits to educate the public regarding fats, oil, and grease (F/O/
G) pollutants that may be introduced to the town's public wastewater collection
system or the downstream publicly owned treatment works (POTW). Such F/O/
G pollutants are typically in the form of organic compounds with multiple
carbon chain triglyceride molecules that can act to create sanitary sewer
blockages in the collection system and interfere with standard treatment
processes at the POTW. This chapter requires physical grease traps and
interceptors for certain grease-producing commercial and industrial sewer
customers. In addition to this chapter, educating the general public is also
considered to be an important component to reducing F/O/G wastes from non-
domestic as well as domestic customers. The town commits to performing the
following public education methods in order to further reduce F/O/G components
from its wastewater collection system:
   (A)   Each year, the town is required to send out consumer confidence
reports regarding the water quality status of its drinking water system during
the previous year. These reports are hand-delivered. In addition to these water
quality reports for drinking water, the town intends to deliver information
about reducing F/O/G pollutants for both domestic and non-domestic sewer
customers. The information may be in the form of state-published documents and/
or brochures or even town drafted informational guides.
   (B)   When certain food service establishments apply for a building permit
or site plan approval and are required to install grease traps or interceptors,
then they shall be given informational brochures or town-drafted informational
guides for reducing F/O/G pollutants.
(Ord. passed 1-12-2009)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Commercial or industrial establishments determined to be in non-
compliance with the record keeping requirements of this chapter will be issued
a notice of violation (NOV). Commercial or industrial establishments determined
to be in non-compliance twice in a 12-month period for record keeping may be
fined up to $500.
   (B)   Commercial or industrial establishments that do not install a grease
trap/interceptor when instructed to do so by the town will be fined $200 per
month until a properly sized trap/interceptor is installed.
   (C)   Any user who is found to have failed to comply with any provision of
this chapter may be fined civil penalties up to $10,000 per day per violation.
   (D)   In addition to town penalties, additional penalties for violations
that directly affect the downstream publicly owned treatment works (POTW) may
be imposed by the appropriate POTW jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed 1-12-2009)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      Chapter
         
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
         
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
         
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
         
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
         
75.   GOLF CART REQUIREMENTS/RESTRICTIONS
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Purchase and display of tags required
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 PURCHASE AND DISPLAY OF TAGS REQUIRED. 
   Town tags must be purchased and displayed by February 15 each year. No
person shall fail to comply with this section.
(1992 Code, § 70.01) (Ord. 76-TT-0002, passed 2-2-1976) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any violation of any provision of this chapter shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty in the sum of not more than $50 per day.
         (a)   A citation for the civil penalty shall be issued by the Police
Chief.
         (b)   Each citation for a civil penalty must be paid within 168 hours
of issuance.
      (2)   Each and every day that the violator continues in violation shall
be a separate and distinct offense.
   (B)   The municipality may also, and in addition, seek any and all
appropriate equitable remedies, injunctions and/or abatement orders from the
appropriate court of competent jurisdiction.
(1992 Code, § 70.01)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Stop intersections
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   Where a stop light or stop sign has been erected or installed at any
intersection within the corporate limits of the town, no operator of a vehicle
approaching the intersection shall enter the same with the vehicle while a stop
light is emitting a red light or stop signal for traffic moving on the street
and in the direction that the approaching vehicle is traveling. All vehicles
shall come to a complete stop upon each intersection with a stop sign,
electrical flashing stop signal while on red or where there is a red flashing
signal, before entering the intersection. It shall be unlawful to make right
turns at those stop signals indicated in
Chapter 73, Schedule I.
(1992 Code, § 71.01) (Ord. 68-TO, passed 12-2-1968) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any violation of any provision of this chapter shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty in the sum of not more than $50 per day.
         (a)   A citation for the civil penalty shall be issued by the Police
Chief.
         (b)   Each citation for a civil penalty must be paid within 168 hours
of issuance.
      (2)   Each and every day that the violator continues in violation shall
be a separate and distinct offense.
   (B)   The municipality may also, and in addition, seek any and all
appropriate equitable remedies, injunctions and/or abatement orders from the
appropriate court of competent jurisdiction.
(1992 Code, § 71.02)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   Specific parking regulations
§ 72.01 SPECIFIC PARKING REGULATIONS.
   For specific parking regulations, see
Chapter 74, Parking Schedules.
(1992 Code, § 72.01)
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Permitted right turns at stop signals
   
II.   One-way streets
   
III.   Speed limits
SCHEDULE I. PERMITTED RIGHT TURNS AT STOP SIGNALS.
   Right turns are permitted while the stop light is red at the following
locations; provided that, turning to the right will not interfere with traffic
on the intersecting street.
 
Street           Location                           Ord. No. Date Passed
Baker Street     At intersection with U.S. Hwy. 301 N/A      As of 12-2-1968
Keen Road        At intersection with U.S. Hwy. 301 N/A      As of 12-2-1968
U.S. Highway 301 At intersection with Main Street   68-TO    12-2-1968
 
(1992 Code, Ch. 73, Sch. I) Penalty, see §
71.99
SCHEDULE II. ONE-WAY STREETS.
   Traffic shall travel only in the direction indicated on the following
streets.
 
Street         Location        Direction Time(s)         Ord. No. Date Passed
                                         School days, 7:
               From Maple                30 a.m. to 8:30
Hatcher Street Avenue to Main  West      a.m. and 2:30   82-02    3-1-1982
               Street                    p.m. to 3:30
                                         p.m.
E. North       N. Main Street            12:00 a.m. to
Railroad       to N. Baker     East      11:59 p.m.      N/A      Prior to 1979
Street         Street
WE Strickland  W. Hatcher                12:00 a.m. to
Street         Street to Lewis West      11:59 p.m.      N/A      11-2-1987
               Street
Williams       N. Baker Street           12:00 a.m. to
Street         to N. Main      West      11:59 p.m.      N/A      Prior to 1979
               Street
 
(1992 Code, Ch. 73, Sch. II) Penalty, see §
71.99
SCHEDULE III. SPEED LIMITS.
   Pursuant to the authority of G.S. § 20-141 (f), it shall be unlawful for any
person, or employee or agent of any corporation to drive or operate any motor
vehicle within the corporate limits of the town and on the streets therein at a
greater speed than designated below.
Street Location Speed Limit  (mph) Ord. No. Date  Passed
Street             Location            Speed Limit  (mph) Ord. No. Date  Passed
Grady Street                           25                 82-03    3-1-1982
Hatcher Street     From Maple Avenue   20                 82-01    2-1-1982
                   to Main Street
                   From Main Street
                   (SR 1162) to
                   Strickland Street
                   (Four Oaks
Hatcher Street     Elementary School
(SR1162            zone - 30 minutes   25                 N/A      2-5-1982
                   before to 30
                   minutes after
                   school begins and
                   ends on school days
                   only
                   From Main Street
                   (SR 1162) to the
Hatcher Street     northern corporate  35                 72-SZ    6-1-1972
(SR1162)           limit, approx. 0.25
                   miles north of
                   Church Street
Keen Road (SR      From I-95 to Keen   35                 78-TO    9-5-1978
1182)
Keen Road (SR      From Keen street to
1182)              Wellons Street      35                 N/A      9-5-1978
                   (U.S. 301)
Keen Road (SR      From U.S. 301 to
1182)              the corporate       45 - 55            65-50    1-4-1965
                   limits
                   From SR 1164 to a
Main Street (SR    point 200 feet      35                 72-SZ    6-1-1972
1162)              south of Woodall
                   Street
                   From Sanders Street
Main Street (SR    (SR 1183) to        35                 65-50    1-4-1965
1162)              Hatcher Street (SR
                   1162)
                   From Sanders Street
Main Street (SR    (SR 1183) to a
1162)              point 200 feet      20                 65-50    1-4-1965
                   south of Woodall
                   Street
Railroad Street,   From Baker Street   20                 65-50    1-4-1965
North              to Church Street
Railroad Street,   From Church Street  20                 65-50    1-4-1965
South              to Baker Street
                   From a point 0.20
                   mile east of Moore
                   Street to the
Sanders Street     eastern corporate   35                 N/A      9-6-1984
                   limit, approx. 200
                   feet east of Byrd
                   Street
                   From a Moore Street
Sanders Street     to a point 0.02     35                 72-SZ    6-1-1972
                   mile east of Moore
                   Street
Sanders Street (SR From Main Street
1183)              (SR 1162) to Moore  35                 72-SZ    6-1-1972
                   Street
Temple Street (SR                      45-55              65-50    1-4-1965
1165)
                   From the eastern
                   corporate limit,
                   approx. 0.03 mile
                   east of Adams
Wellons Street     Street to the       35                 65-50    1-4-1965
                   western corporate
                   limit, approx. 0.11
                   mile west of Temple
                   Street
 
(1992 Code, Ch. 73, Sch. III) Penalty, see §
71.99
CHAPTER 74: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Prohibited parking
   
II.   Restricted parking
SCHEDULE I. PROHIBITED PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a vehicle in the following
locations.
 
Street                Location                 Ord. No. Date Passed
Wellons Street, North Area designated by signs 86-10    2-3-1986
 
   (B)   Penalty.
      (1)   Any violation of any provision of this chapter shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty in the sum of not more than $50 per day.
         (a)   A citation for the civil penalty shall be issued by the Police
Chief.
         (b)   Each citation for a civil penalty must be paid within 168 hours
of issuance.
      (2)   Each and every day that the violator continues in violation shall
be a separate and distinct offense.
      (3)   The municipality may also, and in addition, seek any and all
appropriate equitable remedies, injunctions and/or abatement orders from the
appropriate court of competent jurisdiction.
(1992 Code, Ch. 74. Sch. I)
SCHEDULE II. RESTRICTED PARKING.
   (A)   Parking shall be restricted as indicated in the following locations.
 
Street           Location            Time Limit          Ord. No.   Date Passed
                 From Sanders Street 2-hours between 8:
Main Street      to Woodall Street   00 a.m. and 5:00    76-PO-0003 2-2-1976
                                     p.m.
Railroad Street, From Baker Street   2-hours, between 8:
North and South  to Church Street    00 a.m. and 5:00    76-PO-0003 2-2-1976
                                     p.m.
Wellons Street,                      2-hours, between 8:
North and South                      00 a.m. and 5:00    76-PO-0003 2-2-1976
(301)                                p.m.
 
   (B)   Penalty.
      (1)   Any violation of any provision of this chapter shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty in the sum of not more than $50 per day.
         (a)   A citation for the civil penalty shall be issued by the Police
Chief.
         (b)   Each citation for a civil penalty must be paid within 168 hours
of issuance.
      (2)   Each and every day that the violator continues in violation shall
be a separate and distinct offense.
      (3)   The municipality may also, and in addition, seek any and all
appropriate equitable remedies, injunctions and/or abatement orders from the
appropriate court of competent jurisdiction.
(1992 Code, Ch. 74, Sch. II)
CHAPTER 75: GOLF CART REQUIREMENTS/RESTRICTIONS
Section
   
75.01   Exemption; permitting
   
75.02   Inspections; regulations; permits; fees
   
75.03   Operators; traffic laws
   
75.04   Liability disclaimer
 
   
75.99   Penalty
§ 75.01 EXEMPTION; PERMITTING.
   Golf carts may be operated on streets within the town in accordance with the
following rules and regulations:
   (A)   Golf carts, and otherwise defined as low speed vehicles, as defined by
G.S. § 20-4.01(27)h, that are currently in compliance with all state laws
related to their operation, registration, and insurance requirements, and are
operated by licensed drivers will be exempt from this chapter.
   (B)   Other golf carts and low speed vehicles not in compliance with North
Carolina General Statutes that operate on a street or public vehicular area
within the Town of Four Oaks will be subject to an annual inspection by the
Chief of Police, or his or her designee. After successfully completing the
inspection process, the operator may receive a Town of Four Oaks golf cart
permit/sticker, which must be applied to the golf cart by the Chief of Police,
or his or her designee, to ensure that the permit/sticker is applied in the
most conspicuous location on the golf cart.
(Ord. passed 6-13-2011)
§ 75.02 INSPECTIONS; REGULATIONS; PERMITS; FEES.
   (A)   The inspection by the Chief of Police, or his or her designee, will
cover the following safety requirements, and every golf cart operating on town
streets must have the following safety equipment:
      (1)   Permits/stickers will be issued to all golf carts.
      (2)   Each owner must have proof of ownership, and a completed waiver of
liability, releasing the Town of Four Oaks, its employees, and affiliates from
all liability that may arise as a result of operating a golf cart inside the
town. A current waiver of liability must be on file with the Town of Four Oaks,
and must be renewed annually.
      (3)   All golf carts must meet the requirements or minimum standard of
safety equipment, to wit: rear view mirror, lap belts and child restraints for
use while the vehicle is in motion and a reflective “slow moving vehicle” sign
affixed on the rear of the golf cart.
      (4)   All golf cart operators must possess a valid driver’s license,
except any driver or operator 18 years of age and older with a medical or
physical condition that prevents that individual from being able to obtain a
valid North Carolina driver’s license. The medical condition must be evidenced
with a professional certified medical phobia that prevents the driver or
operator from taking a drivers’ licensing exam. The medical professional must
document that the operator does not possess a medical condition that would
prevent the safe operation of a motor vehicle and this documentation must be
updated annually. Any driver or operator that is exempt from the requirement of
a valid North Carolina license must still present and have on record and while
operating a golf cart, a valid North Carolina identification card.
      (5)   Golf carts, by design, are equipped to seat a certain number of
passengers. Each golf cart differs in that it may accommodate two to six
passengers, generally. This section is designed to regulate overcrowding or
reckless operation of a golf cart; therefore, no passengers are permitted to
stand on a golf cart while it is in operation.
      (6)   All operators must provide a minimum of liability insurance on any
golf cart prior to inspection.
      (7)   Permits/stickers will be issued annually, and valid from July 1 of
each year. The following fees shall apply:
         (a)   Annual inspection by Police Department: $35 (includes permit/
sticker).
         (b)   Re-inspection by Police Department: $10 (if a golf cart fails
the initial inspection).
         (c)   These fees are paid to the Town of Four Oaks.
      (8)   Lost or stolen permit/stickers are the responsibility of the owner.
A police report must be filed in the event of a lost or stolen permit/sticker.
The Chief of Police will have the discretion in determining whether a permit/
sticker may be re-issued in this instance. If no record can be found of a
previous application, or the receipt of a permit/sticker, the Chief of Police
may direct the applicant to reapply, and also resubmit any and all fees
necessary, before a replacement permit/sticker is issued.
(Ord. passed 6-13-2011)
§ 75.03 OPERATORS; TRAFFIC LAWS.
   (A)    Any person who operates a golf cart in the Town of Four Oaks, and
fails to receive or properly display a Town of Four Oaks permit/sticker will be
subject to the state law requiring registration, insurance, and any other
applicable laws, in addition to being in violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Golf carts will be subject to the traffic laws of North Carolina:
      (1)   All operators must adhere to all laws that apply to normal vehicle
operation, to wit: stop signs, stop lights, one-way streets, and the like. All
alcohol laws will also apply.
      (2)   Golf carts will adhere to all traffic flow patterns, and will
operate on the right side of the roadway.
      (3)   Golf cart operators must yield the right of way to any overtaking
vehicles.
      (4)   Golf carts shall not be operated on sidewalks.
      (5)   Golf carts shall not be operated on private property, without the
permission and consent of the property owner.
   (C)   Golf carts that are issued permits to operate under this chapter may
only be used from sunrise to 30 minutes prior to sunset. No operation after 30
minutes prior to sunset is allowed.
(Ord. passed 6-13-2011)
§ 75.04 LIABILITY DISCLAIMER.
   This chapter is adopted to address the interests of public safety. Golf
carts are not designed, or manufactured to be used on public streets, and the
town in no way advocates or endorses their operation on public streets or
roads. The town, by regulating such operation, is merely trying to address
obvious safety issues, and adoption of this chapter is not to be relied upon as
a determination that operation on a public street or public vehicular area is
safe or advisable, if done in accordance with this chapter. All persons who
operate or ride upon golf carts on public streets or public vehicular areas do
so at their own risk and peril, and must be observant of, and attentive to the
safety of themselves and others, including their passengers, other motorists,
bicyclists, and pedestrians. The town has no liability under any theory of
liability, and the town assumes no liability, for permitting golf carts to be
operated on the public streets and public vehicular areas, under special
legislation granted by the state’s legislature. Any person who operates a golf
cart is responsible for procuring liability insurance sufficient to cover the
risk involved in using a golf cart on the public streets and public vehicular
areas of the town.
(Ord. passed 6-13-2011)
§ 75.99 PENALTY.
   Whosoever shall violate any provision of this code for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be upon conviction, guilty of a misdemeanor, and
subject to a fine not to exceed $50. Each day that any of the provisions of
this code are violated shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. passed 6-13-2011)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
90.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
         
91.   ANIMALS
         
92.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
         
93.   LITTERING
         
94.   NOISE
         
95.   NUISANCES; GENERAL, WEEDS AND GRASSES
         
96.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
         
97.   YOUTH PROTECTION
         
98.   CONDITION OF RESIDENTIAL AND BUSINESS PREMISES
         
99.   YARD SALES
CHAPTER 90: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Nuisance vehicle unlawful; removal authorized
   
90.03   Pre-towing notice requirements
   
90.04   Post-towing requirements
   
90.05   Right to probable cause hearing before sale or final disposition of
vehicle
   
90.06   Sale and disposition of unclaimed vehicle
   
90.07   Disposition of proceeds of sale
   
90.08   Immunity
   
90.09   Exceptions
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle that does not display a current license
plate and that:
      (1)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked;
      (2)   Cannot be self-propelled or moved in the manner in which it
originally was intended to move; or
      (3)   Is more than five years old and appears to be worth less than $100.
   NUISANCE VEHICLE. A junked motor vehicle on public or private property that
is determined and declared to be a health or safety hazard, a public nuisance
or unlawful, including a vehicle found to be:
      (1)   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes, other insects, rats or
other pests;
      (2)   A point of heavy growth of weeds or other noxious vegetation over
eight inches in height;
      (3)   A point of collection of pools or ponds of water;
      (4)   A point of concentration of quantities of gasoline, oil or other
flammable or explosive materials as evidenced by odor;
      (5)   One which has areas of confinement which cannot be operated from
the inside, such as trunks, hoods and the like;
      (6)   So situated or located that there is a danger of it falling or
turning over;
      (7)   Any other vehicle specifically declared a health and safety hazard
and a public nuisance by the Town Council; or
      (8)   So offensive to the sight as to damage the community, neighborhood
or area appearance, upon a finding that such aesthetic regulation is necessary
and desirable for the protection of property values, promotion of tourism,
indirect protection of health and safety, preservation of the character and
integrity of the community, or promotion of the comfort, happiness, and
emotional stability of area residents.
(1992 Code, § 90.01) (Ord. passed 3-2-1987)
§ 90.02 NUISANCE VEHICLE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of a motor vehicle or for the
owner, lessee or occupant of the real property upon which the vehicle is
located to leave or allow the vehicle to remain on the property after it has
been declared a nuisance vehicle.
   (B)   Upon investigation, the Town Building Inspector (or other municipal
official) may determine and declare that a vehicle is a health or safety hazard
or a public nuisance as defined above and order the vehicle removed.
(1992 Code, § 90.02) (Ord. passed 3-2-1987) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 PRE-TOWING NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A vehicle to be towed or otherwise removed because it has been
declared to be a nuisance vehicle shall be towed only after notice to the owner
or person entitled to possession of the vehicle. If the names and mailing
addresses of the owners of the vehicle or the real property upon which it is
located can be ascertained in the exercise of reasonable diligence, the notice
shall be given to both by first class mail. The person who mails the notice
shall retain a written record to show the name and address to which mailed, and
the dated mailed. If the names and addresses cannot be ascertained, notice
shall be given by affixing on the windshield or some other conspicuous place on
the vehicle. The notice shall state that the vehicle will be removed by the
town on a specified date, no sooner than seven days after the notice is affixed
or mailed, unless the vehicle is moved by the owner or legal possessor prior to
that time.
   (B)   If the owner or person entitled to possession does not remove the
vehicle but chooses to appeal the determination that the vehicle is a nuisance
vehicle, the appeal shall be made to the Town Council in writing, heard at the
next regularly scheduled meeting of the Town Council, and further proceedings
to remove the vehicle shall be stayed until the appeal is heard and decided.
   (C)   A nuisance vehicle may be removed without giving the minimum seven
day's prior notice only in those circumstances where the authorizing official
finds, and enters the findings in appropriate records, a special need for
prompt action to maintain the public health, safety and welfare.
(1992 Code, § 90.03) (Ord. passed 3-2-1987)
§ 90.04 POST-TOWING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any vehicle which has been determined to be a nuisance vehicle may be
removed to a storage garage or area by a towing business contracting to perform
the services for the town. Whenever the vehicle is removed, the designated town
official shall immediately notify the last known registered owner of the
vehicle, the notice to include the following:
      (1)   A description of the removed vehicle:
      (2)   The location where the vehicle is stored:
      (3)   The violation with which the owner is charged, if any;
      (4)   The procedure the owner must follow to redeem the vehicle; and
      (5)   The procedure the owner must follow to request a probable cause
hearing on the removal.
   (B)   This notice shall be mailed to the owner's last known address, unless
waived in writing.
   (C)   If the vehicle is registered in the state, notice shall be mailed
within 24 hours. If the vehicle is not registered in the state, notice shall be
mailed to the owner within 72 hours from the removal of the vehicle.
   (D)   Whenever a nuisance vehicle is removed and the vehicle has no valid
registration or registration plate, the authorizing town official shall make
reasonable efforts, including the checking of the vehicle identification
number, to determine the last known registered owner of the vehicle and to
notify him of the information as set forth in divisions (A)(1) through (5)
above.
(1992 Code, § 90.04) (Ord. passed 3-2-1987)
§ 90.05 RIGHT TO PROBABLE CAUSE HEARING BEFORE SALE OR FINAL DISPOSITION OF
VEHICLE.
   After removal of a vehicle declared to be a nuisance vehicle, the owner or
other person entitled to possession may request in writing a hearing to be
filed with the magistrate in the county where the vehicle was towed. The
magistrate will set the hearing within 72 hours of receipt of the request, and
the hearing will be conducted in accordance with the provisions of G.S. § 20-
219.11.
(1992 Code, § 90.05) (Ord. passed 3-2-1987)
§ 90.06 SALE AND DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLE.
   (A)   With the consent of the owner, the designated town official may
dispose of any vehicle as a junked motor vehicle without holding it for any
prescribed period of time.
   (B)   Any unclaimed junked motor vehicle as defined by this chapter shall be
held for a period of at least 15 days. The owner of any such vehicle may claim
his or her vehicle during the 15-day retention period by exhibiting proof of
ownership to the designated town official and after paying all reasonable costs
incident to the removal and storage of the vehicle plus administrative
expenses. If, after the vehicle is held 15 days it remains unclaimed, the
vehicle may be destroyed or sold at private sales as junk.
   (C)   Within 15 days after final disposition of a junked motor vehicle,
written notice thereof shall be given to the Department of Motor Vehicles that
the vehicle has been determined to be a junked motor vehicle and disposed of as
such. The notice shall contain as full and accurate a description of the
vehicle as can be reasonably determined.
(1992 Code, § 90.06) (Ord. passed 3-2-1987)
§ 90.07 DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS OF SALE.
   The proceeds of the sale of a junked motor vehicle declared to be a
nuisance, after all costs of removal, storage, investigation and sale, and
satisfaction of any lien of record on the vehicle, have been deducted
therefrom, shall be held by the Town Finance Officer for 30 days and paid to
the owner upon demand. If the owner does not appear to claim the remainder of
the proceeds within 30 days after disposal of the vehicle, the funds shall be
deposited into the town's General Fund and the owner's rights therein shall be
forever extinguished.
(1992 Code, § 90.07) (Ord. passed 3-2-1987)
§ 90.08 IMMUNITY.
   Neither the town, nor any person, shall be held to answer in any civil or
criminal action to any owner or other person legally entitled to the possession
of any junked, lost or stolen vehicle for disposing of such vehicle as
contemplated by this chapter.
(1992 Code, § 90.08) (Ord. passed 3-2-1987)
§ 90.09 EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall apply to any motor vehicle in an enclosed
building, any motor vehicle kept or stored at a bona fide "automobile
graveyard" or "junkyard", as defined in G.S. § 136-143, or to any motor vehicle
that is used on a regular basis for business or personal use.
(1992 Code, § 90.09) (Ord. passed 3-2-1987)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any violation of any provision of this chapter shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty in the sum of not more than $50 per day.
         (a)   A citation for the civil penalty shall be issued by the Police
Chief.
         (b)   Each citation for a civil penalty must be paid within 168 hours
of issuance.
      (2)   Each and every day that the violator continues in violation shall
be a separate and distinct offense.
   (B)   The municipality may also, and in addition, seek any and all
appropriate equitable remedies, injunctions and/or abatement orders from the
appropriate court of competent jurisdiction.
(1992 Code, § 90.99)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Purpose and intent
   
91.02   Definitions
   
91.03   Nuisances
   
91.04   Keeping of exotic animals
   
91.05   Restraint and confinement; generally
   
91.06   Restraint of guard dogs
   
91.07   Restraint of vicious or dangerous animals
   
91.08   Property owners may impound
   
91.09   Impoundment
   
91.10   Notice to owner and redemption
   
91.11   Keeping horses, fowl and the like
   
91.12   Riding or leading horses, mules or ponies on sidewalks
Dogs
   
91.20   Permitting bitch at large
   
91.21   Limitation on number of dogs to be kept
Honey Bees
   
91.30   Purpose
   
91.31   Definitions
   
91.32   Certain conduct prohibited; nuisance
   
91.33   Domestic beekeeping
   
91.34   Right to inspect
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purposes of this chapter are to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare of the citizens of the town and to ensure the humane treatment
of animals regulating the care and control of animals within the town.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 91.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any live creature, both domestic and wild, except humans. ANIMAL
includes fowl, fish and reptiles.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any employee or agent of the town, designated by the
Town Council to administer and enforce the licensing, inspection and
enforcement requirements contained within this chapter.
   ANIMAL NUISANCE. Any nuisance arising out of the keeping, maintaining or
owning of, or failure to exercise sufficient control of, an animal.
   AT HEEL. A dog is directly behind or next to a person and obedient to that
person's command.
   AT LARGE. An animal is off the premises of the owner and not on a leash or
otherwise under the immediate control of a person physically capable of
restraining the animal.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Includes dogs, cats, domesticated sheep, horses, cattle,
goats, swine, fowl, ducks, geese, turkeys, confined domestic hares and rabbits,
pheasants and other birds and animals raised and/or maintained in confinement.
   EXOTIC ANIMAL. Any live monkey, alligator, crocodile, cayman, raccoon,
skunk, fox, bear, sea mammal, poisonous snake, member of the feline species
other than domestic cat (felis domesticus), member of the canine species other
than domestic dog (canis familiaris) or any other animal that would require a
standard of care and control greater than that required for customary household
pets sold by commercial pet shops or domestic farm animals.
   GUARD OR ATTACK DOG. A dog trained to attack on command or to protect
persons or property, and who will cease to attack upon command.
   IMPOUNDMENT. The taking into custody of an animal by any police officer,
animal control officer or any authorized representative thereof.
   MUZZLE. A device constructed of strong, soft material or of metal, designed
to fasten over the mouth of an animal to prevent the animal from biting any
person or other animal.
   OWNER. Any person having temporary or permanent custody of, sheltering or
having charge of, harboring, exercising control over, or having property rights
to, any animal covered by this chapter. An animal shall be deemed to be
HARBORED if it is fed or sheltered for three or more consecutive days.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE ANIMAL. Any animal that unreasonably annoys humans,
endangers the life or health of persons or other animals, or substantially
interferes with the rights of citizens, other than their owners, to enjoyment
of life or property. The term PUBLIC NUISANCE ANIMAL shall include, but not be
limited to:
      (1)   Any animal that is repeatedly found running at large;
      (2)   Any dog or cat in any section of a park or public recreation area
unless the dog or cat is controlled by a leash or similar physical restraint;
      (3)   Any animal that damages, soils, defiles or defecates on any other
property other than that of its owner;
      (4)   Any animal that makes disturbing noises, including, but not limited
to, continued and repeated howling, barking, whining or other utterances,
causing unreasonable annoyance, disturbance or discomfort to neighbors or
others in close proximity to the premises where the animal is kept or harbored;
      (5)   Any animal that causes fouling of the air by noxious or offensive
odors and thereby creates unreasonable annoyance or discomfort to neighbors or
others in close proximity to the premises where the animal is kept or harbored;
      (6)   Any animal in heat that is not confined so as to prevent attraction
or contact with other animals;
      (7)   Any animal, whether or not on the property of its owner, that
without provocation, molests, attacks or otherwise interferes with the freedom
of movement of persons in a public right-of-way;
      (8)   Any animal that chases motor vehicles in a public right-of-way;
      (9)   Any animal that attacks domestic animals;
      (10)   Any animal that causes unsanitary conditions in enclosures or
surroundings where the animal is kept or harbored; or
      (11)   Any animal that is offensive or dangerous to the public health,
safety or welfare by virtue of the number of animals maintained at a single
residence or the inadequacy of the facilities.
   UNDER RESTRAINT. An animal secured by a leash or lead under the control of a
person physically capable of restraining the animal and obedient to that
person's commands or securely enclosed within the real property limits of the
owner's premises.
   VICIOUS OR DANGEROUS ANIMAL.
      (1)   Any animal that attacks, bites or physically injures human beings,
domestic animals or livestock without adequate provocation, or which, because
of temperament or training, has a known propensity to attack, bite or
physically injure human beings, domestic animals or livestock.
      (2)   Any wild animals or any animal that without provocation has bitten
or attacked a human being or other animal shall be prima facie presumed VICIOUS
or DANGEROUS.
   WILD ANIMAL. Any live monkey, nonhuman primate, raccoon, skunk, fox,
leopard, panther, tiger, lion, lynx or any other warm-blooded animal that can
normally be found in the wild state. The term WILD ANIMAL does not include:
domestic dogs (excluding hybrids with wolves, coyotes or jackals), domestic
cats (excluding hybrids with ocelots or margays), farm animals, rodents, any
hybrid animal that is part wild and captive-bred species of common cage birds.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 91.03 NUISANCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep any animal on any property
located within the corporate limits of the town when the keeping of the animal
constitutes a public nuisance or menace to public health or safety.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.04 KEEPING OF EXOTIC ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to own, harbor or permit at large any exotic
animal without the written permission of the Town Council. The permission shall
be given only if it is demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Council that the
animal will not constitute a threat to public health or safety.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.05 RESTRAINT AND CONFINEMENT; GENERALLY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any animal to fail to keep the
animal under restraint or to permit the animal to run at large upon the streets
and public ways of the town.
   (B)   Any dog, while on a street, sidewalk, public way or in any park,
public square or other public space, or upon any private property without the
consent of the owner, shall be secured by a leash or chain of sufficient
tensile strength to restrain the particular dog, or shall be at heel and
securely muzzled.
   (C)   No owner or custodian of any animal shall fail to exercise proper care
and control of the animal to prevent the same from becoming a public nuisance.
   (D)   Every female dog in heat shall be confined in a building or other
enclosure in such a manner that the female dog cannot come into contact with
another animal, except for planned breeding.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.06 RESTRAINT OF GUARD DOGS.
   (A)    Every owner of a guard or attack dog shall keep the dog confined in a
building, compartment or other enclosure. Any enclosure shall be completely
surrounded by a fence at least six feet in height and shall be topped with an
anti-climbing device constructed of angle metal braces with at least three
strands of equally-separated barbed wire stretched between them.
   (B)   All anti-climbing devices shall extend inward at an angle of not less
than 45 degrees nor more than 90 degrees when measured from the perpendicular.
   (C)   The areas of confinement shall all have gates and entrances thereto
securely closed and locked and all fences properly maintained and escape proof.
   (D)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to dogs owned or
controlled by government law enforcement agencies.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.07 RESTRAINT OF VICIOUS OR DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   Every vicious animal shall be confined by its owner or authorized agent of
its owner within a building or secure enclosure and, whenever off the premises
of its owner, shall be run securely muzzled and restrained with a chain having
a minimum tensile strength of 300 pounds and not more than three feet in
length, or caged. Every person harboring a vicious animal is charged with an
affirmative duty to confine the animal in a way that children do not have
access to the animal.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.08 PROPERTY OWNERS MAY IMPOUND.
   Any person finding an animal at large upon his or her property may remove
the same to any animal shelter that will take possession of the animal. If no
shelter is available, the property owner may hold the animal in his or her own
possession and, as soon as possible, notify the Police Department. The property
owner shall provide a description of the animal and the name of the owner if
known. The Department shall dispatch an officer to take possession of the
animal.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 91.09 IMPOUNDMENT.
   In addition to any other remedies provided in this chapter, an animal
control officer or a police officer may seize, impound and humanely confine to
an animal shelter or hospital any of the following animals:
   (A)   Any dog without a valid license;
   (B)   Any animal at large;
   (C)   Any animal constituting a public nuisance or considered a danger to
the public;
   (D)   Any animal that is in violation of any quarantine or confinement order
of the town or County's Chief Health Officer;
   (E)   Any unattended animal that is injured or otherwise in need of care;
   (F)   Any animal that is reasonably believed to have been abused or
neglected;
   (G)   Any animal that is reasonably suspected of having rabies;
   (H)   Any animal that is determined to be "potentially dangerous" or
"dangerous", in accordance with the appropriate articles of G.S. Chapter 67;
   (I)   Any animal that a court of competent jurisdiction has ordered
impounded or destroyed; and
   (J)   Any animal that is considered unattended or abandoned, as in
situations where the owner is deceased, has been arrested or evicted from his
or her regular place of residence.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 91.10 NOTICE TO OWNER AND REDEMPTION.
   (A)    Upon impoundment of an animal, the Police Department shall
immediately attempt to notify the owner by telephone or certified mail. If the
owner is unknown, the Department shall post written notice for three days,
describing the animal and the time and place of taking. Any notice to the owner
shall also include the location of the shelter or hospital where the animal is
confined, hours during which the animal can be reclaimed and fees to be charged
to the owner. The owner shall also be advised that the failure to claim the
animal within a specified period of time may result in the disposition of the
animal.
   (B)   An owner reclaiming an impounded animal shall pay a fee of $25 for
each day the animal has been impounded. The daily rate charged for any
subsequent impoundment occurring within 12 months shall be double that which
was charged for each day of confinement during the first impoundment.
   (C)    Any animal not reclaimed by its owner within three working days shall
become the property of the town and shall be turned over to the County Animal
Control Office.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 91.11 KEEPING HORSES, FOWL AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to keep, feed,
maintain in pens or open areas any horses, mules, ponies, pigs, goats, chickens
or domestic fowl or any kind of farm animal within the corporate limits of the
town.
(1992 Code, § 91.01) (Ord. 72-AO, passed 7-10-1972) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.12 RIDING OR LEADING HORSES, MULES OR PONIES ON SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride or lead any horse, mule or pony
upon the public sidewalks within the corporate limits of the town.
(1992 Code, § 91.02) (Ord. 73-AO, passed 3-6-1973) Penalty, see §
91.99
DOGS
§ 91.20 PERMITTING BITCH AT LARGE.
   No person owning or having any bitch shall knowingly permit her to run at
large during the erotic stage of copulation.
(1992 Code, § 91.15) (Ord. 60-DO, passed 8-1-1960) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.21 LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF DOGS TO BE KEPT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep on any one lot or premises
within the corporate limits more than two dogs. This limitation shall not apply
to dogs which are less than three months of age.
   (B)   Upon written and signed complaint being made to the Police Department
by a person specifying the location here more than two dogs are being keep the
Police Department shall investigate and, if it is determined that division (A)
of this section is being violated, the Police Department shall notify the
person or persons responsible for keeping such dogs and upon such notice from
the Police Department, the responsible person or persons shall remove from the
premises the number of dogs in excess of two which are prohibited by division
(A) of this section within 48 hours from the time of notification.
   (C)   Any person failing or refusing to remove from the premises the number
of dogs required to comply with division (A) above within 48 hours from the
time of notification shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to
the penalty provided in §
91.99.
(1992 Code, § 91.18) (Ord. 83-1, passed 7-3-1983) Penalty, see §
91.99
HONEY BEES
§ 91.30 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide standards for the keeping of
bees. It is intended to enable residents to keep an appropriate number of bees
on a non-commercial basis while limiting the potential adverse impacts on the
surrounding neighborhood(s). This subchapter is intended to create
standards and requirements that ensure that bees kept by residents do not
adversely impact the use and enjoyment of neighborhood properties surrounding
the property on which the bees are kept.
(Ord. passed 7-8-2013)
§ 91.31 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following words and phrases shall
have the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section.
   BEE. Any stage of the common domestic honey bee, apis melifera species,
excluding the Africanized Honeybee (apis melifera scutellata).
   BEEKEEPER. A person who owns or is in charge of a hive. The beekeeper shall
reside in the town.
   HIVE. A place where bee colonies are kept.
(Ord. passed 7-8-2013)
§ 91.32 CERTAIN CONDUCT PROHIBITED; NUISANCES.
   (A)   Nuisance.  Notwithstanding compliance with the provisions of this
subchapter, it shall be a violation of this subchapter for any beekeeper to
keep a colony or colonies in such a manner or in such disposition as to cause
any unhealthy condition or interfere with the normal use or enjoyment of any
property in the vicinity by humans or animals. The following actions are hereby
declared to be a public nuisance and are, therefore, unlawful:
      (1)   Multiple bees stinging, attacking or otherwise molesting others
including pedestrians, bicyclists, motor vehicle passengers, or domestic
animals.
      (2)   Hive placement and related bee movement such that the bees, without
provocation, interfere with the freedom of movement of persons in a public
right-of-way, or the location of the bees poses a threat to the general safety,
health and welfare of the general public; or
      (3)   The keeping of overcrowded, diseased or abandoned hives.
   (B)   Complaint and notice.  Upon their own initiative or upon receipt of a
detailed written and signed complaint being made to the town by any of the town
residents that any person is maintaining nuisance bees, the town may cause the
owner of the bees in question to be notified that a complaint has been
received, or take immediate action to abate the nuisance if deemed necessary.
   (C)   Abatement. If investigation of the town indicates that the complaint
is justified, but that action by town staff immediately abate the nuisance is
not deemed necessary, then the town shall cause the owner or keeper of the bees
in question to be notified and ordered to abate such nuisance and may issue a
citation for the violation. However, if immediate abatement of the nuisance is
deemed necessary, then the town may cause the bees and/or hive in question to
be seized and relocated, or if the nuisance bees and/or hive cannot be
reasonably seized or relocated, the town may cause them to be destroyed in the
field. In such instances, the owner of the bees shall be responsible for any
cost incurred to effectuate the seizure, relocation, or destruction of the bees
and/or hives.
   (D)   Seizure and relocation upon future to abate. If any person actually or
constructively receiving notice in the manner herein described shall fail or
refuse to abate the nuisance upon order of the town within a specified amount
of time, the town may cause the domesticated bees and/or hive in question to be
seized and relocated. In such instances, the owner of the bees shall be
responsible for any costs incurred to effectuate the seizure and relocation of
the bees and/or hive.
   (E)   Notice to the owner. Upon seizing bees and/or their hive, the town
shall cause a prompt and reasonable effort to be made to locate and notify the
owner of the bees, if the owner is known or ascertainable. A notice of seizure
shall be left with the owner or affixed to the premises of the owner, or if the
owner is known or reasonably ascertainable.
   (F)   Redemption; destruction. If the owner shall so request in writing
within five days of the seizure of the bees and/or hive, the bees and/or hive
that have been seized and relocated may be redeemed upon the owner’s execution
of a written agreement to comply with the abatement order and payment of all
sums due hereunder. If no such written request is made, or if such a request is
made, but a written agreement to comply with the abatement order is not
delivered to the town within five days of the seizure, then the bees and hive
shall be deemed abandoned and shall be destroyed in a humane manner, or become
the property of a member of a legitimate beekeeping association provided that
bees are maintained in compliance with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 7-8-2013)
§ 91.33 DOMESTIC BEEKEEPING.
   Domestic beekeeping shall be permitted withstanding the following criteria:
   (A)   The minimum lot size required for beekeeping shall be 6,000 square
feet.
   (B)   The maximum size of the hive shall be equal to one standard hive.
   (C)   The maximum number of hives allowed shall be determined based on lot
size as follows:
Lot Area (square feet) Maximum Number of Hives Allowed
Lot Area (square feet) Maximum Number of Hives Allowed
6,000 - 20,000         2
20,001 - 30,000        2
30,001 - 40,000        3
40,001 - 50,000        4
50,001 - 60,000        5
60,001 - 70,000        6
70,001 - or larger     7
 
   (D)   No hive shall be established or kept within 25 feet of a property
line.
   (E)   No hive shall be placed in a front or side yard.
   (F)   A constant and adequate on-site source of fresh water supply shall be
provided, and shall be located closer to the hive than any other water source
on adjacent property.
   (G)   A special permit must be obtained and filed by the town. The hive
permit must include a plot plan that indicates the actual size of the lot, the
number of hive(s), the location of the hive(s) and water source(s), and their
respective distances from the property lines.
   (H)   In the event that a nuisance is not abated in accordance with §
91.32 with no final appeal made, the town may revoke the beekeeper’s special
permit and the beekeeper shall be unable to reapply for another special permit
for domestic beekeeping for a period of 12 months. The beekeeper shall appeal
revocation of the permit to the Town Council.
(Ord. passed 7-8-2013)
§ 91.34 RIGHT TO INSPECT.
   (A)   The town, by and through its employees, shall have the right to
inspect any hive to ensure compliance with this subchapter.
   (B)   Beekeepers will be responsible for all fees associated with any or all
enforcement actions associated with noncompliance of this subchapter.
   (C)   Current beekeepers will need to meet the requirements as noted in this
subchapter.
(Ord. passed 7-8-2013)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any violation of any provision of this chapter shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty in the sum of not more than $50 per day.
         (a)   A citation for said civil penalty shall be issued by the Police
Chief.
         (b)   Each citation for a civil penalty must be paid within 168 hours
of issuance.
      (2)   Each and every day that the violator continues in violation shall
be a separate and distinct offense.
   (B)   The municipality may also, and in addition, seek any and all
appropriate equitable remedies, injunctions and/or abatement orders from the
appropriate court of competent jurisdiction.
(1992 Code, § 91.99) (Am. Ord. passed 7-8-2013)
CHAPTER 92: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
92.01   State of emergency
   
92.02   Authority to issue proclamation; limitations and exemptions
   
92.03   Restrictions during state of emergency; compliance required
   
92.04   Extension, alterations of proclamation
   
92.05   End of state of emergency
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 STATE OF EMERGENCY.
   A state of emergency shall be deemed to exist whenever, during time of great
public crisis, disaster, rioting, catastrophe or similar public emergency, for
any reason, municipal public safety authorities are unable to maintain public
order or afford adequate protection for lives or property.
(1992 Code, § 92.01) (Ord. passed 12-3-1979)
§ 92.02 AUTHORITY TO ISSUE PROCLAMATION; LIMITATIONS AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   In the event of an existing or threatened state of emergency
endangering the lives, safety, health and welfare of the people within the
town, or threatening damage to or destruction of property, the Mayor or the
Fire Chief or the Rescue Squad Captain, whoever is on the scene and establishes
that a state of emergency does in fact exist, is hereby authorized and
empowered to issue a public proclamation declaring to all persons the existence
of a state of emergency, and, in order to more effectively protect the lives
and property of people within the town, to place in effect any or all of the
restrictions authorized in §
92.03.
   (B)   The Mayor or the Fire Chief or the Rescue Squad Captain is hereby
authorized and empowered to limit, by the proclamation, the application of all
or any part of the restrictions to any area specifically designated or
described within the corporate limits of the town and to specific hours of the
day or night; and to exempt, from all or any part of the restrictions, law
enforcement officers, firefighters and other public employees, doctors, nurses,
employees of hospitals and other medical facilities; on-duty military personnel
whether state or federal; on-duty employees of public utilities, public
transportation companies and newspaper, magazine, radio broadcasting and
television broadcasting corporations operated for profit; and other classes of
persons as may be essential to the preservation of public order and immediately
necessary to serve the safety, health and welfare needs of the people within
the town.
(1992 Code, § 92.02) (Ord. passed 12-3-1979)
§ 92.03 RESTRICTIONS DURING STATE OF EMERGENCY; COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   During the existence of a proclaimed state of emergency, the Mayor and
the Town Council may impose, by proclamation, any or all of the following
restrictions:
      (1)   Prohibit or regulate the possession off one's own premises of
explosives, firearms, ammunition or dangerous weapons of any kind, and prohibit
the purchase, sale, transfer or other disposition thereof;
      (2)   Prohibit or regulate the buying or selling of beer, wine or
intoxicating beverages of any kind and their possession or consumption off
one's own premises;
      (3)   Prohibit or regulate any demonstration, parade, march, vigil or
participation therein from taking place on any of the public ways or upon any
public property;
      (4)   Prohibit or regulate the sale of gasoline, kerosene, naphtha or any
other explosive or inflammable fluids or substances;
      (5)   Prohibit or regulate travel upon any public street, alley or
roadway or upon any other public property, except by those in search of medical
assistance, food or other commodity or service, necessary to sustain the well-
being of themselves or their families or some member thereof;
      (6)   Prohibit or regulate the participation in or carrying on of any
business activity, and prohibit or regulate the keeping open of places of
business, places of entertainment and any other places of public assembly; and
      (7)   Prohibit or regulate occupancy of dwellings or structures, and
physical presence in all or any part of the municipality, and may order the
complete or partial evacuation of any area where the health or safety of
citizens is endangered.
   (B)   During the existence of a proclaimed state of emergency, it shall be
unlawful for any person to violate any provision of any restriction imposed by
any proclamation authorized by this chapter.
(1992 Code, § 92.03) (Ord. passed 12-3-1979) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 EXTENSION, ALTERATIONS OF PROCLAMATION.
   Any proclamation may be extended, altered or repealed in any particular
during the continued or threatened existence of a state of emergency by the
issuance of a subsequent proclamation.
(1992 Code, § 92.04) (Ord. passed 12-3-1979)
§ 92.05 END OF STATE OF EMERGENCY.
   The Mayor or the Fire Chief or the Rescue Squad Captain shall proclaim the
end of the state of emergency or all or part of the restrictions imposed as
soon as circumstances warrant or when directed to do so by the Town Council.
(1992 Code, § 92.05) (Ord. passed 12-3-1979)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any violation of any provision of this chapter shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty in the sum of not more than $50 per day.
         (a)   A citation for the civil penalty shall be issued by the Police
Chief.
         (b)   Each citation for a civil penalty must be paid within 168 hours
of issuance.
      (2)   Each and every day that the violator continues in violation shall
be a separate and distinct offense.
   (B)   The municipality may also, and in addition, seek any and all
appropriate equitable remedies, injunctions and/or abatement orders from the
appropriate court of competent jurisdiction.
(1992 Code, § 92.99)
CHAPTER 93: LITTERING
Section
   
93.01   Littering prohibited
   
93.02   Littering from vehicles
   
93.03   Maintenance of public areas
   
93.04   Receptacles
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 LITTERING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or deposit on any street or
sidewalk, or on any private property, except with written permission of the
owner or occupant of the private property, any trash, refuse, garbage, building
material, cans, bottles, broken glass, paper, or any type of litter.
(1992 Code, § 93.01) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02 LITTERING FROM VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person while a driver or a passenger in a
vehicle to throw or deposit litter on any street or other public place within
the town, or on private property.
(1992 Code, § 93.02) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 MAINTENANCE OF PUBLIC AREAS.
   Every owner, lessee, tenant, occupant, or other person in charge of any
commercial establishment or premises which maintains any paved or unpaved areas
for the use of the public, either for parking or as access areas and incident
to the carrying on of the principal business of any commercial establishment or
premises and which parking or access areas abut or lie within ten feet of any
public street or other public way, shall keep and maintain the areas clean and
free from trash, litter, rubbish, and any materials liable to be blown,
deposited, or cast on the street or other public way.
(1992 Code, § 93.03) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 RECEPTACLES.
   Suitable receptacles may be provided in parking or access areas within the
meaning of §
93.03 of this chapter. The receptacles shall be plainly marked and constructed
to prevent scattering of any trash, litter, rubbish, or other materials
deposited therein.
(1992 Code, § 93.04)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any violation of any provision of this chapter shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty.
         (a)   A citation for said civil penalty shall be issued by the Police
Chief and/or his police staff.
         (b)   Each citation for a civil penalty must be paid within 24 hours
of issuance.
      (2)   Each and every day that the violator continues in violation shall
be a separate and distinct offense.
         (a)   First offense: $250.
         (b)   Second offense: $500.
         (c)   Third offense: $1,000.
   (B)   The municipality may also, and in addition, seek any and all
appropriate equitable remedies, injunctions and/or abatement orders from the
Johnston County Clerk of Court.
(1992 Code, § 93.99) (Ord. passed 3-8-2021)
CHAPTER 94: NOISE
Section
   
94.01   Unreasonably loud or disturbing sound levels prohibited
   
94.02   Permit required to engage in regulated activities
 
   
94.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Noise, see §
96.02
§ 94.01 UNREASONABLY LOUD OR DISTURBING SOUND LEVELS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to create or
assist in creating any unreasonably loud, disturbing sound levels in the town,
taking into consideration volume, duration, frequency and other characteristics
of the sound.
   (B)   The following activities, among others, are hereby declared to be
unreasonably loud, disturbing sound levels, but the enumeration shall not be
deemed to be exclusive:
      (1)   The playing of any musical instrument or electronic sound
amplification equipment in a manner or with a volume, particularly during hours
between 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., such that a reasonably prudent person would
recognize as likely to unreasonably disturb persons in the vicinity;
      (2)   The keeping of any animal or bird which makes frequent or long
continued sounds such that a reasonably prudent person would recognize as
likely to unreasonably disturb persons in the vicinity;
      (3)   The use of any automobile, motorcycle or vehicle so out of repair,
so loaded, or in a manner as to create unreasonably loud, disturbing sounds;
      (4)   The operating of any garage or service station in any residential
area so as to cause unreasonably loud, disturbing sounds to be emitted between
the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. on any day;
      (5)   The creation of unreasonably loud, disturbing sound levels adjacent
to any school, educational facility, church or court during normal operating
hours, or within 150 feet of any hospital, which a reasonably prudent person
would recognize as likely to unreasonably interfere with the working of the
institutions; provided, conspicuous signs are displayed indicating that the
area is a school, educational facility, church, court or hospital area;
      (6)   The erection (including excavation), demolition, alteration or
repair of any building in a residential or business district other than between
the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. on any day, except in the case of urgent
necessity in the interest of public safety, and then only under the direction
of an appropriate town official; and/or
      (7)   The use of any electronic sound amplification equipment for
advertising or solicitation purposes, except with an appropriate permit.
(1992 Code, § 94.01) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 PERMIT REQUIRED TO ENGAGE IN REGULATED ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   Persons wishing to engage in activities regulated by this chapter may
do so when a specific permit is approved by the Mayor or his or her designee.
Applications shall be submitted on forms supplied by the town. The permit shall
not be unreasonably withheld and may contain appropriate conditions, including
maximum decibel levels, designed to minimize the disruptive impact. Permits for
the activities significantly for religious or political purposes shall be
granted, subject only to reasonable time, place and manner restrictions.
Permits issued under this section may specify that the permission granted will
continue for a stated period or until revoked after acting in conformity with
permit conditions, but any permit may be revoked after acting in conformity
with permit conditions, but any permit may be revoked if it is determined that
the authorized activity has resulted in generation of unreasonably loud,
disturbing sound levels.
   (B)   In case an application is denied, a permit is approved with conditions
unacceptable to the applicant, or a permit is revoked, the applicant or permit
holder shall be entitled to a prompt, informal hearing with the Mayor or his or
her designee, upon submission of a written request. Any person aggrieved by a
matter regulated by this chapter may submit to the Mayor written comments,
including requests for appropriate relief.
(1992 Code, § 94.02) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any violation of any provision of this chapter shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty in the sum of not more than $50 per day.
         (a)   A citation for the civil penalty shall be issued by the Police
Chief.
         (b)   Each citation for a civil penalty must be paid within 168 hours
of issuance.
      (2)   Each and every day that the violator continues in violation shall
be a separate and distinct offense.
   (B)   The municipality may also, and in addition, seek any and all
appropriate equitable remedies, injunctions and/or abatement orders from the
appropriate court of competent jurisdiction.
(1992 Code, § 94.99)
CHAPTER 95: NUISANCES; GENERAL, WEEDS AND GRASSES
Section
   
95.01   Public nuisances generally; offensive businesses
   
95.02   Investigation of possible nuisance
   
95.03   Notice of existence of nuisance and required abatement
   
95.04   Abatement of nuisance by town; violator may have town abate nuisance
   
95.05   Cost of nuisance abatement to be charged to owner of premises;
statement of charges
   
95.06   Lien created upon failure to pay nuisance abatement costs
   
95.07   Second and subsequent violations
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 PUBLIC NUISANCES GENERALLY; OFFENSIVE BUSINESSES.
   (A)   The procedures set forth in this chapter shall be in addition to any
other remedies that may now or hereafter exist under law for the abatement of
public nuisances and this chapter shall not prevent the town from proceeding in
a criminal action against any person violating the provisions of this chapter,
as provided in G.S. § 14-4.
   (B)   The following enumerated and described conditions are hereby found,
deemed and declared to constitute a detriment, danger and hazard to the health,
safety, morals and general welfare of the inhabitants of the town and are
found, deemed and declared to be public nuisances wherever the same may exist
and the creation, maintenance or failure to abate any nuisances is hereby
declared unlawful:
      (1)   Any condition which is a breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes
or a breeding ground or harbor for rats, snakes or other pests or has the
potential for becoming a breeding ground or harbor for the pests;
      (2)   A place of heavy growth of weeds or grasses over 12 inches in
height which lie less than 100 feet from any abutting open street or which lies
less than 100 feet from the line of any adjoining property if that property
contains a structure within 100 feet of the property line, or is a place of
heavy growth of weeds or grasses over 12 inches in height which lies within 50
feet of any occupied dwelling; provided that, the nuisance defined by this
division shall be cleared and cut to an independently ascertainable standard;
      (3)   A place of growth of noxious vegetation, including poison sumac
(Rhus vernix), poison ivy (Rhus radicans) or poison oak (Rhus toxicodendron),
in a location likely to be accessible to the general public;
      (4)   An open place of collection of water for which no adequate natural
drainage is provided and where insects tend to breed or which is or is likely
to become a nuisance or a menace to public health;
      (5)   An open place of concentration of combustible items such as
mattresses, boxes, paper, automobile tires and tubes, trash, refuse, brush, old
clothes, rags or any other combustible materials or objects of a like nature;
      (6)   An open place of collection of garbage, food waste, animal waste or
any other rotten or putrescible matter of any kind;
      (7)   Hides dried or green provided the same might be kept for sale in
the town when thoroughly cured and odorless;
      (8)   Any furniture, appliances, automotive parts or pieces or other wood
or metal products of any kind or nature openly kept which have jagged edges of
metal or glass, or areas which may provide a habitat for rats, snakes, insects
or other pests;
      (9)   Any improper or inadequate drainage on private property, which
causes flooding, interferes with the use of or endangers, in any way, the
streets, sidewalks, parks or other town-owned property of any kind;
      (10)   Any storm water retention or detention pond or other impoundment
device which is operating improperly;
      (11)   Any storm drain, sewer manhole, abandoned well or other private or
public facility which is not properly covered with a grate or other means to
remove any hazard to pedestrians or motor traffic;
      (12)   Any ditch, trench or below ground portion of a construction
project which remains open for more than 14 days without being completed or
which is not protected with barricades, flags or other means so as to
constitute a hazard to pedestrians or motor traffic;
      (13)   Failure to clean or clear a public street of mud and debris
related to a construction, timbering or other similar land use project within
12 hours after notification by the Town Clerk/Manager or designee for major and
minor thoroughfares or within 24 hours after the notification for collector and
local streets; however, if it is found by the Town Clerk/Manager or designee
that the situation is causing a clear and present danger or hazard to traffic
or the general public, the cleaning or clearing may be required to take place
as soon after notification as practicable;
      (14)   Any condition which violates the rules and regulations of the
County Health Department;
      (15)   Any other condition specifically declared to be a danger to the
public health, safety, morals and general welfare of inhabitants of the city
and a public nuisance by the Town Council which proceeding may be initiated by
the Town Clerk/Manager or designee before the Council after giving written
notice thereof. The notice shall state the condition existing, the location and
that the Council will be requested on a day certain, after a public hearing at
which the person notified may appear and be heard, to declare that the
conditions existing constitute a danger to the public health, safety, morals
and general welfare of the inhabitants of the city and a public nuisance. After
the declaration by the Council in the form of an ordinance, the condition will
be abated as provided for in this chapter, provided no administrative appeal
shall be from the proceeding pursuant to this division and initiated by the
Town Clerk/Manager or designee before the Town Council; or
      (16)   Household or office furniture, any household fixtures, white goods
or other appliances, or metal products of any kind and similar items not
designed to withstand the elements or for outdoor use. This shall not prevent:
         (a)   The use of household furniture on a totally enclosed porch
having a roof, walls, screens, or glass windows; or
         (b)   The use of furniture in good condition which is designed for
outdoor use such as patio or lawn furniture, on porches or landings or in yard
areas or other open places.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2008; Ord. passed 2-9-2009) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.02 INVESTIGATION OF POSSIBLE NUISANCE
   The Town Clerk/Manager, or designee, upon notice from any person of the
existence of any of the conditions described in this chapter, shall cause to be
made by the appropriate County Health Department or official or town official
an investigation as may be necessary to determine whether, in fact, the
condition exists as to constitute a public nuisance.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2008)
§ 95.03 NOTICE OF EXISTENCE OF NUISANCE AND REQUIRED ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Upon a determination that a public nuisance, as described in this
chapter, exists, the Town Clerk/Manager or designee shall notify, in writing,
the owner, occupant or person in possession of the premises in question of the
condition constituting the public nuisance and shall order the prompt abatement
thereof within the ten days from the receipt of the written notice, unless
another time for abatement is specifically set forth herein.
   (B)   Within the required period allowed for abatement, the owner of the
property where the nuisance exists may appeal the findings of the Town Clerk/
Manager or designee made pursuant to division (A) above to the Town Council by
giving written notice of appeal to the Town Clerk/Manager. The filing of the
appeal shall stay the abatement of the nuisance by the town until a final
determination by the Council, unless the Town Clerk/Manager or designee
certifies to the Council that, because of the facts stated in the certificate,
a stay would, in his or her opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property
or that, because the violation is transitory in nature, a stay would seriously
interfere with the effective enforcement of this chapter. In that case,
abatement proceedings shall not be stayed except by order of the Town Council
or a court, issued on application of the party seeking the stay, for due cause
shown, after notice to the Town Manager or his or her designee. In the event no
appeal is taken, the town may proceed to abate the nuisance.
   (C)   The Council, in the event an appeal is taken as provided in division
(B) above and after hearing all interested persons and reviewing the findings
of the Town Clerk/Manager or designee, may reverse the findings made pursuant
to division (A) above; but if the Council shall uphold the findings of the Town
Clerk/Manager or designee made pursuant to this division, the Council shall
adopt an ordinance specifically declaring the condition existing on the
property to be a danger and hazard to the health, safety, morals and general
welfare of the inhabitants of the town and public nuisance and directing the
appropriate town employees to cause the condition or conditions to be abated.
   (D)   If any of the above-defined nuisances are found to exist, the
responsibility for abatement shall rest with the owner, occupant or person in
possession of the property or their agent, notwithstanding that the nuisance is
found to exist, wholly or in part, within a town easement which crosses private
property.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2008)
§ 95.04 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE BY TOWN; VIOLATOR MAY HAVE TOWN ABATE NUISANCE.
   (A)   If any person, after having been ordered to abate a public nuisance
described in this chapter, fails, neglects or refuses to abate or remove the
condition constituting the nuisance within ten days from receipt of the order,
the Town Clerk/Manager or designee shall cause the condition to be removed or
otherwise remedied by having employees of the town or a private contractor
hired by the town go upon the premises and remove or otherwise abate such
nuisance under the supervision of an officer or employee designated by the
Administrative Officer. In such instances, weeds or grass shall always be cut
to a height satisfactory to the Clerk/Manager or designee.
   (B)   Any person who has been ordered to abate a public nuisance may within
the time allowed by this chapter request the town, in writing, to remove the
condition, the cost of which shall be paid by the person making the request.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2008)
§ 95.05 COST OF NUISANCE ABATEMENT TO BE CHARGED TO OWNER OF PREMISES;
STATEMENT OF CHARGES.
The actual cost incurred by the town in removing or otherwise remedying a
public nuisance defined in this chapter shall be charged to the owner of the
lot or parcel of land, and it shall be the duty of the collector to mail a
statement of the charges to the owner or other person in possession of the
premises with instructions that the charges are due and payable within 30 days
from the receipt thereof.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2008)
§ 95.06 LIEN CREATED UPON FAILURE TO PAY NUISANCE ABATEMENT COSTS.
   In the event charges for the removal or abatement of a public nuisance
described by this chapter are not paid within 30 days after the receipt of the
statement of charges as provided for in this section, or such other charges or
penalties are not paid within the time allowed herein, the charges shall become
a lien upon the land or premises where the public nuisance existed and shall be
collected as unpaid taxes.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2008)
§ 95.07 SECOND AND SUBSEQUENT VIOLATIONS.
   Upon second and subsequent violations of this chapter, no notice of the
violation as required in §
95.03 shall be given, but the town, through its agents and employees, may enter
upon the lots or premises and cut and destroy the weeds, and the costs and
expense thereof shall be paid by the owner, lessee, occupant or agent or it
shall become a lien against the property the same as taxes.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2008)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A violation of any provision of this chapter shall constitute a
misdemeanor punishable as set forth below.
   (B)   A violation of any provision of this chapter shall subject the
offender to a civil penalty in the amount of $50. No penalty shall be imposed
if the offender abates the nuisance within the prescribed time or requests the
town to abate the nuisance. If the offender does not abate the nuisance within
the prescribed time limit, the penalty may be imposed for each day the nuisance
remained after the written notice of violation was given and terminated on the
date the nuisance was abated by the town.
   (C)   The offender shall be issued a written citation by delivery in person
or mailed by certified or registered mail. The offender must pay the civil
penalty within the ten days of its receipt.
   (D)   The town, by way of a civil action, may recover in the nature of a
debt if the offender does not pay the penalty within the prescribed period
after he or she has been issued a citation.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2008)
CHAPTER 96: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
96.01   Rollers skates, toy vehicles and the like regulated
   
96.02   Noisy gatherings
Street Improvements
   
96.15   State law adopted
Parades and Other Assemblies
   
96.25   Permit required
   
96.26   Application for permit
   
96.27   Participation by underage persons
   
96.28   Prerequisites to issuance
   
96.29   Contents of permit
   
96.30   Refusal of permit
   
96.31   Duty of persons in charge of parade or assembly
   
96.32   Application of regulations
 
   
96.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 96.01 ROLLER SKATES, TOY VEHICLES AND THE LIKE REGULATED.
   No person upon roller skates, skate boards or riding in or by means of any
skates, boards, toy devices or similar devices shall go upon any sidewalk or
street, park, in the area bound by Church Street, Baker Street, Stanley Street
and Woodall Street.
(1992 Code, § 96.01) (Ord. passed 7-5-1989) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.02 NOISY GATHERINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or group of persons to holler,
shout, scream, sing or make any other noises with their voices in person or by
mechanical means which shall be unreasonably loud and disturbing to the pubic
in general. By the terms of this section, it shall be considered that
hollering, shouting, screaming, singing or the making of any other noises with
voices in person or by mechanical means by any person or group of person shall
be considered as being unreasonably loud and disturbing where same can be heard
throughout the distance of three city blocks or 1,200 feet, whichever is the
least.
   (B)   Any gathering of persons or any group of persons upon the sidewalks or
streets of the town for the purpose of creating, or which creates, mechanical
or vocal sound which is of an intensity or nature as to interfere with the
rights of peaceful occupancy by property owners in the adjoining areas is
unlawful and no individual shall participate in, lead, direct or encourage the
actions.
   (C)   Nothing provided in this section shall be construed to prevent the
orderly expression of spectators at any regularly organized sport event or the
peaceful assembly of any group for orderly expression or communication between
those assembled.
(1992 Code, § 96.02) (Ord. 68-DEM, passed 9-13-1968) Penalty, see §
96.99
Cross-reference:
   Noise, see
Chapter 94
STREET IMPROVEMENTS
§ 96.15 STATE LAW ADOPTED.
   The provisions of G.S. §§ 160A-216 et seq., concerning street improvements,
are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this code as if set forth in
full herein.
(1992 Code, § 96.15)
PARADES AND OTHER ASSEMBLIES
§ 96.25 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   There shall be no parade, rally, demonstration, aggregation or assembling of
groups on the public streets or in or around any public building of the town
except upon the issuance of a permit therefor, under the regulations set out in
this subchapter. The Chief of Police or, in his or her absence, the next
highest ranking officer of the Police Department, by authority of the Town
Council, is authorized to issue permits, as required by this section.
(1992 Code, § 96.25) (Ord. 68-DEM, passed 9-13-1968) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.26 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   A written application for a permit for a parade, rally, picket line or
group demonstration, as provided in this subchapter, shall be filed 24 hours in
advance of the proposed parade, rally, picket line or group demonstration, on a
form prescribed by the Police Department. The application shall be signed by
the person or group of persons filing the application and the application shall
state the proposed place, time, purpose and size of the parade, rally, picket
line or group demonstration and whether or not any minors below the age of 18
years are going to participate. The application shall also specify the person
to be in charge of the parade, rally, group demonstration or picket line in
question.
   (B)   A permit fee shall be paid in advance. The fee shall be a reasonable
amount determined by the town to be necessary to cover legitimate expenses
incurred by the town in providing security for both the parade participants and
the general citizenry.
(1992 Code, § 96.26) (Ord. 68-DEM, passed 9-13-1968) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.27 PARTICIPATION BY UNDERAGE PERSONS.
   If the application filed specified that minors below the age of 18 years are
to be permitted to participate in the parade, rally, picket line or group
demonstration in question, the police officer having authority under this
subchapter to issue the permit applied for shall determine whether or not
minors below the age of 18 years shall be permitted to participate in the
parade, rally, picket line or group demonstrations in question and shall base
his or her determination upon whether or not the purpose, time or place of the
participation will be detrimental to or endanger the health, welfare or safety
of the minors.
(1992 Code, § 96.27) (Ord. 68-DEM, passed 9-13-1968)
§ 96.28 PREREQUISITES TO ISSUANCE.
   The officer having authority under this subchapter to issue a permit, as
applied for in considering the issuance of a permit shall, among other
considerations provided, consider and find as a requisite for issuance that:
   (A)   The activity in question will not require excessive diversion of
police from other necessary duties;
   (B)   The activity in question will not interfere with the right of property
owners in the area to enjoy peaceful occupancy and use of their property;
   (C)   The activity in question can be conducted without unreasonably
interfering with normal vehicular or pedestrian traffic in the area and will
not prevent normal police or fire protection to the public and will not be
likely to cause injury to persons or property or provoke disorderly conduct or
create a public disturbance; and
   (D)   No other provision of this subchapter shall be violated at any time,
and no permit, as contemplated by this subchapter shall be issued for
demonstrations, parades, rallies and such other purposes as contained in this
subchapter for the activities allowed under this subchapter to be used and
exercised between 6:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. on any day.
(1992 Code, § 96.28) (Ord. 68-DEM, passed 9-13-1968) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.29 CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   (A)   A permit issued pursuant to an application filed as provided may set
the starting time and duration of the parade demonstration or picket line in
question and may set the speed of its travel, the space between persons or
vehicles, the portions or areas of the streets and sidewalks to be used, the
length of the parade, group or line, and such other requirements as the issuing
officer may include in the permit for the control of free movement of traffic
upon the streets and sidewalks, or for the health, safety and property rights
of the participants and general public. Failure to comply with such
requirements, as set forth in the permit, shall be unlawful.
   (B)   A permit for a parade, rally, group demonstration or picket line
issued under this subchapter shall also designate the person in charge of the
parade, rally, group demonstration and picket line in question.
(1992 Code, § 96.29) (Ord. 68-DEM, passed 9-13-1968) Penalty, see §
96.99  
§ 96.30 REFUSAL OF PERMIT.
   The police officer having authority under this subchapter to issue a permit
as applied for shall refuse to issue the permit applied for when the activity
or purpose stated in the application would violate any provision of this code
or any other applicable ordinance of the town or statute of the state or when
the activity or purpose would endanger the public health or safety or hinder or
prevent the orderly movement of pedestrian or vehicular traffic on the
sidewalks or streets of the town.
(1992 Code, § 96.30) (Ord. 68-DEM, passed 9-13-1968)
§ 96.31 DUTY OF PERSONS IN CHARGE OF PARADE OR ASSEMBLY.
   The person designated in a permit as being in charge of a parade, rally,
demonstration or picket line shall accompany the parade, demonstration or
picket line in question and shall carry the permit in question with him or her
while so accompanying the parade, rally, demonstration or picket line.
(1992 Code, § 96.31) (Ord. 68-DEM, passed 9-13-1968)
§ 96.32 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   This subchapter and §
96.02 shall apply to all races, creeds, ethnic groups, and all citizens
regardless of race, nationality, creed, or religious and political beliefs.
(1992 Code, § 96.32) (Ord. 68-DEM, passed 9-13-1968)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any violation of any provision of this chapter shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty in the sum of not more than $50 per day.
         (a)   A citation for the civil penalty shall be issued by the Police
Chief.
         (b)   Each citation for a civil penalty must be paid within 168 hours
of issuance.
      (2)   Each and every day that the violator continues in violation shall
be a separate and distinct offense.
   (B)   The municipality may also, and in addition, seek any and all
appropriate equitable remedies, injunctions and/or abatement orders from the
appropriate court of competent jurisdiction.
(1992 Code, § 96.99)
CHAPTER 97: YOUTH PROTECTION
Section
   
97.01   Purpose
   
97.02   Definitions
   
97.03   Offenses
   
97.04   Exceptions
   
97.05   Other exceptions
   
97.06   Enforcement procedures
 
   
97.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Curfew for minors, see §
130.03
§ 97.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this section is to protect juveniles from victimization and
exposure to criminal activity by establishing a curfew for persons under the
age of 18 years in the town. This chapter is intended to promote the health,
safety and welfare of both juveniles and adults by creating an environment
providing better protection and security for all concerned. The purpose is also
to define the duties of parents or guardians and operators of business
establishments and to protect minors from improper influences and criminal
activities that occur after the curfew hour.
(Ord. 97, passed 8-8-2005)
§ 97.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section.
   AUTHORIZED ADULT. Parent, guardian or someone over 18 years of age
authorized to accompany the juvenile for a designated period of time.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Any privately-owned place of business operated to which the
public has access or is invited, including, but not limited to, any place of
amusement or entertainment.
   JUVENILE. Any person under the age of 18 years who is not married or been
emancipated.
   OWNER/OPERATOR. Any individual, firm, association, partnership or
corporation, operating, managing or conducting any establishment, including the
employees, members or partners of an association or partnership and the
officers of a corporation.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any place that is generally open to and used by the public or
a substantial group of the public, whether it be publicly or privately owned,
including, but not limited to, streets, highways, alleys, rights-of-way, public
vehicular areas and parking lots, shops, restaurants, playgrounds, parks,
church grounds, similar areas that are open to the public, and the common areas
open to or accessible to the public.
   REMAIN. To stay behind, to tarry and to stay unnecessarily in a public place
including the congregating of groups (or of interacting minors) totaling four
or more persons in which any juvenile involved would not be using the streets
for ordinary or serious purposes such as mere passage or going home, or to fail
to leave the premises of an establishment when requested to do so by a police
officer or the operator of an establishment. To implement this provision with
additional precision and precaution, numerous exceptions are expressly defined
herein.
   RESTRICTED HOURS. The time of night referred to herein is based upon the
prevailing standard of time, whether Eastern Standard Time or Eastern Daylight
Savings Time, generally observed at that hour by the public in the town. For
ages 13 through 17 restricted hours will mean 12:00 a.m. on any Sunday, Monday,
Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday or Saturday until 5:00 a.m. of the
following day. It is a curfew violation for any child under age 13 to be in a
public place after 10:00 p.m. and before 5:00 a.m. on any day.
(Ord. 97, passed 8-8-2005)
§ 97.03 OFFENSES.
   Except as provided by §
97.04, the following offenses constitute a violation of this section.
   (A)   A person under the age of 18 years shall be in violation of this
section if he or she shall, at any time, in a group of four or more individuals
be in or upon any public place or establishment within the town.
   (B)   It shall be a violation of this section for any person under the age
of 18 years to be or remain in or upon any public place or establishment within
the town during the restricted hours.
   (C)   It shall be a violation of this section for any person 18 years or
older to aid or abet a juvenile in the violation of division (A) above.
   (D)   A parent or guardian of a juvenile shall be in violation of this
section if he or she knowingly permits and/or, by inadequate supervision,
allows the juvenile to remain on the premises of any establishment or in any
public place within the town during the restricted hours. The term "knowingly"
includes knowledge that a parent or guardian should reasonably be expected to
have concerning the whereabouts of a juvenile in that parent or guardian's
legal custody. This requirement is intended to hold a neglectful or careless
parent or guardian up to a reasonable community standard of parental
responsibility through an objective test. It therefore, be no defense that a
parent or guardian was completely indifferent to the activities or conduct or
whereabouts of such juvenile.
   (E)   It shall be a violation of this section for a parent or guardian of a
juvenile to refuse to take custody of the juvenile during the restricted hours.
   (F)   The owner, operator, or any employee of an establishment shall be in
violation of this section if he or she knowingly allows a juvenile to remain on
the premises of the establishment during the restricted hours. The term
"knowingly" includes knowledge that an operator or employer should reasonably
be expected to have concerning the patrons of an establishment.
(Ord. 97, passed 8-8-2005) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   A juvenile shall not be in violation of this section if the juvenile is:
   (A)   Accompanied by a parent, guardian or an adult 18 years of age or older
who is authorized by the parent or guardian to supervise the juvenile;
   (B)   Using a direct route to or from a place of employment;
   (C)   In a motor vehicle with parental consent;
   (D)   Reacting or responding to an emergency; and/or
   (E)   Attending or traveling to or from, by direct route, any school,
religious or recreational activity, or other organized activity which is
supervised by adults that accept responsibility for the juvenile. If during
restricted hours, the parent or guardian must have knowledge of the organized
activity in which the juvenile is involved and the juvenile shall carry a
written communication, signed by the juvenile and countersigned, if
practicable, by a parent of the juvenile with their home address and telephone
number and specifying when, where, and in what manner the juvenile will be in a
public place.
(Ord. 97, passed 8-8-2005)
§ 97.05 OTHER EXCEPTIONS.
   The owner, operator or employee of an establishment will not be in violation
if the owner, operator or employee of an establishment notifies the Police
Department that a juvenile was present on the premises of the establishment
during restricted hours and refused to leave.
(Ord. 97, passed 8-8-2005)
§ 97.06 ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   If a police officer reasonably believes that a juvenile is in a public
place in violation of this chapter, the officer shall notify the juvenile that
he or she is in violation of this chapter and shall require the juvenile to
provide his or her name, address and telephone number, and how to contact his
or her parent or guardian. In determining the age of the juvenile and in the
absence of convincing evidence such as a birth certificate, a police officer
shall, in the first instance of violation of this chapter, use his or her best
judgment in determining age.
   (B)   The police officer shall issue the juvenile a written warning that the
juvenile is in violation of this chapter and order the juvenile to go promptly
home. The Chief of Police shall send the parent or guardian of the juvenile
written notice of the violation by certified mail with a warning that any
subsequent violation will result in full enforcement of this chapter, including
enforcement of parental responsibility and applicable penalties.
   (C)   Police procedures shall constantly be refined in the light of
experience and may provide that the police officer may deliver to a parent or
guardian thereof a juvenile under appropriate circumstances; for example,
juvenile of tender age, near home, whose identity and address may readily be
ascertained or are known.
   (D)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, when a juvenile has received one
previous written warning for violation of this chapter, or a police officer has
reasonable grounds to believe that the juvenile has engaged in delinquent
conduct, the procedure shall then be to take the juvenile to the police station
where a parent or guardian shall immediately be notified to come for the
juvenile whereupon the parent or guardian and the juvenile shall be questioned.
This is intended to permit ascertainment, under constitutional safeguards, of
relevant facts, and to centralize responsibility in the person designated there
and then on duty for an accurate, effective, fair, impartial and uniform
enforcement, and recording thus, making available experienced personnel and
access to information and records.
   (E)   When a parent or guardian, immediately called, has come to take charge
of the juvenile, and the appropriate information has been recorded, the
juvenile shall be released to the custody of the parent or guardian. If the
parent or guardian cannot be located or fails to take charge of the juvenile,
then the juvenile shall be released to the juvenile authorities, except to the
extent that in accordance with police regulations, approved in advance by
juvenile authorities, the juvenile may temporarily be entrusted to an adult,
neighbor or other person who will on behalf of a parent or guardian assume the
responsibility of caring for a juvenile pending the availability or arrival of
a parent or guardian.
   (F)   For the first violation of this chapter by an operator of an
establishment who permits a juvenile to remain in the premises, a police
officer shall issue a written notice of the violation with a warning that any
subsequent violation will result in full enforcement of this chapter, including
enforcement of operator responsibility and of applicable penalties.
(Ord. 97, passed 8-8-2005) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A juvenile who violates any provision of this chapter is subject to
being adjudicated delinquent. The Court may, in its discretion, impose any
dispositional alternative(s) that are provided in the State Juvenile Code for
any juvenile who is delinquent.
   (B)   Any person other than a juvenile who violates any provision of this
chapter may be guilty of a misdemeanor and may be subject to a fine not to
exceed $100 for the first offense, and for each subsequent offense the fine
shall be increased by an additional $150. For example, for the second offense
the fine shall be $250, for the third offense, $400, and imprisonment in the
discretion of the Court in accordance with G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. 97, passed 8-8-2005)
CHAPTER 98: CONDITION OF RESIDENTIAL AND BUSINESS PREMISES
Section
   
98.01   Purpose of provision
   
98.02   Notice and abatement of conditions
   
98.03   Cost of abatement to be charged to responsible party; statement of
charges
   
98.04   Lien created upon failure to pay abatement costs
   
98.05   Second and subsequent violations
 
   
98.99   Penalty
§ 98.01 PURPOSE OF PROVISION.
   (A)   It is the purpose of these provisions to protect both the rights of
the individual residential/business property owner and the community itself by
the following: minimizing discordant, unsightly, offensive surroundings;
preserving the usefulness of the environment as well as protecting property
values; promoting the character and integrity of the community; preserving the
comfort, happiness and emotional stability of area citizens; and preventing
potentially hazardous unsafe or unhealthy conditions. Towards this end, the
following standards are set forth.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any responsible party, as defined
herein, to allow unmaintained yard/premise conditions on residential/business
property, which detract from the appearance of the community thereby negatively
affecting property values. Specifically, it shall be unlawful for any person to
allow the conditions by accumulating or allowing to remain on residential/
business premises any personal property or material which, alone or due to
accumulations or concentrations thereof, creates a littered or unsightly
appearance, including, but not limited to: dilapidated furniture, appliances,
machinery, equipment, building materials, plant materials, fallen or cut down
trees, pottery or ceramic materials, automobiles or automotive parts, tires or
any other items which are in a wholly or partially rusted, wrecked, junked,
dismantled or inoperative condition and which are not completely enclosed
within a building of a type which fully shields the material from the view of
public streets and adjacent properties.
      (2)   RESPONSIBLE PARTY, as used in this section, shall mean the owner,
agent, tenant, occupant or lessee of residential property. OWNER, AGENT,
TENANT, OCCUPANT or LESSEE, as used in this section, shall mean anyone owning
or occupying a residential/business property for seven or more consecutive
days, and who is thus responsible for correcting the violation. Where a tenant
or lessee vacates a premises subsequent to receiving notification of a
violation under these provisions, the responsibility for correcting the
violation shall transfer to the property owner as listed for tax purposes.
(Ord. passed 6-9-2008; Ord. passed 12-8-2008)
§ 98.02 NOTICE AND ABATEMENT OF CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Upon a determination that unmaintained yard/property conditions as
described in this chapter exist, the Town Clerk/Manager or designee shall
provide notification in writing to the responsible party having control of the
premises, as described herein, and shall order the prompt abatement thereof
within ten days of receipt of the written notice.
   (B)   If the responsible party, after having been ordered to abate the
unmaintained yard/property conditions as described in this chapter, fails,
neglects or refuses to abate or remove the conditions within ten days from
receipt of the order, the Town Clerk/Manager or designee shall cause the
condition to be removed or otherwise remedied by having employees of the town
or a private contractor hired by the town to go upon such premises and remove
or otherwise abate the nuisance under the supervision of an officer or employee
designated by the Town Clerk/Manager. Nothing in this order shall prohibit the
town from obtaining an appropriate equitable remedy, injunction or order of
abatement, or electing any other remedy allowed by G.S. § 160A-175.
   (C)   Any responsible party who has been ordered to abate an unmaintained
yard/property condition may within the time allowed by this chapter request in
writing that the town remove or abate the conditions, the cost of which shall
be paid by the person making the written request.
(Ord. passed 6-9-2008; Ord. passed 12-8-2008)
§ 98.03 COST OF ABATEMENT TO BE CHARGED TO RESPONSIBLE PARTY; STATEMENT OF
CHARGES.
   The actual cost incurred by the town in removing or otherwise remedying the
unmaintained yard/property condition shall be charged to the responsible party,
as defined in this chapter, and it shall be the duty of the collections officer
to mail a statement of the charges to the responsible party with instructions
that the charges are due and payable within 30 days from the date of the
statement.
(Ord. passed 6-9-2008; Ord. passed 12-8-2008)
§ 98.04 LIEN CREATED UPON FAILURE TO PAY ABATEMENT COSTS.
   In the event charges for abatement of non-maintained yard/property condition
(s) or such other charges or penalties as provided for herein are not paid by
the responsible party or the property owner for tax listing purposes as
provided for in §
98.01(B) within 30 days of the date of the statement of charges as provided for
in this chapter, then the charges shall become a lien upon the land or premises
where the conditions existed and shall be collected as unpaid taxes.
(Ord. passed 6-9-2008; Ord. passed 12-8-2008)
§ 98.05 SECOND AND SUBSEQUENT VIOLATIONS.
Upon second and subsequent violations of this chapter by the responsible party,
as defined in this chapter, no notice of the violation as provided in §
98.02(A) shall be required, but the town, through its agents or employees, may
enter upon the lots or premises and abate the unmaintained yard/property
conditions, with all costs and expense thereof being paid by the responsible
party, or becoming a lien on the premises as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-9-2008; Ord. passed 12-8-2008)
§ 98.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   In addition to any other remedy specified in this chapter or as
allowed by G.S. § 160A-175, a violation of any provision of this chapter may
subject the responsible party to a civil penalty in the amount of $50. No
penalty shall be imposed if the responsible party abates the unmaintained yard/
property conditions within the prescribed time or requests the town to abate
the conditions as allowed under §
98.02(C) above. If the conditions are not abated within the time prescribed,
the penalty may be imposed for each day the conditions remained after the
prescribed time limit was expired and terminating on the date conditions were
abated by the town.
   (B)   The responsible party shall be issued a written citation by delivery
in person or mailed by certified or registered mail. The civil penalty must be
paid within ten days of receipt.
   (C)   The town, in way of civil action, will recover the nature of debt if
the offender does not pay the penalty within the prescribed period after he or
she has been issued a citation
(Ord. passed 6-9-2008; Ord. passed 12-8-2008)
CHAPTER 99: YARD SALES
Section
   
99.01   Purpose
   
99.02   Definitions
   
99.03   Requirements
§ 99.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish the requirements for residential
yard sales within the town limits and the extraterritorial jurisdiction (ETJ)
of the town.
(Ord. passed 3-8-2021)
§ 99.02 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter.
   YARD SALE. The offering for sale to the general public of five or more items
of personal property on any portion of a residential lot whether inside or
outside in any buildings.
(Ord. passed 3-8-2021)
§ 99.03 REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Yard sales may be conducted by an individual occupant of a residence,
a coordinated group of homeowners within an established development, or a civic
or religious organization for the purpose of selling household items for profit
or for charitable purpose.
   (B)   Yard sales without the property owner’s permission shall be prohibited
on commercially zoned properties and on vacant lots. This excludes the 301
Endless Yard Sale Event.
   (C)   Goods intended for sale shall not be stored or displayed in the front
or side yards of the property except on the day of the sale.
   (D)   Yard sale is limited to the daylight hours.
   (E)   Maximum frequency is two days a month.
   (F)   Yard sale signs shall be allowed to be put up three days prior with
removal of all signs that day.
(Ord. passed 3-8-2021)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
110.   BUSINESS LICENSES
      
111.   FOOD TRUCKS
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Section
General Licensing Regulations
   
110.001   Definitions
   
110.002   Construction of this chapter
Levy
   
110.015   Who must be licensed
   
110.016   Period of license; due date
   
110.017   Separate Businesses
   
110.018   Exceptions
Licenses
   
110.030   Application
   
110.031   Reasons for refusal or revocation of a license
   
110.032   Unqualified applicants; rights to a conference
   
110.033   Administer to issue license; payment of license fee a prerequisite
   
110.034   License Fee
   
110.035   Revocation
   
110.036   Form and contents of license
   
110.037   Assignments
   
110.038   Changes in the business conducted by licensee during the year
   
110.039   Administrator to furnish duplicates
   
110.040   Records of conferences
   
110.041   Providing notice to an applicant
Enforcement and Collection
   
110.055   Duty to determine whether license is required
   
110.056   Administrator to investigate
   
110.057   Duty to permit inspection
   
110.058   Duty to post license
   
110.059   Enforcement of ordinance
 
   
110.999   Civil Penalty
GENERAL LICENSING REGULATIONS
§ 110.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. Any person designated by the Town Clerk/Manager to operate
the program required in this chapter.
   BUSINESS. Includes each trade, occupation, profession, business, and
franchise licensed under this chapter.
   PERSON. Includes any individual, trustee, executor, other fiduciary,
corporation, unincorporated association, partnership, sole proprietorship,
company, firm, or other legal entity.
   SEASONAL. A business in nature when it's conducted for profit six months out
of the year or less.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2016)
§ 110.002 CONSTRUCTION OF THIS CHAPTER.
   This chapter is enacted for regulation purposes only. In addition, issuance
of a license in accordance with this chapter does not excuse a licensee from
compliance with any other applicable ordinances or statue. This chapter does
not prevent the town from requiring licenses for additional businesses.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2016)
LEVY
§ 110.015 WHO MUSTBE LICENSED.
   Each person who conducts a business within the town is subject to this
chapter. One conducts the business “within the town” if one maintains a
business location within the town; or if, either personally or through agents,
one:
   (1)   Solicits business within the town limits; or
   (2)   Picks up of delivers goods or services within the town limits.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2016)
§ 110.016 PERIOD OF LICENSE; DUE DATE.
   (A)   Annual licenses. Unless the section of this chapter applicable to a
particular business provides otherwise, a license issued in accordance with
this chapter is good for the 12-month period beginning July 1 and ending June
30.
   (B)   Licenses for periods shorter than a year. If the section of this
chapter applicable to a particular business so provides, a license may be
issued for a period of one day, one week, or some comparable period of less
than a full license year. A person may not commence a business conducted within
the town until the business license is obtained and may not continue such a
business beyond the period for which the license is issued.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2016)
§ 110.017 SEPARATE BUSINESSES.
   A separate license is required for each place of business unless two or more
places of business under common ownership are contiguous to each other,
communicate directly with and open into each other, and are operated as a unit.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2016)
§ 110.018 EXEMPTIONS.
   Except as otherwise provided by state law, no person is exempt from the
requirement of obtaining a license required by this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2016)
LICENSES
§ 110.030 APPLICATION.
   (A)   A person shall apply to the Administrator for each license required by
this chapter before commencing a business. The application, which shall be
submitted on forms provided by the Administrator, shall contain:
      (1)   The name of the applicant and whether the applicant is an
individual, a partnership, a corporation, or some other entity.
      (2)   The nature of the business.
      (3)   Where the business is conducted.
      (4)   An address where notices and statements may be mailed to as
required by this chapter.
      (5)   Whether the business is regulated by the state occupational
licensing board subject to G.S. Chapter 93B, and if so, the serial number of
the state license the applicant currently holds.
      (6)   Any further information the Administrator determines to be
necessary to issue the license.
   (B)   The application shall be accompanied by the payment of a license fee,
which is described in §
110.011 below. In compliance with the law, this fee shall not exceed the cost
to the town of the administrative process of the production and issuance of the
license.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2016)
§ 110.031 REASONS FOR REFUSAL OR REVOCATION OF A LICENSE.
   The Administrator shall refuse to issue a license or revoke a license for
either of the following reasons:
   (A)   The applicant misrepresents a fact relevant to his or her
qualifications for a license.
   (B)   The applicant refuses to provide necessary information.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2016)
§ 110.032 UNQUALIFIED APPLICANTS; RIGHT TO A CONFERENCE.
   (A)   After receipt of the completed application, if the Administrator
believes that a reason exists for refusing a license under §
110.008 of this chapter, the Administrator shall not issue the license. At the
applicant’s request, the Administrator shall in accordance with §
110.018 of this chapter, give the applicant a written statement of the reason
for refusing the license. The applicant may, within ten days after the date the
statement is received, request a conference to discuss the refusal. In the
request the applicant shall specify why the application for the license should
not be refused. The Administrator shall arrange the conference within a
reasonable time.
   (B)   If the Administrator refuses to issue a license, the applicant may
reapply for a license at any time thereafter. If the reason for which the
application was refused no longer exists, and if no other reason exists for
refusing to issue a license, the Administrator shall issue the license in
compliance with §
110.010 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2016)
§ 110.033 ADMINISTRATOR TO ISSUE LICENSE; PAYMENT OF LICENSE FEE A
PREREQUISITE.
   After receipt of the completed application and payment of the license fee,
if the Administrator believes that no reason exists for refusal of a license
under §
110.008 of this chapter, the Administrator shall issue the license.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2016)
§ 110.034 LICENSE FEE.
   The fee required of every applicant for any business conducted or engaged in
within the town as required by this subchapter shall be set forth and made a
part of the schedule of fees and charges adopted by the Town Council, as
amended from time to time. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the fee shall in no
case be more than the maximum permitted by North Carolina law for that
particular business or enterprise.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2016)
§ 110.035 REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Administrator shall revoke a license if a reason exists to revoke
it as set forth in §
110.008 of this chapter. Before revoking a license, the Administrator shall
give the licensee written notice of the grounds for revocation, in accordance
with §
110.018 of this chapter. The licensee may within ten days after the day on
which notice is served request a conference with the Administrator in writing.
The request shall be specify the reasons why the license should not be revoked.
The Administrator shall arrange a conference within a reasonable time.
   (B)   If the licensee fails to request a conference within ten days after
the day on which notice is served, the Administrator shall revoke the license.
If the licensee request a conference, the Administrator may not revoke the
license until after the conference.
   (C)   If the Administrator revokes a license, the former licensee may apply
for a new license at any time thereafter. If the reason for which the license
was revoked no longer exists and if no other reason exists for refusing to
issue a license, the Administrator shall issue the license in accordance with §
110.010 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2016)
§ 110.036 FORMS AND CONTENTS OF USE.
   A license shall show the name of the person licensed, the place where the
business is conducted (if it to be conducted at one place), the nature of the
business licensed and the period for which the license is issued. The
Administrator shall keep a copy of each license issued.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2016)
§ 110.037 ASSIGNMENTS.
   (A)   A license may be assigned if:
      (1)   Business licensed under this chapter and carried on at a fixed
place is sold as a unit to any person; and
      (2)   The purchaser is to carry on the same business at the same place.
   (B)   Such a change shall be reported to the Administrator in accordance
with §
110.015 of this chapter. Otherwise, each license issued under this chapter is a
personal license and is not assignable.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2016)
§ 110.038 CHANGES IN THE BUSINESS CONDUCTED BY LICENSEE DURING THE YEAR.
   A licensee or an assignee shall report a change in information contained in
the license application to the Administrator within ten days after the change
occurs. If information shown on the license itself is affected, the licensee
shall surrender the license to the Administrator when reporting the change.
   (A)   Fee for change. If the change does not result in a separate license
fee, the Administrator shall reissue a license reflecting the change upon
payment of a fee of $5.00.
   (B)   Change requiring refusal of a license. If there is a reason for
revoking the license under §
110.008 of this chapter, the Administrator shall refuse to reissue a license
and shall instead begin proceedings to revoke the license in accordance with §
110.012 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2016)
§ 110.039 ADMINISTRATOR TO FURNISH DUPLICATES.
   Upon satisfactory proof that a license has been lost or destroyed, the
Administrator shall furnish a duplicate for a fee of $5.00.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2016)
§ 110.040 RECORD OF CONFERENCES.
   The Administrator shall maintain for three years a record of each conference
held in the accordance with this subchapter. The record shall contain the
applicant’s or licensee’s name, the date of the conference, and a brief
statement of the issues discussed and the result reached. After three years,
the Administrator shall dispose of the record in accordance with G.S. 121-5.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2016)
§ 110.041 PROVIDING NOTICE TO AN APPLICANT OR LICENSEE.
   Whenever this chapter requires the Administrator to give a written statement
or notice to an applicant or a licensee, the Administrator may do so in one of
three ways:
   (A)   By personally delivering the statement to notice to the applicant or
licensee;
   (B)   By mailing the statement or notice by registered or certified mail and
returning the receipt requested to the address specified for that purpose in
the license application; or
   (C)   By causing the statement or notice to be served on the applicant or
licensee in accordance with the procedures for service of process under Rule 4,
North Carolina Rules of Civil Procedure.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2016)
ENFORCEMENT AND COLLECTION
§ 110.055 DUTY TO DETERMINE WHETHER LICENSE IS REQUIRED.
   Each person has the duty to determine whether the business he or she
conducts is required to be licensed under this chapter, and if so, whether that
license has been obtained.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2016)
§ 110.056 ADMINISTRATOR TO INVESTIGATE.
   If the Administrator has reason to believe that a person is conducting a
business in the town in violation of this chapter, the Administrator shall
conduct an investigation to determine the status of the business.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2016)
§ 110.057 DUTY TO PERMIT INSPECTION.
   Each person who conducts business in the town shall permit the Administrator
to inspect the business premises during normal business hours to determine the
nature of the business conducted there.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2016)
§ 110.058 DUTY TO POST LICENSE.
   A licensee shall post the license or licenses conspicuously in the place of
business licensed. If the licensee has a regular place of business, the license
must be kept where it may be inspected at all times by the proper town
officials.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2016)
§ 110.059 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Criminal remedies. Conducting business within this town without a
valid license issued in accordance with this chapter, or without posting a
license in compliance with §
110.022 of this chapter is a misdemeanor, punishable as provided in G.S. § 14-
4. Each day that a person conducts business in violation of this chapter is a
separate offense.
   (B)   Equitable remedies. In addition to the criminal remedies set forth in
division (A) of this section and in compliance with G.S. 160A-175(d), the town
may seek injunction against any person who conducts a business in violation of
this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2016)
§ 110.999 CIVIL PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any violation of any provision of this chapter shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty in the sum of not more than $50 per day.
         (a)   A citation for the civil penalty shall be issued by the Police
Chief.
         (b)   Each citation for a civil penalty must be paid within 168 hours
of issuance.
      (2)   Each and every day that the violator continues in violation shall
be a separate and distinct offense.
   (B)   The municipality may also, and in addition, seek any and all
appropriate equitable remedies, injunctions and/or abatement orders from the
appropriate court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2016)
CHAPTER 111: FOOD TRUCKS
Section
   
111.01   Purpose
   
111.02   Definitions
   
111.03   Permitting
   
111.04   Location requirements
   
111.05   Additional requirements
§ 111.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to establish the requirements for the
permitted operation of food trucks within the town limits and the
extraterritorial jurisdiction (ETJ) of the Town of Four Oaks.
   (B)   This chapter applies to any food truck that:
      (1)   Operates in the public right-of-way;
      (2)   Operates on private property;
      (3)   Offers food to the general public; and
      (4)   Where land use zoning regulations may apply.
(Ord. passed 8-10-2020)
§ 111.02 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter:
   DESIGNATED ON-STREET PARKING. The designated on-street parking location for
food trucks will be on Railroad Street as long as the food truck does not
impede traffic and all requirements within this chapter are met. Other areas
will be considered on a case by case basis.
   FOOD TRUCK. A food truck is a license, motorized wheeled vehicle or mobile
food unit which is temporarily stored in a location and designed and equipped
to serve food to the general public.
   FOOD TRUCK OPERATOR. A food truck operator is any person who owns, operates,
or manages a business that uses or applies for a food truck permit.
   Four Oaks - Business Regulations
   PERMIT HOLDER. A permit holder is any person who holds a current food truck
permit.
   PERMITTED PARKING SPACE. A permitted parking space is the location
designated by the town where approved food truck vending is permitted to occur.
   SPECIAL EVENT. A special event is a permitted organized public activity of
limited duration.
(Ord. passed 8-10-2020)
§ 111.03 PERMITTING.
   (A)   All food trucks must be in compliance with the regulations set forth
in the NC Department of Health and Human Services "Rules Governing the
Sanitation of Food Truck Establishments," 15A NCAC 18A 2600, as the same may be
amended and all food trucks must also be in compliance with any future state
laws or regulations pertaining to the operation of a food truck.
   (B)   All food truck operators shall obtain a permit from the Town Clerk or
their designee, unless otherwise exempted from this chapter. This permit must
be prominently posted on the food truck. Two types of permits: a per day permit
and a special event permit.
      (1)   Per day permits shall cover the operation and location(s) the food
truck(s) can serve per day.
      (2)   Special event permits shall cover the operation and location(s) of
the food truck(s) for individual special events that are open to the public.
   (C)   Permit applications shall require, in addition to payment of a permit
fee: food truck name, company name and address, owner name, signature and
contact information; description of cooking apparatus, such as grill, deep
fryer, microwave, BBQ smokers, etc.; size of vehicle; copy of vehicle/trailer
registration; certificate of insurance, proof of liability insurance; and other
information as required on the permit application.
   (D)   Food truck operators shall have the signed approval of the property
owner or acting agent for each location at which the food truck plans to
operate. This approval must be attached to the permit application and
prominently posted on the food truck.
   (E)   Food truck operators shall provide documentation of current approval
from the Johnston County Health Department or from the health department of the
county in which the food truck's associated commissary/restaurant is located.
This approval must be prominently posted on the food truck.
   (F)   When two or more food trucks participate on private property as part
of the same special event, if the event is open to the public, the owner of the
property must obtain a special event permit from the Town Clerk or his/her
designee. To obtain such a permit, the property owner must provide: a brief
explanation of the event's purpose, the number and name of participating food
trucks, a site plan showing food truck placement, zones for loading and
unloading, entry/exit route(s) for the site, and proof of liability insurance.
Front and side setbacks for the applicable zoning district must be followed.
(Ord. passed 8-10-2020)
§ 111.04 LOCATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Unless participating in a private event, food trucks may only operate
in areas zoned B-1C on Railroad Street and B-2H on the Farmers Market Property
or location as approved in the application for special events. In all cases,
documented permission from the property owner is required.
   (B)   Food trucks shall be positioned at least 15 feet from fire hydrants,
any fire department connections, driveway entrances, and street intersections.
   (C)   Food trucks shall not block drive aisles, other access to loading/
service areas, pedestrian walkways, emergency access, or fire lanes.
   (D)   All food trucks must be situated to allow at least five feet of
unobstructed space for pedestrians on sidewalks, pedestrian paths, and other
locations intended primarily for pedestrian travel. If any applicable law,
including Americans with Disability Act (ADA) regulations, shall require a
greater distance, the greater distance shall apply.
   (E)   Food trucks shall not occupy parking spaces required to fulfill the
minimum requirements of the principle use of the specific site.
   (F)   Food trucks may be positioned in a public right-of-way provided it is
located in a designated on-street parking space between 8:00 a.m. and 5:00
p.m., Monday through Friday. However, food trucks are prohibited from parking
in spaces reserved for handicapped accessible parking or in a vehicular sight
distance triangle.
   (G)   Food trucks must be positioned at least 150 feet from the main
entrance of an existing restaurant during its hours of operation, unless the
food truck operator provides documentation that the restaurant owner supports a
closer proximity.
      (1)   The minimum distance requirement is all measured in a straight line
from the closest point of the proposed food truck location to the closest point
of the main entrance of the restaurant.
   (H)   If a zoning permit is issued and a restaurant subsequently opens
within 150 feet (measured from the restaurant's main entrance) of the approved
food truck location, the food truck may continue to operate until the permit
expires.
(Ord. passed 8-10-2020)
§ 111.05 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The hours for operating a food truck shall be between the hours 6:00
a.m. and 11:00 p.m.
   (B)   A food truck vendor shall not operate the food truck as a drive-thru
window.
   (C)   Temporary connections to public utilities are prohibited. All plumbing
and electrical connections shall be in accordance with the state building code.
   (D)   All equipment associated with the food truck, including trash
receptacles, must be within five feet of the food truck.
   (E)   Food truck operators shall provide at least one, 32-gallon trash
receptacle for customers.
   (F)   Food truck operators are responsible for the proper disposal of waste
and trash associated with the operation.
      (1)   Operators shall remove all waste prior to leaving each location or
as needed to maintain the health and safety of the public.
      (2)   Trash shall be disposed of at a licensed off-site waste processing
or dumping facility or in a private dumpster on private property when given
permission by the property owner or their designee. Town trash receptacles
shall not be used by a mobile food vendor for purposes of waste disposal.
      (3)   No liquid waste or grease may be poured into any tree pit, storm
drain, gutter pan, sidewalk, or any other public space. Grease cannot be
released into the town's sanitary sewer system. Any grease spill must be
treated in an approved manner so that no stain or residue is left behind in the
right-of-way.
   (G)   Food trucks must have the following fire extinguishers on board during
hours of operation: Minimum Class 2A, 10B, and C rated extinguisher. If food
preparation involves deep frying, a Class K fire extinguisher must also be on
the truck. All National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) standards shall be
met to include: fire extinguishers and fire suppression hood systems shall be
maintained.
   (H)   Any covering for a food truck shall be limited to an attached single
mast umbrella or awning. The covering must not impede or inconvenience
pedestrian, vehicular, or other modes of traffic, such as wheelchairs,
bicycles, etc.
      (1)   Standalone tent-like structures or canopies are specifically
prohibited unless participating in a special event conducted by the town or
Chamber of Commerce.
   (I)   Any signage not attached to the food truck must adhere to the city's
sign ordinance and be properly permitted.
   (J)   No amplified microphones or bullhorns shall be permitted as part of
the food truck operation.
   (K)   The noise level of the food truck motor / generator must comply with
the town's noise ordinance to avoid becoming a nuisance and shall in no case
generate a noise level exceeding 59 decibels when measured at the property line
that is across the street from the food truck or abutting a residential use.
Sound absorbing devices may be used to contain or deflect the noise from
external generators.
(Ord. passed 8-10-2020)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      Chapter
         
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST TOWN REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST TOWN REGULATIONS
Section
   
130.01   Consuming alcoholic beverages in public; littering streets and
sidewalks with beer cans or the like
   
130.02   Discharging weapons
   
130.03   Curfew for minors
 
   
130.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances; General, Weeds and Grasses, see
Chapter 95
§ 130.01 CONSUMING ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES IN PUBLIC; LITTERING STREETS AND
SIDEWALKS WITH BEER CANS OR THE LIKE.
   (A)   No person shall consume malt beverages or unfortified wine, as defined
by G.S. § 18B-101, on property owned or occupied by the town, including, but
not limited to, public streets, boulevards, alleys, rights-of-way, sidewalks
and parks.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to throw or deposit or
cause to be thrown or deposited any beer can or other container of beer, empty
or filled, upon any street or sidewalk within the corporate limits of the town.
(1992 Code, § 130.01) (Ord. 70-DBO, passed 11-12-1970; Ord. passed 5-4-1987)
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 DISCHARGING WEAPONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, except in the
defense of his or her person, home or business to shoot, or to cause to be
discharged, within the corporate limits of the town any pistol, rifle, shot
gun, air file, sling shot, bean shooter, or any firearms, weapons or devices
for shooting any missile of any kind or type whatsoever.
(1992 Code, § 130.02) (Ord. 54-WO, passed 4-5-1954) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   Curfew for minors.
      (1)   It is a curfew violation for a child 13, 14, 15, 16 or 17 years of
age to be in a public place:
         (a)   After 1:00 a.m. and before 5:00 a.m. on Saturday or Sunday;
         (b)   After 12:00 a.m. on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday or
Thursday; or
         (c)   Before 5:00 a.m. on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or
Friday.
      (2)   It is a curfew violation for a child under 13 years of age to be in
a public place after 10:00 p.m. or before 5:00 a.m. on any day.
   (B)   Exemptions. This section does not apply to a child who is:
      (1)   Accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or custodian;
      (2)   Accompanied by an adult specified by his or her parent, guardian or
custodian;
      (3)   Carrying out an errand or other lawful activity as directed by his
or her parent, guardian or custodian; or
      (4)   Participating in, going to or returning from:
         (a)   Lawful employment; or
         (b)   A lawful athletic, educational, entertainment, religious or
social event.
   (C)   Authority of police during curfew hours.
      (1)   Any police officer may stop and question any minor suspected of
violating any of the provisions of this section and may take the minor into
custody when found violating any of the said provisions. The officer shall take
the minor to the town police headquarters where the name of the minor's parent,
guardian or person having legal custody of him or her shall be ascertained.
      (2)   The parent, guardian or person having legal custody shall be
notified of the child's detention and summoned by the investigating officer to
appear at police headquarters to assist in the completion of the investigation.
If the parent, guardian or person having legal custody fails to appear within
two hours from the time the child was taken into custody, the investigating
officer shall follow the requirements set forth in state law and division (C)
(3) below, regarding detention or release of the child.
      (3)   Unless the nature of the offense or other circumstances are such as
to indicate the necessity of keeping the child in secure custody, the officer
shall release the child to the custody of his parent, guardian, person having
legal custody or other responsible adult.
      (4)   If the investigating or apprehending officer is satisfied that a
violation of division (A) of this section has occurred, he or she shall cause
formal charges to be filed requiring the child and his or her parent, guardian
or person having legal custody to appear in the appropriate court to answer the
charge of a violation of division (A) above.
      (5)   If formal charges are to be brought, before a child is released to
the custody of a parent, guardian, person with legal custody, or other
responsible adult, the investigating officer shall obtain a written promise
signed by the person that the person will bring the child to the court at the
stated time or at such time as the court may order. The written promise, along
with the written report of the investigating officer, shall be submitted to the
court.
(1992 Code, § 130.03) Penalty, see §
130.99
Cross-reference:
   Youth protection, see
Ch. 97
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any violation of any provision of this chapter shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty in the sum of not more than $50 per day.
         (a)   A citation for the civil penalty shall be issued by the Police
Chief.
         (b)   Each citation for a civil penalty must be paid within 168 hours
of issuance.
      (2)   Each and every day that the violator continues in violation shall
be a separate and distinct offense.
   (B)   The municipality may also, and in addition, seek any and all
appropriate equitable remedies, injunctions and/or abatement orders from the
appropriate court of competent jurisdiction.
(1992 Code, § 130.99)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      Chapter
         
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
         
151.   MINIMUM HOUSING STANDARDS
         
152.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
         
153.   ZONING CODE
         
154.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
         
155.   MANUFACTURED HOMES
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Scope of chapter
   
150.02   Building Code adopted by reference
   
150.03   Plumbing Code adopted by reference
   
150.04   Heating Code adopted by reference
   
150.05   Electrical Code adopted by reference
   
150.06   Residential Building Code adopted by reference
   
150.07   Amendments to codes
   
150.08   Compliance with codes
   
150.09   Copies of codes filed with Town Clerk/Manager
   
150.10   Fire districts
   
150.11   Registration of contractors; bond
Permits
   
150.25   Permits required; application
   
150.26   Plans and specifications
   
150.27   Issuance; limitations
   
150.28   Fees
   
150.29   Time limitations on validity
   
150.30   Changes in work after issuance
   
150.31   Revocation
Unsafe Buildings
   
150.45   Inspection; notice to owner to correct
   
150.46   Condemnation of especially dangerous buildings
   
150.47   Failure of owner to take corrective action
   
150.48   Appeal by owner
   
150.49   Enforcement procedures against owner
Inspection Department
   
150.60   Organization
   
150.61   Duties and powers of inspectors
   
150.62   Conflicts of interest
   
150.63   Records and reports
   
150.64   Inspection procedure
   
150.65   Violations of regulations not legalized by oversight of inspector
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 SCOPE OF CHAPTER.
   The provisions of this chapter and of the regulatory codes herein adopted
shall apply to the following:
   (A)   The location, design, materials, equipment, construction,
reconstruction, alteration, repair, maintenance, moving, demolition, removal,
use and occupancy of every building or structure or any appurtenances connected
or attached to the building or structure;
   (B)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use and maintenance of
plumbing systems, consisting of house sewers, building drains, waste and vent
systems, hot and cold water supply systems and all fixtures and appurtenances
thereof;
   (C)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use and maintenance of
mechanical systems, consisting of heating, ventilating, air conditioning and
refrigeration systems, fuel burning equipment and appurtenances thereof; and
   (D)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use and maintenance of
electrical systems and appurtenances thereof.
(1992 Code, § 150.01)
§ 150.02 BUILDING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The most current edition of the North Carolina State Building Code, Volume
I, General Construction, as adopted by the North Carolina Building Code Council
and as amended, is hereby adopted by reference as fully as though set forth
herein as the Building Code of the town, to the extent the code is applicable
for safe and stable design, methods of construction, minimum standards and use
of materials in buildings or structures erected, enlarged, altered, repaired or
otherwise constructed or reconstructed.
(1992 Code, § 150.02)
§ 150.03 PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The most current edition of the North Carolina Plumbing Code (North Carolina
State Building Code, Volume II, Plumbing), as adopted and published by the
North Carolina Building Code Council and as amended, is hereby adopted by
reference as fully as though set forth herein as the Plumbing Code for the
town.
(1992 Code, § 150.03)
§ 150.04 HEATING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The most current edition of the North Carolina Heating Code (North Carolina
State Building Code, Volume III, Heating), as adopted and published by the
North Carolina Building Code Council and as amended, is hereby adopted by
reference as fully as though set forth herein as the Heating Code for the town.
(1992 Code, § 150.04)
§ 150.05 ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The most current edition of the North Carolina Electrical Code (North
Carolina State Building Code, Volume IV, Electrical), adopting by reference the
National Electrical Code of the National Fire Protection Association as adopted
by the North Carolina Building Code Council and as amended, is hereby adopted
by reference as fully as though set forth herein as the Electrical Code for the
town.
§ 150.06 RESIDENTIAL BUILDING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The most current edition of the North Carolina Uniform Residential Building
Code, as adopted by the North Carolina Building Inspectors Association and as
published by the North Carolina Building Code Council, is hereby adopted by
reference as fully as though set forth herein as the Residential Building Code
for one- and two-family residential buildings in the town.
(1992 Code, § 150.06)
§ 150.07 AMENDMENTS TO CODES.
   Amendments to the regulatory codes adopted by reference in this subchapter,
which are from time to time adopted and published by the agencies or
organizations referred to herein, shall be effective in the town at the time
such amendments are filed with the Town Clerk/Manager as provided in §
150.09.
(1992 Code, § 150.07)
§ 150.08 COMPLIANCE WITH CODES.
   (A)   All buildings or structures which are constructed, reconstructed,
erected, altered, extended, enlarged, repaired, demolished or moved shall
conform to the requirements, minimum standards and other provisions of either
the North Carolina State Building Code, General Construction Volume I or the
North Carolina Uniform Residential Building Code, whichever is applicable or of
both if both are applicable.
   (B)   Every building or structure intended for human habitation, occupancy
or use shall have plumbing, plumbing systems or plumbing fixtures installed,
constructed, altered, extended, repaired or reconstructed in accordance with
the minimum standards, requirements and other provisions of the North Carolina
Plumbing Code (North Carolina State Building Code, Volume II, Plumbing).
   (C)   All mechanical systems consisting of heating, ventilating, air
conditioning and refrigeration systems, fuel burning equipment and
appurtenances shall be installed, erected, altered, repaired, used and
maintained in accordance with the minimum standards, requirements and other
provisions of the North Carolina Heating Code (North Carolina State Building
Code, Volume III, Heating).
   (D)   All electrical wiring, installations and appurtenances shall be
erected, altered, repaired, used and maintained in accordance with the minimum
standards, requirements and other provisions of the North Carolina Electrical
Code (North Carolina State Building Code, Volume IV, Electrical).
(1992 Code, § 150.08) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.09 COPIES OF CODES FILED WITH TOWN CLERK/MANAGER.
   An official copy of each regulatory code adopted in this subchapter and
official copies of all amendments thereto, shall be kept on file in the office
of the Town Clerk/Manager. The copies shall be the official copies of the codes
and the amendments.
(1992 Code, § 150.09)
§ 150.10 FIRE DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The primary fire district shall be established for the town by
ordinance.
   (B)   The following secondary fire district is established for the town: All
of the area within the town zoned for business purposes, but excluding
therefrom the area included in the primary fire district. It shall be unlawful
to erect any building of frame construction or unprotected metal construction
within the secondary fire district, but it shall be permissible and lawful to
construct buildings in this area of masonry construction; provided that, the
exterior walls of the building are at least eight inches in thickness, with an
allowance of 35% void when using concrete or other similar block construction.
(1992 Code, § 150.10) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.11 REGISTRATION OF CONTRACTORS; BOND.
   (A)   Every person carrying on the business of building contractor, plumbing
contractor, heating-air conditioning contractor or electrical contractor within
the town shall register at the office of the Inspection Department, giving his
or her name and place of business.
   (B)   Every person required to register at the office of the Inspection
Department under division (A) above shall also give a good and sufficient bond
in the sum of $1,000 to be approved by the Town Attorney, conditioned upon
faithful performance of duty in doing any work which he or she may have
contracted to do and shall indemnify the town against loss in any manner
whatsoever for any unskilled or negligent work or conduct in the performance of
the duties imposed by the provisions of this chapter or any regulatory code
herein adopted or any damage to any utility lines, streets or sidewalks in the
town or for the use of defective or improper material in the work or for any
damage which may accrue to any person by reason of any default of the contract
or for the payment of any inspection or other fees required by this chapter.
(1992 Code, § 150.11) Penalty, see §
150.99
PERMITS
§ 150.25 PERMITS REQUIRED; APPLICATION.
   (A)   No person shall commence or proceed with any of the following without
first securing from the Inspection Department with jurisdiction over the site
of the work any and all permits required by the State Building Code and any
other state or local laws applicable to the work:
      (1)   The construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair, movement to
another site, removal or demolition of any building or structure.
      (2)   The installation, extension or general repair of any plumbing
system except that in any one-or two-family dwelling unit a permit shall not be
required for the connection of a water heater that is being replaced, provided
that the work is performed by a person licensed under G.S. § 87-21, who
personally examines the work at completion and ensures that a leak test has
been performed on the gas piping, and provided the energy use rate or thermal
input is not greater than that of the water heater which is being replaced,
there is no change in fuel, energy source, location, capacity, or routing or
sizing of venting and piping, and the replacement is installed in accordance
with the current edition of the State Building Code.
      (3)   The installation, extension, alteration or general repair of any
heating or cooling equipment system.
      (4)   The installation, extension, alteration or general repair of any
electrical wiring, devices, appliances or equipment except that in any one- or
two-family dwelling unit a permit shall not be required for repair or
replacement of electrical lighting fixtures or devices, such as receptacles and
lighting switches, or for the connection of an existing branch circuit to an
electric water heater that is being replaced, provided that all of the
following requirements are met:
         (a)   With respect to electric water heaters, the replacement water
heater is placed in the same location and is of the same or less capacity and
electrical rating as the original.
         (b)   With respect to electrical lighting fixtures and devices, the
replacement is with a fixture or device having the same voltage and the same or
less amperage.
         (c)   The work is performed by a person licensed under G.S. § 87-43.
         (d)   The repair or replacement installation meets the current edition
of the State Building Code, including the State Electrical Code.
   (B)   A permit shall be in writing and shall contain a provision that the
work done shall comply with the State Building Code and all other applicable
state and local laws. No permits shall be issued unless the plans and
specifications are identified by the name and address of the author thereof and
if state law requires that plans for certain types of work be prepared only by
a licensed architect or licensed engineer, no permit shall be issued unless the
plans and specifications bear the state seal of a licensed architect or of a
licensed engineer. When any provision of state law or of any ordinance requires
that work be done by a licensed specialty contractor of any kind, no permit for
the work shall be issued unless the work is to be performed by such a duly
licensed contractor.
   (C)   No permit issued under G.S. §§ 143-136 through 143-143.2 or 143-151.26
through 143- 151.36 shall be required for any construction, installation,
repair, replacement or alteration costing $15,000 or less in any single-family
residence or farm building unless the work involves: the addition, repair or
replacement of load bearing structures; the addition (excluding replacement of
same size and capacity) or change in the design of plumbing; the addition,
replacement or change in the design of heating, air conditioning or electrical
wiring, devices, appliances or equipment; the use of materials not permitted by
the North Carolina Uniform Residential Building Code; or the addition
(excluding replacement of like grade of fire resistance) of roofing. Violation
of this section shall constitute a misdemeanor.
(G.S. § 160A-417(a), (b)) (1992 Code, § 150.20) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.26 PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   Detailed plans and specifications shall accompany each application for a
permit when the estimated total cost of the building or structure is in excess
of $20,000 and for any other building or structure where plans and
specifications are deemed necessary by the appropriate inspector in order for
him or her to determine whether the proposed work complies with the appropriate
regulatory codes. Plans shall be drawn to scale with sufficient clarity to
indicate the nature and extent of the work proposed and the plans and
specifications together shall contain information sufficient to indicate that
the work proposed will conform to the provisions of this chapter and the
appropriate regulatory codes. Where plans and specifications are required, a
copy of the same shall be kept at the work until all authorized operations have
been completed and approved by the appropriate inspector.
(1992 Code, § 150.21) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.27 ISSUANCE; LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Issuance. When proper application for a permit has been made and the
appropriate inspector is satisfied that the application and the proposed work
comply with the provisions of this chapter and the appropriate regulatory
codes, he or she shall issue the permit, upon payment of the proper fee
provided in §
150.28.
   (B)   Limitations on issuance.
      (1)   No building permit shall be issued for any building or structure,
the estimated total cost of which is more than $45,000, unless the work is to
be performed by a licensed general contractor.
      (2)   If state law requires that plans for certain types of work be
prepared only by a registered architect or registered engineer, no building
permit shall be issued for any building or structure, unless the plans and
specifications bear the state seal of a registered architect or a registered
engineer.
      (3)   Where any provision of the General Statutes of the state or of any
provision of this code or other ordinance requires that work be done by a
licensed specialty contractor of any kind, no permit for the work shall be
issued, unless it is to be performed by the licensed specialty contractor.
      (4)   Where detailed plans and specifications are required under this
chapter, no building permit shall be issued, unless the plans and
specifications have been provided.
(1992 Code, § 150.22) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.28 FEES.
Permit Fee Schedule
(Approved August 9, 1999)
Permit Fee Schedule
(Approved August 9, 1999)
1.   New dwelling (single family)
   Up to 1,200 square feet                                               $300 per
                                                                            dwelling
   Over 1,200 square feet                                                add $.20 per
                                                                            square feet
   (Includes electrical, plumbing and mechanical for the dwelling only - any outside
buildings will have their own permit/trades)
                                                                            $9 of fee
   Homeowner's Recovery Fund (for all new and remodel/addition SF permit collected (as
issued                                                                      of 8/1/03 -
                                                                            state law)
   Note: New construction-check to see if building is inside city limits and if w/s is
available. If so, w/s tap and cap fees must be paid up front at time permit is purchased.
   If only water from the town, must get a septic tank permit from Jo. Co. This must be the
final approved permit, not the application. Do not issue the permit without the septic
permit from Johnston County. Call CP if questions.
2.   Residential additions/remodels/repairs
                                                                            $75 (Does not
                                                                            include trade
   0 - 400 square feet or up to $1,000:                                  fees. Trade
                                                                            fees are $30
                                                                            each)
                                                                            $195 (this
   > 400 square feet or > $1,000:                                        includes
                                                                            trades)
                                                                            $9 to Homeowner
                                                                            Recovery Fund
3.   Multi-family dwellings
   First unit:                                                           $300
   Each additional unit:                                                 $125 (includes
                                                                            trades)
4.   Mobile homes
   Single wide:                                                          $100 (bldg &
                                                                            plumbing only)
   Double wide:                                                          $150 (bldg &
                                                                            plumbing only)
   Triple wide:                                                          $200 (bldg &
                                                                            plumbing only)
   Travel trailers/campers                                               $50 (bldg &
                                                                            plumbing only)
   **Mechanical for Mobile Homes if Central Air:                         $30
   **Electrical for Mobile Homes:                                        $30
5.   Mini-storage units
   Mini-storage (½ size-10 inches x 100 feet or less):                  $70
   Mini-storage (standard-10 feet x 100 feet or more):                   $140
   **As of April '04 (charge double if work stopped for no permits or doing work before
permits obtained)
6.   Dwelling moved on a lot
                                                                            $100,000 plus
   Permit fee:                                                           Trades at $300
                                                                            each
7.   Residential accessory buildings
   12 feet x 12 feet and over: Storage building                          $45
      Garage/carport (attached or detached                            $65
      Deck/porch/gazebo                                               $25
      Farm building                                                   $25
      Bulk barns                                                      $31 Just elec
   Note: Additional trades fees are $30 each if needed
8.   Trade inspections
                                                                            $31 (Trade $30
   Building, electrical, plumbing and mechanical                         plus $1
                                                                            improvement
                                                                            permit fee)
9.   Commercial buildings (based on project cost per trade)
   Cost:   0 - 2,500                                                  Fee:   trade
                                                                            fees
      2,501 - 25,000                                                     $170
      25,001 - 50,000                                                    $340
      50,001 - 100,000                                                   $680
      100,001 - 200,000                                                  $1,360
      200,001 - 350,000                                                  $2,340
      350,001 - 500,000                                                  $3,100
      500,001 - 750,000                                                  $4,150
      750,001 - 1,000,000                                                $5,200
   (Fees over $5,200 will be .001% of each added million dollars or portion thereof)
10.   Reinspection fees
   First trip reinspection                                               $45
   $20 additional fee each time there is a reinspection of the same item. (ex. $45 first
trip, $65 second trip, $85 third trip)
                                                                            $25 electrical
11.   Service pole inspections:                                          plus $1
                                                                            building. If no
                                                                            permit exists
12. Permit update:                                                          $125
                                                                            $30 electrical
13   Service change inspections:                                         plus $1
                                                                            building
                                                                            $30 (plus $30
14.   Signs:                                                             electrical if
                                                                            necessary)
15.   Pools:                                                             $25 plus $30
                                                                            electrical
                                                                            $1 building
16.   Pedestals:                                                         plus $30
                                                                            electrical
                                                                            $25 building
17.   LP gas tanks:                                                      plus $30
                                                                            electrical
18.   Gas tank removal: As of October 2005 when removing a gas tank, CP has to come out and
see
   Gas tanks out                                                         $30 per tank
   Putting gas tanks in, cp has to come out and see
   Gas tanks in                                                          $30 per tank
   *If new piping - must get a $30 plumbing permit
   There will need to be a ground water test (town needs a copy)
   *Before tank removal
19.   Roof replacement of existing structure:                            $30
                                                                            $30 building
20.   Tents:                                                             (if over 40
                                                                            square feet)
   ** Also requires that a flammability certification be presented
                                                                            Electrical $30
21.   Reconnect power:                                                   plus $1
                                                                            building
                                                                            $30 plumbing
22.   Water/sewer tap:                                                   plus $1
                                                                            building
23.   ATMs:                                                           Commercial
                                                                            Rates
24.   Demolition permit:                                                 $ 45
                                                                            Residential
                                                                            $150 Commercial
   Before a demolition permit will be issued the customer must pay the cost of asbestos
sampling and analysis to the town. The cost listed above for residential is based on per
building. Commercial fees may be based on per project basis depending on the size of the
demolition project. This will be determined by the building inspector.
   Remind contractor that dumpsite must be state approved and we will need copy of tickets
or number of loads and average weight of load.
25.   Change of use:                                                     $20
                                                                            $30 plumbing
26.   Sprinkler system:                                                  plus $1
                                                                            building
27.   Zoning change: As of November 12, 2001                             $100
   Variance                                                              $100
   Appeal/interpretation (Board of Adjustment Hearing)                   $200
   Subdivision   1 - 2 lots                                           $ 75
         3 - 12 lots                                               $150
         13 or more                                                $150 plus $10 a
                                                                            lot
28.   Special use permit application/conditional use permit application: $100
                                                                            $3 plus add the
29.   Zoning book:                                                       postage if
                                                                            mailed
 
Planning Fees
(Approved at November 12, 2001)
Planning Fees
(Approved at November 12, 2001)
Rezoning                                            $100
Variance                                            $100
Appeal/interpretation (Board of Adjustment Hearing)
Subdivision   1 - 2 lots                         $ 75
      3 - 12 lots                             $150
      13 or more                              $150 plus $10 a lot
Special use/conditional use permit                  $100
Demolition permit                                   $ 45
                                                    $150
Before a demolition permit will be issued the customer must pay the cost of
asbestos sampling and analysis to the town. The cost listed above for
residential is based on per building. Commercial fees may be based on per
project. This will be determined by the Building Inspector.
Remind contractor that dumpsite must be state approved and we will need copy
of tickets or number of loads and average weight of load.
 
§ 150.29 TIME LIMITATIONS ON VALIDITY.
   All permits issued under this chapter shall expire by limitation six months
after the date of issuance, if the work authorized by the permit has not been
commenced. If, after commencement, the work is discontinued for a period of 12
months, the permit therefor shall immediately expire. No work authorized by any
permit which has expired shall thereafter be performed, until a new permit
therefor has been secured.
(G.S. § 160A-418) (1992 Code, § 150.24) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.30 CHANGES IN WORK AFTER ISSUANCE.
   After a permit has been issued, no changes or deviations from the terms of
the application plans and specifications or permit, except where changes or
deviations are clearly permissible under the State Building Code, shall be
made, until specific written approval of such changes or deviations has been
obtained from the Inspection Department.
(G.S. § 160A-419) (1992 Code, § 150.25) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.31 REVOCATION.
   The appropriate inspector may revoke and require the return of any permit by
notifying the permit holder in writing, stating the reason for such revocation.
Permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the approved
application, plans or specifications; for refusal or failure to comply with
requirements of this chapter and the appropriate regulatory codes; or for false
statements or misrepresentations made in securing the permits.
(G.S. § 160A-422) (1992 Code, § 150.26)
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.45 INSPECTION; NOTICE TO OWNER TO CORRECT.
   When the Inspector finds any defects in a building or finds that the
building has not been constructed in accordance with the applicable state and
local laws or that a building because of its condition is dangerous or contains
fire hazardous conditions, it shall be his or her duty to notify the owner or
occupant of the building of its defects, hazardous conditions or failure to
comply with law. The owner or occupant shall each immediately remedy the
defects, hazardous conditions or violations of law in the property he or she
owns.
(G.S. § 160A-425) (1992 Code, § 150.35) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.46 CONDEMNATION OF ESPECIALLY DANGEROUS BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Every building which shall appear to the Inspector to be especially
dangerous to life because of its liability to fire or because of bad condition
of walls, overloaded floors, defective construction, decay, unsafe wiring or
heating system, inadequate means of egress or other causes shall be held to be
unsafe and the Inspector shall affix a notice of the dangerous character of the
structure to a conspicuous place on the exterior wall of the building.
(G.S. § 160A-426(a))
   (B)   If any person shall remove any notice that has been affixed to any
building or structure by the Inspector that states the dangerous character of
the building or structure, he or she shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(G.S. § 160A-427)
(1992 Code, § 150.36) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.47 FAILURE OF OWNER TO TAKE CORRECTIVE ACTION.
   (A)   If the owner of a building or structure that has been condemned as
unsafe pursuant to §
150.46(A) shall fail to take prompt corrective action, the Inspector shall give
him or her written notice, by certified or registered mail to his or her last
known address or by personal service:
      (1)   The building or structure is in a condition that appears to
constitute a fire or safety hazard or to be dangerous to life, health or other
property;
      (2)   A hearing will be held before the Inspector at a designated place
and time, not later than ten days after the date of the notice, at which time
the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by counsel and to present
arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
      (3)   Following the hearing, the Inspector may issue the order to repair,
close, vacate or demolish the building or structure as appears appropriate.
   (B)   If the name or whereabouts of the owner cannot after due diligence be
discovered, the notice shall be considered properly and adequately served if a
copy thereof is posted on the outside of the building or structure in question
at least ten days prior to the hearing and a notice of the hearing is published
in a newspaper having general circulation in the town at least once not later
than one week prior to the hearing.
(G.S. § 160A-428)
   (C)   If, upon a hearing held pursuant to the notice prescribed in divisions
(A) and (B) above, the Inspector shall find that the building or structure is
in a condition that constitutes a fire or safety hazard or renders it dangerous
to life, health or other property, he or she shall make an order in writing,
directed to the owner of such building or structure, requiring the owner to
remedy the defective conditions by repairing, closing, vacating or demolishing
the building or structure or taking other necessary steps, within a period, not
less than 60 days, that the Inspector may prescribe. However, where the
Inspector finds that there is imminent danger to life or other property, he or
she may order that corrective action be taken in a lesser period as may be
feasible.
(G.S. § 160A-429)
(1992 Code, § 150.37) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.48 APPEAL BY OWNER.
   Any owner who has received an order under §
150.47(C) may appeal from the order to the Council by giving notice of appeal
in writing to the Inspector and to the Town Clerk/Manager within ten days
following issuance of the order. In the absence of an appeal, the order of the
Inspector shall be final. The Council shall hear an appeal within a reasonable
time and may affirm, modify and affirm or revoke the order.
(G.S. § 160A-430) (1992 Code, § 150.38)
§ 150.49 ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES AGAINST OWNER.
   If the owner of a building or structure fails to comply with an order issued
pursuant to §
150.47(C) from which no appeal has been taken or fails to comply with an order
of the Council following an appeal, he or she shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and shall be punished in the discretion of the court.
(G.S. § 160A-431) (1992 Code, § 150.39) Penalty, see §
150.99
INSPECTION DEPARTMENT
§ 150.60 ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   The Inspection Department shall consist of a Building Inspector, a
Plumbing Inspector, a Heating-Air Conditioning Inspector, an Electrical
Inspector and such other inspectors or deputy or assistant inspectors as may be
authorized by the Council. The Council may, in its discretion, designate a
Department Head.
   (B)   On and after the applicable date set forth in the schedule in G.S. §
160A-411, no town shall employ an inspector to enforce the State Building Code
as a member of the town Inspection Department who does not have one of the
following types of certificates issued by the North Carolina Code Officials
Qualification Board attesting to his or her qualifications to hold such
position:
      (1)   A probationary certificate, valid for one year only;
      (2)   A standard certificate; or
      (3)   A limited certificate which shall be valid only as an authorization
for him or her to continue in the position held on the date specified in G.S. §
143-151.13(c) and which shall become invalid if he or she does not successfully
complete in-service training specified by the Qualification Board within the
period specified in G.S. § 143-151.13(c).
   (C)   An inspector holding one of the above certificates can be promoted to
a position requiring a higher level certificate only upon issuance by the
Qualification Board of a standard certificate or probationary certificate
appropriate for the new position.
(G.S. § 160A-411.1) (1992 Code, § 150.50)
§ 150.61 DUTIES AND POWERS OF INSPECTORS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Inspection Department to enforce all of
the provisions of this chapter and of the regulatory codes adopted herein and
to make all inspections necessary to determine whether or not the provisions of
this chapter and the codes are being met. The North Carolina State Building
Code, Volume I, General Construction and the North Carolina Uniform Residential
Building Code shall be enforced by the Building Inspector. The North Carolina
Plumbing Code shall be enforced by the Plumbing Inspector. The North Carolina
Heating Code shall be enforced by the Heating-Air Conditioning Inspector. The
North Carolina State Electrical Code shall be enforced by the Electrical
Inspector.
   (B)   Other duties and responsibilities of the Inspection Department and of
the inspectors therein shall be to enforce within the town, state and local
laws relating to: the construction of buildings and other structures; the
installation of such facilities as plumbing systems, electrical systems,
heating systems, refrigeration systems and air-conditioning systems; the
maintenance of buildings and other structures in a safe, sanitary and healthful
condition; and other matters that may be specified by the Council. These duties
shall include the receipt of applications for permits and the issuance or
denial of permits, the making of any necessary inspections in a timely manner,
the issuance or denial of certificates of compliance, the issuance of orders to
correct violations, the bringing of judicial actions against actual or
threatened violations, the keeping of adequate records and any other actions
that may be required in order adequately to enforce those laws. The Council
shall have the authority to enact reasonable and appropriate provisions
governing the enforcement of those laws.
(G.S. § 160A-412)
   (C)   Inspectors are also authorized, empowered and directed to enforce all
the provisions of this chapter and the regulatory codes herein adopted.
   (D)   Inspectors shall have the right of entry on any premises within the
jurisdiction of the Inspection Department, at all reasonable hours, for the
purpose of inspection or other enforcement action, upon presentation of proper
credentials.
(G.S. § 160A-420)
   (E)   Whenever any building or structure or part thereof is being
demolished, constructed, reconstructed, altered or repaired in a hazardous
manner or in substantial violation of any state or town building law or in a
manner that endangers life or property, the appropriate inspector may order the
specific part of the work that is in violation or presents such a hazard to be
immediately stopped. Such order shall be in writing to the person doing the
work and shall state the specific work to be stopped, the specific reasons
therefor and the conditions under which the work may be resumed.
      (1)   The owner or builder may appeal from a stop order involving alleged
violation of the State Building Code or any approved local modification thereof
to the North Carolina Commissioner of Insurance within a period of five days
after the order is issued. Notice of appeal shall be given in writing to the
Commissioner of Insurance, with a copy to the Town Inspector. The Commissioner
of Insurance shall promptly conduct a hearing at which the appellant and the
Inspector shall be permitted to submit relevant evidence and shall rule on the
appeal as expeditiously as possible. Pending the ruling by the Commissioner of
Insurance on an appeal no further work shall take place in violation of a stop
order.
      (2)   Appeals from a stop order based on violation of any other town
ordinance relating to buildings shall be taken to the local official designated
by the town and shall be taken, heard and decided in the same manner as
prescribed herein for appeals to the Commissioner. Violation of a stop order
shall constitute a misdemeanor.
(G.S. § 160A-421)
(1992 Code, § 150.51)
§ 150.62 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   No member of the Inspection Department shall be financially interested in
the furnishing of labor, material or appliances for the construction,
alteration or maintenance of any building within the town's jurisdiction or any
part or system thereof or in the making of plans or specifications therefor,
unless he or she is the owner of the building. No member of the Inspection
Department shall engage in any work which is inconsistent with his or her
duties or with the interests of the town.
(G.S. § 160A-415) (1992 Code, § 150.52) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.63 RECORDS AND REPORTS.
   The Inspection Department shall keep complete and accurate records in
convenient form of all applications received, permits issued, inspections and
reinspections made, defects found, certificates of compliance granted and all
other work and activities of the Inspection Department. These records shall be
kept in the manner and for the periods prescribed by the State Department of
Cultural Resources. Periodic reports shall be submitted to the Council and to
the State Commissioner of Insurance as they shall by ordinance, rule or
regulation require.
(G.S. § 160A-433) (1992 Code, § 150.53) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.64 INSPECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Inspections of work in process. The Inspection Department shall
inspect all buildings and structures and work therein for which a permit of any
kind has been issued as often as necessary in order to determine whether the
work complies with this chapter and the appropriate codes. When deemed
necessary by the appropriate inspector, materials and assemblies may be
inspected at the point of manufacture or fabrication or inspections may be made
by approved and recognized inspection organizations. However, no approval shall
be based upon reports of the organizations, unless the same are in writing and
certified by a responsible officer of the organization. All holders of permits
or their agents, shall notify the Inspection Department and the appropriate
inspector at each of the following stages of construction, so that approval may
be given before work is continued:
      (1)   Foundation inspection. To be made after trenches are excavated and
the necessary reinforcement and forms are in place and before concrete is
placed. Drilled footings, piles and similar types of foundations shall be
inspected as installed.
      (2)   Framing inspection. To be made after all structural framing is in
place and all roughing-in of plumbing and electrical and heating has been
installed, after all fire blocking, chimneys, bracing and vents are installed,
but before any of the structure is enclosed or covered. Poured-in-place
concrete structural elements shall be inspected before each pour of any
structural member.
      (3)   Fireproofing inspection. To be made after all areas required to be
protected by fireproofing are lathed, but before the plastering or other
fireproofing is applied.
      (4)   Final inspection. To be made after the building or structure has
all doors hung and fixtures set and is ready for occupancy, but before the
building is occupied.
   (B)   Calls for inspection. Request for inspections may be made to the
office of the Inspection Department or to the appropriate inspector. The
Inspection Department shall make inspections as soon as practicable after
requests are made therefor, provided the work is ready for inspection at the
time the request is made.
      (1)   Reinspections may be at the convenience of the Inspector. No work
shall be inspected until it is in proper and completed condition ready for
inspection. All work which has been concealed before the inspection and
approval shall be uncovered at the request of the Inspector and placed in
condition for proper inspection. Approval or rejection of the work shall be
furnished by the appropriate inspector in the form of a notice posted on the
building or given to the permit holder or his or her agent.
      (2)   Failure to call for inspections or proceeding without approval at
each stage of construction shall be deemed a violation of this chapter.
   (C)   Street or alley lines. Where the applicant for a permit proposes to
erect any building or structure on the line of any street, alley or other
public place, he or she shall secure a survey of the line of the street, alley
or other public place adjacent to the property upon which the building or
structure is to be erected, before proceeding with construction of the building
or structure. It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector to see that the
building does not encroach upon the street, alley or other public place.
   (D)   Certificates of compliance. At the conclusion of all work done under a
permit, the appropriate inspector shall make a final inspection and if he or
she finds that the completed work complies with all applicable state and local
laws and with the terms of the permit, he or she shall issue a certificate of
compliance. No new building or part thereof may be occupied, no addition or
enlargement of an existing building may be occupied and no existing building
that has been altered or moved may be occupied, until the Inspection Department
has issued a certificate of compliance. A temporary certificate of compliance
may be issued permitting occupancy for a stated period of specified portions of
the building that the Inspector finds may safely be occupied prior to final
completion of the entire building. Violation of this section shall constitute a
misdemeanor.
(G.S. § 160A-423)
   (E)   Periodic inspections. The Inspection Department shall make periodic
inspections, subject to the Council's directions, for unsafe, unsanitary or
otherwise hazardous and unlawful conditions in structures within its
territorial jurisdiction. In addition, it shall make inspections when it has
reason to believe that such conditions may exist in a particular structure. In
exercising this power, members of the Department shall have a right to enter on
any premises within the jurisdiction of the Department at all reasonable hours
for the purposes of inspection or other enforcement action, upon presentation
of proper credentials.
(1992 Code, § 150.54)
Statutory reference:
   Periodic Inspections, see G.S. § 160A-424
§ 150.65 VIOLATIONS OF REGULATIONS NOT LEGALIZED BY OVERSIGHT OF INSPECTOR.
   No oversight or dereliction of duty on the part of any inspector or other
official or employee of the Inspection Department shall be deemed to legalize
the violation of any provision of this chapter or any provision of any
regulatory code herein adopted.
(1992 Code, § 150.55)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be subject to the
penalties provided in §
10.99.
(1992 Code, §§ 150.97 - 150.99)
CHAPTER 151: MINIMUM HOUSING STANDARDS
Section
   
151.01   Finding; purpose
   
151.02   Definitions
   
151.03   Minimum standards of fitness for dwellings and dwelling units
   
151.04   Minimum standards for structural condition
   
151.05   Minimum standards for basic equipment and facilities
   
151.06   Minimum standards for ventilation
   
151.07   Minimum standards for space, use and location
   
151.08   Minimum standards for safe and sanitary maintenance
   
151.09   Minimum standards for control of insects, rodents and infestations
   
151.10   Minimum standards applicable to rooming houses; exceptions.
   
151.11   Responsibilities of owners and occupants
   
151.12   Duties of Building Inspector
   
151.13   Powers of Building Inspector
   
151.14   Inspections; duty of owners and occupants
   
151.15   Procedure for enforcement
   
151.16   Methods of service of complaints and orders
   
151.17   In rem action by Inspector; placarding
   
151.18   Costs a lien on premises
   
151.19   Additional and alternative remedies
   
151.20   Conflict with other provisions
   
151.21   Violations
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 FINDING; PURPOSE.
   Pursuant to G.S.§ 160A-441, it is hereby found and declared that there
exists in the town, dwellings which are unfit for human habitation due to
dilapidation, defects increasing the hazards of fire, accidents and other
calamities, lack of ventilation, light and sanitary facilities and due to other
conditions rendering such dwellings unsafe or unsanitary and dangerous and
detrimental to the health, safety and morals and otherwise inimical to the
welfare of the residents of the town. In order to protect the health, safety
and welfare of the residents of the town as authorized by G.S. Chapter 160A,
Article 19, Part 6, it is the purpose of this chapter to establish minimum
standards of fitness for the initial and continued occupancy of all buildings
used for human habitation, as expressly authorized by G.S. § 160A-443.
(1992 Code, § 151.01) (Ord. passed 8-13-1990)
§ 151.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section.
   BASEMENT. A portion of a building which is located partly underground,
having direct access to light and air from windows located above the level of
the adjoining ground.
   CELLAR. A portion of a building located partly or wholly underground having
an inadequate access to light and air from windows located partly or wholly
below the level of the adjoining ground.
   DETERIORATED. A dwelling is unfit for human habitation and can be repaired,
altered or improved to comply with all of the minimum standards established by
this chapter, at a cost not in excess of 50% of its value, as determined by
finding of the Inspector.
   DILAPIDATED. A dwelling is unfit for human habitation and cannot be
repaired, altered or improved to comply with all of the minimum standards
established by this chapter, at a cost not in excess of 50% of its value, as
determined by finding of the Inspector.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, manufactured home or mobile home or part
thereof used and occupied for human habitation or intended to be so used and
includes any outhouses and appurtenances belonging thereto or usually enjoyed
therewith, except that it does not include any manufactured home or mobile home
which is used solely for a seasonal vacation purpose. When the term is used in
this chapter it shall be construed as though followed by the words "or any part
thereof."
   DWELLING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling and
forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are used or intended to
be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating. When the term is used in this
chapter it shall be construed as though followed by the words "or any part
thereof."
   EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rodents or other
pests by eliminating their harborage places; by removing or making inaccessible
materials, that may serve as their food; by poisoning, spraying, fumigating,
trapping or by any other recognized and legal pest elimination methods approved
by the Inspector.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   HABITABLE ROOM. A room or enclosed floor space used or intended to be used
for living, sleeping, cooking or eating purposes, excluding bathrooms, water
closet compartments, laundries, heater rooms, foyers or communicating
corridors, closets and storage spaces.
   INFESTATION. The presence, within or around a dwelling, of any insects,
rodents or other pests in such number as to constitute a menace to the health,
safety or welfare of the occupants or to the public.
   INSPECTOR. A Building Inspector of the town or any agent of the Inspector
who is authorized by the Inspector.
   MANUFACTURED HOME or MOBILE HOME. A structure as defined in G.S. § 143-145
(7).
   MULTIPLE DWELLING. Any dwelling containing more than two dwelling units.
   OCCUPANT. Any person over one year of age, living, sleeping, cooking or
eating in or having actual possession of a dwelling unit or rooming unit.
   OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care or control of a building or part
thereof, in which dwelling units or rooming units are let.
   OWNER. Any person who alone or jointly or severally with others:
      (1)   Shall have title to any dwelling or dwelling unit, with or without
accompanying actual possession thereof; or
      (2)   Shall have charge, care or control of any dwelling or dwelling
unit, as owner or agent of the owner or as executor, executrix, administrator,
administratrix, trustee or guardian of the estate of the owner. Any such person
thus representing the actual owner shall be bound to comply with the provisions
of this chapter and of rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereto, to the
same extent as if he or she were the owner.
   PARTIES IN INTEREST. All individuals, associations and corporations who have
interests of record in a dwelling and any who are in possession thereof.
   PLUMBING. All of the following supplied facilities and equipment: gas pipes,
gas burning equipment, water pipes, mechanical garbage disposal units
(mechanical sink grinder), waste pipes, water closets, sinks, installed
dishwashers, lavatories, bathtubs, shower baths, installed clothes washing
machines, catch basins, drains, vents and any other similar supplied fixtures,
together with all connections to water, sewer or gas lines.
   PREMISES. When used in this chapter, shall be construed as though followed
by the words "or any part thereof."
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. The town Housing Authority or any officer who is in charge
of any department or branch of the government of the town or of the county or
the state relating to health, fire, building regulations or other activities
concerning dwellings in the town.
   PUBLIC OFFICER. The officer or officers who are authorized by ordinance to
exercise the powers prescribed by this chapter and G.S. Chapter 160A, Article
19, Part 6.
   ROOMING HOUSE. Any dwelling or that part of any dwelling containing one or
more rooming units, in which space is let by the owner or operator to three or
more persons who are not husband and wife, son or daughter, mother or father or
sister or brother of the owner or operator. When the term is used in this
chapter it shall be construed as though followed by the words "or any part
thereof."
   ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
used or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for cooking or
eating purposes. When the term is used in this chapter it shall be construed as
though followed by the words "or any part thereof."
   RUBBISH. Combustible and noncombustible waste materials, except garbage and
ashes and the term shall include paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior,
rubber, leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals, mineral
matter, glass crockery and dust.
   SUPPLIED. Paid for, furnished or provided by or under the control of, the
owner or operator.
   TEMPORARY HOUSING. Any tent, trailer or other structure used for human
shelter which is designed to be transportable and which is not attached to the
ground, to another structure or to any utilities system on the same premises
for more than 30 consecutive days.
   UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION. Conditions exist in a dwelling which violate or
do not comply with one or more of the minimum standards of fitness or one or
more of the requirements established by this chapter.
(1992 Code, § 151.02) (Ord. passed 8-13-1990)
§ 151.03 MINIMUM STANDARDS OF FITNESS FOR DWELLINGS AND DWELLING UNITS.
   Every dwelling and dwelling unit used as a human habitation shall comply
with all of the minimum standards of fitness for human habitation and all of
the requirements of §§
151.04 through
151.09. No person shall occupy as owner-occupant or let to another for
occupancy or use as a human habitation any dwelling or dwelling unit which does
not comply with all of the minimum standards of fitness for human habitation
and all of the requirements of §§
151.04 through
151.09.
(1992 Code, § 151.03) (Ord. passed 8-13-1990)
§ 151.04 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR STRUCTURAL CONDITION.
   (A)   Walls or partitions or supporting members, sills, joists, rafters or
other structural members shall not list, lean or buckle and shall not be
rotted, deteriorated or damaged and shall not have holes or cracks which might
admit rodents.
   (B)   Floors or roofs shall have adequate supporting members and strength to
be reasonably safe for the purpose used.
   (C)   Foundations, foundation walls, piers or other foundation supports
shall not be deteriorated or damaged.
   (D)   Steps, stairs, landings, porches or other parts or appurtenances shall
be maintained in such condition that they will not fall or collapse.
   (E)   Adequate facilities for egress in case of fire or panic shall be
provided.
   (F)   Interior walls and ceilings of all rooms, closets and hallways shall
be finished of suitable materials which will, by use of reasonable household
methods, promote sanitation and cleanliness and shall be maintained in such a
manner so as to enable the occupants to maintain reasonable privacy between
various spaces.
   (G)   The roof, flashings, exterior walls, basement walls, floors and all
doors and windows exposed to the weather shall be constructed and maintained so
as to be weather and watertight.
   (H)   There shall be no chimneys or parts thereof which are defective,
deteriorated or in danger of falling or in such condition or location as to
constitute a fire hazard.
   (I)   There shall be no use of the ground for floors or wood floors on the
ground.
(1992 Code, § 151.04) (Ord. passed 8-13-1990)
§ 151.05 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR BASIC EQUIPMENT AND FACILITIES.
   (A)   Plumbing system.
      (1)   Each dwelling unit shall be connected to a potable water supply and
to the public sewer or other approved sewage disposal system.
      (2)   Each dwelling unit shall contain not less than a kitchen sink,
lavatory, tub or shower, water closet and adequate supply of both cold water
and hot water. All water shall be supplied through an approved pipe
distribution system connected to a potable water supply.
      (3)   All plumbing fixtures shall meet the standards of the town Plumbing
Code and shall be maintained in a state of good repair and in good working
order.
      (4)   All required plumbing fixtures shall be located within the dwelling
unit and be accessible to the occupants of same. The water closet and tub or
shower shall be located in a room or rooms affording privacy to the user.
   (B)   Heating system. Every dwelling and dwelling unit shall have facilities
for providing heat in accordance with either divisions (B)(1) or (2) below.
      (1)   Every central or electric heating system shall be of sufficient
capacity so as to heat all habitable rooms, bathrooms and water closet
compartments in every dwelling unit to which it is connected with a minimum
temperature of 70° F. measured at a point three feet above the floor during
ordinary winter conditions.
      (2)   Other heating facilities. Where a central or electric heating
system is not provided, each dwelling and dwelling unit shall be provided with
sufficient fireplaces, chimneys, flues or gas vents whereby heating appliances
may be connected so as to heat all habitable rooms with a minimum temperature
of 70° F. measured three feet above the floor during ordinary winter
conditions.
   (C)   Electrical system.
      (1)   Every dwelling and dwelling unit shall be wired for electric lights
and convenience receptacles. Every habitable room shall contain at least two
floor or wall-type electric convenience receptacles, connected in such a manner
as determined by the town Electrical Code. There shall be installed in every
bathroom, water closet room, laundry room and furnace room at least one
supplied ceiling or wall-type electric light fixture. In the event wall or
ceiling light fixtures are not provided in any habitable room, then each such
habitable room shall contain at least three floor or wall-type electric
convenience receptacles.
      (2)   Every public hall and stairway in every multiple dwelling shall be
adequately lighted by electric lights at all times when natural daylight is not
sufficient.
      (3)   All fixtures, receptacles, equipment and wiring shall be maintained
in a state of good repair, safe, capable of being used and installed in
accordance with the town Electrical Code.
(1992 Code, § 151.05) (Ord. passed 8-13-1990) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.06 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR VENTILATION.
   (A)   General. Every habitable room shall have at least one window or
skylight facing directly to the outdoors. The minimum total window area,
measured between stops, for every habitable room shall be 10% of the floor area
of such room. Whenever walls or other portions of structures face a window of
any such room and such light obstructing structures are located less than five
feet from the window and extend to a level above that of the ceiling of the
room, such a window shall not be deemed to face directly to the outdoors and
shall not be included as contributing to the required minimum total window
area. Whenever the only window in a room is a skylight-type window in the top
of such room, the total window area of such skylight shall equal at least 15%
of the total floor area of such room.
   (B)   Habitable rooms. Every habitable room shall have at least one window
or skylight which can easily be opened or such other device as will adequately
ventilate the room. The total openable window area in every habitable room
shall be equal to at least 45% of the minimum window area size or minimum
skylight type window size as required or shall have other approved, equivalent
ventilation.
   (C)   Bathroom and water closet rooms. Every bathroom and water closet
compartment shall comply with the light and ventilation requirements for
habitable rooms except that no window or skylight shall be required in
adequately ventilated bathrooms and water closet rooms equipped with an
approved ventilation system.
(1992 Code, § 151.06) (Ord. passed 8-13-1990)
§ 151.07 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR SPACE, USE AND LOCATION.
   (A)   Room sizes. Every dwelling unit shall contain at least the minimum
room size in each habitable room as required by the town Residential Building
Code.
      (1)   Every dwelling unit shall contain at least 150 square feet of
habitable floor area for the first occupant, at least 100 square feet of
additional habitable area for each of the next three occupants and at least 75
square feet of additional habitable floor area for each additional occupant.
      (2)   In every dwelling unit and in every rooming unit, every room
occupied for sleeping purposes by one occupant shall contain at least 70 square
feet of floor area and every room occupied for sleeping purposes by more than
one occupant shall contain at least 50 square feet of floor area for each
occupant 12 years of age and over and at least 35 square feet of floor area for
each occupant under 12 years of age.
   (B)   Ceiling height. At least one-half of the floor area of every habitable
room shall have a ceiling height of not less than seven feet and six inches.
   (C)   Floor area calculation. Floor area shall be calculated on the basis of
habitable room area. However, closet area and wall area within the dwelling
unit may count for not more than 10% of the required habitable floor area. The
floor area of any part of any room where the ceiling height is less than four
and one-half feet shall not be considered as part of the floor area computing
the total area of the room to determine maximum permissible occupancy.
   (D)   Cellar. No cellar shall be used for living purposes.
   (E)   Basements. No basement shall be used for living purposes unless:
      (1)   The floor and walls are substantially watertight;
      (2)   The total window area, total openable window area and ceiling
height are equal to those required for habitable rooms;
      (3)   The required minimum window area of every habitable room is
entirely above the grade adjoining the window area, except where the window or
windows face a stairwell, window well or access way.
(1992 Code, § 151.07) (Ord. passed 8-13-1990) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.08 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR SAFE AND SANITARY MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Exterior foundation, walls and roofs. Every foundation wall, exterior
wall and exterior roof shall be substantially weather-tight, watertight and
rodent-proof; shall be kept in sound condition and good repair; shall be
capable of affording privacy; shall be safe to use and capable of supporting
the load which normal use may cause to be placed thereon. Every exterior wall
shall be protected with paint or other protective covering to prevent the
entrance or penetration of moisture or the weather.
   (B)   Interior floors, walls and ceilings. Every floor, interior wall and
ceiling shall be substantially rodent-proof; shall be kept in sound condition
and good repair; and shall be safe to use and capable of supporting the load
which normal use may cause to be placed thereon.
   (C)   Windows and doors. Every window, exterior door, basement or cellar
door and hatchway shall be substantially weather-tight, watertight and rodent-
proof; and shall be kept in sound working condition and good repair.
   (D)   Stairs, porches and appurtenances. Every inside and outside stair,
porch and any appurtenance thereto shall be safe to use and capable of
supporting the load that normal use may cause to be placed thereon; and shall
be kept in sound condition and good repair.
   (E)   Bathroom floors. Every bathroom floor surface and water closet
compartment floor surface shall be constructed and maintained so as to be
reasonably impervious to water and so as to permit such floor to be easily kept
in a clean and sanitary condition.
   (F)   Supplied facilities. Every supplied facility, piece of equipment or
utility which is required under this chapter shall be so constructed or
installed that it will function safely and effectively and shall be maintained
in satisfactory working condition.
   (G)   Drainage. Every yard shall be properly graded so as to obtain thorough
drainage and so as to prevent the accumulation of stagnant water.
   (H)   Noxious weeds. Every yard and all exterior property areas shall be
kept free of species of weeds or plant growth which are noxious or detrimental
to health.
   (I)   Egress. Every dwelling unit shall be provided with adequate means of
egress as required by the Town Building Code.
(1992 Code, § 151.08) (Ord. passed 8-13-1990) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.09 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR CONTROL OF INSECTS, RODENTS AND INFESTATIONS.
   (A)   Screens. In every dwelling unit, for protection against mosquitoes,
flies and other insects, every door opening directly from a dwelling unit to
outdoor space shall have supplied and installed screens and a self-closing
device; and every window or other device with openings to outdoor space, used
or intended to be used for ventilation, shall likewise be supplied with screens
installed.
   (B)   Rodent control. Every basement or cellar window used or intended to be
used for ventilation and every other opening to a basement which might provide
an entry for rodents, shall be supplied with screens installed or such other
approved device as will effectively prevent their entrance.
   (C)   Infestation. Every occupant of a dwelling containing a single dwelling
unit shall be responsible for the extermination of any insects, rodents or
other pests therein or on the premises; and every occupant of a dwelling unit
in a dwelling containing more than one dwelling unit shall be responsible for
such extermination whenever his or her dwelling unit is the only one infested.
Whenever infestation is caused by failure of the owner to maintain a dwelling
in a rodent-proof or reasonably insect-proof condition, extermination shall be
the responsibility of the owner. Whenever infestation exists in two or more of
the dwelling units in any dwelling or in the shared or public parts of any
dwelling containing two or more dwelling units, extermination shall be the
responsibility of the owner.
   (D)   Rubbish storage and disposal. Every dwelling and every dwelling unit
shall be supplied with approved containers and covers for storage of rubbish as
required by town ordinances and the owner, operator or agent in control of such
dwelling or dwelling unit shall be responsible for the removal of rubbish.
   (E)   Garbage storage and disposal. Every dwelling and every dwelling unit
shall be supplied with an approved garbage disposal facility, which may be an
adequate mechanical garbage disposal unit (mechanical sink grinder) in each
dwelling unit to be approved by the Inspector, in the structure for the use of
the occupants of each dwelling unit or an approved outside garbage can as
required by town ordinances.
(1992 Code, § 151.09) (Ord. passed 8-13-1990) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.10 MINIMUM STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO ROOMING HOUSES; EXCEPTIONS.
   All of the provisions of this chapter and all of the minimum standards and
requirements of this chapter, shall be applicable to rooming houses and to
every person who operates a rooming house or who occupies or lets to another
for occupancy any rooming unit in any rooming house, except as provided in the
following divisions.
   (A)   Water closet, hand lavatory and bath facilities. At least one water
closet, lavatory basin and bathtub or shower, properly connected to an approved
water and sewer system and in good working condition, shall be supplied for
each four rooms within a rooming house wherever said facilities are shared. All
such facilities shall be located within the residence building served and shall
be directly accessible from a common hall or passageway and shall be not more
than one story removed from any of the persons sharing such facilities. Every
lavatory basin and bathtub or shower shall be supplied with hot and cold water
at all times. Such required facilities shall not be located in a cellar.
   (B)   Minimum floor area for sleeping purposes. Every room occupied for
sleeping purposes by one occupant shall contain at least 70 square feet of
floor area and every room occupied for sleeping purposes by more than one
occupant shall contain at least 50 square feet of floor area for each occupant
12 years of age and over and at least 35 square feet of floor area for each
occupant under 12 years of age.
   (C)   Sanitary conditions. The operator of every rooming house shall be
responsible for the sanitary maintenance of all walls, floors and ceilings and
for the sanitary maintenance of every other part of the rooming house; and he
or she shall be further responsible for the sanitary maintenance of the entire
premises where the entire structure or building within which the rooming house
is contained is leased or occupied by the operator.
   (D)   Sanitary facilities. Every water closet, flush urinal, lavatory basin
and bathtub or shower required by division (A) above shall be located within
the rooming house and within a room or rooms which afford privacy and are
separate from the habitable rooms and which are accessible from a common hall
and without going outside the rooming house or through any other room therein.
(1992 Code, § 151.10) (Ord. passed 8-13-1990) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.11 RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   Public areas. Every owner of a dwelling, containing two or more
dwelling units shall be responsible for maintaining in a clean and sanitary
condition the shared or public areas of the dwelling and premises thereof.
   (B)   Cleanliness. Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall keep
in a clean and sanitary condition that part of the dwelling, dwelling unit and
premises thereof which he or she occupies and controls.
   (C)   Rubbish and garbage. Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit
shall dispose of all his or her rubbish and garbage in a clean and sanitary
manner by placing it in the supplied storage facilities. In all cases the owner
shall be responsible for the availability of rubbish and garbage storage
facilities.
   (D)   Supplied plumbing fixtures. Every occupant of a dwelling unit shall
keep all supplied plumbing fixtures therein in a clean and sanitary condition
and shall be responsible for the exercise of reasonable care in the proper use
and operation of same.
   (E)   Care of facilities, equipment and structure. No occupant shall
willfully destroy, deface or impair any of the facilities or equipment or any
part of the structure of a dwelling or dwelling unit.
(1992 Code, § 151.11) (Ord. passed 8-13-1990) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.12 DUTIES OF BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   The Building Inspector is hereby designated as the officer to enforce the
provisions of this chapter and to exercise the duties and powers herein
prescribed. It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector:
   (A)   To investigate the dwelling conditions and to inspect dwellings and
dwelling units located in the town's jurisdiction, in order to determine which
dwellings and dwelling units are unfit for human habitation and for the purpose
of carrying out the objectives of this chapter with respect to such dwellings
and dwelling units;
   (B)   To take such action, together with other appropriate departments and
agencies, public and private, as may be necessary to effect rehabilitation of
housing which is deteriorated;
   (C)   To keep a record of the results of inspections made under this chapter
and an inventory of those dwellings that do not meet the minimum standards of
fitness herein prescribed; and
   (D)   To perform such other duties as may be herein prescribed.
(1992 Code, § 151.12) (Ord. passed 8-13-1990)
§ 151.13 POWERS OF BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   The Building Inspector is authorized to exercise such powers as may be
necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purpose and provisions
of this chapter, including the following powers in addition to others herein
granted:
   (A)   To investigate the dwelling conditions in the town in order to
determine which dwellings therein are unfit for human habitation;
   (B)   To administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses and receive
evidence;
   (C)   To enter upon premises for the purpose of making examinations and
inspections, provided such entries shall be made in such a manner as to cause
the least possible inconvenience to the persons in possession;
   (D)   To appoint and fix the duties of such officers, agents and employees
as he or she deems necessary to carry out the purposes of this chapter; and
   (E)   To delegate any of his or her functions and powers under this chapter
to other officers and other agents.
(1992 Code, § 151.13) (Ord. passed 8-13-1990)
§ 151.14 INSPECTIONS; DUTY OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS.
   For the purpose of making inspections, the Inspector is hereby authorized to
enter, examine and survey at all reasonable times, all dwellings, dwelling
units, rooming units and premises. The owner or occupant of every dwelling,
dwelling unit or rooming unit or the person in charge thereof, shall give the
Inspector free access to the dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming units and its
premises at all reasonable times for the purposes of the inspection,
examination and survey. Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall
give the owner thereof or his or her agent or employee, access to any part of
the dwelling or dwelling unit and its premises, at all reasonable times for the
purpose of making the repairs or alterations as are necessary to effect
compliance with the provisions of this chapter or with any lawful order
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
(1992 Code, § 151.14) (Ord. passed 8-13-1990)
§ 151.15 PROCEDURE FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Preliminary investigation; notice; hearing. Whenever a petition is
filed with the Inspector by a public authority or by at least five residents of
the town charging that any dwelling or dwelling unit is unfit for human
habitation, he or she shall, if his or her preliminary investigation discloses
a basis for such charges, issue and cause to be served upon the owner of and
parties in interest in the dwelling or dwelling unit a complaint stating the
charges and containing a notice that a hearing will be held before the
Inspector at a place therein fixed, not less than ten, nor more than 30, days
after the serving of said complaint. The owner or any party in interest shall
have the right to file an answer to the complaint and to appear in person or
otherwise and give testimony at the place and time fixed in the complaint.
Notice of the hearing shall also be given to at least one of the persons
signing a petition relating to the dwelling. Any person desiring to do so may
attend the hearing and give evidence relevant to the matter being heard. The
rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity shall not be
controlling in hearings before the Inspector.
   (B)   Procedure after hearing. After such notice and hearing, the Inspector
shall state in writing his or her determination whether the dwelling or
dwelling unit is unfit for human habitation and if so, whether it is
deteriorated or dilapidated. If the Inspector determines that the dwelling or
dwelling unit is deteriorated, he or she shall state in writing his or her
findings of fact in support of the determination and shall issue and cause to
be served upon the owner thereof an order directing and requiring the owner to
repair, alter and improve the dwelling or dwelling unit to comply with the
minimum standards of fitness established by this chapter within a specified
period of time not to exceed 90 days. The order may also direct and require the
owner to vacate and close the dwelling or dwelling unit until the repairs,
alterations and improvements have been made. If the Inspector determines that
the dwelling is dilapidated, he or she shall state in writing his or her
findings of fact to support the determination and shall issue and cause to be
served upon the owner thereof an order directing and requiring the owner to
vacate and close the dwelling and to remove or demolish the same within a
specified period of time, not to exceed 90 days.
   (C)   Failure to comply with order. If the owner of any deteriorated
dwelling or dwelling unit shall fail to comply with an order of the Inspector
issued pursuant to this chapter, the Inspector shall secure the issuance of a
warrant charging such owner with a violation of the minimum standards of
fitness established by this chapter, as provided in §
151.21 and shall cause to be served upon such owner another order directing the
owner to repair, alter or improve same within a specified period of time, not
to exceed 90 days. If the owner shall fail to comply with the order within the
time specified therein, the Inspector shall submit to the Council an ordinance
ordering the Inspector to cause such dwelling or dwelling unit to be repaired,
altered or improved to comply with the minimum standards of fitness established
by this chapter. If the owner of a dilapidated dwelling shall fail to comply
with an order of the Inspector to vacate and close and remove or demolish, the
same within the time specified in the order, the Inspector shall secure the
issuance of a warrant charging the owner with a violation of the minimum
standards of fitness established by this chapter, as provided in §
151.21 and shall submit to the Council an ordinance ordering the Inspector to
cause such dwelling to be vacated and closed and removed or demolished and
pending such removal or demolition, to placard such dwelling as provided by
G.S.§ 160A-443 and §
151.17 of this chapter. No such ordinance shall be adopted to require
demolition of a dwelling until the owner has first been given a reasonable
opportunity to bring it into conformity with the Housing Code. The ordinance
shall be recorded in the County Register of Deeds and shall be indexed in the
name of the property owner in the grantor index.
   (D)   Appeal. Where compliance with an order of the Inspector or where the
literal application of the provisions of this chapter would appear to cause
undue hardship on an owner or other party in interest or when it is claimed
that the true intent and meaning of this chapter or any of the minimum
standards or requirements herein have been wrongly interpreted, the owner or
other party in interest may appeal from the order of the Inspector to the
Zoning Board of Adjustment in accordance with G.S. § 160A-446.
      (1)   Notice of appeal shall be in writing and filed in the office of the
Town Clerk/Manager within ten days after service of the order of the Inspector
and shall be on forms provided by the Inspector. The appeal shall be placed on
the agenda for hearing by the Board of Adjustment at its next regular meeting.
      (2)   The Board of Adjustment upon such appeal and after a hearing, may
extend the time for compliance with the Inspector's order or vary the
application of any provision of this chapter in hardship cases, when, in its
opinion, the enforcement thereof would do manifest injustice and would be
contrary to the spirit and purpose of this chapter or the public interest or
when, in its opinion, the interpretation of the Inspector was wrong and should
be modified or reversed. In hardship cases, a hardship peculiar to the
appellant must be shown.
      (3)   A decision of the Board of Adjustment to extend the time for
compliance with an order of the Inspector or to vary the application of any
provision of this chapter or to modify an order of the Inspector, shall specify
in what manner the extension, variation or modification is made, the conditions
upon which it is made and the reasons therefor.
      (4)   Every such decision of the Board of Adjustment shall be in writing
and shall be promptly filed in the office of the Inspector and shall be open to
public inspection; a certified copy shall be sent by mail or otherwise, to the
appellant.
      (5)   If a decision of the Board of Adjustment reverses or modifies a
refusal, order or disallowance of the Inspector or varies the application of
any provision of this chapter, the Inspector shall immediately take action in
accordance with the decision.
      (6)   Nothing in this division (D) shall be construed to prevent an owner
or other party in interest from exercising the right of petition for judicial
review of an order of the Inspector, as provided by G.S. § 160A-446 and
division (E) below.
   (E)   Petition to Superior Court. The owner or any other person affected by
an order of the Inspector shall have the right, within 60 days following
service of the order, to petition the Superior Court for a temporary injunction
restraining enforcement of the order and for a hearing and determination of the
validity thereof, as provided by G.S. § 160A-446.
(1992 Code, § 151.15) (Ord. passed 8-13-1990)
§ 151.16 METHODS OF SERVICE OF COMPLAINTS AND ORDERS.
   Complaints or orders issued by the Inspector shall be served upon persons
either personally or by registered or certified mail, but if the identities of
any owners or the whereabouts of the persons are unknown and the same cannot be
ascertained by the Inspector in the exercise of reasonable diligence, the
Inspector shall make an affidavit to that effect and the serving of the
complaint or order upon such person may be made by publication in a newspaper
having general circulation in the town at least once no later than the time at
which personal service would be required under the provisions of G.S. §§ 60A-
441 through 160A-450. A copy of the complaint or order shall be posted in a
conspicuous place on premises affected by the complaint or order. A copy of the
complaint or order shall also be filed in the proper office for the filing of
lis pendens notices in the county and the filing of the complaint shall have
the same force and effect as other lis pendens notices provided by law.
(1992 Code, § 151.16) (Ord. passed 8-13-1990)
§ 151.17 IN REM ACTION BY INSPECTOR; PLACARDING.
   After failure of an owner of a dwelling or dwelling unit to comply with an
order of the Inspector issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter and
upon adoption by the Council of an ordinance authorizing and directing him or
her to do so as provided by G.S. § 160A-443 and §
151.15(C) of this chapter, the Inspector shall proceed to cause such dwelling
or dwelling unit to be repaired, altered or improved to comply with the minimum
standards of fitness established by this chapter or to be vacated and closed
and removed or demolished, as directed by the ordinance of the Council and
shall cause to be posted on the main entrance of such dwelling or dwelling unit
a placard with the following words: "This building is unfit for human
habitation; the use or occupation of this building for human habitation is
prohibited and unlawful."
(1992 Code, § 151.17) (Ord. passed 8-13-1990)
§ 151.18 COSTS A LIEN ON PREMISES.
   As provided by G.S.§ 160A-443, the amount of the cost of any repairs,
alteration or improvements or vacating and closing or removal or demolition,
caused to be made or done by the Inspector pursuant to §
151.17 of this chapter shall be a lien against the real property upon which
such cost was incurred.
(1992 Code, § 151.18) (Ord. passed 8-13-1990)
§ 151.19 ADDITIONAL AND ALTERNATIVE REMEDIES.
   (A)   In accordance with G.S. § 160A-441, the town may require the repair,
closing or demolition of any abandoned structure which the Council finds to be
a health or safety hazard as a result of the attraction of insects or rodents,
conditions creating a fire hazard, dangerous conditions constituting a threat
to children or frequent use by vagrants as living quarters in the absence of
sanitary facilities. The same provisions and procedures shall be used as are
prescribed in this chapter for the repair, closing or demolition of dwellings
found to be unfit for human habitation.
   (B)   Neither this chapter nor any of its provisions shall be construed to
impair or limit in any way the power of the town to define and declare
nuisances and to cause their abatement by summary action or otherwise and the
enforcement of any remedy provided herein shall not prevent the enforcement of
any other remedy or remedies provided herein or in other ordinances or laws.
(1992 Code, § 151.19) (Ord. passed 8-13-1990)
§ 151.20 CONFLICT WITH OTHER PROVISIONS.
   In the event any provision, standard or requirement of this chapter is found
to be in conflict with any provision of any other ordinance or code of the
town, the provision which establishes the higher standard or more stringent
requirement for the promotion of the health and safety of the residents of the
town shall prevail.
(1992 Code, § 151.20) (Ord. passed 8-13-1990)
§ 151.21 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dwelling or dwelling unit to fail,
neglect or refuse to repair, alter or improve the same or to vacate and close
and remove or demolish the same, upon order of the Inspector duly made and
served as herein provided, within the time specified in such order and each day
that any such failure, neglect or refusal to comply with the order continues
shall constitute a separate and distinct offense. It shall be unlawful for the
owner of any dwelling or dwelling unit, with respect to which an order has been
issued pursuant to §
151.15 of this chapter, to occupy or permit the occupancy of the same after the
time prescribed in the order for its repair, alteration or improvement or its
vacation and closing and each day that such occupancy continues after such
prescribed time shall constitute a separate and distinct offense. The violation
of any provision of this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor, as provided by
G.S. § 14-4. If any occupant fails to comply with an order to vacate a
dwelling, the Inspector may file a civil action in the name of the town to
remove such occupant in accordance with G.S. § 160A-443(7).
(1992 Code, § 151.21) (Ord. passed 8-13-1990) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any violation of any provision of this chapter shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty in the sum of not more than $50 per day.
         (a)   A citation for the civil penalty shall be issued by the Police
Chief.
         (b)   Each citation for a civil penalty must be paid within 168 hours
of issuance.
      (2)   Each and every day that the violator continues in violation shall
be a separate and distinct offense.
   (B)   The municipality may also and in addition, seek any and all
appropriate equitable remedies, injunctions and/or abatement orders from the
appropriate court of competent jurisdiction.
(1992 Code, § 151.99)
CHAPTER 152: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Title
   
152.02   Purpose
   
152.03   Authority
   
152.04   Jurisdiction
   
152.05   Definitions
   
152.06   Word interpretation
   
152.07   Prerequisite to plat recordation
   
152.08   Acceptance of streets
   
152.09   Zoning and other plans
   
152.10   Abrogation
Review and Approval of Subdivision Plats
   
152.25   Plat shall be required on any subdivision of land
   
152.26   Approval prerequisite to plat recordation
   
152.27   Procedures for review of subdivisions
   
152.28   Final plat submission and review
   
152.29   Information to be contained in or depicted on preliminary and final
plats
   
152.30   Recombination of land
   
152.31   Resubdivision procedures
Required Improvements and Minimum Design Standards
   
152.45   General statement
   
152.46   Suitability of land
   
152.47   Name duplication
   
152.48   Subdivision design
   
152.49   Streets
   
152.50   Utilities
   
152.51   Buffering, recreation and recreation fee requirements
   
152.52   Other requirements
   
152.53   Subdivision access
Administration and Enforcement
   
152.65   Administrator
   
152.66   Plat approval
   
152.67   Variances
   
152.68   Amendments
 
   
152.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Street Design Specifications
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the "Subdivision Regulations
of the Town of Four Oaks, North Carolina", and may be referred to as the
"Subdivision Regulations".
(1992 Code, § 152.01) (Ord. passed 5-5-1986; Ord. passed 3-19-2007)
§ 152.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish procedures and standards for the
development and subdivision of land within the territorial jurisdiction of the
town. It is further designed to provide for the orderly growth and development
of the town for the coordination of streets and highways within the proposed
subdivisions with existing or planned streets and highways and with other
public facilities for the dedication or reservation of recreation areas serving
residents of the immediate neighborhood within the subdivision and of right-of-
way or easements for street and utility purposes and for the distribution of
population and traffic in a manner that will avoid congestion and overcrowding
and will create conditions essential to public health, safety and the general
welfare. This chapter is designed to further facilitate adequate provision of
water, sewerage, parks, schools and playgrounds and also to facilitate the
further resubdivision of larger tracts into smaller parcels of land.
(1992 Code, § 152.02) (Ord. passed 5-5-1986; Ord. passed 3-19-2007)
§ 152.03 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted under the authority and provisions of G.S. §§ 160A-
371 through 160A-376.
(1992 Code, § 152.03) (Ord. passed 5-5-1986; Ord. passed 3-19-2007)
§ 152.04 JURISDICTION.
   The regulations contained herein, as provided in G.S. §§ 160A-360 et seq.
shall govern each and every subdivision within the town and its
extraterritorial jurisdiction as shown on the official extraterritorial
boundary map.
(1992 Code, § 152.04) (Ord. passed 5-5-1986; Ord. passed 3-19-2007)
§ 152.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section.
   ALLEY. A strip of land, owned publicly or privately, set aside primarily for
vehicular service access to the back or side of properties otherwise abutting
on a street.
   BLOCK. A piece of land bounded on one or more sides by streets or roads.
   BUFFER STRIP. A planted strip of land which shall be a minimum of 16 feet in
width and shall be composed of evergreen bushes, trees, and/or shrubs such that
at least two rows are provided from the ground to a height of six feet within
six years and foliage overlaps within six years.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE. A line parallel to the front property line in front
of which no structure shall be erected. Setbacks shall be figured from the
right-of-way line.
   CORNER LOT. A lot located at the intersection of two or more streets. A lot
abutting on a curved street or streets shall be considered a corner lot if
straight lines drawn from the foremost points of the side lot lines to the
foremost point of the lot meet at an interior angle of less than 135 degrees.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A short street having but one end open to traffic and the other
end being permanently terminated and a vehicular turnaround provided.
   DEDICATION. A gift, by the owner or a right to use of land for a specified
purpose or purposes. Because a transfer of property rights is entailed,
dedication must be made by written instrument and is completed with an
acceptance.
   DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOT. A continuous (through) lot which is accessible from
both streets upon which it fronts.
   EASEMENT. A grant by the property owner of a strip of land for a specified
purpose and use by the public, a corporation or persons.
   FREEWAY, EXPRESSWAY or PARKWAY. Divided multilane roadway designed to carry
large volumes of traffic at relatively high speeds.
      (1)   FREEWAY. A divided highway providing for continuous flow of
vehicles with no direct access to abutting property or streets and with access
to selected crossroads provided via connecting ramps.
      (2)   EXPRESSWAY. A divided highway with full or partial control of
access and generally with grade separations at major intersections.
      (3)   PARKWAY. A highway for noncommercial traffic, with full or partial
control of access and usually located within a park or ribbon of park-like
development.
   FRONTAGE ROAD. A local street or road that is parallel to a full or partial
access controlled facility and functions to provide access to adjacent land.
   HALF STREET. A street whose centerline coincides with a subdivision plat
boundary, with one-half the street right-of-way width being contained within
the subdivision plat. Also, any existing street to which the parcel of land to
be subdivided abuts on only one side.
   INTERIOR LOT. A lot other than a corner lot with only one frontage on a
street.
   LOCAL RESIDENTIAL STREET. Cul-de-sacs, loop streets less than 2,500 feet in
length or streets less than one mile in length that do not connect
thoroughfares or serve major traffic generators and do not collect traffic from
more than 100 dwelling units.
   LOCAL ROAD. A local road serves primarily to provide access to adjacent land
and for travel over relatively short distances.
   LOCAL STREET. A local street is any link not part of a higher-order urban
system which serves primarily to provide direct access to abutting land and
access to higher systems.
   LOT. A portion of a subdivision or any other parcel of land, intended as a
unit of transfer of ownership or for development or both.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision which has been recorded
in the office of the Register of Deeds of the county in which it is located
prior to the adoption of this chapter or a lot described by metes and bounds,
the description of which has been so recorded prior to the adoption of this
chapter.
   MAJOR COLLECTOR. A road which serves major intracounty travel corridors and
traffic generators and provides access to the arterial system.
   MAJOR THOROUGHFARES. Major thoroughfares consist of interstate, other
freeway and expressway links and major streets that provide for the expeditious
movement of volumes of traffic within the through urban areas.
   MINOR ARTERIAL. A rural link in a network joining cities and larger towns
and providing intrastate and intercounty service at relatively high overall
travel speeds with minimum interference to through movement. This network would
primarily serve traffic.
   MINOR COLLECTOR. A road which provides service to small local communities
and links locally important traffic generators with their rural hinterland.
   MINOR THOROUGHFARES. Minor thoroughfares are important streets in the urban
system and perform the function of collecting traffic from local access streets
and carrying it to the major thoroughfare system by facilitating a minor
through traffic movement and may also serve abutting property.
   OFFICIAL MAPS OR PLANS. Any maps or plans officially adopted by the Council
of the town.
   OPEN SPACE. An area (land and/or water) generally lacking in manmade
structures and reserved for enjoyment in its unaltered state.
   PLAT. A map or plan of a parcel of land which is to be or has been
subdivided.
   PRINCIPAL ARTERIAL. A rural link in a network of continuous routes serving
corridor movements having trip length and travel density characteristics
indicative of substantial statewide or interstate travel and existing solely to
serve traffic. This network would consist of interstate routes and other routes
designed as principal arterials.
   PRIVATE DRIVEWAY. A roadway serving two or fewer lots, building sites or
other division of land and not intended to be public ingress or egress.
   PRIVATE STREET. An undedicated private right-of-way (minimum 20 feet wide)
which affords access to abutting properties and requires a subdivision streets
disclosure statement in accordance with G.S. § 136-102.6.
   PUBLIC SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. A system serving two or more dwelling units
and approved by the County Health Department of the county of which it is
located and/or the North Carolina Department of Environment, Health and Natural
Resources.
   RECREATION AREA OR PARK. An area of land or combination of land and water
resources that is developed for active and/or passive recreation pursuits with
various man-made features that accommodate such activities.
   RESERVATION. A reservation of land does not involve any transfer of property
free from development for a stated period of time.
   RESIDENTIAL COLLECTOR STREET. A local access street which serves as a
connector street between local residential streets and the thoroughfare system.
RESIDENTIAL COLLECTOR STREETS typically collect traffic from 100 to 400
dwelling units.
   REVERSED FRONTAGE LOT. A lot on which frontage is at right angles or
approximately right angles (interior angles less than 135 degrees) to the
general pattern in the area. A REVERSED FRONTAGE LOT may also be a corner lot,
an interior lot or a through lot.
   SINGLE-TIER LOT. A lot which backs upon a limited access highway, a
railroad, a physical barrier or another type of land use and to which access
from the rear is usually prohibited.
   STREET. A dedicated and accepted public right-of-way for vehicular traffic
(or a private road only if permitted by this chapter).
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person, firm or corporation who subdivides or develops any
land deemed to be a subdivision as herein defined.
   SUBDIVISION. All divisions of a tract or parcel of land into two or more
lots, building sites or other divisions for the purpose of sale or building
development (whether immediate or future) and shall include all divisions of
land involving the dedication of a new street or a change in existing streets;
but the following shall not be included within this definition nor be subject
to any regulations enacted pursuant to this chapter.
      (1)   The combination or recombination of portions of previously
subdivided and recorded lots where the total number of lots is not increased
and the resultant lots are equal to or exceed the standards of the town as
shown in chapter.
      (2)   The division of land into parcels greater than ten acres where no
street right-of-way dedication is involved.
      (3)   The public acquisition by purchase of strips of land for the
widening or opening of streets, and
      (4)   The division of a tract in single ownership whose entire area is no
greater than two acres into not more than three lots, where no street right-of-
way dedication is involved and where the resultant lots are equal to or exceed
the standards of the town as shown in this chapter.
   THROUGH LOT or DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOT. A lot other than a corner lot with
frontage on more than one street. Through lots abutting two streets may be
referred to as double frontage lots.
(1992 Code, § 152.05) (Ord. passed 5-5-1986; Ord. passed 3-19-2007)
§ 152.06 WORD INTERPRETATION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, certain words shall be interpreted as
follows:
   (A)   Words used in the present tense include the future tense.
   (B)   Words used in the singular number include the plural and words used in
the plural number include the singular, unless the natural construction of the
wording indicates otherwise.
   (C)   The word PERSON includes a firm, association, corporation, trust and
company as well as an individual.
   (D)   The word STRUCTURE shall include the word BUILDING.
   (E)   The word LOT shall include the words PLOT, PARCEL or TRACT.
   (F)   The word SHALL is always mandatory and not merely directory.
(1992 Code, § 152.06) (Ord. passed 5-5-1986; Ord. passed 3-19-2007)
§ 152.07 PREREQUISITE TO PLAT RECORDATION.
   After the effective date of this chapter, each individual subdivision plat
of land within the town's jurisdiction shall be reviewed by the Planning Board
and approved by the Council.
(1992 Code, § 152.07) (Ord. passed 5-5-1986; Ord. passed 3-19-2007)
§ 152.08 ACCEPTANCE OF STREETS.
   No street shall be maintained by the town nor street dedication accepted for
ownership and maintenance in any subdivision for which a plat is required to be
approved unless and until the final plat has been approved by the town.
(1992 Code, § 152.08) (Ord. passed 5-5-1986; Ord. passed 3-19-2007) Penalty,
see §
152.99
§ 152.09 ZONING AND OTHER PLANS.
   Proposed subdivisions must comply in all respects with the requirements of
the zoning ordinance in effect in the area to be subdivided and any other
officially adopted plans.
(1992 Code, § 152.09) (Ord. passed 5-5-1986) Penalty, see §
152.99
Cross-reference:
   Zoning ordinance adopted by reference, see §
153.01
§ 152.10 ABROGATION.
   (A)   It is not intended that this chapter repeal, abrogate, annul, impair
or interfere with any existing easements, covenants, deed restrictions,
agreements, rules, regulations or permits previously adopted or issued pursuant
to law. However, where this chapter imposes greater restrictions, the
provisions of this chapter shall govern.
   (B)   Wherever the requirements of this chapter are at variance with other
requirements of lawfully adopted rules, regulations, ordinances, deed
restrictions or covenants, the most restrictive or that imposing the highest
standards, shall govern.
(1992 Code, § 152.10) (Ord. passed 5-5-1986; Ord. passed 3-19-2007)
REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF SUBDIVISION PLATS
§ 152.25 PLAT SHALL BE REQUIRED ON ANY SUBDIVISION OF LAND.
   Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-372, a final plat shall be prepared, approved and
recorded pursuant to the provisions of this chapter whenever any subdivision of
land takes place.
(1992 Code, § 152.20) (Ord. passed 5-5-1986; Ord. passed 3-19-2007)
§ 152.26 APPROVAL PREREQUISITE TO PLAT RECORDATION.
   Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-373, no final plat of a subdivision within the
jurisdiction of the town as established in §
152.04 shall be recorded by the appropriate Register of Deeds until it has been
approved by the Council as provided herein. To secure such approval of a final
plat the subdivider shall follow the procedures established in this subchapter.
(1992 Code, § 152.21) (Ord. passed 5-5-1986; Ord. passed 3-19-2007)
§ 152.27 PROCEDURES FOR REVIEW OF SUBDIVISIONS.
   Subdivisions shall be reviewed in accordance with the procedures in this
subchapter.
   (A)   Sketch plan for subdivisions. Prior to the preliminary plat
submission, the subdivider may submit to the Planning Board two copies of a
sketch plan of the proposed subdivision containing the following information:
      (1)   A sketch vicinity map showing the location of the subdivision in
relation to neighboring tracts, subdivisions, roads and waterways;
      (2)   The boundaries of the tract and the portion of the tract to be
subdivided;
      (3)   The total acreage to be subdivided;
      (4)   The existing and proposed uses of the land within the subdivision
and the existing uses of land adjoining it;
      (5)   The proposed street layout with approximate pavement and right-of-
way width, lot layout and size of lots; the existing and proposed method of
providing water and sanitary sewer service. The existing and proposed method of
storm water drainage and street lighting.
      (6)   The name, address and telephone number of the owner;
      (7)   The name, if any, of the proposed subdivision;
      (8)   Streets and lots of adjacent developed or platted properties;
      (9)   The zoning classification of the tract and of adjacent properties;
      (10)    A statement from the appropriate County Health Department that a
copy of the sketch plan has been submitted to them, if septic tanks or other
on-site water or wastewater systems are to be used in the subdivision;
   (B)   Submission and review procedure for sketch plan.
      (1)   The sketch plan shall be submitted at least seven days prior to the
Planning Board meeting at which it will be reviewed. The Planning Board shall
review the sketch plan for general compliance with the requirements of this
chapter and
Chapter 153, Zoning Code; the Planning Board shall advise the subdivider or his
or her authorized agent of the regulations pertaining to the proposed
subdivision and the procedures to be followed in the preparation and submission
of the preliminary and final plats.
      (2)   One copy of the sketch plan shall be retained as a part of the
minutes of the Planning Board with the other copy being returned to the
subdivider or his or her authorized agent.
   (C)   Submission procedure for preliminary plat.
      (1)   For every subdivision within the territorial jurisdiction
established by §
152.04, the subdivider shall submit a preliminary plat which shall be reviewed
by the Planning Board and approved by the Council before any construction or
installation of improvements may begin.
      (2)   Three copies of the preliminary plat (as well as any additional
copies which the Subdivision Administrator determines are needed to be sent to
other agencies) shall be submitted to the Administrator of this chapter at
least seven days prior to the Planning Board meeting at which the subdivider
desires the Planning Board to review the preliminary plat. Submission of the
preliminary plat shall be accompanied by a filing fee, paid by the subdivider,
in accordance with the town's fee schedule.
      (3)   Preliminary plats shall meet the specifications in §
152.29.
   (D)   Review by other agencies. After having received the preliminary plat
from the subdivider, the Subdivision Administrator shall submit copies of the
preliminary plat and any accompanying material to other officials and agencies
concerned with new development including, where applicable, but not limited to:
The appropriate county health department, the Street Maintenance
Superintendent, the Director of Public works, the District Engineer of the
North Carolina Department of Transportation (four copies) and the County Soil
Conservation Service, for review and recommendation.
   (E)   Review procedure.
      (1)   The Planning Board shall review the preliminary plat at or before
its next regularly scheduled meeting which follows at least seven days after
the Subdivision Administrator receives the preliminary plat and the comments
from the appropriate agencies.
      (2)   The Planning Board shall, in writing, recommend approval,
conditional approval with recommended changes to bring the plat into compliance
or disapproval with reasons, within 40 days of its first consideration of the
plat.
      (3)   If the Planning Board recommends approval of the preliminary plat,
it shall retain one copy of the plat for its minutes and transmit two copies of
the plat to the Council with its recommendation.
      (4)   If the Planning Board recommends conditional approval of the
preliminary plat, it shall keep one copy of the plat for its minutes, transmit
two copies of the plat and its recommendation to the Council and return the
remaining copy of the plat and its recommendation to the subdivider.
      (5)   If the Planning Board recommends disapproval of the preliminary
plat, it shall retain one copy of the plat for its minutes, transmit one copy
of the plat and its recommendation to the Council and return the remaining copy
of the plat and its recommendation to the subdivider.
      (6)   If the preliminary plat is disapproved, the subdivider may make the
recommended changes and submit a revised preliminary plat or appeal the
decision to the Council.
      (7)   If the Planning Board does not make a written recommendation within
40 days after its first consideration of the plat, the subdivider may apply to
the Council for approval or disapproval.
      (8)   If the Council approves the preliminary plat, such approval shall
be noted on two copies of the plat. One copy of the plat shall be retained by
the Council and one copy shall be returned to the subdivider. If the Council
approves the preliminary plat with conditions, approval shall be noted on two
copies of the plat along with a reference to the conditions. One copy of the
plat along with the conditions shall be retained by the Council and one copy of
the preliminary plat along with the conditions shall be returned to the
subdivider. If the Council disapproves the preliminary plat, the reasons for
such disapproval shall be specified in writing. One copy of the plat and the
reasons shall be retained by the Council and one copy shall be returned to the
subdivider.
(1992 Code, § 152.22) Ord. passed 5-5-1986; Ord. passed 3-19-2007)
§ 152.28 FINAL PLAT SUBMISSION AND REVIEW.
   (A)   Preparation of final plat and installation of improvements. Upon
approval of the preliminary plat by the Council, the subdivider may proceed
with the preparation of the final plat and the installation of or arrangement
for required improvements in accordance with the approved preliminary plat and
the requirements of this chapter. Prior to approval of a final plat, the
subdivider shall have installed the improvements specified in this chapter or
guaranteed their installation as provided herein. No final plat will be
accepted for review by the Planning Board or the Council unless accompanied by
written notice by the Town Clerk/Manager acknowledging compliance with the
improvement and guarantee standards of this chapter. The final plat shall
constitute only that portion of the preliminary plat which the subdivider
proposes to record and develop at that time, such portion shall conform to all
requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Improvements guarantees.
      (1)   Agreement and security required. In lieu of requiring the
completion, installation and dedication of all improvements prior to final plat
approval, the town may enter into an agreement with the subdivider whereby the
subdivider shall agree to complete all required improvements. Once the
agreement is signed by both parties and the security required herein is
provided, the final plat may be approved by the Council if all other
requirements of this chapter are met. To secure this agreement, the subdivider
shall provide, subject to the approval of the Council, either one or a
combination of the following guarantees not exceed one and one-fourth times the
entire cost as provided herein:
         (a)   Surety performance bonds. The subdivider shall obtain a
performance bond(s) from a surety bonding company authorized to do business in
this state. The bonds shall be payable to the town and shall be in an amount
equal to one and one-fourth times the entire cost, as estimated by the
subdivider and approved by the Council, of installing all required
improvements. The duration of the bond(s) shall be until such time as the
improvements are accepted by the Council.
         (b)   Cash or equivalent security. The subdivider shall deposit cash,
an irrevocable letter of credit or other instrument readily convertible into
cash at face value, either with the town or in escrow with a financial
institution designated as an official depository of the town. The use of any
instrument other than cash shall be subject to the approval of the Council. The
amount of deposit shall be equal to one and one-fourth times the cost, as
estimated by the subdivider and approved by the Council, of installing all
required improvements. If cash or other instrument is deposited in escrow with
a financial institution as provided above, then the subdivider shall file with
the Council an agreement between the financial institution and himself or
herself guaranteeing the following:
            1.   The escrow account shall be held in trust until released by
the Council and may not be used or pledged by the subdivider in any other
matter during the term of the escrow; and
            2.   In the case of a failure on the part of the subdivider to
complete such improvements, the financial institution shall, upon notification
by the Council and submission by the Council to the financial institution of an
engineer's estimate of the amount needed to complete the improvements,
immediately either pay to the town the funds estimated to complete the
improvement, up to the full balance of the escrow account or deliver to the
town any other instruments fully endorsed or otherwise made payable in full to
the town.
      (2)   Default. Upon default, meaning failure on the part of the
subdivider to complete the required improvements in a timely manner as spelled
out in the performance bond or escrow agreement, then the surety or the
financial institution holding the escrow account shall, if requested by the
Council, pay all or any portion of the bond or escrow fund to the town, up to
the amount needed to complete the improvements based on an engineering
estimate. Upon payment, the Council, in its discretion, may expend the portion
of the funds as it deems necessary to complete all or any portion of the
required improvements. The town shall return to the subdivider any funds not
spent in completing the improvements.
      (3)   Release of guarantee security. The Council may release a portion of
any security posed as the improvements are completed and recommended for
approval by the Subdivision Administrator. Within 40 days after receiving the
Subdivision Administrator's recommendation, approved by a certified engineer of
curbs and gutters, the Council shall approve or disapprove the improvements. If
the Council approves the improvements, then it shall immediately release any
security posted.
   (C)   Submission procedure.
      (1)   The subdivider shall submit the final plat, so marked, to the
Subdivision Administrator not less than seven days prior to the Planning Board
meeting at which it will be reviewed. The final plat for the first stage of the
subdivision shall be submitted not more than 18 months after the date on which
the preliminary plat was approved; otherwise, the approval shall be null and
void, unless a written extension of this limit is granted by the Council on or
before the 18-month anniversary of the approval.
      (2)   The final plat shall be prepared by a registered land surveyor
currently licensed and registered in the state by the State Board of
Registration for Professional Engineers and Land Surveyors. The final plat
shall conform to the provisions for plats, subdivisions and mapping
requirements set forth in G.S. § 47-30 and the Standards of Practice for Land
Surveying in North Carolina.
      (3)   Five copies of the final plat shall be submitted; two of these
shall be on reproducible material; three shall be black or blue line paper
prints. Material and drawing medium for the original shall be in accordance
with the Standards of Practice for Land Surveying in North Carolina, where
applicable and the requirements of the appropriate county register of deeds.
      (4)   The final plat shall be of a size suitable for recording with the
appropriate county register of deeds and shall be at a scale of not less than
one-inch equals 200 feet. Maps may be placed on more than one sheet with
appropriate match lines.
      (5)   The final plat shall meet the specifications in §
152.29.
      (6)   The following signed certificates shall appear on all five copies
of the final plat:
         (a)   Certificate of ownership and dedication.
   I hereby certify that I am the owner of the property shown and described
hereon, which is located in the subdivision jurisdiction of the town of Four
Oaks and that I hereby adopt this plan of subdivision with my free consent,
establish minimum building setback lines and dedicate all streets, alleys,
walks, parks and other sites and easements to public or private use as noted.
   Furthermore, I hereby dedicate all sanitary sewer, storm sewer and water
lines to the Town of Four Oaks.
   ___________________________________
   Owners
   ___________________________________
   Date
         (b)   Certificate of Survey and Accuracy.
            1.   In accordance with G.S. § 47-30, there shall appear on the
plat a certificate by the person under whose supervision such survey or such
plat was made, stating the origin of the information shown on the plat,
including recorded deed and plat references shown thereon. The ratio of
precision before any adjustments must be shown. Any lines on the plat that were
not actually surveyed must be clearly indicated and a statement included
revealing the source of information. The execution of such certificate shall be
acknowledged before any office authorized to take acknowledgments by the
registered land surveyor preparing the plat. All plats to be recorded shall be
probated as required by law for the registration of deeds. Where a plat
consists of more than one sheet, only one sheet must contain the certification
and all other sheets must be signed and sealed.
            2.   The certificate required above shall include the source of
information for the survey and data indicating the ratio of precision of the
survey before the adjustments and shall be in substantially the following form:
   I, _______________________________certify that this plat was drawn under my
supervision from an actual survey made under my supervision (deed description
recorded in Book ______, page _______, etc.) (other); that the boundaries not
surveyed are clearly indicated as drawn from information found in Book ______,
page _______; that the ratio of precision as calculated is 1: ____; that this
plat was prepared in accordance with G.S. § 47-30 as amended. Witness my
original signature, registration number and seal this _____ day of
______________, A.D. 20_____.
      Seal or stamp
   ___________________________________
   Surveyor
   ___________________________________
   Registration Number
      (7)   The certificate of the notary shall read as follows:
   North Carolina, ________________________County.
   I, _____________________________a Notary Public of the County and State
aforesaid, certify that ____________________________, a registered land
surveyor, personally appeared before me this day and acknowledged the execution
of the foregoing instrument. Witness my hand and official stamp or seal, this
_______ day of __________________, 20_____.
      Seal or stamp
   Notary Public _______________________________
   My Commission expires _______________________
      (8)    The Planning Board shall review the final plat at or before its
next regularly scheduled meeting which follows at least seven days after the
Subdivision Administrator receives the final plat and shall recommend approval,
conditional approval with modifications to bring the plat into compliance or
disapproval of the final plat with reasons within 40 days of its first
consideration of the plat.
      (9)   During its review of the final plat, the Planning Board may appoint
a registered land surveyor to confirm the accuracy of the final plat (if agreed
to by the Council). If substantial errors are found, the costs shall be charged
to the subdivider and the plat shall not be recommended for approval until the
errors have been corrected.
      (10)   If the Planning Board recommends approval of the final plat it
shall transmit all copies of the plat and its written recommendations to the
Council through the Subdivision Administrator.
      (11)   If the Planning Board recommends conditional approval of the final
plat with notifications to bring the plat into compliance, it shall retain one
print of the plat for its minutes, return its written recommendations and two
reproducible copies of the plat to the subdivider and transmit one print of the
plat and its written recommendation to the Council through the Subdivision
Administrator.
      (12)   If the Planning Board recommends disapproval of the final plat, it
shall instruct the subdivider concerning resubmission of the revised plat and
the subdivider may make such changes as will bring the plat into compliance
with the provisions of this chapter and resubmit the revised plat for
reconsideration by the Planning Board or appeal the decision to the Council.
      (13)   Failure of the Planning Board to make a written recommendation
within 40 days shall constitute grounds for the subdivider to apply to the
Council.
      (14)   If the Planning Board recommends approval or conditional approval
with modifications to bring the plat into compliance or the subdivider appeals
to the Council, the Council shall review and approve or disapprove the final
plat within 65 days after the plat and recommendations of the Planning Board
have been received by the Subdivision Administrator.
      (15)   If the Council approves the final plat, the approval shall be
shown on each copy of the plat by the following signed certificate:
      Certificate of Approval for Recording:
   I hereby certify that the subdivision plat shown hereon has been found to
comply with the Subdivision Regulation of the Town of Four Oaks, North Carolina
and that this plat has been approved by the Council of the Town of Four Oaks
for recording in the Office of the Register of Deeds of Johnston County.
   _________________________________________
   Mayor               Date
   Town of Four Oaks, North Carolina
   ATTESTED BY
   _____________________________
   Town Clerk/Manager
      (16)   If the final plat is disapproved by the Council, the reasons for
such disapproval shall be stated in writing, specifying the provisions of this
chapter with which the final plat does not comply. One copy of such reasons and
one print of the plat shall be retained by the Council as part of its
proceedings; one copy of the reasons and three copies of the plat shall be
transmitted to the subdivider. If the final plat is disapproved, the subdivider
may make such changes as will bring the final plat into compliance and resubmit
same for reconsideration by the Planning Board and the Council or by the
Council as determined by the Council.
      (17)   If the final plat is approved by the Council, the original tracing
and one print of the plat shall be retained by the subdivider. One reproducible
tracing and one print shall be filed with the Town Clerk/Manager and one print
shall be returned to the Planning Board for its records.
      (18)   The subdivider shall file the approved final plat with the
register of deeds of the appropriate county within 60 days of the Council
approval; otherwise such approval shall be null and void.
(1992 Code, § 152.24) (Ord. passed 5-5-1986) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.29 INFORMATION TO BE CONTAINED IN OR DEPICTED ON PRELIMINARY AND FINAL
PLATS.
   The preliminary and final plats shall depict or contain the information
indicated in the following table. An X indicates that the information is
required.
Information Preliminary Plat Final Plat
Information                                                                      Preliminary Final
                                                                                 Plat        Plat
Title block containing:
   Property designation                                                       X           X
   Name of owner                                                              X           X
   Location (including township, county and state)                            X           X
   Date or dates survey was conducted and plat prepared                       X           X
   A scale of drawing in feet per inch listed in words or figure              X           X
   A bar graph                                                                X           X
   Name, address, registration number and seal of the registered land surveyorX           X
   The name of the subdivider                                                 X           X
   A sketch vicinity map showing the relationship between the proposed        X           X
subdivision and surrounding area
   Corporate limits, township boundaries, county lines if on the subdivision  X           X
tract
   The names, addresses and telephone numbers of all owners, mortgagees,
registered land surveyors, land planners architects, landscape, architects and   X           X
professional engineers responsible for the subdivision
   The registration numbers and seals of the professional engineers           X           X
   Date of plat preparation                                                   X           X
   North arrow and orientation                                                X           X
   The boundaries of the tract or portion thereof to be subdivided, distinctlyX           X
and accurately represented with all bearings and distances shown.
   The exact boundary lines of the tract to be subdivided, fully dimensioned by
lengths and bearings and the location of existing boundary lines of adjoining                X
lands
   The names of owners of adjoining properties                                X           X
   The names of any adjoining subdivisions of record or proposed and under    X           X
review
   Minimum building setback lines                                             X           X
   The zoning classifications of the tract to be subdivided and adjoining     X           X
properties
   Existing property lines on the tract to be subdivided and on adjoining     X           X
properties
   Existing buildings or other structures, water courses, railroads, bridges,
culverts, storm drains, both on the land to be subdivided and land immediately   X           X
adjoining
   Proposed lot lines, lot and block numbers and approximate dimensions       X
   The lots numbered consecutively throughout the subdivision                             X
   Wooded areas, marshes, swamps, rock outcrops, ponds or lakes, streams or   X
streambeds and any other natural features affecting the site
   Cemeteries/family plots                                                    X           X
   The exact location of the flood hazard, floodway and floodway fringe areas X           X
from the community’s FHBM or other FEMA maps
The following data concerning streets:
   Proposed streets                                                           X           X
   Existing and platted streets on adjoining properties and in the proposed   X           X
subdivision
   Rights-of-way, location and dimensions                                     X           X
   Pavement widths                                                            X
   Approximate grades                                                         X
   Design engineering data for all corners and curves                         X           X
   Typical street cross-sections                                              X
   Street names                                                               X           X
   Street maintenance agreement in accordance with §                                     X
152.49
   Type of street dedication; all streets must be designated either "public" or
"private." Where public streets are involved which will be dedicated to the town
the subdivider must submit all street plans to the Subdivision Administrator for
approval prior to preliminary plat approval. Where public streets are involved
which will not be dedicated to a municipality, the subdivider must submit the
following documents to the N.C. Department of Transportation District Highway
Office for review: a complete site layout, including any future expansion        X           X
anticipated; horizontal alignment indicating general curve data on site layout
plan; vertical alignment indicated by percent grade, PI station and vertical
curve length on site plan layout; (the District Engineer may require the
plotting of the ground profile and grade line for roads where special conditions
or problems exist); typical section indicating the pavement design and width and
the slopes, widths and details for either the curb and gutter or the shoulder
and ditch proposed; drainage facilities and drainage areas.
   Where streets are dedicated to the public, but not accepted into a municipal
or the state system before lots are sold, a statement explaining the status of               X
the street in accordance with §
152.49(B).
   If any street is proposed to intersect with a state maintained road, the
subdivider shall apply for driveway approval as required by the North Carolina
Department of Transportation, Division of Highways' Manual on driveway
regulations.
   Evidence that the subdivider has obtained such approval                                X
The location and dimensions of all:
   Utility and other easements                                                X           X
Riding trails                                                                    X           X
Natural buffers                                                                  X           X
Pedestrian or bicycle paths                                                      X           X
Parks and recreation areas with specific type indicated                          X           X
Schools sites                                                                    X           X
Areas to be dedicated to or reserved for public use                              X           X
Areas to be used for purposes other than residential with the purpose of each    X           X
stated
Areas to be used for purposes other than residential with the purpose of each    X           X
stated
The future ownership (dedication or reservation for public use to governmental
body, for owners to duty constituted homeowners’ association or for tenants    X
remaining in subdivider’s ownership) of recreation and open space lands
The plans for utility layouts including:
   Sanitary sewers                                                            X
   Storm sewers                                                               X
   Other drainage facilities, if any                                          X
   Water distribution lines                                                   X
   Natural gas lines                                                          X
   Telephone lines                                                            X
   Electric lines illustrating connections to existing systems, showing lines
sizes, the location of fire hydrants, blowoffs, manholes, force mains and gate   X
valves
Plans for individual water supply and sewage disposal systems, if any            X           X
Profiles based upon Mean Sea Level datum for sanitary sewers and storm sewers    X
Site calculations including:
   Acreage in total tract to be subdivided                                    X
   Acreage in parks and recreation areas and other nonresidential uses        X
   Total number of parcels created                                            X
   Acreage in the smallest lot in the subdivision                             X
   Linear feet in streets                                                     X
The name and location of any property or buildings within the proposed
subdivision or within any contiguous property that is located on the U.S.        X           X
Department of Interior's National Register of Historic Places
Sufficient engineering data to determine readily and reproduce on the ground
every straight or curved lined, street line, lot line, right-of-way line,
easement line and setback line, including dimensions, bearings or deflection
angles, radii, central angles and tangent distance for the center line of curved X
property lines that are not the boundary line of curved streets. All dimensions
shall be measured to the nearest one-tenth of a foot and all angles to the
nearest minutes
The accurate locations and descriptions of all monuments, markers and control    X
points
A copy of any proposed deed restrictions or similar covenants. Such restrictions X           X
are mandatory when private recreation areas are established
A copy of the erosion control plan submitted to the appropriate authority, if    X
such a plan is required
Topographic map with contour intervals of no greater than two feet at a scale of X
no less than 1-inch = 200 feet
All certifications                                                                           X
Any other information considered by either the subdivider, Planning Board or the X           X
Council to be pertinent to the review of the plat
Streets, water, sanitary sewer and storm sewer plans shall be prepared by a      X
registered professional engineer
 
(1992 Code, § 152.24) (Ord. passed 5-5-1986; Ord. passed 3-19-2007)
§ 152.30 RECOMBINATION OF LAND.
   (A)   Any plat or any part of any plat may be vacated by the owners at any
time before the sale of any lot in the subdivision by a written instrument to
which a copy of the plat shall be attached, declaring the same to be vacated.
   (B)   Such an instrument shall be approved by the same agencies as approved
the final plat. The Council may reject any such instrument which abridges or
destroys any public rights in any of its public uses, improvements, streets or
alleys.
   (C)   Such an instrument shall be executed, acknowledged or approved and
recorded and filed in the same manner as a final plat; and being duly recorded
or filed shall operate to destroy the force and effect of the recording of the
plat so vacated and to divest all public rights in the streets, alleys and
public grounds and all dedications laid out or described in the plat.
   (D)   When lots have been sold, the plat may be vacated in the manner
provided in divisions (A) through (C) of this section, by all owners of the
lots in the plat joining in the execution of the writing.
(1992 Code, § 152.25) (Ord. passed 5-5-1986; Ord. passed 3-19-2007)
§ 152.31 RESUBDIVISION PROCEDURES.
   For any replatting or resubdivision of land, the same procedures, rules and
regulations shall apply as prescribed herein for an original subdivision.
(1992 Code, § 152.26) (Ord. passed 5-5-1986; Ord. passed 3-19-2007)
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS AND MINIMUM DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 152.45 GENERAL STATEMENT.
   Each subdivision shall contain the improvements specified in this
subchapter, which shall be installed in accordance with the requirements of
this chapter and paid for by the subdivider, unless other means of financing
are specifically stated in this chapter. Land shall be dedicated and reserved
in each subdivision as specified in this subchapter. Each subdivision shall
adhere to the minimum standards of design established by this subchapter.
(1992 Code, § 152.40) (Ord. passed 5-5-1986; Ord. passed 3-19-2007) Penalty,
see §
152.99
§ 152.46 SUITABILITY OF LAND.
   (A)   Land which has been determined by the Council on the basis of
engineering or other expert surveys to pose an ascertainable danger to life or
property by reason of its unsuitability for the use proposed, shall not be
platted for that purpose, unless and until the subdivider has taken the
necessary measures to correct such conditions and to eliminate the dangers.
   (B)   Areas that have been used for disposal of solid waste shall not be
subdivided unless tests by the appropriate County Health Department, a
structural engineer and a soils expert determine that the land is suitable for
the purpose proposed.
(1992 Code, § 152.41) (Ord. passed 5-5-1986; Ord. 3-19-2007) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.47 NAME DUPLICATION.
   The name of the subdivision shall not duplicate nor closely approximate the
name of existing subdivisions within the county in which the subdivision is
located, nor within the town.
(1992 Code, § 152.42) (Ord. passed 5-5-1986; Ord. 3-19-2007) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.48 SUBDIVISION DESIGN.
   (A)   Blocks.
      (1)   The lengths, widths and shapes of blocks shall be determined with
due regard to: provision of adequate building sites suitable to the special
needs of the type of use contemplated; zoning requirements; needs for vehicular
and pedestrian circulation; control and safety of street traffic; limitations
and opportunities of topography; and convenient access to water areas.
      (2)   Blocks shall not be less than 300 feet or more than 600 feet.
      (3)   Blocks shall have sufficient width to allow two tiers of lots of
minimum depth except where single tier lots are required to separate
residential development from through vehicular traffic or another type of use,
in nonresidential subdivisions or where abutting a water area.
      (4)   Where deemed necessary by the Council, a pedestrian crosswalk at
least 15 feet in width may be required to provide convenient public access to a
public area such as a park or school, to a water area or to areas such as
shopping centers, religious or transportation facilities.
      (5)   Block numbers shall conform to the town street numbering system, if
applicable.
   (B)   Lots.
      (1)   All lots in new subdivisions shall conform to the zoning
requirements of the district in which the subdivision is located. Conformance
to zoning requirements means, among other things, that the smallest lot in the
subdivision must meet all dimensional requirements of
Chapter 153, Zoning Code. It is not sufficient merely for the average lot to
meet zoning requirements.
      (2)   Lots shall meet any applicable County Health Department
requirements.
      (3)   Double frontage lots shall be avoided wherever possible.
      (4)   Side lot lines shall be substantially at right angle to or radial
to street lines.
   (C)   Easements. Easements shall be provided as follows:
      (1)   Utility easements. Easements for underground or above-ground
utilities shall be provided, where necessary, across lots or centered on rear
or side lot lines and shall be at least 20 feet wide for water and sanitary
sewer lines and as required by the companies involved, for telephone, gas and
power lines. The Council will determine whether one easement is sufficient or
whether several easements are necessary to accommodate the various facilities
and the subdivider shall provide the required easements.
      (2)   Drainage easements. Where a subdivision is traversed by a stream or
drainage way, an easement shall be provided conforming with the lines of the
stream and of sufficient width as will be adequate for the purpose.
(1992 Code, § 152.43) (Ord. passed 5-5-1986; Ord. passed 3-19-2007) Penalty,
see §
152.99
§ 152.49 STREETS.
   (A)   Type of street required. All subdivision lots shall abut at least 20
feet on a public street. All public streets shall be dedicated to the town, the
state or the public as determined appropriate by the Council. All public
streets shall be built to the standards of this chapter and all other
applicable standards of the town and the State Department of Transportation.
Public streets not dedicated to the town which are eligible for acceptance into
the state highway system shall be constructed to the standards necessary to be
put on the state highway system or the standards in this chapter, whichever is
stricter, in regard to each particulate item and shall be put on such system.
Streets not dedicated to the town which are not eligible to be put on the state
highway system because there are too few lots or residences shall,
nevertheless, be dedicated to the public and shall be in accordance with the
standards of this chapter or the standards necessary to be put on the state
highway system, whichever is stricter in regard to each particulate item, so as
to be eligible to be put on the system at a later date. A written maintenance
agreement with provisions for maintenance of the street until it is put on the
state system shall be included with the final plat.
   (B)   Subdivision state disclosure statement. All streets shown on the final
plat shall be designated in accordance with G.S. § 136-102.6 and designation as
public shall be conclusively presumed an offer of dedication to the public.
Where streets are dedicated to the public but not accepted into a municipal or
the state system, before lots are sold, a statement explaining the status of
the street shall be included with the final plat.
   (C)   Half streets. The dedication of half streets of less than 60 feet at
the perimeter of a new subdivision shall be prohibited. If circumstances render
this impractible, adequate provision for the concurrent dedication of the
remaining half of the street shall be furnished by the subdivider. Where there
exists a half street in an adjoining subdivision, the remaining half shall be
provided by the proposed subdivision. However, in circumstances where more than
60 feet of right-of-way is required, a partial width right-of-way, not less
than 60 feet in width, may be dedicated when adjoining undeveloped property is
owned or controlled by the subdivider; provided that the width of the partial
dedication is such as to permit the installation of the facilities as may be
necessary to serve abutting lots. When the adjoining property is subdivided,
the remainder of the full required right-of-way shall be dedicated.
   (D)   Marginal access streets. Where a tract of land to be subdivided
adjoins a principal arterial street, the subdivider may be required to provide
a marginal access street parallel to the arterial street or reverse frontage on
a minor street for the lots to be developed adjacent to the arterial. Where
reverse frontage is established, private driveways shall be prevented from
having direct access to the principal arterial.
   (E)   Access to adjacent properties. Where, in the opinion of the Council,
it is necessary to provide for street access to an adjoining property, proposed
streets shall be extended by dedication to the boundary of the property and a
temporary turnaround provided.
   (F)   Nonresidential streets. The subdivider of a nonresidential subdivision
shall provide streets in accordance with F-4 of the North Carolina Subdivision
Roads Minimum Construction Standards, May 1, 1983; and the standards of this
chapter, whichever are stricter in regard to each particular item.
   (G)   Design standards. The design of all streets and roads within the
jurisdiction of this chapter shall be in accordance with the accepted policies
of the State Department of Transportation, Division of Highways, as taken or
modified from the American Association of State Highway Officials (AASHO)
manuals. The State Department of Transportation, Division of Highways'
Subdivision Roads Minimum Construction Standards, May 1, 1983 shall apply for
any items not included in this chapter or where stricter than this chapter. The
provisions of street rights-of-way shall conform to and meet the requirements
of the thoroughfare plan of the town as approved by the Planning Board and
adopted by the Council and the State Board of Transportation. The urban
planning area shall consist of that area within the urban planning boundary as
depicted on the mutually adopted town thoroughfare plan. The rural planning
area shall be that area outside the urban planning boundary.
      (1)   Right-of-way widths.
         (a)   Right-of-way widths shall not be less than the following and
shall apply except in those cases where right-of-way requirements have been
specifically set out in the thoroughfare plan.
Rural Minimum Right-of-Way (Feet)
Rural              Minimum Right-of-Way (Feet)
Principal arterial
   Freeway      350
   Other        200
Minor arterial     100
Major collector    100
Minor collector    100
Local road         60*
Private street     20
*The desirable minimum right-of-way is established as 60 feet. If curb and
gutter is provided, 50 feet of right-of-way is adequate on local residential
streets.
 
 
Urban                                     Minimum Right-of-Way (Feet)
Major thoroughfare other than freeway and 90
expressway
Minor thoroughfare                        70
Local street                              60*
Cul-de-sac                                50
*The desirable minimum right-of-way is established as 60 feet. If
curb and gutter is provided, 50 feet of right-of-way is adequate on
local residential streets.
**The right-of-way dimension will depend on radius for vehicular
turnaround. Distance from edge of pavement of turnaround to right-of-
way should not be less than distance from edge of pavement to right-
of-way on street approaching turnaround.
 
         (b)   The subdivider will only be required to dedicate a maximum of
100 feet of right-of-way. In cases where over 100 feet of right-of-way is
desired, the subdivider will be required only to reserve the amount in excess
of 100 feet. In all cases in which right-of-way is sought for an access
controlled facility, the subdivider will only be required to make a
reservation.
      (2)   Street widths. Widths for street and road classifications other
than local shall be as required by the thoroughfare plan. Width of local roads
and streets shall be as follows:
         (a)   Local residential.
            1.   Curb and gutter section: 26 feet, to face of curb.
            2.   Shoulder section: 20 feet to edge of pavement, 4-foot
shoulders.
         (b)   Residential collector.
            1.   Curb and gutter section: 34 feet to edge of pavement.
            2.   Shoulder section: 20 feet to edge of pavement, 6-foot
shoulders.
      (3)   Geometric characteristics. The standards outlined below shall apply
to all subdivision streets proposed for addition to the state highway system
(or municipal street system). In cases where a subdivision is sought adjacent
to a proposed thoroughfare corridor, the requirements of dedication and
reservation discussed under right-of-way shall apply.
         (a)   Design speed. The design speeds for subdivision-type streets
shall be:
           Minimum
 Desirable Level* Rolling**
                                                               Minimum
                                                     Desirable Level* Rolling**
Rural
Minor collector roads                                60        50     40
Local roads including residential collectors and     50        50†  40†
local residential
Urban
Major thoroughfares other than freeway or expressway 60        50     50
Minor thoroughfares                                  60        50     40
Local streets                                        35        35‡  35‡
*Cross slope range of 0% to 8%
**Cross slope range of 8% to 15%
† Based on projected annual average daily traffic of 400 through 750. In cases
where road will serve a very limited area and small number of dwelling units,
minimum design speeds can be reduced further, but in no case, below 25.
‡Based on projected annual average daily traffic of 50 through 250.
 
         (b)   Maximum and minimum grades.
            1.   The maximum grades in percent shall be:
 
Design Speed  (mph)Level Rolling
60                  3     4
50                  4     5
40                  5     6
30                  -     9
 
            2.   A minimum grade for curbed streets normally should not be less
than 0.5%, a grade of 0.35% may be allowed where there is a high type pavement
accurately crowned and in areas where special drainage conditions may control.
            3.   Grades for 100 feet each way from intersections should not
exceed 5%.
            4.   For streets and roads with projected annual average daily
traffic less than 250, short grades less than 500 feet long, may be 150%
greater.
         (c)   Minimum sight distances.
            1.   In the interest of public safety, no less than the minimum
sight distance applicable shall be provided in every instance. Vertical curves
that connect each change in grade shall be provided and calculated using the
following parameters. (General practice calls for vertical curves to be
multiples of 50 feet. Calculated lengths shall be rounded up in each case):
 Design Speed MPH
 20 30 40 50 60
                                         Design Speed MPH
                                         20  30   40   50   60
Stopping sight distance
   Min. stopping distance, feet       150 200  275  350  475
   Des. stopping distance, feet       150 200  300  450  650
Minimum K* value for:
   Min. crest vert. curve             16  28   55   85   160
   Des. crest vert. curve             16  28   65   145  300
   Min. SAG vert. curve               24  35   55   75   105
   Des. SAG vert. curve               24  35   60   100  155
Passing sigh distance:
   Min. passing distance, feet (2 lane-   1100 1500 1800 2100
   Min K* value for crest vertical cur-e  365  686  985  1340
Note: K* is a coefficient by 2 which the algebraic difference in grade may
be multiples to determine the length in feet of the vertical curve which
will provide minimum sight distance.
 
            2.   Sight distance provided for stopped vehicles at intersections
should be in accordance with, "A Policy on Geometric Design of Rural Highways,"
and the provisions of
Chapter 153, Zoning Code.
         (d)   Degree of curve. The following table shows the maximum degree of
curve and related maximum superelevation for design speeds. The maximum rate of
roadway superelevation ("e") for rural roads with no curb and gutter is 0.08.
The maximum rate of superelevation for urban streets with curb and gutter is
0.06 with 0.04 being desirable.
Design Speed  (mph)Maximum e* Minimum Radius (Rounded Maximum Degree of Curve
                               in feet)                (Rounded in Degrees)
Design Speed  (mph)Maximum e* Minimum Radius (Rounded Maximum Degree of Curve
                               in feet)                (Rounded in Degrees)
20                  .04        125                     45.0
30                  .04        300                     19.0
40                  .04        560                     10.0
50                  .04        925                     6.0
60                  .04        1410                    4.0
20                  .06        115                     50.0
30                  .06        275                     21.0
40                  .06        510                     11.5
50                  .06        830                     7.0
60                  .06        1260                    4.5
20                  .08        110                     53.5
30                  .08        250                     23.0
40                  .08        460                     12.5
50                  .08        760                     7.5
60                  .08        1140                    5.0
*Rate of roadway superelevation, foot per foot.
 
         (e)   Intersections.
            1.   Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as
possible at right angles and no street shall intersect any other street at an
angle less than 60 degrees.
            2.   Property lines at intersections should be set so that the
distance from the edge of pavement, of the street turnout, to the property
lines will be at least as great as the distance from the edge of pavement to
the property line along the intersecting streets. This property line can be
established as a radius or as a sight triangle. Greater offsets from the edge
of pavement to the property lines will be required, if necessary, to provide
sight distance for the vehicle on the side street.
            3.   Offset intersections are to be avoided unless exception is
granted by the Division of Highways. Intersections which cannot be aligned
should be separated by a minimum length of 200 feet between survey center
lines.
            4.   Intersections with arterials, collectors and thoroughfares
shall be at least 1,000 feet from center line to center line or more if
required by the State Department of Transportation.
         (f)   Cul-de-sacs. Permanent dead-end streets should not exceed 500
feet in length unless necessitated by topography or property accessibility and
in no case shall be permitted to be over 900 feet. Measurement shall be from
the point where the centerline of the dead-end street intersects with the
center of a through street to the center of the turnaround of the cul-de-sac.
Where one cul-de-sac intersects with another cul-de-sac, the end of each cul-
de-sac shall be no more than 500 to 900 feet from a through street, measured as
stated above. The distance from the edge of pavement on the vehicular
turnaround to the right-of-way line shall not be less than the distance from
the edge of pavement to right-of-way line on the street approaching the
turnaround. Cul-de-sacs should not be used to avoid connection with an existing
street or to avoid the extension of an important street, unless exception is
granted by the Council.
         (g)   Alleys.
            1.   Alleys shall be required to serve lots used for commercial and
industrial purposes except that this requirement may be waived where other
definite and assured provision is made for service access. Alleys shall not be
provided in residential subdivisions unless necessitated by unusual
circumstances.
            2.   The width of an alley shall be at least 20 feet.
            3.   Dead-end alleys shall be avoided where possible, but if
unavoidable, shall be provided with adequate turnaround facilities at the dead-
end as may be approved by the Council.
            4.   Sharp changes in alignment and grade shall be avoided.
            5.   All alleys shall be designed in accordance with State
Department of Transportation Standards.
   (H)   Other requirements.
      (1)   Through traffic discouraged on residential collector and local
streets. Residential collector and local streets shall be laid out in such a
way that their use by through traffic will be discouraged. Streets shall be
designed or walkways dedicated to assure convenient access to parks,
playgrounds, schools or other places of public assembly.
      (2)   Sidewalks. Sidewalks may be required by the Board of Commissioners
on both sides of the street in all subdivisions, multi-family developments,
mixed use developments, and other areas likely to be subject to heavy
pedestrian traffic such as near schools and shopping centers. Such sidewalks
shall be constructed to a minimum width of five feet, and shall consist of a
minimum thickness of four inches of concrete. All sidewalks shall be placed in
the right-of-way, unless the development is platted as a planned unit or group
development. Sidewalks shall consist of a minimum of six inches of concrete in
driveway crossings. The Board of Commissioners may grant an exception to this
policy in areas having very low traffic volume.
      (3)   Street names. Proposed streets which are obviously in alignment
with existing streets shall be given the same name. In assigning new names,
duplication of existing names shall be avoided and in no case shall the
proposed name be phonetically similar to existing names in the county
irrespective of the use of a suffix such as street, road, drive, place, court
and the like. Street names shall be subject to the approval of the Council.
      (4)   Street name signs. The subdivider shall be required to provide and
erect street name signs to town standards at all intersections within the
subdivision.
      (5)   Permits for connection to state roads. An approved permit is
required for connection to any existing state system road. This permit is
required prior to any construction on the street or road. The application is
available at the office of the nearest district engineer of the Division of
Highways.
      (6)   Offsets to utility poles. Poles for overhead utilities should be
located clear of roadway shoulders, preferably a minimum of at least 30 feet
from the edge of pavement on major thoroughfares. On streets with curb and
gutter, utility poles should be set back a minimum distance of six feet from
the face of curb.
      (7)   Wheelchair ramps. In accordance with G.S. § 136-44.14, all street
curbs in the state being constructed or reconstructed for maintenance
procedures, traffic operations, repairs, correction of utilities or altered for
any reason after September 1, 1973, shall provide wheelchair ramps for the
physically disabled at all intersections where both curb and gutter and
sidewalks are provided and at other major points of pedestrian flow.
      (8)   Horizontal width on bridge deck.
         (a)   The clear roadway widths for new and reconstructed bridges
serving two-lane, two-way traffic shall be as follows:
            1.   Shoulder section approach.
               a.   Under 800 ADT Design Year. Minimum 28 feet width face-to-
face of parapets or rails or pavement width plus ten feet, whichever is
greater.
               b.   800 - 2,000 ADT Design Year. Minimum 34 feet width face-to-
face of parapets or rails or pavement width plus 12 feet, whichever is greater.
               c.   Over 2,000 ADT Design Year. Minimum 40 feet. Desirable 44
feet width face-to-face of parapets or rails.
            2.   Curbs and gutters approach.
               a.   Under 800 ADT Design Year. Minimum 24 feet face-to-face of
curbs.
               b.   Over 800 ADT Design Year. Width of approach pavement
measured face-to-face of curbs. Where curb and gutter sections are used on
roadway approaches, curbs on bridges shall match the curbs on approaches in
height, in width of face-to-face of curbs and in crown drop. The distance from
face of curb to face of parapet or rail shall be one-foot six inches minimum or
greater if sidewalks are required.
         (b)   The clear roadway widths for new and reconstructed bridges
having four or more lanes serving undivided two-way traffic shall be as
follows:
            1.   Shoulder section approach. Width of approach pavement plus
width of usable shoulders on the approach left and right: Min., eight feet;
Des. ten feet.
            2.   Curb and gutter approach. Width of approach pavement measured
face-to-face of curbs.
      (9)   Curb and gutter. Curb and gutter shall be provided in all
subdivisions. Curb and gutter shall meet the specifications in Section I.C. of
the State Department of Transportation Subdivision Roads Minimum Construction
Standards, May 1, 1983. Unless otherwise specified by the Board of
Commissioners, curb and gutter shall be provided along the entire length of
each street in the subdivision. The Board of Commissioners may make an
exception of this policy in areas having very low traffic volume.
(1992 Code, § 152.44) (Ord. passed 5-5-1986; Ord. passed 3-19-2007; Ord. passed
2-11-2019; Ord. passed 3-8-2021; Ord. passed 10-11-2021) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.50 UTILITIES.
   (A)   Water and sanitary sewer system. 
      (1)   Each lot in all subdivisions within the corporate limits of the
town shall be provided, at the subdivider's expense with an extension of the
municipal water system and sanitary sewer system.
      (2)   Each subdivision in the extraterritorial area of the town shall be
provided with water and sanitary sewer lines and laterals within and along the
perimeter of the land being subdivided for each lot, if any of the land being
subdivided is within 300 feet of the municipal system. The subdivider may, at
his or her expense, extend the aforementioned system(s) to the subdivision if
approved by the Council. Water and sanitary sewer lines, connections and
equipment shall be in accordance with town standards.
   (B)   Storm water drainage system. The subdivider shall provide a surface
water drainage system constructed to the standards of the State Department of
Transportation, as reflected in Handbook for the Design of Highway Surface
Drainage Structures, 1973, subject to review by the Town Consulting Engineer or
Building Inspector.
      (1)   No surface water shall be channeled or directed into a sanitary
sewer.
      (2)   Where feasible, the subdivider shall connect to an existing storm
drainage system.
      (3)   Where an existing storm drainage system cannot feasibly be extended
to the subdivision, a surface drainage system shall be designed to protect the
proposed development from water damage.
      (4)   Surface drainage courses shall have side slopes of at least three
feet of horizonal distance for each one-foot of vertical distance and courses
shall be of sufficient size to accommodate the drainage area without flooding
and designed to comply with the standards and specifications of erosion control
of the State Sedimentation Pollution Control Act, G.S. § 143-215.61, G.S. Ch.
113A, Art. 4 and the State Administrative Code, Title 15, Ch. 4 and any locally
adopted erosion and sedimentation control ordinances.
      (5)   The minimum grade along the bottom of a surface drainage course
shall be a vertical fall of at least one-foot in each 200 feet of horizontal
distance.
      (6)   Streambanks and channels downstream from any land disturbing
activity shall be protected from increased degradation by accelerated erosion
caused by increased velocity of runoff from the land disturbing activity in
accordance with the State Sedimentation Pollution Control Act, G.S. § 143-
34.12, G.S. Ch. 113A, Art. 4 and the State Administrative Code Title 15, Ch. 4.
      (7)   Anyone constructing a dam or impoundment within the subdivision
must comply with the G.S. §§ 143-215.23 et seq. and the State Administrative
Code Title 15, Subchapter 2K.
      (8)   In all areas of special flood hazards, all subdivision proposals
shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood damage.
   (C)   Street lights. All subdivision in which the size of the smallest lot
is less than 40,000 square feet shall have street lights installed throughout
the subdivision in accordance with the standards of the current utility
provider.
(1992 Code, § 152.45) (Ord. passed 5-5-1986; Ord. passed 3-19-2007; Ord. passed
2-11-2019) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.51 BUFFERING, RECREATION AND RECREATION FEE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Whenever a residential subdivision is located adjacent to an office,
institutional, commercial or industrial use which does not have a buffer or
property zoned for these uses and a buffer is not required between these and
the subdivision, the subdivider shall provide a buffer as defined in §
152.05. The width of the buffer shall be in addition to the lot area required
by
Chapter 153, Zoning Code. The buffer shall become part of the lot on which it
is located or in the case of commonly-owned property, the buffer shall be
deemed to the homeowner’s association.
   (B)   Recreation fees. Recreation fees shall be required on any new
subdivision or multi- family development subject to the town’s subdivision
ordinance in the amount of $800 per lot for a major subdivision (four or more
lots) or per unit for a multi-family development. The recreation fee shall be
dedicated for parks and recreation use by the town. The Board of Commissioners
may grant an exception to this policy if the developer demonstrates a
willingness to construct an active recreation facility that will serve the
needs of the community. All projects will need to meet the guidelines set forth
by the respective permit issuing authority.
(1992 Code, § 152.46) (Ord. passed 5-5-1986; Ord. passed 3-19-2007; Ord. passed
2-11-2019; Ord. passed 3-8-2021)
§ 152.52 OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Placement of monuments. Unless otherwise specified by this chapter,
the Standards of Practice for Land Surveying as adopted by the State Board of
Registration for Professional Engineers and Land Surveyors, under the
provisions of the State Administrative Code, Title 21, Ch. 56 and G.S. § 47-30
shall apply when conducting surveys for subdivisions; to determine the accuracy
for surveys and placement of monuments, control corners, markers and property
corner lines; to determine the location, design and material of monuments,
markers, control corners and property corner ties; and to determine other
standards and procedures governing the practice of land surveying for
subdivisions.
   (B)   Construction procedures.
      (1)   No construction or installation of improvements shall commence in a
proposed subdivision until the preliminary plat has been approved and all plans
and specifications have been approved by the appropriate authorities.
      (2)   No building, zoning or other permits shall be issued for erection
of a structure on any lot not of record at the time of adoption of this chapter
until all the requirements of this chapter have been met. The subdivider, prior
to commencing any work within the subdivision, shall make arrangements with the
Subdivision Administrator to provide for adequate inspections. The approving
authorities having jurisdiction or their representatives shall inspect and
approve all completed work prior to release of the sureties.
   (C)   Oversize improvements. The town may require installation of certain
oversized utilities or the extension of utilities to adjacent property when it
is in the interest of future development. If the town requires the installation
of improvements in excess of the standards required in this chapter, including
all standards adopted by reference, the town shall pay the cost differential
between the improvement required and the standards in this chapter. The town
may recoup this cost through fees.
(1992 Code, § 152.47) (Ord. passed 5-5-1986; Ord. passed 3-19-2007) Penalty,
see §
152.99
§ 152.53 SUBDIVISION ACCESS.
   For the purpose of ingress, egress, residents and emergency service vehicles
a second access will be needed for subdivisions over 100 lots with full access
for everyone. The access shall mirror the surface as the other streets of the
lots.
(Ord. passed 10-10-2022)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.65 ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Town Clerk/Manager shall be the Subdivision Administrator.
(1992 Code, § 152.60) (Ord. passed 5-5-1986; Ord. passed 3-19-2007)
§ 152.66 PLAT APPROVAL.
   (A)   General procedure for plat approval.
      (1)   After the effective date of this chapter [i.e., May 5, 1986], no
subdivision plat of land within the town's jurisdiction shall be filed or
recorded until it has been submitted to and approved by the Council as set
forth in §
152.07 and until this approval is entered in writing on the face of the plat by
the Mayor and attested by the Town Clerk/Manager.
      (2)   The Register of Deeds shall not file or record a plat of a
subdivision of land located within the territorial jurisdiction of the town
that has not been approved in accordance with these provisions, nor shall the
Clerk of Superior Court order or direct the recording of a plat if the
recording would be in conflict with this section.
   (B)   Statement by owner. The owner of land shown on a subdivision plat
submitted for recording or his or her authorized agent, shall sign a statement
on the plat stating whether or not any land shown thereon is within the
subdivision-regulation jurisdiction of any city.
   (C)   Effect of plat approval on dedications. Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-374,
the approval of a plat shall not be deemed to constitute or effect the
acceptance by the municipality or public of the dedication of any street or
other ground, public utility line or other public facility shown on the plat.
However, the Council may by resolution accept any dedication made to the public
of land or facilities for streets, parks, public utility lines or other public
purposes, when the lands or facilities are located within its subdivision-
regulation jurisdiction. Acceptance of dedication of lands or facilities
located within the subdivision-regulation jurisdiction but outside the
corporate limits of the municipality shall not place on the town any duty to
open, operate, repair or maintain any street, utility line or other land or
facility and the municipality shall in no event be held to answer in any civil
action or proceeding for failure to open, repair or maintain any street located
outside its corporate limits.
(1992 Code, § 152.61) (Ord. passed 5-5-1986; Ord. passed 3-19-2007)
§ 152.67 VARIANCES.
   Where, because of severe topographical or other conditions peculiar to the
site, strict adherence to the provisions of this chapter would cause an
unnecessary hardship, the Council upon recommendation of Planning Board may
authorize a variance to the terms of this chapter only to the extent that is
absolutely necessary and not to an extent which would violate the intent of
this chapter.
(1992 Code, § 152.62) (Ord. passed 3-19-2007)
§ 152.68 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The Council may from time to time amend the terms of this chapter but
no amendment shall become effective unless it shall have been proposed by or
shall have been submitted to the Planning Board shall have 30 days from the
time the proposed amendment is submitted to it within which to submit its
report. If the Planning Board fails to submit a report within the specified
time, it shall be deemed to have recommended approval of the amendment.
   (B)   No amendment shall be adopted by the governing body until they have
held a public hearing on the amendment. Notice of the hearing shall be
published in a newspaper of general circulation in the town area at least once
a week for two successive calendar weeks prior to the hearing. The initial
notice shall appear not more than 25, nor less than ten, days prior to the
hearing date. In computing the ten-day period, the date of publication is not
to be counted, but the date of the hearing is.
(1992 Code, § 152.63) (Ord. passed 5-5-1986; Ord. passed 3-19-2007)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any violation of any provision of this chapter shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty in the sum of not more than $50 per day.
         (a)   A citation for the civil penalty shall be issued by the Police
Chief.
         (b)   Each citation for a civil penalty must be paid within 168 hours
of issuance.
      (2)   Each and every day that the violator continues in violation shall
be a separate and distinct offense.
   (B)   The municipality may also and in addition, seek any and all
appropriate equitable remedies, injunctions and/or abatement orders from the
appropriate court of competent jurisdiction.
(1992 Code, § 152.99) (Ord. passed 3-19-2007)
APPENDIX A: STREET DESIGN SPECIFICATIONS
Section
   
1.   Pavement designs
   
2.   Figure 1: Cross-section — shoulder section
   
3.   Figure 2: Cross-section — curb & gutter section
   
4.   Figure 3: Recommended road connection
   
5.   Figure 4: Recommended road connection — stop condition
   
6.   Figure 5: Driveway turnout grades
   
7.   Figure 6: Symmetrical cul-de-sac with curb & gutter
   
8.   Figure 7: Symmetrical cul-de-sac — no curb & gutter
   
9.   Figure 8: Examples of minor residential cul-de-sac designs
§ 1. PAVEMENT DESIGNS.
   (A)   Shown below are minimum thickness of base and surface course to be
used. Design should be chosen from Group 1 or Group 2 depending on subgrade
soil type.
GROUP I
Good to Excellent Subgrade Soil Types Base Course Pavement Surface
GROUP I
Good to Excellent Subgrade Base Course                  Pavement Surface
Soil Types
                           7 inches STBC, Type A or C   2 inches SA or I-1
                           9 inches STBC, Type A or C   1-1/2 inches SA or I-2
A-1-a, A-1-b, A-3, A-2-4,  8 inches ABC or TBC, Type B  BST, 1 inch SA or I-2
A-2-5, A-2-6, A-2-7        6 inches ABC or STBC, Type B 1-1/2 inches SA or I-2
                           3 inches BCBC, Type HB       1-1/2 inches SA or I-2
                           3 ½ inches BCBC, Type HB    1 inch SA or I-2
                                                        5 inches plain concrete
 
GROUP II
Poor to Fair Subgrade Soil Types Base Course Pavement Surface
GROUP II
Poor to Fair Subgrade Soil  Base Course                 Pavement Surface
Types
                            9 inches STBC, Type A or C  2 inches SA or I-2
                            8 inches ABC or STBC, Type  1-1/2 inches SA or I-2
                            B
A-4, A-5, A-6, A-7-5, A-7-6 10 inches ABC or STBC, Type BST, 1 inch SA or I-2
                            B
                            4 inches BCBC, Type HB      2 inch SA or I-2
                            3 inches BCBC, Type HB      6 inches plain concrete
Note:
Subgrade   No base course shall be placed on muck, pipe clay, organic matter or
other unsuitable material. The District Engineer may require a subgrade soils
test, if needed, to determine the soils classification type.
ABC   Aggregate Base Course, No. 7 stone
STBC   Soil Type Base Course
BST   Bituminous Surface Treatment
SA   Bituminous Concrete Surface Course, Type F-1 (Sand Asphalt)
I-2   Bituminous Concrete Surface Course, Type I-2 (Note: I-1 may be used in
lieu of I-2)
BCBC   Bituminous Concrete Base Course, Type HB (Black Base)
 
   (B)   Any other pavement design must be reviewed by the Planning Board on an
individual basis and approval will be based upon sound engineering principles.
   (C)   Other base courses such as various cement-treated materials may be
used in lieu of those shown above. These materials shall be of sufficient
thickness to provide equivalent strength. However, any design other than those
shown above must also be approved prior to use.
   (D)   All materials shall meet the requirements set forth in the latest
edition of the North Carolina Standard Specifications for Roads and Structures.
   STREET DESIGN DIAGRAMS
   ACCORDING TO NCDOT
   MINIMUM CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
   JANUARY 1, 2010 (Revised July 2020)
§ 2. FIGURE 1: CROSS-SECTION — SHOULDER SECTION.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3ce8774f91fc3adf2545ffbcf04eef634168fa82/
IMAGES/0-0-0-888.jpg]
 
§ 3. FIGURE 2: CROSS-SECTION — CURB & GUTTER SECTION.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3ce8774f91fc3adf2545ffbcf04eef634168fa82/
IMAGES/0-0-0-891.jpg]
 
§ 4. FIGURE 3: RECOMMENDED ROAD CONNECTION.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3ce8774f91fc3adf2545ffbcf04eef634168fa82/
IMAGES/0-0-0-894.jpg]
 
§ 5. FIGURE 4: RECOMMENDED ROAD CONNECTION — STOP CONDITION.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3ce8774f91fc3adf2545ffbcf04eef634168fa82/
IMAGES/0-0-0-897.jpg]
 
§ 6. FIGURE 5: DRIVEWAY TURNOUT GRADES.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3ce8774f91fc3adf2545ffbcf04eef634168fa82/
IMAGES/0-0-0-900.jpg]
 
§ 7. FIGURE 6: SYMMETRICAL CUL-DE-SAC WITH CURB & GUTTER.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3ce8774f91fc3adf2545ffbcf04eef634168fa82/
IMAGES/0-0-0-903.jpg]
 
§ 8. FIGURE 7: SYMMETRICAL CUL-DE-SAC — NO CURB & GUTTER.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3ce8774f91fc3adf2545ffbcf04eef634168fa82/
IMAGES/0-0-0-906.jpg]
 
§ 9. FIGURE 8: EXAMPLES OF MINOR RESIDENTIAL CUL-DE-SAC DESIGNS.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3ce8774f91fc3adf2545ffbcf04eef634168fa82/
IMAGES/0-0-0-909.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3ce8774f91fc3adf2545ffbcf04eef634168fa82/
IMAGES/0-0-0-912.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3ce8774f91fc3adf2545ffbcf04eef634168fa82/
IMAGES/0-0-0-915.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3ce8774f91fc3adf2545ffbcf04eef634168fa82/
IMAGES/0-0-0-918.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3ce8774f91fc3adf2545ffbcf04eef634168fa82/
IMAGES/0-0-0-921.jpg]
 
Click_here_to_view_the_above_figures_in_a_PDF_document.
CHAPTER 153: ZONING CODE
Section
Adoption of Zoning Code
   
153.01   Zoning Code adopted by reference
Statutory Vested Rights Provisions
   
153.15   Purpose
   
153.16   Definitions
   
153.17   Establishment of a zoning vested right
   
153.18   Approval procedures and approval authority
   
153.19   Duration
   
153.20   Termination
   
153.21   Voluntary annexation
   
153.22   Limitations
   
153.23   Repealer
   
153.24   Zoning text change
   
153.25   Administrator
   
153.26   Effective date
   
Appendix A:    Certification that a statutory zoning vested right is being
sought
ADOPTION OF ZONING CODE
§ 153.01 ZONING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The town's Zoning Code is hereby adopted by reference into this Code of
Ordinances as if set out at length herein. Copies are on file in the office of
the Town Clerk/Manager for public inspection.
(1992 Code, § 153.01)
STATUTORY VESTED RIGHTS PROVISIONS
§ 153.15 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to implement the provisions of G.S. §
160A-385.1 pursuant to which a statutory zoning vested right is established
upon the approval of a site specific development plan.
(1992 Code, § 153.10) (Ord. passed 9-9-1991)
§ 153.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The Four Oaks Council or Board of Adjustment.
   SITE SPECIFIC DEVELOPMENT PLAN. A plan of land development meeting the
requirements of § 702.2 of the town zoning ordinance submitted to the town for
purposes of obtaining a conditional use permit, special use permit or special
use district zoning. If a conditional or special use permit is not normally
required for the type of development for which a vested right is sought, a site
specific development plan for the use may be approved as a special use, if the
normal procedures in the ordinance for obtaining a special use permit are
followed. In the case of a subdivision for single family dwellings, a
preliminary subdivision plat in accordance with the subdivision plat in
accordance with the subdivision regulations showing lot size and required
setbacks will be considered to meet the requirements of §§ 702.2.2, 702.2.4,
702.2.6, 702.2.7 and 702.2.8 of the zoning ordinance for the purpose of
applying for a special use permit to establish vested rights. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, neither a variance, a sketch plan nor any other document that
fails to describe with reasonable certainty the type and intensity of use for a
specified parcel or parcels of property shall constitute a site specific
development plan.
   ZONING VESTED RIGHT. A right pursuant to G.S. § 160A-385.1 to undertake and
complete the development and use of property under the terms and conditions of
an approved site specific development plan.
(1992 Code, § 153.11) (Ord. passed 9-9-1991)
§ 153.17 ESTABLISHMENT OF A ZONING VESTED RIGHT.
   (A)   A zoning vested right shall be deemed established upon the valid
approval or conditional approval, by the Council or Board of Adjustment of a
site specific development plan, following notice and public hearing.
   (B)   The approving authority may approve a site specific development plan
upon such terms and conditions as may reasonably be necessary to protect the
public health, safety and welfare.
   (C)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) and (B) above, approval of a site
specific development plan with the condition that a variance be obtained shall
not confer a zoning vested right unless and until the necessary variance is
obtained.
   (D)   A site specific development plan shall be deemed approved upon the
effective date of the approval authority's action or ordinance relating
thereto.
   (E)   The establishment of a zoning vested right shall not preclude the
application of overlay zoning that imposes additional requirements but does not
affect the allowable type or intensity of use or ordinances or regulations that
are general in nature and are applicable to all property subject to land-use
regulation by the town, including, but not limited to, building, fire,
plumbing, electrical and mechanical codes. Otherwise applicable new or amended
regulations shall become effective with respect to property that is subject to
a site specific development plan upon the expiration or termination of the
vested right in accordance with this subchapter.
   (F)   A zoning vested right is not a personal right, but shall attach to and
run with the applicable property. After approval of a site specific development
plan, all successors to the original landowner shall be entitled to exercise
such right while applicable.
(1992 Code, § 153.12) (Ord. passed 9-9-1991)
§ 153.18 APPROVAL PROCEDURES AND APPROVAL AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, an application for site
specific development plan approval shall be processed in accordance with the
procedures established in the code for a conditional use permit, special use
permit or for special use district zoning, as applicable. The Council or Board
of Adjustment, as applicable, shall be the final approval authority.
   (B)   If the use for which a vested right is sought would not normally be a
conditional or special use under the zoning ordinance and a special use
district rezoning is not being sought, in order to obtain a zoning vested
right, the applicant must request in writing at the time of application that
the application be considered and acted on by the Council as a special use and
follow all procedures in the zoning ordinance for obtaining a special use
permit.
   (C)   In order for a zoning vested right to be established upon approval of
a site specific development plan, the applicant must indicate at the time of
application, on a form to be provided by the town, that a zoning vested right
is being sought.
   (D)   Each map, plat, site plan or other document evidencing a site specific
development plan shall contain the following notation: "Approval of this plan
establishes a zoning vested right under G.S. § 160A-385.1. Unless terminated at
an earlier date, the zoning vested right shall be valid until (date)."
   (E)   Following approval or conditional approval of a site specific
development plan, nothing in this subchapter shall exempt such a plan from
subsequent reviews and approvals to ensure compliance with the terms and
conditions of the original approval, provided that such reviews and approvals
are not inconsistent with the original approval.
   (F)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the revocation of the original
approval or other remedies for failure to comply with applicable terms and
conditions of the approval or the zoning ordinance.
(1992 Code, § 153.13) (Ord. passed 9-9-1991)
§ 153.19 DURATION.
   (A)   A zoning right that has been vested as provided in this subchapter
shall remain vested for a period of two years unless specifically and
unambiguously provided otherwise pursuant to division (B) below. This vesting
shall not be extended by any amendments or modifications to a site specific
development plan unless expressly provided by the approval authority at the
time the amendment or modification is approved.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (A) above, the approval
authority may provide that rights shall be vested for a period exceeding two
years but not exceeding five years where warranted in light of all relevant
circumstances, including, but not limited to, the size of the development, the
level of investment, the need for or desirability of the development, economic
cycles and market conditions. These determinations shall be in the sound
discretion of the approval authority at the time the site specific development
plan is approved.
   (C)   Upon issuance of a building permit, the expiration provisions of G.S.
§ 160A-418 and the revocation provisions of G.S. § 160A-422 shall apply, except
that a building permit shall not expire or be revoked because of the running of
time while a zoning vested right under this section is outstanding.
(1992 Code, § 153.14) (Ord. passed 9-9-1991)
§ 153.20 TERMINATION.
   A zoning right that has been vested as provided in this chapter shall
terminate:
   (A)   At the end of the applicable vesting period with respect to buildings
and uses for which no valid building permit applications have been filed;
   (B)   With the written consent of the affected landowner;
   (C)   Upon findings by the Council, by ordinance after notice and a public
hearing, that natural or manmade hazards on or in the immediate vicinity of the
property, if uncorrected, would pose a serious threat to the public health,
safety and welfare if the project were to proceed as contemplated in the site
specific development plan;
   (D)   Upon payment to the affected landowner of compensation for all costs,
expenses and other losses incurred by the landowner, including, but not limited
to, all fees paid in consideration of financing and all architectural,
planning, marketing, legal and other consultant's fees incurred after approval
by the town, together with interest thereon at the legal rate until paid.
Compensation shall not include any diminution in the value of the property
which is caused by the action;
   (E)   Upon findings by the Council, by ordinance after notice and a hearing,
that the landowner or his or her representative intentionally supplied
inaccurate information or made material misrepresentations which made a
difference in the approval by the approval authority of the site specific
development plan; or
   (F)   Upon the enactment or promulgation of a state or federal law or
regulation that precludes development as contemplated in the site specific
development plan, in which case the approval authority may modify the affected
provisions, upon a finding that the change in state or federal law has a
fundamental effect on the plan, by ordinance after notice and a hearing.
(1992 Code, § 153.15) (Ord. passed 9-9-1991)
§ 153.21 VOLUNTARY ANNEXATION.
   A petition for annexation filed with the town under G.S. §§ 160A-31 or 160A-
58.1 shall contain a signed statement declaring whether or not any zoning
vested right with respect to the properties subject to the petition has been
established under G.S. §§ 160A-385.1. A statement that declares that no zoning
vested right has been established under G.S. §§ 160A-385.1 or the failure to
sign a statement declaring whether or not a zoning vested right has been
established, shall be binding on the landowner and any such zoning vested right
shall be terminated.
(1992 Code, § 153.16) (Ord. passed 9-9-1991)
§ 153.22 LIMITATIONS.
   Nothing in this subchapter is intended or shall be deemed to create any
vested right other than those established pursuant to G.S. § 160A-385.1.
(1992 Code, § 153.17) (Ord. passed 9-9-1991)
§ 153.23 REPEALER.
   In the event that G.S. § 160A-385.1 is repealed, this subchapter shall be
deemed repealed and the provisions hereof no longer effective.
(1992 Code, § 153.18) (Ord. passed 9-9-1991)
§ 153.24 ZONING TEXT CHANGE.
   Section 307 of the zoning ordinance, the "Table of Uses," is hereby amended
to add as "S" in all districts: Site Specific Development Plans for the purpose
of obtaining vested rights in accordance with "An Ordinance Implementing The
Statutory Vested Rights Provisions of G.S. § 160A-385.1" where the use would
not normally be a conditional or special use or part of a special use district.
(1992 Code, § 153.19) (Ord. passed 9-9-1991)
§ 153.25 ADMINISTRATOR.
   The holder of the Office of Town Clerk/Manager and/or Planning Administrator
is hereby appointed to serve as Planning and Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. passed 4-13-2009)
§ 153.26 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take effect and be in force from and after July 1,
2002.
(1992 Code, § 153.20 (Ord. passed 9-9-1991; Ord. passed 4-13-2009)
APPENDIX A: CERTIFICATION THAT A STATUTORY ZONING VESTED RIGHT IS BEING SOUGHT
   As applicant for a  (identify land use approval or permit that is being
sought) , I hereby certify that I am also seeking to acquire a vested right
pursuant to G.S. § 160A-385.1 and §§
153.15 through
153.26 of the Town Code of Ordinances.
   If the Town Code provides that the approval authority for the type of land
use approval or permit for which I am applying is a board, committee or
administrative official other than the Four Oaks Council or Board of
Adjustment, I understand and agree that my application will be considered and
acted on by the Four Oaks Council, following notice and a public hearing.
___________________   _________________________________________
Date            Applicant
(1992 Code, Appendix)
CHAPTER 154: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
154.01   Statutory authorization
   
154.02   Findings of fact
   
154.03   Statement of purpose
   
154.04   Objectives
   
154.05   Definitions
   
154.06   Land to which chapter applies
   
154.07   Basis for establishing the special flood hazard areas
   
154.08   Floodplain development permit; establishment
   
154.09   Compliance
   
154.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
154.11   Interpretation
   
154.12   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration and Enforcement
   
154.25   Floodplain administrator
   
154.26   Floodplain development application, permit and certification
requirements
   
154.27   Corrective procedures
   
154.28   Variance procedures
Flood Hazard Reduction
   
154.40   General standards
   
154.41   Specific standards
   
154.42   Standards for floodplains without established base flood elevations
   
154.43   Standards for floodplains with BFE but without established floodways
or non-encroachment areas
   
154.44   Floodways and non-encroachment areas
   
154.45   Standard for areas of shallow flooding (AO Zones)
Legal Status Provisions
   
154.60   Effect on rights and liabilities under existing ordinance
   
154.61   Effect on outstanding building permits
   
154.62   Effective date
   
154.63   Adoption certification
 
   
154.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   (A)   Municipal. The legislature of the state has, in G.S. Part 6, Article
21 of Chapter 143; Parts 3, 5 and 8 of Article 19 of Chapter 160A; and Article
8 of Chapter 160A, delegated the responsibility to local governmental units to
adopt regulations designed to promote the public health, safety and general
welfare of its citizenry.
   (B)   County. The legislature of the state has, in G.S. Part 6, Article 21
of Chapter143; Parts 3 and 4 of Article 18 of Chapter 153A; and Part 121,
Article 6 of Chapter 153A, delegated the responsibility to local governmental
units to adopt regulations designed to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare of its citizenry.
   (C)   General. Therefore, the Town Council does ordain as follows.
(Art. 1, A) (Ord. passed 11-14-2005)
§ 154.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)    The flood prone areas within the jurisdiction of Four Oaks are
subject to periodic inundation which results in loss of life, property, health
and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services,
extraordinary public expenditures of flood protection and relief and impairment
of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and
general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities and by the
occupancy in flood prone areas of uses vulnerable to floods or other hazards.
(Art. 1, B) (Ord. passed 11-14-2005)
§ 154.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions within flood prone areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety and
property due to water or erosion hazards or that result in damaging increases
in erosion, flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities that
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging and all other development that may
increase erosion or flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Art. 1, C) (Ord. passed 11-14-2005)
§ 154.04 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are:
   (A)   To protect human life and health;
   (B)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   To minimize prolonged business losses and interruptions;
   (E)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities (i.e. water and
gas mains, electric, telephone, cable and sewer lines, streets and bridges)
that are located in flood prone areas;
   (F)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas; and
   (G)   To ensure that potential buyers are aware that property is in a
special flood hazard area.
(Art. 1, D) (Ord. passed 11-14-2005)
§ 154.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure, which is located
on the same parcel of property as the principal structure and the use of which
is incidental to the use of the principal structure. Garages, carports and
storage sheds are common urban accessory structures. Pole barns, hay sheds and
the like qualify as ACCESSORY STRUCTURES on farms and may or may not be located
on the same parcel as the farm dwelling or shop building.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING BUILDING). An extension or increase in the floor
area or height of a building or structure.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator's
interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated Zone AO on a community’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with base flood depths determined to be from one to
three feet. These areas are located where a clearly defined channel does not
exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate and where
velocity flow may be evident.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. See SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA).
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
    BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). A determination as published in the Flood
Insurance Study of the water surface elevations of the base flood. This
elevation, when combined with the FREEBOARD, establishes the REGULATORY FLOOD
PROTECTION ELEVATION.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   CHEMICAL STORAGE FACILITY. A building, portion of a building or exterior
area adjacent to a building used for the storage of any chemical or chemically
reactive products.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   DISPOSAL. Defined as in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(6).
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building which has its reference level
raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear walls, posts, piers,
pilings or columns.
   ENCROACHMENT. The advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation,
buildings, permanent structures or development into a floodplain, which may
impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A
manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities
for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) was
completed before the original effective date of the floodplain management
regulations adopted by the community.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). An official map of a community,
issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, on which the special flood
hazard areas and the floodways are delineated. This official map is a
supplement to and shall be used in conjunction with the Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM).
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FIBM). An official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, where the boundaries of the special
flood hazard areas have been defined as Zone A.
   FLOOD INSURANCE. The insurance coverage provided under the National Flood
Insurance Program.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, on which both the special flood hazard
areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community are delineated.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). An examination, evaluation and determination of
flood hazard areas, corresponding water surface elevations (if appropriate),
flood insurance risk zones and other flood data in a community issued by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency. The Flood Insurance Study report includes
Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMs) and Flood Boundary and Floodway Maps (FBFMs),
if published.
   FLOOD PRONE AREA. See FLOODPLAIN.
   FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The individual appointed to administer and enforce
the floodplain management regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. Any type of permit that is required in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter, prior to the commencement of
any development activity.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited
to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances and other applications of police power which control development in
flood-prone areas. This term describes federal, state or local regulations, in
any combination thereof, which provide standards for preventing and reducing
flood loss and damage.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures, which reduce or eliminate risk of flood
damage to real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation
facilities or structures with their contents.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   FLOOD ZONE. A geographical area shown on a Flood Hazard Boundary Map or
Flood Insurance Rate Map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the
area.
   FREEBOARD. The height added to the base flood elevation (BFE) to account for
watershed development as well as limitations of the engineering methodologies
for the determination of flood elevations. The freeboard plus the base flood
elevation establishes the “regulatory flood protection elevation”.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY. A facility which cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located in close proximity to water, such as a
docking or port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or
passengers, shipbuilding or ship repair. The term does not include long-term
storage, manufacture, sales or service facilities.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITY. A facility for the collection, storage,
processing, treatment, recycling, recovery or disposal of hazardous waste as
defined in G.S. Article 9 of Chapter 130A.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE (HAG). The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface, prior to construction, immediately next to the proposed walls of the
structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of Interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic landmarks in
communities with a "Certified Local Government (CLG) Program"; or
      (4)   Certified as contributing to the historical significance of a
historic district designated by a community with a “Certified Local Government
(CLG) Program”.
      (5)   Certified Local Government (CLG) Programs are approved by the U.S.
Department of the Interior in cooperation with the North Carolina Department of
Cultural Resources through the State Historic Preservation Officer as having
met the requirements of the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966 as
amended in 1980, being 16 U.S.C. §§ 470 et seq.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG). The elevation of the ground, sidewalk or patio
slab immediately next to the building or deck support, after completion of the
building. For Zones A and AO, use the natural grade elevation prior to
construction.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The subfloor, top of slab or grade of the lowest enclosed area
(including basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely
for parking of vehicles, building access or limited storage in an area other
than a basement area is not considered a building’s lowest floor, provided that
such an enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of
the applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term  "
manufactured home "  does not include a  " recreational vehicle " .
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, excluding the land value and that of any
accessory structures or other improvements on the lot, established by
independent certified appraisal, replacement cost depreciated by age of
building and quality of construction (actual cash value) or adjusted tax
assessed values.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of the NFIP, the National Geodetic Vertical
Datum (NGVD) as corrected in 1929, the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) as
corrected in 1988 or other vertical control datum used as a reference for
establishing varying elevations within the floodplain, to which base flood
elevations (BFEs) shown on a FIRM are referenced. Refer to each FIRM panel to
determine datum used.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the  " start of construction "
commenced on or after the effective date of the original version of this
chapter and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NONCONFORMING BUILDING OR DEVELOPMENT. Any legally existing building or
development which fails to comply with the current provisions of this chapter.
   NON-ENCROACHMENT AREA. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot
as designated in the Flood Insurance Study report.
   POST-FIRM. Construction or other development which started on or after the
effective date of the initial Flood Insurance Rate Map for the area.
   PRE-FIRM. Construction or other development which started before the
effective date of the initial Flood Insurance Rate Map for the area.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. At least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure is above ground.
   PUBLIC SAFETY and/or NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community or neighborhood or any considerable number of
persons or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake or river, bay, stream, canal or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV). A vehicle, which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Not designed for use as a permanent primary dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REFERENCE LEVEL.
      (1)   The portion of a structure or other development that must be
compared to the regulatory flood protection elevation to determine regulatory
compliance. For structures within special flood hazard areas designated as Zone
A1-A30, AE, A, A99 or AO, the reference level is the top of the lowest floor or
bottom of lowest attendant utility including ductwork, whichever is lower.
      (2)   (Alternate acceptable language for Reference Level) REFERENCE LEVEL
is the portion of a structure or other development that must be compared to the
regulatory flood protection elevation to determine regulatory compliance. For
structures within all special flood hazard areas, the reference level is the
bottom of the lowest horizontal structural member or bottom of lowest attendant
utility including ductwork, whichever is lower.
   REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. The elevation, in relation to mean
sea level, to which the reference level of all structures and other development
located within special flood hazard areas must be protected. Where base flood
elevations (BFEs) have been determined, this elevation shall be the BFE plus
two feet of freeboard. Where no BFE has been established, this elevation shall
be at least two feet above the highest adjacent grade. (Two feet is a minimum
State standard, greater than two feet is optional.)
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. To bring the structure or other development into
compliance with State and Community floodplain management regulations, or, if
this is not possible, to reduce the impacts of its noncompliance. Ways that
impacts may be reduced include protecting the structure or other affected
development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement provisions of the
ordinance or otherwise deterring future similar violations or reducing Federal
financial exposure with regard to the structure or other development.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during any ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event, on the average, equals or exceeds 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook and the like.
   SALVAGE YARD. Any non-residential property used for the storage, collection
and/or recycling of any type of equipment and including, but not limited to,
vehicles, appliances and related machinery.
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY. Any facility involved in the disposal of
solid waste, as defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(35).
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SITE. Defined as in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(36).
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). The land in the floodplain subject to a 1%
or greater chance of being flooded in any given year as determined herein.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Substantial improvement and means the date the
building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement or other improvement was
within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start means either the first
placement of permanent construction of a structure (including a manufactured
home) on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or footings, installation of
piles, construction of columns or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or
the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction
does not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor
does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it
include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or foundations or the
erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the
property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a substantial
improvement, the actual start of construction means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building, whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, a manufactured home or a gas or
liquid storage tank that is principally above ground. For flood plain
management purposes, principally above ground means that at least 51% of the
actual cash value of the structure is above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure during any
one year period whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before
damaged condition would equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the
structure before the damage occurred. See definition of  " substantial
improvement " . SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE also means flood-related damage sustained by
a structure on two separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the
cost of repairs at the time of each such flood event, on the average, equals or
exceeds 25% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any combination of repairs, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition or other improvement of a structure, taking place
during any one year period for which the cost equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value of the structure before the  " start of construction "  of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred  " substantial
damage " , regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
      (1)   Any correction of existing violations of state or community health,
sanitary or safety code specifications which have been identified by the
community code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure; provided that, the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s flood plain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications or
other evidence of compliance required in §§
154.25 through
154.28 and
154.40 through
154.45 is presumed to be in violation until such time as that documentation is
provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION (WSE). The height, in relation to mean sea level
(existing grade in case of Zone AO), of floods of various magnitudes and
frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine areas.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
(Art. 2) (Ord. passed 11-14-2005)
§ 154.06 LANDS TO WHICH CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all special flood hazard areas within the
jurisdiction, including Extra-Territorial Jurisdictions (ETJ) if applicable, of
the town and within the jurisdiction of any other community whose governing
body agrees, by resolution, to the applicability.
(Art. 3, A) (Ord. passed 11-14-2005)
§ 154.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   (A)   Generally. The special flood hazard areas are those identified by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) or produced under the Cooperating
Technical State (CTS) agreement between the state and FEMA in its Flood Hazard
Boundary Map (FHBM) or Flood Insurance Study (FIS) and its accompanying flood
maps such as the Flood Insurance Rate Map(s) (Wand/or the Flood Boundary
Floodway Map(s) (FBFM), for Four Oaks dated October 20, 2000, which, with
accompanying supporting data and any revision thereto, including letters of map
amendment or revision, are adopted by reference and declared to be a part of
this chapter. The special flood hazard areas also include those defined through
standard engineering analysis for private developments or by governmental
agencies, but which have not yet been incorporated in the FIRM. This includes,
but is not limited to:
      (1)   Detailed flood data generated as a requirement of §
154.25;
      (2)   Preliminary FIRMs where more stringent than the effective FIRM; or
      (3)   Post-disaster flood recovery maps.
   (B)   Municipal. In addition, upon annexation to the town or inclusion in
the Extra-Territorial Jurisdiction (ETJ), the special flood hazard areas
identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and/or produced
under the Cooperating Technical State agreement between the state and FEMA as
stated above, for the unincorporated areas of the county, with accompanying
maps and other supporting data and any revision thereto, are adopted by
reference and declared to be a part of this chapter. (This municipal paragraph
may be omitted entirely if adopting countywide FIRMS)
(Art. 3, B) (Ord. passed 11-14-2005)
§ 154.08 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT; ESTABLISHMENT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities within special flood hazard areas as determined in §
154.07.
(Art. 3, C) (Ord. passed 11-14-2005)
§ 154.09 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted,
altered or developed in any way without full compliance with the terms of this
chapter and other applicable regulations.
(Art. 3, D) (Ord. passed 11-14-2005)
§ 154.10 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(Art. 3, E) (Ord. passed 11-14-2005)
§ 154.11 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Art. 3, F) (Ord. passed 11-14-2005)
§ 154.12 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
consideration. Larger floods can and will occur. Actual flood heights may be
increased by manmade or natural causes. This chapter does not imply that land
outside the special flood hazard areas or uses permitted within the areas will
be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability
on the part of the town or by any officer or employee thereof for any flood
damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Art. 3, G) (Ord. passed 11-14-2005)
ADMINISTRATIVE AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 154.25 FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator, hereinafter referred to as the "Floodplain
Administrator", is hereby appointed to administer and implement the provisions
of this chapter.
   (B)   The Floodplain Administrator shall perform, but not be limited to, the
following duties:
      (1)   Review all floodplain development applications and issue permits
for all proposed development within special flood hazard areas to assure that
the requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
      (2)   Advise permittee that additional federal or state permits
(wetlands, endangered species, erosion and sedimentation control, riparian
buffers, mining and the like) may be required and require that copies of the
permits be provided and maintained on file with the floodplain development
permit;
      (3)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Department of Crime
Control and Public Safety, Division of Emergency Management, State Coordinator
for the National Flood Insurance Program prior to any alteration or relocation
of a watercourse and submit evidence of the notification to the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA);
      (4)    Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of the watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished;
      (5)   Prevent encroachments into floodways and non-encroachment areas
unless the certification and flood hazard reduction provisions of §
154.43 are met;
      (6)    Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the
reference level (including basement) and all attendant utilities of all new or
substantially improved structures, in accordance with §
154.26;
      (7)   Obtain the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to
which the new or substantially improved structures and all utilities have been
floodproofed, in accordance with §
154.26;
      (8)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of all
public utilities in accordance with §
154.26;
      (9)    When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, obtain
certifications from a registered professional engineer or architect in
accordance with §§
154.26 and
154.41;
      (10)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of
boundaries of the special flood hazard areas (for example, where there appears
to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions), make
the necessary interpretation. The person contesting the location of the
boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation
as provided in this subchapter;
      (11)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data has not been provided in
accordance with §
154.07, obtain, review and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation (BFE)
data, along with floodway data or non-encroachment area data available from a
Federal, State or other source, including data developed pursuant to §
154.42, in order to administer the provisions of this chapter;
      (12)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is provided but no floodway
nor non-encroachment area data has been provided in accordance with §
154.07, obtain, review and reasonably utilize any floodway data or non-
encroachment area data available from a federal, state or other source in order
to administer the provisions of this chapter;
      (13)   When the exact location of boundaries of the special flood hazard
areas conflict with the current, natural topography information at the site,
the property owner may apply and be approved for a letter of map amendment
(LOMA) by FEMA. Maintain a copy of the letter of map amendment (LOMA) issued by
FEMA in the floodplain development permit file;
      (14)   Permanently maintain all records that pertain to the
administration of this chapter and make these records available for public
inspection;
      (15)   Make on-site inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant
to a floodplain development permit progresses, the Floodplain Administrator
shall make as many inspections of the work as may be necessary to ensure that
the work is being done according to the provisions of the local ordinance and
the terms of the permit. In exercising this power, the Floodplain Administrator
has a right, upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises
within the jurisdiction of the community at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action;
      (16)   Issue stop-work orders as required. Whenever a building or part
thereof is being constructed, reconstructed, altered or repaired in violation
of this chapter, the Floodplain Administrator may order the work to be
immediately stopped. The stop-work order shall be in writing and directed to
the person doing the work. The stop-work order shall state the specific work to
be stopped, the specific reason(s) for the stoppage and the condition(s) under
which the work may be resumed. Violation of a stop-work order constitutes a
misdemeanor;
      (17)   Revoke floodplain development permits as required. The Floodplain
Administrator may revoke and require the return of the floodplain development
permit by notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason(s) for the
revocation. Permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the
approved application, plans or specifications; for refusal or failure to comply
with the requirements of state or local laws; or for false statements or
misrepresentations made in securing the permit. Any floodplain development
permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state or local law may
also be revoked;
      (18)   Make periodic inspections throughout all special flood hazard
areas within the jurisdiction of the community. The Floodplain Administrator
and each member of his or her inspections department shall have a right, upon
presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
territorial jurisdiction of the department at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action;
      (19)   Follow through with corrective procedures of §
154.27; and
      (20)   Maintain a current map repository to include, but not limited to,
the FIS Report, FIRM and/or other official flood maps/studies adopted under §
154.07 of this chapter, including any revisions thereto including letters of
map change), issued by state and/or FEMA. Notify state and FEMA of mapping
needs.
(Art. 4, A and C) (Ord. passed 11-14-2005)
§ 154.26 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT APPLICATION, PERMIT AND CERTIFICATION
REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Application requirements. Application for a floodplain development
permit shall be made to the Floodplain Administrator prior to any development
activities located within special flood hazard areas. The following items shall
be presented to the Floodplain Administrator to apply for a floodplain
development permit:
      (1)    A plot plan drawn to scale which shall include, but shall not be
limited to, the following specific details of the proposed floodplain
development:
         (a)   The nature, location, dimensions and elevations of the area of
development/disturbance; existing and proposed structures, utility systems,
grading/pavement areas, fill materials, storage areas, drainage facilities and
other development;
         (b)   The boundary of the special flood hazard area as delineated on
the FIRM or other flood map as determined in §
154.07 or a statement that the entire lot is within the special flood hazard
area;
         (c)   Flood zone(s) designation of the proposed development area as
determined on the FIRM or other flood map as determined in §
154.07;
         (d)   The boundary of the floodway(s) or non-encroachment area(s) as
determined in §
154.07;
         (e)   The base flood elevation (BFE) where provided as set forth in §§
154.07;
154.25(11) & (12); or
154.42;
         (f)   The old and new location of any watercourse that will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development;
         (g)   Certification of the plot plan by a registered land surveyor or
professional engineer.
      (2)   Proposed elevation and method thereof, of all development within a
special flood hazard area including but not limited to:
         (a)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the proposed
reference level (including basement) of all structures;
         (b)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any non-
residential structure in Zone AE, A or AO will be flood-proofed;
         (c)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any proposed
utility systems will be elevated or floodproofed;
      (3)    If floodproofing, a floodproofing certificate (FEMA Form 81-65)
along with detailed back-up computations and operational plans that specify the
location on a FIRM panel of floodproofing measures, the entity responsible for
transportation and installation according to the design within the warning time
available and maintenance of floodproofing measures assuring their
effectiveness when installed. Floodproofing certificate and back-up
computations and operational plans shall be certified by a registered
professional engineer or architect to ensure that the non-residential
floodproofed development will meet the floodproofing criteria in §
154.41.
      (4)   A Foundation Plan drawn to scale which shall include details of the
proposed foundation system to ensure all provisions of this chapter are met.
These details include but are not limited to:
         (a)   The proposed method of elevation, if applicable (i.e., fill,
solid foundation perimeter wall, solid backfilled foundation, open foundation
on columns/posts/piers/piles/shear walls);
         (b)    Openings to facilitate equalization of hydrostatic flood forces
on walls in accordance with §
154.41, when solid foundation perimeter walls are used in Zones A, AO, AE and
A1-30;
      (5)   Usage details of any enclosed areas below the regulatory flood
protection elevation.
      (6)   Plans and/or details for the protection of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems to be located and
constructed to minimize flood damage;
      (7)   Copies of all other local, state and federal permits required prior
to floodplain development permit issuance (wetlands, endangered species,
erosion and sedimentation control, riparian buffers, mining and the like);
      (8)   Documentation for placement of recreational vehicles and/or
temporary structures, when applicable, to ensure §
154.41 of this chapter are met.
      (9)   A description of proposed watercourse alteration or relocation,
when applicable, including an engineering report on the effects of the proposed
project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the effects to
properties located both upstream and downstream; and a map (if not shown on
plot plan) showing the location of the proposed watercourse alteration or
relocation.
   (B)   Permit requirements. The floodplain development permit shall include,
but not be limited to:
      (1)   A description of the development to be permitted under the
floodplain development permit;
      (2)   The special flood hazard area determination for the proposed
development per available data specified in §
154.07;
      (3)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
reference level and all attendant utilities;
      (4)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
protection of all public utilities;
      (5)   All certification submittal requirements with timelines;
      (6)   A statement that no fill material shall encroach into the floodway
or non-encroachment area of any watercourse, as applicable;
      (7)   The minimum opening requirements, if in Zone A, AO, AE or A1-30;
and
      (8)   Limitations of below BFE enclosure uses (if applicable). (i.e.,
parking, building access and limited storage only).
   (C)   Certification requirements.
      (1)   Elevation certificates.
         (a)   An elevation certificate (FEMA Form 81-31) is required prior to
the actual start of any new construction. It shall be the duty of the permit
holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the
elevation of the reference level, in relation to mean sea level. Elevation
certification shall be prepared by or under direct supervision of a registered
land surveyor or professional engineer and certified by same. The Floodplain
Administrator shall review the certificate data submitted. Deficiencies
detected by the review shall be corrected by the permit holder prior to the
beginning of construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure to
make required corrections shall be cause to deny a floodplain development
permit.
         (b)   An elevation certificate (FEMA Form 81-31) or floodproofing
certificate (FEMA Form 81-65) is required after the reference level is
established. Within seven calendar days of establishment of the reference level
elevation, it shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the
Floodplain Administrator a certification of the elevation of the reference
level, in relation to mean sea level. Elevation certification shall be prepared
by or under the direct supervision of a registered land surveyor or
professional engineer and certified by same. Any work done within the seven day
calendar period and prior to submission of the certification shall be at the
permit holder's risk. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate
data submitted. Deficiencies detected by the review shall be corrected by the
permit holder immediately and prior to further work being permitted to proceed.
Failure to submit the certification or failure to make required corrections
shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the project.
         (c)   A final as-built elevation certificate (FEMA Form 81-31) is
required after construction is completed and prior to certificate of
compliance/occupancy issuance. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of final as-built
construction of the elevation of the reference level and all attendant
utilities. Elevation certification shall be prepared by or under the direct
supervision of, a registered land surveyor or professional engineer and
certified by same. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate
data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
permit holder immediately and prior to certificate of compliance/occupancy
issuance. In some instances, another certification may be required to certify
corrected as-built construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure
to make required corrections shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a
certificate of compliance/occupancy. (FEMA ELEVATION CERTIFICATE FORM IS
OPTIONAL FOR FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT BUT RECOMMENDED. THE USE OF THE FEMA
ELEVATION CERTIFICATE FORM IS MANDATORY FOR CRS COMMUNITIES)
      (2)   If non-residential floodproofing is used to meet the regulatory
flood protection elevation requirements, a floodproofing certificate (FEMA Form
81-65) is required prior to the actual start of any new construction. It shall
be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a
certification of the floodproofed design elevation of the reference level and
all attendant utilities, in relation to mean sea level. Floodproofing
certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
professional engineer or architect and certified by same. The Floodplain
Administrator shall review the certificate data submitted. Deficiencies
detected by the review shall be corrected by the permit holder prior to the
beginning of construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure to
make required corrections shall be cause to deny a floodplain development
permit. Failure to construct in accordance with the certified design shall be
cause to withhold the issuance of a certificate of compliance/occupancy.
      (3)   If a manufactured home is placed within Zone A, AO, AE or A1-30 and
the elevation of the chassis is more than 36 inches in height above grade, an
engineered foundation certification is required per §
154.41.
      (4)   If a watercourse is to be altered or relocated, a description of
the extent of watercourse alteration or relocation; an engineering report on
the effects of the proposed project on the flood-carrying capacity of the
watercourse and the effects to properties located both upstream and downstream;
and a map showing the location of the proposed watercourse alteration or
relocation shall all be submitted by the permit applicant prior to issuance of
a floodplain development permit.
      (5)   The following structures, if located within Zone A, AO, AE or A1-
30, are exempt from the elevation/floodproofing certification requirements
specified in items (a) and (b) above:
         (a)   Recreational vehicles meeting requirements of §
154.42;
         (b)   Temporary structures meeting requirements of §
154.41; and
         (c)   Accessory structures less than 150 square feet meeting
requirements of §
154.41.
(Art. 4, B) (Ord. passed 11-14-2005)
§ 154.27 CORRECTIVE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Violations to be corrected. When the Floodplain Administrator finds
violations of applicable state and local laws, it shall be his or her duty to
notify the owner or occupant of the building of the violation. The owner or
occupant shall immediately remedy each of the violations of law pertaining to
their property.
   (B)   Actions in event of failure to take corrective action. If the owner of
a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action, the
Floodplain Administrator shall give the owner written notice, by certified or
registered mail to the owner's last known address or by personal service,
stating:
      (1)   The building or property is in violation of this chapter;
      (2)   A hearing will be held before the Floodplain Administrator at a
designated place and time, not later than ten days after the date of the
notice, at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by
counsel and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and,
      (3)   Following the hearing, the Floodplain Administrator may issue an
order to alter, vacate or demolish the building; or to remove fill as appears
appropriate.
   (C)   Order to take corrective action. If, upon a hearing held pursuant to
the notice prescribed above, the Floodplain Administrator shall find that the
building or development is in violation of this chapter, he or she shall issue
an order in writing to the owner, requiring the owner to remedy the violation
within a specified time period, not less than 60 days, nor more than 180 days.
(One year or less is recommended.) Where the Floodplain Administrator finds
that there is imminent danger to life or other property, he or she may order
that corrective action be taken in a lesser period as may be feasible.
   (D)   Appeal. Any owner who has received an order to take corrective action
may appeal the order to the local elected governing body by giving notice of
appeal in writing to the Floodplain Administrator and the clerk within ten days
following issuance of the final order. In the absence of an appeal, the order
of the Floodplain Administrator shall be final. The local governing body shall
hear an appeal within a reasonable time and may affirm, modify and affirm or
revoke the order.
   (E)   Failure to comply with order. If the owner of a building or property
fails to comply with an order to take corrective action for which no appeal has
been made or fails to comply with an order of the governing body following an
appeal, he or she shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished at the
discretion of the court.
(Art. 4, D) (Ord. passed 11-14-2005)
§ 154.28 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment as established by the town, hereinafter
referred to as the "Appeal Board", shall hear and decide requests for variances
from the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)    Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board may appeal
the decision to the Court, as provided in G.S. Chapter 7A.
   (C)   Variances may be issued for:
      (1)   The repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon the
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure's continued designation as a historic structure and that the variance
is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure;
      (2)   Functionally dependant facilities if determined to meet the
definition as stated in §
154.05 of this chapter; and
      (3)   Any other type of development, provided it meets the requirements
stated in this section.
   (D)   In passing upon variances, the Appeal Board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location as defined
under §
154.05 of this chapter as a functionally dependant facility, where applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      (11)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems and streets and
bridges.
   (E)   A written report addressing each of the above factors shall be
submitted with the application for a variance.
   (F)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of
this chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this chapter.
   (G)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway or non-
encroachment area if any increase in flood levels during the base flood
discharge would result.
   (H)   Conditions for variances:
      (1)   Variances shall not be issued when the variance will make the
structure in violation of other federal, state or local laws, regulations or
ordinances.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety or
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (4)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation (BFE) and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and a written statement that
the cost of flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk
resulting from the reduced reference level elevation. The notification shall be
maintained with a record of all variance actions.
      (5)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all
appeal actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency and the State of North Carolina upon request.
   (I)    A variance may be issued for solid waste disposal facilities,
hazardous waste management facilities, salvage yards and chemical storage
facilities that are located in special flood hazard areas provided that all of
the following conditions are met.
      (1)   The use serves a critical need in the community.
      (2)   No feasible location exists for the use outside the special flood
hazard area.
      (3)   The reference level of any structure is elevated or floodproofed to
at least the regulatory flood protection elevation.
      (4)   The use complies with all other applicable federal, state and local
laws.
      (5)   The town has notified the Secretary of the State Department of
Crime Control and Public Safety of its intention to grant a variance at least
30 calendar days prior to granting the variance.
(Art. 4, E) (Ord. passed 11-14-2005)
FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 154.40 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas the following provisions are required:
   (A)    All new construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored
to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)    All new construction and substantial improvements below the
regulatory flood protection elevation shall be constructed with materials and
utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
   (C)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damages.
   (D)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding. These include, but are not limited to, HVAC equipment, water softener
units, bath/kitchen fixtures, ductwork, electric/gas meter panels/boxes,
utility/cable boxes, appliances (washers, dryers, refrigerators, freezers and
the like), hot water heaters and electric outlets/switches.
   (E)    All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into floodwaters.
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (H)    Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a
structure, which is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, shall
meet the requirements of "new construction" as contained in this chapter.
   (I)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the repair, reconstruction or
replacement of a building or structure existing on the effective date of this
chapter and located totally or partially within the floodway, non-encroachment
area or stream setback, provided that the bulk of the building or structure
below the regulatory flood protection elevation in the floodway, non-
encroachment area or stream setback is not increased and provided that such
repair, reconstruction or replacement meets all of the other requirements of
this chapter.
   (J)   New solid waste disposal facilities, hazardous waste management
facilities, salvage yards and chemical storage facilities shall not be
permitted in special flood hazard areas, except by variance as specified
herein. A structure or tank for chemical or fuel storage incidental to an
allowed use or to the operation of a water treatment plant or wastewater
treatment facility may be located in a special flood hazard area only if the
structure or tank is either elevated or floodproofed to at least the regulatory
flood protection elevation and certified according hereto.
   (K)   All development proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (L)   All development proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (M)   All development proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
(Art. 5, A) (Ord. passed 11-14-2005)
§ 154.41 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation (BFE) data has
been provided, as set forth in §
154.07 or §
154.25, the following provisions, in addition to §
154.40, are required:
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction or substantial improvement
of any residential structure (including manufactured homes) shall have the
reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the regulatory
flood protection elevation, as defined in §
154.05 of this chapter.
   (B)    Non-residential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or other non-residential structure
shall have the reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the
regulatory flood protection elevation, as defined in §
154.05 of this chapter. Structures located in A, AO, AE and A1-30 Zones may be
floodproofed to the regulatory flood protection elevation in lieu of elevation
provided that all areas of the structure below the required flood protection
elevation are watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water, using structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the effect of buoyancy. A registered
professional engineer or architect shall certify that the standards of this
subsection are satisfied. The certification shall be provided to the official
as set forth in §
154.26, along with the operational and maintenance plans.
   (C)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   New or replacement manufactured homes shall be elevated so that the
reference level of the manufactured home is no lower than the regulatory flood
protection elevation, as defined in §
154.05 of this chapter.
      (2)   Manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement in
accordance with the State Regulations for Manufactured/Mobile Homes, 1995
Edition and any revision thereto adopted by the Commissioner of Insurance
pursuant to NCGS 4143-143.15 or a certified engineered foundation.
Additionally, when the elevation would be met by an elevation of the chassis 36
inches or less above the grade at the site, the chassis shall be supported by
reinforced piers or engineered foundation. When the elevation of the chassis is
above 36 inches in height, an engineering certification is required.
      (3)   All foundation enclosures or skirting shall be in accordance with §
154.41.
      (4)   An evacuation plan must be developed for evacuation of all
residents of all new, substantially improved or substantially damaged
manufactured home parks or subdivisions located within flood prone areas. This
plan shall be filed with and approved by the Floodplain Administrator and the
local Emergency Management coordinator.
   (D)   Elevated buildings. Enclosed areas, of new construction or
substantially improved structures, which are below the regulatory flood
protection elevation:
      (1)   Shall not be designed or used for human habitation, but shall only
be used for parking of vehicles, building access or limited storage of
maintenance equipment used in connection with the premises. Access to the
enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow for parking of vehicles
(garage door) or limited storage of maintenance equipment (standard exterior
door) or entry to the living area (stairway or elevator). The interior portion
of the enclosed area shall not be partitioned or finished into separate rooms,
except to enclose storage areas;
      (2)   Shall be constructed entirely of flood resistant materials below
the regulatory flood protection elevation;
      (3)   Shall include, in Zones A, AO, AE and A1-30, measures to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on walls by allowing for the
entry and exit of floodwaters. To meet this requirement, the openings must
either be certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet the
following minimum design criteria;
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings on different sides of each
enclosed area subject to flooding;
         (b)   The total net area of all openings must be at least one square
inch for each square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding;
         (c)   If a building has more than one enclosed area, each area must
have openings to allow floodwaters to automatically enter and exit;
         (d)   The bottom of all required openings shall be no higher than one
foot above the adjacent grade;
         (e)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers or other opening
coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions; and
         (f)   Foundation enclosures made of flexible skirting are not
considered enclosures for regulatory purposes, and, therefore, do not require
openings. Masonry or wood underpinning, regardless of structural status, is
considered an enclosure and requires openings as outlined above.
   (E)   Additions/improvements.
      (1)   Additions and/or improvements to pre-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
         (a)   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvements
must be designed to minimize flood damages and must not be any more non-
conforming than the existing structure.
         (b)   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
      (2)   Additions to post-FIRM structures with no modifications to the
existing structure other than a standard door in the common wall shall require
only the addition to comply with the standards for new construction.
      (3)    Additions and/or improvements to post-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
         (a)   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvements
only must comply with the standards for new construction.
         (b)   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
      (4)   Where a fire wall or independent perimeter load-bearing wall is
provided between the addition and the existing building, the addition(s) shall
be considered a separate building and only the addition must comply with the
standards for new construction.
   (F)    Recreational vehicles. Recreational vehicles placed on sites within a
special flood hazard area shall either:
      (1)   Be on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days and be fully
licensed and ready for highway use (a recreational vehicle is ready for highway
use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by
quick disconnect type utilities and has no permanently attached additions); or
      (2)   Meet all the requirements for new construction, including anchoring
and elevation requirements of §§
154.26,
154.40 and
154.41(3).
   (G)   Temporary non-residential structures. Prior to the issuance of a
floodplain development permit for a temporary structure, applicants must submit
to the Floodplain Administrator a plan for the removal of such structure(s) in
the event of a hurricane, flash flood or other type of flood warning
notification. The following information shall be submitted in writing to the
Floodplain Administrator for review and written approval;
      (1)   A specified time period for which the temporary use will be
permitted. Time specified should be minimal with total time on site not to
exceed one year;
      (2)   The name, address and phone number of the individual responsible
for the removal of the temporary structure;
      (3)   The time frame prior to the event at which a structure will be
removed (i.e., minimum of 72 hours before landfall of a hurricane or
immediately upon flood warning notification);
      (4)   A copy of the contract or other suitable instrument with a trucking
company to ensure the availability of removal equipment when needed; and
      (5)   Designation, accompanied by documentation of a location outside the
special flood hazard area, to which the temporary structure will be moved.
   (H)   Accessory structures. When accessory structures (sheds, detached
garages and the like) are to be placed within a special flood hazard area, the
following criteria shall be met:
      (1)   Accessory structures shall not be used for human habitation
(including working, sleeping, living, cooking or restroom areas);
      (2)   Accessory structures shall not be temperature-controlled;
      (3)   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential;
      (4)   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the
building site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
      (5)   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance with §
154.40;
      (6)   All service facilities such as electrical shall be installed in
accordance with §
154.40; and
      (7)   Openings to relieve hydrostatic pressure during a flood shall be
provided below regulatory flood protection elevation in conformance with §
154.41.
      (8)   An accessory structure with a footprint less than 150 square feet
that satisfies the criteria outlined above does not require an elevation or
floodproofing certificate. Elevation or floodproofing certifications are
required for all other accessory structures in accordance with §
154.26.
(Art. 5, B) (Ord. passed 11-14-2005)
§ 154.42 STANDARDS FOR FLOODPLAINS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS.
   Within the special flood hazard areas established herein, where no base
flood elevation (BFE) data has been provided by FEMA, the following provisions,
in addition to §
154.40, shall apply:
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements or new development shall be permitted within a distance of 20 feet
each side from top of bank or five times the width of the stream, whichever is
greater, unless certification with supporting technical data by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating that the encroachments shall
not result in any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood discharge.
   (B)   The BFE used in determining the regulatory flood protection elevation
shall be determined based on one of the following criteria set in priority
order:
      (1)   If base flood elevation (BEE) data is available from other sources,
all new construction and substantial improvements within such areas shall also
comply with all applicable provisions of this chapter and shall be elevated or
floodproofed in accordance with standards in §
154.25.
      (2)   All subdivision, manufactured home park and other development
proposals located within special flood hazard areas shall provide base flood
elevation (BFE) data if development is greater than five acres or has more than
50 lots/manufactured home sites. The base flood elevation (BFE) data shall be
adopted by reference per §
154.07 to be utilized in implementing this chapter.
      (3)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is not available from a
federal, state or other source as outlined above, the reference level shall be
elevated above the highest adjacent grade as required in the regulatory flood
protection elevation definition.
(Art. 5, D) (Ord. passed 11-14-2005)
§ 154.43 STANDARDS FOR FLOODPLAINS WITH BFE BUT WITHOUT ESTABLISHED FLOODWAYS
OR NON-ENCROACHMENT AREAS.
   Along rivers and streams where BFE data is provided but neither floodway nor
non-encroachment areas are identified for a special flood hazard area on the
FIRM or in the FIS report, the following requirements shall apply to all
development within such areas:
   (A)   Standards outlined in §§
154.40 and
154.41; and
   (B)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements or other development, shall be permitted unless certification with
supporting technical data by a registered professional engineer is provided
demonstrating that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will not increase
the water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point
within the community.
(Art. 5, E) (Ord. passed 11-14-2005)
§ 154.44 FLOODWAYS AND NON-ENCROACHMENT AREAS.
   Areas designated as floodways or non-encroachment areas are located within
the special flood hazard areas established in §
154.07. The floodways and non-encroachment areas are extremely hazardous areas
due to the velocity of floodwaters that have erosion potential and carry debris
and potential projectiles. The following provisions, in addition to standards
outlined in §§
154.40 and
154.41, shall apply to all development within the areas:
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements and other developments shall be permitted unless it has been
demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance
with standard engineering practice that the proposed encroachment would not
result in any increase in the flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood. Such certification and technical data shall be presented to the
Floodplain Administrator prior to issuance of floodplain development permit.
   (B)   If division (A) is satisfied, all development shall comply with all
applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   No manufactured homes shall be permitted, except replacement
manufactured homes in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision,
provided the following provisions are met:
      (1)   The anchoring and the elevation standards of §
154.41; and
      (2)   The no encroachment standard of division (A) are met.
(Art. 5, F) (Ord. passed 11-14-2005)
§ 154.45 STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (AO ZONES).
    (A)   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
154.07, are areas designated as shallow flooding areas. These areas have
special flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist and where the path of flooding
is unpredictable and indeterminate. In addition to §
154.40, all new construction and substantial improvements of all structures
shall have the reference level elevated to:
      (1)   At least as high as the depth number specified on the Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), in feet, plus a freeboard of two feet, above the
highest adjacent grade; or
      (2)   At least two feet above the highest adjacent grade plus a freeboard
of two feet if no depth number is specified.
   (B)   (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements of all non-
residential structures may, in lieu of elevation, floodproof to the same depths
as listed above so that any space below that level shall be watertight with
walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and effects of buoyancy.
      (2)   Certification is required as per §§
154.26(3) and
154.41(2).
(Art. 5, G) (Ord. passed 11-14-2005)
LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS
§ 154.60 EFFECT ON RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES UNDER EXISTING ORDINANCE.
   This chapter in part comes forward by re-enactment of some of the provisions
of the flood damage prevention ordinance enacted November 14, 2005 as amended
and it is not the intention to repeal but rather to re-enact and continue to
enforce without interruption of the existing provisions, so that all rights and
liabilities that have accrued thereunder are reserved and may be enforced. The
enactment of this chapter shall not affect any action, suit or proceeding
instituted or pending. All provisions of the flood damage prevention ordinance
of town enacted on June 10, 2002, as amended, which are not reenacted herein
are repealed.
(Art. 6, A) (Ord. passed 11-14-2005)
§ 154.61 EFFECT ON OUTSTANDING BUILDING PERMITS.
   Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the plans,
construction, size or designated use of any development or any part thereof for
which a floodplain development permit has been granted by the Floodplain
Administrator or his or her authorized agents before the time of passage of
this chapter; provided, however, that when construction is not begun under such
outstanding permit within a period of six months subsequent to the date of
issuance of the outstanding permit, construction or use shall be in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter.
(Art. 6, B) (Ord. passed 11-14-2005)
§ 154.62 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective upon adoption.
(Art. 6, C) (Ord. passed 11-14-2005)
§ 154.63 ADOPTION CERTIFICATION.
   The adoption certification of these provisions is attached to the ordinance
codified herein.
(Art. 6, D) (Ord. passed 11-14-2005)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall constitute a
misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any
of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $50
or imprisoned for not more than 30 days or both. Each day such violation
continues shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing herein contained
shall prevent the town from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation.
(Art. 3, H) (Ord. passed 11-14-2005)
CHAPTER 155: MANUFACTURED HOMES
Section
   
155.01   Housing codes and regulations
   
155.02   Site-built or modular housing
   
155.03   Manufactured homes
   
155.04   Manufactured home on individual lots
§ 155.01 HOUSING CODES AND REGULATIONS.
   All residential housing to be placed or constructed in the town shall
conform to the appropriate standards for the type of housing.
(Ord. passed 1-12-2009)
§ 155.02 SITE-BUILT OR MODULAR HOUSING.
   All site-built or modular housing or any part thereof shall be constructed,
altered, expanded, extended, converted, or structurally altered in conformity
with the most current State Building Code, as adopted by the Building Code
Council and enforced by state and local code enforcement officials, and
including all appropriate volumes.
(Ord. passed 1-12-2009)
§ 155.03 MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   (A)   All manufactured homes shall be manufactured or constructed in
conformity with the National Manufactured Home Construction and Safety
Standards, with the authority of 42 USC § 5401, the most current State of North
Carolina Regulations for Manufactured/Mobile Homes and this chapter.
   (B)   Any manufactured home that is to be altered (other than cosmetically),
expanded, extended, converted, or structurally altered, the construction shall
conform and with the most current North Carolina Regulations for Manufactured/
Mobile Homes, except where the wording for inspection by local officials reads
"may be inspected" shall read "shall be inspected"; and in conformity with the
most current North Carolina State Building Code, as adopted by the Building
Code Council and enforced by state and local code enforcement officials, and
including all appropriate volumes. Such alteration, expansion, extension, or
conversions shall only occur with permit obtained from the local building
official.
(Ord. passed 1-12-2009)
§ 155.04 MANUFACTURED HOME ON INDIVIDUAL LOTS.
   (A)   No mobile home with a manufactured date prior to June 15, 1976 can be
set up as a residence unless it is already legally set up as a residence within
the county.
   (B)   All manufactured homes (mobile) shall be a permitted in the R6MH
districts that are moved to a parcel or lot shall comply with the following
requirements:
      (1)   All requirements for the location of a single-family dwelling on an
individual lot shall meet the minimum lot size of one acre.
      (2)   Any manufactured home must be newer than eight years of the present
year. All manufactured homes must meet all applicable state and federal
standards.
      (3)   All manufactured homes shall be tied down in accordance with the
North Carolina Regulations for Manufactured Homes and Modular Housing.
      (4)   All applicable County Health Department requirements shall be met.
      (5)   The manufacture homes shall be over 40 feet in length and over 18
feet in width.
      (6)   Each manufactured (mobile) home must have exterior siding that is
either painted or stained wood such as board and batten, or board-on-board,
masonite, simulated stucco, residential grade aluminum, or vinyl lap siding.
All siding shall be in good condition, complete, not damaged, or loose.
      (7)   The manufactured home shall have a roof slope with a minimum
vertical rise of 2.2 feet for each 12 feet of horizontal run.
      (8)   A continuous, uniform foundation enclosure, unpierced except for
required ventilation and access, shall be installed. The enclosure may consist
of brick or concrete block, or wood, vinyl, or metal fabricated for this
purpose. Any wood framing for foundation skirting shall be constructed with
treated lumber. Each mobile/manufactured home shall either have a brick curtain
wall or have ABS or PVC plastic color skirting with interlocking edges (key
locked) installed around the perimeter of the home. Skirting shall be
attractive and in good condition and shall be laid-up in an attractive,
workmanlike manner. All mobile/manufactured doublewide homes located within a
major subdivision shall have a permanent masonry foundation.
      (9)   Each mobile/manufactured home shall have all windows and doors
intact and in working condition.
      (10)   Permanent steps shall be constructed at all exterior doors as
necessary. Porches, ramps and other means of entrance or exit are installed or
constructed in accordance with the standards set by the State Building Code,
attached firmly to the primary structure and anchored permanently to the ground
measuring three feet in width and five feet in length shall be constructed at
the front or main entrance to the manufactured home. Wood stairs shall only be
used in conjunction with a porch or entrance platform with a minimum of 24
square feet.
      (11)   All repairs made to the exterior of the mobile/manufactured home
shall be made to be consistent with the original intent or integrity of the
mobile/manufactured home when that mobile/manufactured home was built. For
example, if repairs are made to the siding, material as close to, or consistent
with, the original siding shall be used.
      (12)   A certificate of occupancy for an individual mobile/manufactured
home may be issued if all required work, other than the completion of the
foundation skirting and permanent steps, is completed. If a certificate of
completion is issued within 60 days of the issuance of the certificate of
occupancy, the certificate of occupancy shall be void. All conditions listed
shall be complied with before a certificate of occupancy and compliance is
issued for the mobile/manufactured home.
(Ord. passed 1-12-2009)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      Table
         
I.   ANNEXATIONS
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Description
Ord. Date Description
No.
          Annexing certain property beginning at a concrete marker located south 72.22
68-  4-2- west 11.3 feet from the northeast corner of Charles Upchurch lot and containing
AO   1968 79.74 acres and being a part or all of tracts owned by Joe and Mabel Austin,
          V.A., and Sandra Raulerson, Marvin and Lillie Mae Capps, Charles and Nan
          Upchurch, Joseph Batten and wife, Mrs. Lundy Allen and C.M. Holley.
          Annexing certain territory beginning at a point in the center of NCSR # 1165
          (Temple Street), the point being located south 01° 38 12" west 30.00 from the
     8-8- center of a culvert underneath the road; thence, from the above described
-    1977 beginning the line runs as the existing town limits line across the property of
          Clay Brown south 60° 30 east 1423.00 to a point in the center line of a branch,
          containing 16.27 acres according to a plat prepared by Ragsdale Engineers, P.A.
          dated 8-5-77.
          Annexing real property of maps Edward and Edna Keen, lot containing 0.322 ac.
          and lot containing 0.832 ac. situated southwest of SR 1178, bounded by lands of
          Zeb D. Allen on the southwest, I-95 on the southeast, SR 1178 on the northeast
80-  2-4- and lands of Howard Hockaday on the northwest and being the present commercial
1AO  1980 site of Keen's Handimart. Also Lots No. 2, 3, 4 and 5 containing 3.33 ac. and
          being part of the George William Keen Division described in Land Book 6, page
          456, County Courthouse, office of the Clerk of Court and being the present site
          of the residence, garage with apartment above and Funland Daycare Center of
          James Edward and Edna Keen.
          Annexing certain territory beginning at the existing corporate limits of the
80-  3-3- town at a point in the southern right-of-way of the ACLRR, north 67° 45 min.
2AO  1980 east 33 to a point in the right-of-way, the point being the northwest corner of
          Lot 5 of the C.R. Adams Division, as shown in Plat Book #2 page 3, County
          Registry.
     6-2- Annexing that parcel owned by Walter Junior Baker bounded by Tucker Street and
-    1980 the properties of M.C. Wilkins, Bob Woodall and Vonzo Woodall, contained in Book
          775, Page 559, Register of Deeds Office, County Courthouse.
80-  7-7- Annexing certain territory beginning at a stake, 30 from the center of SR 1182,
3AO  1980 being the corporate limits of the town and being Lot No. 4 of the C.A. Raynor
          Subdivision recorded in Book 637, Page 253, County Registry.
          Annexing all that certain lot or parcel of land situated in or near the town, as
          shown on map of record in Plat Book 10, page 9, in the office of the Register of
82-  8-2- Deeds of the county, as being one lot with the lettering "J H S" being in
1AO  1982 dimension 50 × 125 feet and being bounded on the north by a branch adjacent to
          the lot designated as the "Willie McSwane" lot, on the east by Lot Nos. 1 and 2
          and on the south and west by the 10.6 acres tract designated as Lot No. 12 on
          the map.
82-  8-2- Annexing certain territory beginning at an iron stake in the centerline of
2AO  1982 Temple Street (NCSR 1165 the iron stake being the northwest corner of a tract of
          land owned by Nora Temple containing 4.37 acres.
-    7-5- Annexing two tracts:
     1983
          (1)   Being all of Lot Nos. 1 through 7 and 30 through 40, Forest Hills
          Subdivision, Section One, together with those portions of Forest Hills Drive and
          Harper Avenue included within Section One, as shown on the map recorded in Map
          Book 14 as Page 19, office of the County Register of Deeds.
          (2)   Being all of Lot Nos. 8 through 29 and 41 and 42, Forest Hills
          Subdivision, Section Two, together with those portions of Harper Avenue and Pine
          Drive included within Section Two, as shown on the map recorded in Map Book 15
          at page 167, office of the County Register of Deeds.
86-  12-  Annexing certain territory beginning at a point in the center of U.S. Highway
AO   29-  301, the point cornering with the property of Walter C. Temple.
     1986
88-  3-7- Annexing certain territory beginning at a concrete monument marking the
AO   1988 intersection of the easterly right-of-way line of U.S. Highway No. 701 and the
          southeast right-of-way line of ramp to Interstate Highway No. 95.
-    6-6- Annexing three tracts:
     1988
          (1)   Beginning at a stake in a ditch, a lot corner and runs north 84 degrees 45
          minutes west 105.8 feet to an iron stake at the edge of the road or street;
          thence along the road north 6 degrees 45 minutes east 83.3 feet to an iron
          stake; thence south 74 degrees 35 minutes east 30.0 feet to an iron stake;
          thence along the ditch south 38 degrees 20 minutes east 108.0 feet to the
          beginning.
          Annexing certain territory beginning at an existing pk nail in the center line
          of US Hwy 701 the point being located north 01 degrees 44 minutes 46 seconds
-    8-1- west 595.35 from the intersection of the centerline of U.S. Hwy 701 and center
     1988 line of SR 1178 and running from the beginning point north 79 degrees 27 minutes
          16 seconds west 40.46 feet to an existing iron pipe, containing 1.04 acres, more
          or less.
     12-
-    4-   Annexing two tracts:
     1989
          (1)   Being all of Lot Nos. 23, 24, 25, 26 and 27 in the subdivision of the H.W.
          Creech lands within or near the corporate limits of the town, and being a part
          of the real estate described in Book 438, Page 309, Registry of the county.
          (2)   Beginning at an iron stake in Emmit Adams' line runs with Adams' line
          north 85 degrees west 100 feet to a lightwood stake; thence north 3 degrees 90
          feet to a stake in the edge of the street, containing 1.4 acres, more or less
          and being a part of the R.G. Tart lot on the north side of U.S. Highway No. 301
          on the west side of the town.
     6-
-    11-  Annexing two parcels:
     1990
          (1)   Beginning at a concrete monument in the line of Oaks Housing Associates
          marking a corner with Tract 3 of the Raymond Temple Estate, containing 2.977
          acres.
          (2)   Beginning at a concrete monument marking a corner of Johnnie Stewart and
          Nora Temple Lassiter, containing 0.099 acres and being a portion of the property
          conveyed to Jasper K. Surles by Bessie S. Surles by deed recorded in Deed Book
          827, Page 772 in the Register of the county and being a portion of Tract No. 2
          of the deed.
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to 1992 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
G.S. Section Code Section
G.S. Section             Code Section
                         95.01,
14-4                     97.06,
                         110.059,
                         151.21
14-4(a), (c)             10.99
18B-101                  130.01
20-4.01(27)h             75.01
20-219.11                90.05
47-30                    152.28,
                         152.52
67                       91.09
87-21                    150.25
87-43                    150.25
93B                      110.030
105-349                  31.03
105-352(b)               31.03
105-373                  31.03
113A, Art. 4             152.50
121-5                    110.040
136-44.14                152.49
136-102.6                152.05,
                         152.49
136-143                  90.09
143-136 - 143-143.2      150.25
143-145(7)               151.02
143-151.13(c)            150.60
143-151.26 - 143-151.36  150.25
143-215.23 et seq.       152.50
143-215.61               152.50
159-9                    31.05
159-24                   31.04
160A, Article 19         11.01
160A, Article 19, Part 6 151.01,
                         151.02
160A-31                  153.21
160A-58.1                153.21
160A-171                 31.01
160A-173                 31.02
                         10.99,
160A-175                 98.02,
                         98.99
160A-175(d)              110.059
160A-216 et seq.         96.15
160A-360 et seq.         152.04
160A-371 - 160A-376      152.03
160A-372                 152.25
160A-373                 152.26
160A-374                 152.66
                         153.15,
                         153.16,
160A-385.1               153.18,
                         153.21 -
                         153.25
160A-411                 150.60
160A-411.1               150.60
160A-412                 150.61
160A-415                 150.62
160A-417(a), (b)         150.25
160A-418                 150.29,
                         153.19
160A-419                 150.30
160A-420                 150.61
160A-421                 150.61
160A-422                 150.30
160A-423                 150.64
160A-424                 150.64
160A-425                 150.45
160A-426(a)              150.46
160A-427                 150.46
160A-428                 150.47
160A-429                 150.47
160A-430                 150.48
160A-431                 150.48
160A-433                 150.63
160A-441                 151.01,
                         151.19
160A-441 - 160A-450      151.16
                         151.01,
160A-443                 151.15,
                         151.17,
                         151.18
160A-443(7)              151.21
160A-446                 151.15
                         
 
REFERENCES TO 1992 CODE
1992 Code Section 2009 Code Section
1992 Code Section 2009 Code Section
10.01             10.01
10.02             10.02
10.03             10.03
10.04             10.04
10.05             10.05
10.06             10.06
10.07             10.07
10.08             10.08
10.09             10.09
10.10             10.10
10.11             10.11
10.12             10.12
10.13             10.13
10.14             10.14
10.15             10.15
10.16             10.16
10.17             10.17
10.99             10.99
11.01             11.01
30.01             30.01
31.01             31.01
31.02             31.02
31.03             31.03
31.04             31.04
31.05             31.05
31.06             31.06 
31.07             31.07
32.01             32.01
32.02             32.02
32.03             32.03
32.04             32.04
32.15             32.15
32.25             33.01
33.01             34.01
33.02             34.02
70.01             70.01
70.01             70.99
71.01             71.01
71.02             71.99
72.01             72.01
Ch. 73, Sch. I    Ch. 73, Sch. I
Ch. 73, Sch. II   Ch. 73, Sch. II
Ch. 73, Sch. III  Ch. 73, Sch. III
Ch. 74. Sch. I    Ch. 74, Sch. I
Ch. 74, Sch. II   Ch. 74, Sch. II
90.01             90.01
90.02             90.02
90.03             90.03
90.04             90.04
90.05             90.05
90.06             90.06
90.07             90.07
90.08             90.08
90.09             90.09
90.99             90.99
91.01             91.11
91.02             91.12
91.15             91.20
91.18             91.21
91.99             91.99
92.01             92.01
92.02             92.02
92.03             92.03
92.04             92.04
92.05             92.05
92.99             92.99
93.01             93.01
93.02             93.02
93.03             93.03
93.04             93.04
93.99             93.99
94.01             94.01
94.02             94.02
94.99             94.99
96.01             96.01
96.02             96.02
96.15             96.15
96.25             96.25
96.26             96.26
96.27             96.27
96.28             96.28
96.29             96.29
96.30             96.30
96.31             96.31
96.32             96.32
96.99             96.99
130.01            130.01
130.02            130.02
130.03            130.03
130.99            130.99
150.01            150.01
150.02            150.02
150.03            150.03
150.04            150.04
150.06            150.06
150.07            150.07
150.08            150.08
150.09            150.09
150.10            150.10
150.11            150.11
150.20            150.25
150.21            150.26
150.22            150.27
150.24            150.29
150.25            150.30
150.26            150.31
150.35            150.45
150.36            150.46
150.37            150.47
150.38            150.48
150.39            150.49
150.50            150.60
150.51            150.61
150.52            150.62
150.53            150.63
150.54            150.64
150.55            150.65
150.97            150.99
150.98            150.99
150.99            150.99
151.01            151.01
151.02            151.02
151.03            151.03
151.04            151.04
151.05            151.05
151.06            151.06
151.07            151.07
151.08            151.08
151.09            151.09
151.10            151.10
151.11            151.11
151.12            151.12
151.13            151.13
151.14            151.14
151.15            151.15
151.16            151.16
151.17            151.17
151.18            151.18
151.19            151.19
151.20            151.20
151.21            151.21
151.99            151.99
152.01            152.01
152.02            152.02
152.03            152.03
152.04            152.04
152.05            152.05
152.06            152.06
152.07            152.07
152.08            152.08
152.09            152.09
152.10            152.10
152.20            152.25
152.21            152.26
152.22            152.27
152.24            152.28
152.24            152.29
152.25            152.30
152.26            152.31
152.40            152.45
152.41            152.46
152.42            152.47
152.43            152.48
152.44            152.49
152.45            152.50
152.46            152.51
152.47            152.52
152.60            152.65
152.61            152.66
152.62            152.67
152.63            152.68
152.99            152.99
153.01            153.01
153.10            153.15
153.11            153.16
153.12            153.17
153.13            153.18
153.14            153.19
153.15            153.20
153.16            153.21
153.17            153.22
153.18            153.23
153.19            153.24
153.20            153.25
154.45            153.25
                  
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.   Date Passed Code Section
–        - -         91.01 -
                       91.10
54-WO      4-5-1954    130.02
60-DO      8-1-1960    91.20
68-AO      4-2-1968    T.S.O. I
                       96.02,
68-DEM     9-13-1968   96.25 -
                       96.32
68-TO      12-2-1968   71.01
70-DBO     11-12-1970  130.01
72-AO      7-10-1972   91.11
73-AO      3-6-1973    91.12
76-TT-0002 2-2-1976    70.01
77-GC      3-7-1977    50.01,
                       50.07
–        8-8-1977    T.S.O. I
–        9-5-1978    Ch. 73, Sch. III
79-EJ      7-2-1979    11.01
                       51.01 -
79-WS      11-5-1979   51.21,
                       51.99
–        12-3-1979   92.01 -
                       92.05
80-1AO     2-4-1980    T.S.O. I
80-2AO     3-3-1980    T.S.O. I
–        6-2-1980    T.S.O. I
80-3AO     7-7-1980    T.S.O. I
81-1EJ     3-2-1981    11.01
81-2WS     7-7-1981    52.01
82-1AO     8-2-1982    T.S.O. I
82-2AO     8-2-1982    T.S.O. I
83-1       7-3-1983    91.21
–        7-5-1983    T.S.O. I
                       152.01 -
                       152.10,
                       152.25 -
                       152.31,
–        5-5-1986    152.45 -
                       152.52,
                       152.65 -
                       152.68,
                       152.99
86-AO      12-29-1986  T.S.O. I
–        3-2-1987    90.01 -
                       90.09
–        5-4-1987    130.01
–        11-2-1987   Ch. 73, Sch. II
88-AO      3-7-1988    T.S.O. I
–        6-6-1988    T.S.O. I
–        8-1-1988    T.S.O. I
–        7-5-1989    96.01
–        12-4-1989   T.S.O. I
–        6-11-1990   T.S.O. I
–        8-13-1990   151.01 -
                       151.21
–        9-9-1991    153.15 -
                       153.25
97         8-8-2005    97.01 -
                       97.06
                       154.01 -
                       154.12,
                       154.25 -
                       154.28,
–        11-14-2005  154.40 -
                       154.45,
                       154.60 -
                       154.63,
                       154.99
                       152.01 -
                       152.10,
                       152.25 -
                       152.31,
–        3-19-2007   152.45 -
                       152.52,
                       152.65-
                       152.68,
                       152.99
                       95.01-
–        6-2-2008    95.07,
                       95.99
                       98.01 -
–        6-9-2008    98.05,
                       98.99
–        12-1-2008   35.01
                       50.01 -
–        12-8-2008   50.07,
                       50.99
                       51.01 -
–        12-8-2008   51.21,
                       51.99
–        12-8-2008   52.01,
                       52.99
                       98.01 -
–        12-8-2008   98.05,
                       98.99
                       53.01 -
–        1-12-2009   53.05,
                       53.99
–        1-12-2009   155.01 -
                       155.04
–        2-9-2009    51.19,
                       51.20
–        2-9-2009    95.01
–        4-13-2009   153.25,
                       153.26
                       75.01 -
–        6-13-2011   75.04,
                       75.99
                       91.30 -
–        7-8-2013    91.34,
                       91.99
                       110.001 -
                       110.002,
                       110.015 -
                       110.018,
–        3-14-2016   110.030 -
                       110.041,
                       110.055 -
                       110.059,
                       110.999
                       51.20,
-          2-11-2019   152.49 -
                       152.51
-          4-8-2019    51.20
-          8-10-2020   111.01 -
                       111.05
                       93.99,
                       99.01 -
-          3-8-2021    99.03,
                       152.49,
                       152.51
-          10-11-2021  152.49
-          10-10-2022  152.53,
                       Ch. 152, App. A
-          2-13-2023   32.15
-                      
 
