UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
OF THE TOWN OF
GARNER, NORTH CAROLINA
Ordinance 3579, enacted May 3, 2010.
 
Adopted: July 22, 2003
Effective: October 1, 2003
Revised Through: July 6, 2021
ARTICLE 1.  GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
1.1.   Short Title.
   
1.2.   Authority and Purpose.
      
1.2.1.   Authority.
      
1.2.2.   Purpose.
   
1.3.   Jurisdiction.
   
1.4.   Effective Date.
   
1.5.   Administration.
   
1.6.   Interpretation.
   
1.7.   Conformity with Article Provisions.
      
1.7.1.   Compliance required.
      
1.7.2.   Minimum requirements.
   
1.8.   Relationship to Other Ordinances and Statutes.
      
1.8.1.   Conflicting provisions.
      
1.8.2.   Minimization.
      
1.8.3.   Town ordinances.
      
1.8.4.   Amendments to state statutes.
      
1.8.5.   Validity.
   
1.9.   Consistency with Adopted Plans.
      
1.9.1.   General.
      
1.9.2.   Comprehensive plan.
      
1.9.3.   Zoning.
      
1.9.4.   Other plans and policies.
      
1.9.5.   Conformity.
   
1.10.   Transitional Provisions.
      
1.10.1.   Vested rights.
      
1.10.2.   Permit choice.
      
1.10.3.   District conversion.
      
1.10.4.   Conditional use district conversion.
   
1.11.   Severability.
1.1.   SHORT TITLE.
   This ordinance shall be known as the “Garner Unified Development Ordinance,”
“this Ordinance,” or “UDO.”
(Ord., 3-16-21)
1.2.   AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE.
1.2.1.  Authority.
   The Town Council, pursuant to the authority conferred by the State of North
Carolina General Assembly in General Statute Chapter 160D (G.S. § 160D), does
hereby ordain and enact into law the articles and sections of this UDO.
(Ord. No. 3558, § 2, 7-7-09; Ord., 3-16-21)
1.2.2.  Purpose.
   It is the intent of the Town Council that this UDO promote the health,
safety, and general welfare of existing and future residents, businesses, and
visitors of the Town by:
   A.   Providing for adequate light, air, and open space.
   B.   Creating a convenient, attractive, and harmonious community.
   C.   Regulating population density and distribution.
   D.   Regulating the uses of buildings , structures , and land.
   E.   Facilitating economic growth and commerce.
   F.   Ensuring adequacy and availability of public services including
transportation, emergency response services, utilities, parks and recreational
amenities, and affordable housing.
   G.   Securing safety from fire, flood , and other dangers.
   H.   Regulating the location and distribution of uses of land and buildings
.
   I.   Regulating the subdivision of land.
   J.   Furthering the public interest by additional means determined by the
Town Council.
(Ord. No. 3558, § 2, 7-7-09; Ord., 3-16-21)
1.3.   JURISDICTION.
   This UDO shall apply to all land within Town of Garner and its planning
jurisdiction . All structures and land uses constructed or commenced after the
effective date of this UDO and all enlargements of, additions to, changes in
and relocations of existing structures and uses occurring after the effective
date of this UDO shall be subject to this UDO. This UDO shall be effective
throughout the Town's planning jurisdiction . The Town's planning jurisdiction
comprises the entire area within the boundary described in
Appendix A.
1.4.   EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This UDO, as amended from time to time, was originally adopted and became
effective on October 1, 2003. Amendments to this ordinance will and have
occurred from time to time. The most recent major reorganization and update of
this UDO occurred on March 16, 2021.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
1.5.   ADMINISTRATION.
   The Planning Director is appointed to serve as administrator of this UDO.
Should this position at any time become vacant, the Town Manager shall
designate another official to act as administrator until the office is filled.
The Planning Director may designate any staff member to represent the Planning
Director in any function assigned by this UDO but shall remain responsible for
any final action.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
1.6.   INTERPRETATION.
   The Planning Director is responsible for ultimate interpretation of this UDO
and any dispute with any interpretation or administrative decision may be
appealed per the standards of this Ordinance.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
1.7.   CONFORMITY WITH ARTICLE PROVISIONS.
   A.   Subject to
Article 9, Nonconformities, no person may use, occupy, or sell any land or
buildings , or authorize or permit the use , occupancy under their control,
except in accordance with all of the applicable provisions of this UDO.
   Commentary: It is not the intent of this provision to regulate private land
sales transactions where no development or subdivision occurs.
   B.   For purposes of this section, the "use " or "occupation" of a building
or land relates to anything and everything that is done to, on, or in that
building or land.
1.7.1.  Compliance Required.
   A.   The purpose of this Ordinance is to ensure compliance with the zoning,
subdivision , and other design and dimensional standards of the Town.
   B.   No structure or land shall hereafter be used, occupied, or modified,
and no structure or part thereof shall be erected, moved onto, or structurally
altered, except in compliance with the regulations of this Chapter, for the
district in which it is located.
   C.   No building , sign , structure , or land-disturbing activities , or any
part thereof shall be erected, structurally altered, moved, or changed in use
until a zoning permit has been issued by the Planning Director .
   D.   In the absence of public water or public sewer , no building permit
shall be issued until the lot meets all other applicable requirements of this
UDO and Wake County.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
1.7.2.  Minimum Requirements.
   For purposes of interpretation and application, the provisions of this UDO
shall be the minimum requirements for the protection and promotion of public
health, safety, and general welfare.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
1.8.   RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER ORDINANCES AND STATUTES.
1.8.1.  Conflicting Provisions.
   Whenever the requirements of this UDO are inconsistent with the requirements
of any other lawfully adopted governmental rules, regulations, or ordinances,
the most restrictive requirement imposing the highest standards, as determined
by the Planning Director , shall govern. However, the Town shall not be
responsible for enforcing other agencies’ regulations.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
1.8.2.  Minimization.
   Where multiple ways to implement, administer, or construe a provision exist,
the provision shall be implemented, administered, or construed to eliminate and
minimize conflict with other provisions of the UDO.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
1.8.3.  Town Ordinances.
   If substantially similar provisions existed in previous Town ordinances, the
provisions of this UDO shall not be considered new enactments but as
continuations of existing rule. Unlawful nonconformities do not achieve legal
conforming status by virtue of the adoption of this Ordinance alone.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
1.8.4.  Amendments to State Statutes.
   Whenever a North Carolina General Statute (a.k.a. “G.S.”) section cited or
referenced by any of these ordinance provisions is later amended or superseded,
the ordinance provision shall be deemed to refer to the amended section or the
section that most closely corresponds to the superseded section.
Commentary: For instance, if this UDO references G.S. § 160D-702, which grants
the regulation of zoning to local governments from the state, and the state
should subsequently reorganize the statutes, then the reference in this
Ordinance shall be understood to reference the most current statute. This shall
be honored even if this Ordinance fails to modify references immediately at the
time that the state statutes should be reorganized.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
1.8.5.  Validity.
If, for any reason, any condition imposed pursuant to these regulations is
found to be illegal or invalid, such condition shall be null and void and of no
effect.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
1.9.   CONSISTENCY WITH ADOPTED PLANS.
1.9.1.  General.
   The Town Council intends that this UDO shall guide the administration of the
Town’s adopted planning policies within the Town and its extraterritorial
jurisdiction .
(Ord., 3-16-21)
1.9.2.  Comprehensive Plan.
   The most current Comprehensive Plan is hereby incorporated by reference.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
1.9.3.  Zoning.
   The zoning regulations in this UDO are in accordance with the Comprehensive
Plan and the Town of Garner Official Zoning Map (also known as “zoning map”)
which is hereby incorporated by reference.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
1.9.4.  Other Plans and Policies.
   All other Town-adopted plans, maps, policies, and documents and all other
outside agency maps, plans, policies, and documents referenced herein or
necessary to enforce the provisions of this UDO are hereby incorporated by
reference.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
1.9.5.  Conformity.
   Subject to
Article 9, Nonconformities, no person may use , occupy, or sell any land or
buildings, or authorize or permit the use, occupancy under their control,
except in accordance with all applicable provisions of this UDO.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
1.10.   TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS.
1.10.1.  Vested Rights.
   A.   Any building or development for which a permit was issued before the
effective date of this UDO may be completed in conformance with the issued
permit and other applicable permits and conditions, even if such building or
development does not fully comply with provisions of this UDO.
   B.   Nothing in this UDO shall require a change to a phasing plan approved
prior to the adoption of this UDO, provided construction is consistent with the
terms and conditions of the phasing plan and proceeds to completion in a timely
manner. The developer shall continue construction activities, as evidenced by
an active building permit or other vested right , in order to continue a
project under a previous phasing plan.
   C.   If construction is not completed according to the applicable permit
terms, the Town Council may, for good cause shown, grant an extension of up to
one year for such construction .
(Ord. No. 3558, § 2, 7-7-09; Ord., 3-16-21)
1.10.2.  Permit Choice.
   A.   Pursuant to G.S. § 160D-108, any complete application submitted before
the effective date of an amendment to this UDO may be evaluated and decided, at
the applicant’s discretion, in conformance with applicable permits and
regulations in effect at the time of submission of the application.
   B.   If construction is not commenced or completed according to the
applicable terms of the application, the Town Council may, for good cause
shown, grant an extension of up to one year for such construction .
(Ord. No. 3558, § 2, 7-7-09; Ord., 3-16-21)
1.10.3.  District Conversion.
The zoning districts in effect prior to the effective date of this UDO are
hereby converted, as shown on the following table:
Figure 1.10-A: District Conversions
PREVIOUS DISTRICT NEW DISTRICT*
PREVIOUS DISTRICT                     NEW DISTRICT*
RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICTS
R-40    Single-Family Residential  40 RA         Rural Agricultural
R-20    Single-Family Residential  20 R2         Residential 2
R-15    Single-Family Residential  15 R5         Residential 5
R-12    Single-Family Residential  12 R5         Residential 5
R-9     Single-Family Residential  9  R5         Residential 5
MF-1    Multifamily Residential 1     MF-1       Multifamily Residential 1
MF-2    Multifamily Residential 2     MF-2       Multifamily Residential 2
RMH     Manufactured Home Park/       RMH        Manufactured Home Park/
        Subdivision                              Subdivision
NONRESIDENTIAL AND MIXED USE ZONING DISTRICTS
NO      Neighborhood Office*          NC         Neighborhood Commercial
        Neighborhood Commercial
NB      (formerly Neighborhood        NC         Neighborhood Commercial
        Business
CBD     Central Business District     TBD        Traditional Business District
OI      Office and Institutional*     CMU        Commercial Mixed Use
SB      Service Business*             CMU        Commercial Mixed Use
CR      Community Retail (formerly    CMU        Commercial Mixed Use
        Community Business)
FLOATING OVERLAY ZONING DISTRICTS
        Manufactured Home Floating               Manufactured Home Floating
-MH     Zone (formerly Mobile Home    -MH        Zone
        Floating District)
OVERLAY ZONING DISTRICTS
CBA     Conservation Buffer Area      CBA        Conservation Buffer Area
LBC     Lake Benson Conservation      LBC        Lake Benson Conservation
SCC     Swift Creek Conservation      SCC        Swift Creek Conservation
O-TD    Timber Drive Overlay          RAO        Residential Arterial Overlay
-       Timber Drive East Overlay     RAO        Residential Arterial Overlay
O-70    U.S. 70/401 Overlay           CHO        Commercial Highway Overlay
O-40    I-40 Overlay                  LAHO       Limited Access Highway Overlay
GR-OD   Garner Road Overlay District  CHO        Commercial Highway Overlay
OBSOLETE DISTRICTS
MR-1    Multi-Residential 1*          MF1 or MF2 Multi-family Residential 1 or
                                                 2
RCD     Residential Cluster District* R          One of the Residential general
                                                 use  districts
R-12 PR Planned Residential District  CZ         Conditional Zoning District
MXD-1   Mixed Use Development         CZ         Conditional Zoning District
        District
Notes:
* Not all properties necessarily translated to a direct remapping conversion to
the district(s) shown here as each location was considered on a case-by-case
with regard to the existing use  and the surrounding properties at the time of
the remapping.
 
(Ord., 3-16-21)
1.10.4.  Conditional Use District Conversion.
On the earlier of either the adoption of this ordinance or January 1, 2021, any
existing and legal Conditional Use zoning district s or Planned Unit
Development (PUD) zoning districts that are valid and in effect shall be deemed
a Conditional Zoning (CZ) district subject to the same conditions of approval
or conditions of operation of the existing entitlement.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
1.11.   SEVERABILITY.
   The sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, phrases, requirements, and
criteria of this UDO are severable to the least extent necessary to carry out
the purpose and intent of this Ordinance.
(Ord. No. 3558, § 2, 7-7-09; Ord., 3-16-21)
ARTICLE 2.  REVIEW BODIES
   
2.1.   Administration.
      
2.1.1.   Procedure.
      
2.1.2.   Maintenance of the public trust.
   
2.2.   Town Council.
      
2.2.1.   Powers and duties.
   
2.3.   Planning Commission.
      
2.3.1.   Creation.
      
2.3.2.   Membership and terms.
      
2.3.3.   Rules of procedure.
      
2.3.4.   Powers and duties.
   
2.4.   Board of Adjustment.
      
2.4.1.   Creation.
      
2.4.2.   Membership and terms.
      
2.4.3.   Rules of procedure.
      
2.4.4.   Quasi-judicial decisions and judicial review.
      
2.4.5.   Powers and duties.
   
2.5.   Planning Director .
      
2.5.1.   Designation.
      
2.5.2.   Responsibility.
      
2.5.3.   Powers and duties.
   
2.6.   Other Officials.
      
2.6.1.   Town Engineer.
      
2.6.2.   Building Official.
      
2.6.3.   Technical Review Committee.
2.1.   ADMINISTRATION.
2.1.1.  Procedure.
   A.   Rules of Procedure. Boards and Commissions set out in this article may
adopt rules and regulations governing their procedures in consistency with the
provisions of this UDO.
   B.   Minutes. Each Board shall maintain accurate minutes of each meeting set
out in this Article, showing the vote of each member on each decision, or if
absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact.
   C.   Meetings. All meetings of Boards and Commissions shall be open to the
public, and an agenda shall be made public according to administrative
procedures.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
2.1.2.  Maintenance of the Public Trust.
   A.   Oath of Office. Pursuant to G.S. § 160D-309, all members appointed to
boards shall take the oath of office as required.
   B.   Conflict of Interest. Pursuant to G.S. § 160D-109, no elected or
appointed board member or administrative staff shall make a final decision as
required by this Ordinance if the outcome of that decision would have a direct,
substantial, and readily identifiable financial impact on themselves or if the
applicant or other person  subject to that decision is a person  with whom the
staff member has a close familial, business, or other associational
relationship.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
2.2.   TOWN COUNCIL.
2.2.1.  Powers and Duties.
   The Town Council shall have the power to appoint members of the Planning
Commission and the Board of Adjustment (BOA) as well as those responsibilities
enumerated in
Article 3, Review Procedures. The Council may also appoint temporary advisory
commissions or committees from time to time.
(Ord. No. 3376, § 1, 1-17-06; Ord. No. 3558, § 2, 7-7-09; Ord., 3-16-21)
2.3.   PLANNING COMMISSION.
2.3.1.  Creation.
   Pursuant to G.S. § 160D-301, there shall be a permanent Planning Commission
(occasionally referred to herein as “Planning Board”) established to advise the
Town Council on land use matters. The Planning Director shall oversee and
facilitate the operations of the Planning Commission.
(Ord. No. 3558, § 2, 7-7-09; Ord., 3-16-21)
2.3.2.  Membership and Terms.
   A.   Number. Per G.S. § 160D-307, Planning Commission shall consist of seven
members. The number of Planning Commission members representing in-Town members
and extra-territorial jurisdiction (ETJ) area members shall be distributed
proportionally using the most recent decennial Census.
   B.   Appointment. In-Town members shall be appointed by the Town Council and
shall reside within the Town of Garner’s corporate limits. The Wake County
Board of Commissioners shall appoint the remainder of the Planning Commission,
all of whom shall reside within the Town's ETJ. If the Wake County
Commissioners fail to make these appointments within ninety (90) days after
receiving a written request from the Town Council, the Council shall make the
appointments.
   C.   Terms. Members shall be appointed for two-year staggered terms. Members
shall continue to serve until their successors have been appointed.
   D.   Term Limits. Planning Board members may be appointed for three
consecutive 2-year terms.
   E.   Current Members. Members of the Planning Commission on the effective
date of this UDO shall continue to serve until their respective terms expire.
   F.   Vacancies. A vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired term.
   G.   Removal. Members may be removed by the Town Council for failure to
attend three consecutive meetings without having been excused, for failure to
attend thirty (30) percent of the meetings within any twelve-month period, or
for other good cause related to performance of duties.
(Ord. No. 3558, § 2, 7-7-09; Ord., 3-16-21)
2.3.3.  Rules of Procedure.
   A.   The Planning Board shall elect officers and may set rules of procedure
(consistent with G.S. § 160D-308), which are recorded in a separate document,
maintained by the Planning Director .
   B.   A Secretary to the Planning Commission shall be designated by the
Planning Director .
   C.   The Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson shall take part in all
deliberations and vote on all issues, unless absent or excused.
   D.   The Planning Commission shall establish a regular meeting schedule and
shall meet at least monthly. The Planning Commission is encouraged to attend
joint public hearings with the Town Council when zoning petitions and UDO
amendments are presented.
(Ord. No. 3376, § 2, 1-17-06; Ord. No. 3558, § 2, 7-7-09; Ord., 3-16-21)
2.3.4.  Powers and Duties.
   The Planning Commission shall have the powers and duties outlined below, in
addition to those enumerated in
Article 3, Review Procedures.
   A.   Growth Recommendations. The Planning Commission shall make
recommendations to the Town Council concerning plans, goals, and objectives
relating to growth, development , and redevelopment within the planning
jurisdiction ;
   B.   Comprehensive Growth Plan Administration. When directed by the Town
Council, the Planning Commission shall be responsible for the preparation of a
Comprehensive Growth Plan and shall make a recommendation on it to the Town
Council on issues related to policies, ordinances, administrative procedures
and other means for carrying out plans in a coordinated and efficient manner;
   C.   Other Responsibilities. The Planning Commission shall have any other
duties assigned by the Town Council.
(Ord. No. 3376, § 3, 1-17-06; Ord. No. 3558, § 2, 7-7-09; Ord., 3-16-21)
2.4.   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
2.4.1.  Creation.
   Pursuant to North Carolina G.S. § 160D-302, the Board of Adjustment (BOA) is
hereby established. The Planning Director shall oversee and facilitate the
operations of the Board of Adjustment.
(Ord. No. 3720, § 1, 12-2-13; Ord., 3-16-21)
2.4.2.  Membership and Terms.
   A.   Number. The Board of Adjustment shall consist of five regular members
and three alternate members. The number of both regular and alternate BOA
members representing in-Town members and extra-territorial jurisdiction (ETJ)
area members shall be distributed proportionally using the most recent
decennial Census.
   B.   Appointment. In-Town members shall be appointed by the Town Council and
shall reside within the Town of Garner’s corporate limits. The Wake County
Board of Commissioners shall appoint the remainder of the Planning Commission,
all of whom shall reside within the Town's ETJ. If the Wake County
Commissioners fail to make these appointments within ninety (90) days after
receiving a written request from the Town Council, the Council shall make the
appointments.
   C.   Terms. Members shall be appointed for three-year staggered terms, but
members may continue to serve until their successors have been appointed.
   D.   Current Members. Members of the Board of Adjustment on the effective
date of this UDO shall continue to serve until their respective terms expire.
   E.   Vacancies. Vacancies may be filled for the unexpired terms only.
   F.   Removal.
      1.   Regular members may be removed by the Town Council at any time for
two consecutive unexcused absences from a Board of Adjustment meeting or for a
30% unexcused absence rate in a twelve-month period. An unexcused absence is
one without reasonably adequate notice to an appropriate alternate member,
Chairperson of the Board of Adjustment, or the Planning Director .
      2.   Alternate members may be removed by the Town Council for failure to
respond on two consecutive occasions or, within any twelve-month period, on
thirty (30) percent or more of the occasions when a timely request is made to
such member to serve as an alternate.
      3.   Regular or alternate members may also be removed by the Town Council
for other good cause related to performance of duties.
(Ord. No. 3558, § 2, 7-7-09; Ord. No. 3720, § 1, 12-2-13; Ord., 3-16-21)
2.4.3.  Rules of Procedure.
   A.   The Board of Adjustment shall elect officers and may set rules of
procedure (consistent with G.S. § 160D-308), which are recorded in a separate
document, maintained by the Planning Director .
   B.   The Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson shall take part in all
deliberations and vote on all issues, unless absent or excused.
   C.   Meetings.
      1.   The Board of Adjustment shall establish a regular meeting schedule
and shall meet frequently so as to allow for expeditious processing of
applications. The Board of Adjustment may provide in its by-laws for the
calling of special meetings.
      2.   Pursuant to G.S. § 160D-406(g), the Board of Adjustment may issue
subpoenas.
(Ord. No. 3376, §§ 4, 5, 1-17-06; Ord. No. 3720, § 1, 12-2-13; Ord., 3-16-21)
2.4.4.  Quasi-judicial Decisions and Judicial Review.
   A.   The Board of Adjustment shall make and report decisions pursuant to
G.S. § 160D- 406(j).
   B.   Every quasi-judicial decision shall be subject to review by the
superior court by proceedings in the nature of certiorari pursuant to G.S. §
160D-1402. A petition for review shall be filed with the superior court by the
later of thirty (30) days after the decision is effective or after a written
copy thereof is delivered. When first-class mail is used to deliver notice,
three (3) days shall be added to the time to file the petition.
(Ord. No. 3720, § 1, 12-2-13; Ord., 3-16-21)
2.4.5.  Powers and Duties.
   The Board of Adjustment shall have the powers and duties outlined below, in
addition to those enumerated in
Article 3, Review Procedures.
   A.   Watershed Review Board. The Board of Adjustment shall act as the
Watershed Review Board.
   B.   Other Responsibilities. The Board of Adjustment shall have any other
matter the Board of Adjustment is required to act upon by any Town ordinance.
(Ord. No. 3720, § 1, 12-2-13; Ord., 3-16-21)
2.5.   PLANNING DIRECTOR.
2.5.1.  Designation.
   The Town Manager shall designate the Planning Director for the Town of
Garner.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
2.5.2.  Responsibility.
   Except as otherwise specifically provided, primary responsibility for
administering and enforcing this UDO is the responsibility of the Planning
Director . Where this UDO assigns a responsibility, power, or duty to the
Planning Director , the Planning Director may delegate that responsibility,
although the Planning Director shall be ultimately responsible for any
decisions or actions made through that delegation of responsibility. The person
or persons to whom these functions are assigned shall be referred to in this
UDO as the “Planning Director”.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
2.5.3.  Powers and Duties.
   The Planning Director shall have the powers and duties outlined below, in
addition to those enumerated in
Article 3, Review Procedures.
   A.   Administration and Enforcement. The Planning Director shall administer
and enforce the provisions of this UDO.
   B.   Interpretation. The Planning Director shall make written
interpretations of this UDO setting forth the reasons and explanation
therefore, and shall forward same to the Town Attorney.
   C.   Technical Review Committee. The Planning Director shall serve as the
chairperson for and be responsible for all final decisions of the Technical
Review Committee.
   D.   Other Duties. The Planning Director shall perform other duties imposed
under the provisions of the Garner UDO, as amended from time to time.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
2.6.   OTHER OFFICIALS.
2.6.1.  Town Engineer.
   A.   Designation. The Town Manager shall designate the Town Engineer for the
Town of Garner.
   B.   Powers and Duties. In addition to those powers and duties enumerated in
Article 3, Review Procedures, the Town Engineer shall monitor land use
activities within the watershed areas to the extent reasonably practicable,
identify situations that may pose a threat to water quality, and report all
significant findings to the Watershed Review Board.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
2.6.2.  Building Official.
   A.   Designation. The Town Manager shall designate the Building  Official
for the Town of Garner.
   B.   Powers and Duties. The Building  Official shall have those powers and
duties enumerated in
Article 3 , Review Procedures.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
2.6.3.  Technical Review Committee.
   A.   Designation. The Planning Director  shall designate a Technical Review
Committee (TRC) consisting of the Planning Director  (acting as chairperson),
the Town Engineer, the Building  Official, and any other Town professional or
outside agency representative the Planning Director  deems necessary for the
professional review of land use and development  proposals.
   B.   Powers and duties. The Technical Review Committee shall have those
powers and duties enumerated in
Article 3, Review Procedures.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
ARTICLE 3.  REVIEW PROCEDURES
   
3.1.   Purpose
   
3.2.   General
      
3.2.1.   Interpretation
      
3.2.2.   Effects on successors
      
3.2.3.   Permit choice
      
3.2.4.   Revocation
      
3.2.5.   Development moratoria
      
3.2.6.   Types of decisions
      
3.2.7.   Vested rights and expiration
   
3.3.   Review Authority Table
   
3.4.   Common Review Procedures
      
3.4.1.   Preapplication conference
      
3.4.2.   Application requirements
      
3.4.3.   Withdrawal
      
3.4.4.   Resubmission
      
3.4.5.   Neighborhood meetings
      
3.4.6.   Public notice requirements
      
3.4.7.   Hearings
      
3.4.8.   Written decision
      
3.4.9.   Extensions
      
3.4.10.   Completing developments in phases
   
3.5.   Specific Review Procedures and Development Approvals - Subdivisions
      
3.5.1.   Subdivision in general
      
3.5.2.   Minor subdivision
      
3.5.3.   Major subdivision
      
3.5.4.   Final plat
   
3.6.   Specific Review Procedures and Development Approvals - Map and Text
Amendments
      
3.6.1.   Rezoning / map amendment
      
3.6.2.   Conditional zoning
      
3.6.3.   Text amendment (aka ordinance amendment)
   
3.7.   Specific Review Procedures and Development Approvals - Permits
      
3.7.1.   Zoning compliance permit
      
3.7.2.   Sign permit
   
3.8.   Specific Review Procedures and Development Approvals - Site Plans and
Administrative Review
      
3.8.1.   Site plan
      
3.8.2.   Administrative modifications
      
3.8.3.   Written interpretation
   
3.9.   Specific Review Procedures and Development Approvals - Miscellaneous
      
3.9.1.   Administrative appeals
      
3.9.2.   Special use permit
      
3.9.3.   Traffic impact analysis
      
3.9.4.   Variance
      
3.9.5.   Temporary use permit
   
3.10.   Specific Review Procedures and Development Approvals - Environmental
      
3.10.1.   Flood mitigation
3.1.   PURPOSE.
   This Article establishes review procedures for land use and land development
proposals within the Town’s planning jurisdiction in order to enhance
transparency, provide a standard and consistent development review and approval
process, and ensure consistency with adopted Town plans, standards, and
policies.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
3.2.   GENERAL.
3.2.1.  Interpretation.
   A.   When used throughout this Article, the words “request,” “application,”
and “proposal” are equivalent.
   B.   References to “permits” throughout this UDO do not necessarily include
building permits. A development approval alone does not grant the holder rights
to commence construction or development .
(Ord., 3-16-21)
3.2.2.  Effects on Successors.
   Permits and development approvals are transferable. So long as there is an
active or completed permit, no person shall make use of the land or structure
except in accordance with the terms and requirements of the permit.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
3.2.3.  Permit Choice.
   Pursuant to G.S. § 160D-108(b), if development regulations change between
application submittal and the time of decision or project completion, the
applicant may choose whether the Town will evaluate the application based on
the previous or current version of the regulations.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
3.2.4.  Revocation.
   A.   A permit or development approval described in this article may be
revoked if the holder fails to maintain the property in accordance with the
approved plans, the UDO, or other legal requirements.
   B.   Revocation of a permit or development approval shall undergo the same
process as was followed for the initial approval.
(Ord. No. 3376, § 16, 1-17-06; Ord., 3-16-21)
3.2.5.  Development Moratoria.
   Pursuant to G.S. § 160D-107, the Town may adopt a moratorium on development
approval(s).
(Ord., 3-16-21)
3.2.6.  Types of Decisions.
   Pursuant to G.S. § 160D-102, all applicable definitions and regulations from
that chapter apply, in particular the following:
   A.   Administrative. Decisions made in the implementation, administration,
or enforcement of development regulations that involve the determination of
facts and the application of objective standards set forth in this Chapter or
local government development regulations. These are sometimes referred to as
ministerial decisions or administrative determinations.
   B.   Legislative. The adoption, amendment, or repeal of a regulation under
this Chapter or an applicable local act. The term also includes the decision to
approve, amend, or rescind a development  agreement consistent with the
provisions of
Article 10 of this Chapter.
   C.   Quasi-judicial. A decision involving the finding of facts regarding a
specific application of a development  regulation and that requires the
exercise of discretion when applying the standards of the regulation. The term
includes, but is not limited to, decisions involving variances, special use
permits, certificates of appropriateness, and appeals of administrative
determinations. Decisions on the approval of subdivision plats and site plans
are quasi-judicial in nature if the regulation authorizes a decision-making
board to approve or deny the application based not only upon whether the
application complies with the specific requirements set forth in the
regulation, but also on whether the application complies with one or more
generally stated standards requiring a discretionary decision on the findings
to be made by the decision-making board.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
3.2.7.  Vested Rights and Expiration.
   Pursuant to G.S. § 160D, a vested right is the right to undertake and
complete the development and use of a property.
   A.   Building Permits.
      1.   As provided in G.S. § 160D-1111, building permits expire six months
after issuance, if the permit work has not commenced.
      2.   Discontinuance of work for a period of twelve months or more shall
render the permit expired.
   B.   Zoning Compliance Permits.
      1.   Pursuant to G.S. §160D-108(d), zoning compliance permits shall
expire within one year from date of issuance if unless work has substantially
commenced.
      2.   For these purposes, “substantially commenced” includes but is not
limited to application for and timely pursuit of a building permit, grading
permit, or other permit necessary to commence installation of infrastructure or
establishment of the intended use .
   C.   Site Specific Vesting Plans, per G.S. § 160D-108.1.
      1.   The appropriate decision-making body’s approval of a site specific
vesting plan establishes a vested right that runs with the land and authorizes
the recipient to complete development as authorized by the issued permit.
      2.   Site specific vesting plans shall remain vested for two years,
unless, upon applicant request, the Town Council grants a longer period up to
no more than five years total.
      3.   The right shall terminate at the end of the vesting period if the
next requisite permits have not been procured for the project.
      4.   Deviation from the site specific vesting plan shall result in
forfeiture of the vested right .
      5.   Pursuant to G.S. §160D-108(f), multi-phase developments shall be
vested in their entirety with the regulations and ordinances in place at the
time of site plan approval for the initial development phase. The vesting
period for multi-phase developments shall be seven years.
   Commentary (01/01/2021): Site specific vesting plans include planned
developments, preliminary subdivision plats, site plans, preliminary or general
development plans, special use permits, and conditional zoning districts.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
3.3.   REVIEW AUTHORITY TABLE.
   The Review Authority Table displays decision types, the participants in the
review process, and their respective roles.
   Figure 3.3-A Review Authority Table
                                                Public Notice Level
Process Type Review Final Action Appeal Process (See Public Notice    Section
                                                Requiremen ts 3.4.6.)
                                                                 Public
                                                                 Notice
                                             Final     Appeal    Level (See
Process        Type           Review         Action    Process   Public      Section
                                                                 Notice
                                                                 Requiremen
                                                                 ts 3.4.6.)
3.5 Subdivision
Major          Admin.         TRC            Planning  BOA       N/A         3.5.3
Subdivision                                  Director
Minor                                        Planning                        3.5.2
Subdivision/   Admin.         TRC            Director  BOA       N/A         3.5.4
Final Plat
3.6 Map and Text Amendments
Rezoning (Map  Leg.           Planning       Town      Superior  A, B, C     3.6.1
Amendment)                    Commission     Council   Court
Conditional
Zoning                        Planning       Town      Superior
District/      Leg.           Commission     Council   Court     A, B, C     3.6.2
Conditional
Rezoning
                              Planning
Text Amendment Leg.           Director /     Town      Superior  A, B, C     3.6.3
                              Planning       Council   Court
                              Commission
3.7 Permits
Zoning                        Planning       Planning
Compliance     Admin.         Director       Director  BOA       N/A         3.7.1
Permit
Sign Permit    Admin.         Planning       Planning  BOA       N/A         3.7.2
                              Director       Director
3.8 Site Plans and Administrative Review
Site Plan      Admin.         TRC            Planning  BOA       N/A         3.8.1
                                             Director
Administrative Admin.         Planning       Planning  BOA       N/A         3.8.2
Modification                  Director       Director
Determination  See Written
of Vested      Interpretation                                             
Right
Written        Admin.         Planning       Planning  BOA       N/A         3.8.3
Interpretation                Director       Director
3.9 Miscellaneous
Administrative QJ                           BOA       Superior  A, B        3.9.1
Appeal                                                 Court
Special use    QJ             TRC            Town      Superior  A, B, C     3.9.2
permit                                       Council   Court
                                             Per       Per       Per primary
Traffic Impact Admin.         TRC            primary   primary   development 3.9.3
Analysis                                     developme developme permit
                                             nt permit nt permit
Variance       QJ             TRC            BOA       Superior  A, B, C     3.9.4
                                                       Court
Temporary Use  Admin.         TRC            Planning  BOA       N/A         3.9.5
Permit                                       Director
3.10 Environmental
Flood                         Town Engineer  BOA       Superior  Per
Mitigation     QJ             (Floodplain    (acting   Court     Variance    3.10.1
Permit                        Administrator) as WRB)
Notes:
Admin. = Administrative
Leg. = Legislative
QJ = Quasi-judicial
TRC = Technical Review Committee, which also includes Planning Director
BOA = Board of Adjustment
WRB = Watershed Review Board
 
(Ord. No. 3558, § 2, 7-7-09; Ord., 3-16-21)
3.4.   COMMON REVIEW PROCEDURES.
3.4.1.  Preapplication Conference.
   A.   The purpose of a preapplication conference is to provide the applicant
information on the appropriate application procedure for their desired action,
background information, necessary materials, and other relevant information
applicable to their proposed request.
   B.   Preapplication conferences are encouraged for all development
applications, but are mandatory for the following:
      1.   Rezoning.
      2.   Conditional zoning.
      3.   Minor subdivision .
      4.   Major subdivision .
      5.   Variance , including Flood Mitigation Permit.
   C.   Applicants shall provide a sketch or drawing to aid in the
understanding of the proposal. At minimum, the sketch plan should include:
      1.   Property location or parcel number.
      2.   Approximate location of existing structures .
      3.   A description or drawing of the desired action or use and where it
will occur.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
3.4.2.  Application Requirements.
   A.   Applicant Eligibility.
      1.   The property owner or the property owner’s authorized agent may
submit the applications described in this Article. Agents must produce
notarized documentation of permission from the property owner.
      2.   Pursuant to G.S. § 160D-703, the Town Council may initiate rezonings
through direction to the Planning Director .
   B.   Application Completeness.
      1.   The Planning Director will determine the completeness of each
application.
      2.   Incomplete applications will not be accepted. Incomplete
applications do not have the sufficient information or materials necessary for
review and processing.
      3.   If an application is found to be incomplete or insufficient, the
Planning Director shall notify the applicant and provide a list of deficiencies
or missing materials that need correcting.
   C.   Content.
      1.   A complete application contains all materials and requirements set
forth on each application form as provided by the Planning Director .
      2.   Under unique circumstances, the Planning Director may find that
additional information is necessary to determine the sufficiency of a submitted
application. The Planning Director is authorized to require the applicant to
present this information for inclusion in the consideration of the application.
      3.   Permits and Approvals from Outside Agencies. No plan, permit, or
Certificate of Occupancy shall be issued without proof of receipt of necessary
permits from outside agencies.
      Commentary (01/01/2021): Examples include permits issued by outside
agencies such as USACE, CORPUD, etc. for approvals such as wetland mitigation
(404/401), CLOMAR, utility tap approval, etc.
   D.   Fees as Outlined in the Town of Garner Adopted Fee Schedule.
      1.   No application will be considered complete without rendering of
appropriate fees at submittal.
      2.   The Town may fully refund application fees for withdrawn
applications, provided review of the application has not begun.
   E.   Deadline. All applications shall be completed and submitted to the
Planning Director in accordance with the published calendar on file in the
Planning Department.
(Ord. No. 3558, § 2, 7-7-09; Ord., 3-16-21)
3.4.3.  Withdrawal.
   A.   An applicant may withdraw a rezoning application at any time, by filing
a signed, written statement of withdrawal with the Planning Director .
   B.   The statement of withdrawal shall be signed by all persons who signed
the application, or in the event of death or incompetence by the estate's
lawful personal representative.
   C.   Any application that has not provided any requested revisions or
materials within 120 days of the request shall be administratively withdrawn by
the Planning Director , with no refund of fees. The applicant shall be notified
of the pending withdrawal in writing or by email 30 days prior to the
withdrawal.
(Ord. No. 3558, § 2, 7-7-09; Ord., 3-16-21)
3.4.4.  Resubmission.
   A.   An incomplete application may be resubmitted at the next application
intake date according to the standard application submission procedure
described herein.
   B.   Upon the denial or disapproval of an application (except for a rezoning
application), an identical application may not be submitted.
   C.   Any resubmittal must meet at least one of the following criteria:
      1.   New or additional information has become available that may impact
the application of review standards.
      2.   The new application incorporates different standards, e.g., new uses
or changes in density.
      3.   A finding, by the approving body, that the final decision on the
application was based on a material mistake of fact.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
3.4.5.  Neighborhood Meetings.
   A.   The purpose of a neighborhood meeting is to inform neighbors of the
development proposal, receive their comments, and potentially resolve any
conflicts or concerns prior to the official hearing.
      1.   Applicability. At least one neighborhood meeting is required for
         a.   Rezonings / Map Amendments
         b.   Conditional Zonings
         c.   Special Use Permits
      2.   The neighborhood meeting shall be held after the preapplication
conference and before the official application submittal.
      3.   The applicant shall hold the neighborhood meeting within the town’s
ETJ in an accessible location that is proximate to the site or at a location
that is centrally located within the town and at a time in the late afternoon
or early evening that is convenient to most people that work daytime jobs.
      4.   Notification. See requirements for mailed notice, Section
3.4.6.
      5.   The applicant shall submit a meeting summary identifying all issues
raised and any resolution or explanation, a list of attendees, a list of
addresses where notices were mailed, and a list of returned mail notices no
later than ten (10) calendar days prior to the first reading or meeting of
Planning Commission or Town Council.
(Ord. No. 3376, § 6, 1-17-06; Ord. No. 3558, § 2, 7-7-09; Ord. No. 3672, § 1,
10-1-2012; Ord. No. 3694, §§ 2, 3, 5-21-2013; Ord., 3-16-21)
3.4.6.  Public Notice Requirements.
   A.   Published. The Planning Director shall place an advertisement on the
Town’s official webpage once a week for two successive weeks. The first notice
shall be published no less than ten (10) days and no more than 25 days prior to
the hearing. The contents of the published notice shall include:
      1.   The general location (including a map for mailed notices).
      2.   The parcel number and/or street address.
      3.   A description of the action requested.
      4.   Current and proposed zoning districts (rezonings only).
      5.   The time and location of the anticipated public hearing.
      6.   Phone number and email of the appropriate applicant’s contact.
      7.   Phone number and email of the appropriate Town contact.
      8.   A statement that interested parties may appear at the hearing.
      9.   A statement that substantial changes to the proposed action may
occur following the hearing.
   B.   Posted. The Planning Director  shall post a notice of application at a
visible location on subject property no less than fourteen (14) days prior to
the hearing. The contents of the posted notice shall include the Town’s general
contact information and that a land use  decision is under consideration.
      Commentary (1/1/2021): Note that NC GS §160D-602 requires posting a site
10-25 days before the hearing.
   C.   Mailed. The owner of the affected parcels and the owners of parcels
within 300 feet shall be notified of the hearing by first class mail. For
zoning map amendments, properties shall be considered abutting even if
separated by a street , railroad, or other transportation corridor or right-of-
way. Mailed notices shall contain the same content as published notices
outlined subsection A.
      Commentary (1/1/2021): When a mailed notice involves properties within a
HOA, it is best practice to send a letter directly to the HOA also.
      1.   Pursuant to G.S. § 160D-602(b), if a mailed notice for a zoning map
amendment hearing includes at least fifty individual owners of at least fifty
individual properties, the Town may instead elect to publish notice of the
hearing as specified in Section
3.4.5. In this case, each advertisement shall be at ½ of a newspaper page in
size. Property owners outside of the newspaper’s circulation area shall still
be notified of the hearing via first class mail.
      2.   If a notice contains errors regarding the time, date, or location of
the hearing or the location of the subject property, the notice shall be
rendered inadequate. However, if a bona fide attempt resulted in any other
minor or clerical defect in the notice, the notice shall remain valid. If
questions of validity arise, the decision-making body shall make a formal
finding of substantial compliance or lack thereof. If the decision-making body
finds there is substantial compliance, it may then begin the proceedings for
the case.
(Ord. No. 3558, § 2, 7-7-09; Ord., 3-16-21)
3.4.7.  Hearings.
   A.   Modification of Application.
      1.   The applicant may agree to application modifications in response to
questions or comments by persons appearing at the public hearing or to
recommendations by the Town Council, Planning Commission or Board of
Adjustment.
      2.   Unless such modifications are so substantial that the board cannot
reasonably be expected to perceive the nature and impact of the proposed
changes without revised plans before it, the Board may approve the application
with the stipulation that the permit will not be issued until plans reflecting
the agreed upon changes are submitted to the Planning Department.
      3.   The decision-making body may refer the case back to the recommending
body for review, prior to further consideration. The decision-making body shall
choose one of the following options:
         a.   Continue the hearing to a new date and time certain within 45
days in accordance with the provisions below.
         b.   Close the hearing and re-publish notice of any future hearing in
accordance with this paragraph.
   B.   Continuation. The decision-making body may continue hearings without
further notification so long as the motion to continue the hearing, made in
open session, specifies the date and time of the hearing continuation.
   C.   Evidentiary Hearings. Pursuant to G.S. § 160D-406, evidentiary hearings
shall be required as specified in Section
3.3.
      1.   Oaths. The acting chair of the decision-making body and the clerk to
the board are authorized to administer oaths to all witnesses in evidentiary
hearings.
      2.   Parties. Pursuant to G.S. § 160D-1402(c), the applicant, local
government, and other appropriate parties shall have the right to participate
at the hearing. Additional witnesses may present competent evidence pertaining
to the case.
      3.   Evidence.
         a.   All findings and conclusions shall be based on substantial,
competent, and material evidence. All competent evidence must be admissible in
a court of law.
         b.   Competent evidence does not include the opinions of lay witnesses
attesting to property value implications, traffic impacts, or other matters
about which expert testimony would generally be admissible.
      4.   Meeting Record.
         a.   Kept pursuant to state public record retention laws.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
3.4.8.  Written Decision.
   Within thirty calendar days after a final decision is made by the Town
Council, Planning Commission, Board of Adjustment, Planning Director , or other
review body under the requirements of this UDO, a copy of the written decision
shall be sent to the applicant or appellant.
   A.   A copy of the notice shall be filed in the office of the Planning
Director , where it shall be available for public inspection during regular
office hours.
   B.   The written decision shall state the review body's findings,
conclusions, and supporting reasons or facts whenever this UDO requires these
as a prerequisite to acting.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
3.4.9.  Extensions.
   The Planning Director shall grant time extensions to approved and unexpired
special use permits and administrative development approvals according to the
provisions of this subsection.
   A.   To receive an extension, the permit holder must file a written request
with the Planning Director . One extension is permitted per parcel per
development approval.
   B.   Permit time extensions shall be limited to a period not to exceed 24
months from the date of the original permit expiration.
(Ord. No. 3558, §§ 1, 2, 7-7-09; Ord., 3-16-21)
3.4.10.  Completing Developments in Phases.
   A.   Developer s shall submit a phasing plan for developments that will be
completed in phases. The phasing plan shall include drawings of each phase and
schedule of any associated improvements to be completed during the phase. Any
development approval or permit shall be contingent on the drawings and the
approved schedule.
   B.   Each phase of a proposed development shall include the infrastructure
and other required elements of this Ordinance for each phase to stand alone.
   C.   The provisions of this Ordinance shall apply to each phase of
development as if it stood alone.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
3.5.   SPECIFIC REVIEW PROCEDURES AND DEVELOPMENT APPROVALS - SUBDIVISIONS.
3.5.1.  Subdivision in General.
   A.   Applicability.
      1.   Pursuant to G.S. § 160D Article 8, subdivision approval shall be
required before the division of land into two or more parcels.
      2.   In accordance with G.S. § 160D-802, the following types of
subdivision s proceed directly to Final Plat (per Section
3.5.4):
         Commentary (1/1/2021): These types of subdivisions were previously
referred to as “exempt” subdivisions.
         a.   The combination or recombination of portions of previously
subdivided and recorded lots where the total number of lot s is not increased
and the resulting lot s are equal to or exceed the standards of this UDO.
         b.   The division of land into parcels greater than 10 acres where no
street right-of-way dedication is involved.
         c.   The public acquisition of land for water or sewer infrastructure
or the widening or opening of streets or public transportation corridors.
         d.   The division of a tract in single ownership whose entire area is
no greater than two acres into not more than three lots, where no street right-
of-way dedication is involved and where the resultant lots are equal to or
exceed the standards of this UDO.
         e.   The division of a tract into parcels in accordance with the terms
of a probated will or in accordance with intestate succession, per G.S. § 29.
         f.   The division of a tract into plots or lots used as a cemetery.
   B.   No subdivision without plat approval.
      1.   As provided in G.S. § 160D-807, no person may subdivide land except
in accordance with all the provisions of this UDO. No subdivision may occur
unless and until a final plat of the subdivision has been approved in
accordance with the provisions of this Section and recorded in the Wake County
Registry. The provisions of this section shall not prohibit any owner or its
agent from entering into contracts to sell or lease by reference to an approved
preliminary plat for which a final plat has not yet been approved or recorded
in Wake County Registry. Such arrangements shall strictly follow the provisions
of G.S. § 160D-807.
      2.   As provided in G.S. § 160D-807, the Wake Register of Deeds shall not
record a plat of any subdivision within the Town's planning jurisdiction unless
the plat has been approved in accordance with the provisions of this UDO.
      3.   As provided in G.S. § 160D-802, not all divisions of land constitute
subdivision s that are subject to all regulations under this UDO. However, to
ensure that such divisions are exempt from the requirements of this UDO, all
plat s creating a division of land shall be presented to the Planning
Department before recordation in the Wake County Registry, and the planning
staff shall indicate on the face of the plat that the division is exempt from
the provisions of this UDO.
      4.   All stormwater management provisions must be met prior to the
subdivision of land.
      5.   It shall be unlawful to offer and cause to be recorded any major or
minor subdivision plan, plat , or replat of land within Garner’s jurisdiction
with the Wake County Register of Deeds unless the same bears the endorsement
and approval of the Planning Director or Town Clerk.
   C.   No occupancy, use , or sale of lot s until requirements fulfilled.
      1.   Where the subdivision process applies, the development or sale of
lot s prior to approval of a final plat is prohibited.
      2.   For development on existing lot s, no occupancy or use shall be
permitted prior to the approval of at least one of the following permits:
         a.   Site Plan
         b.   Special use permit
         c.   Temporary Use Permit
         d.   Certificate of Zoning Compliance
      3.   Issuance of a final plat or any of the permits listed above
authorizes the holder to commence the approved activity; however, excepting
phased developments, structures with temporary certificates of occupancy, and
subdivision s with improvement guarantees, no intended use may commence, no
building be occupied, nor any lot be sold until all of the UDO requirements
have been met.
(Ord. No. 3376, § 14, 1-17-06; Ord. No. 3558, § 2, 7-7-09; Ord., 3-16-21)
3.5.2.  Minor Subdivision.
   A.   A minor subdivision is any subdivision that does not involve any of the
following:
      1.   Creation of a total of five or more lots.
      2.   Creation of any new public streets.
      3.   Extension of the water or sewer system operated by the City of
Raleigh.
      4.   Installation of drainage improvements through one or more lots to
serve one or more other lots.
   B.   A preapplication conference with CORPUD is required prior to submission
of an application to the Town.
   C.   After a preapplication conference and sketch plan review and approval
by the TRC, the applicant may apply for final plat approval.
   D.   See
3.5.4 for approval criteria for minor subdivision final plats .
(Ord., 3-16-21)
3.5.3.  Major Subdivision.
   A.   All other subdivision s of land not listed in Section
3.5.2 shall be considered major subdivisions.
   B.   Review.
      1.   A major subdivision requires submission and review of a preliminary
plat.
      2.   The Town shall forward the preliminary plat to the Wake County
Health Department, and any other affected agencies potentially including NCDOT
and the Wake County Board of Education.
         Commentary (1/1/2021): Approval of utility tap locations by CORPUD is
required prior to final plat review by the Town.
      3.   Within 15 days of submittal of the application, the TRC shall review
the preliminary plat and application for consistency with the UDO. For
preliminary plat s that do not meet the standards of this Ordinance, a list of
deficiencies shall be provided to the applicant, which may also include a list
of potential options for bringing the preliminary plat into compliance.
   C.   Upon a determination by the TRC that the preliminary plat meets the
standards of this Ordinance, it shall be approved by the Planning Director .
   D.   Action following Preliminary Plat Approval.
      1.   Following preliminary plat approval, the applicant may proceed to
comply with other requirements of this UDO including construction plans,
preparation of the final plat, and other approvals and permits.
      2.   The preliminary plat approval does not guarantee the approval of the
final subdivisionplat .
(Ord. No. 3523, §§ 2, 3, 8-4-08; Ord. No. 3558, § 2, 7-7-09; Ord., 3-16-21)
3.5.4.  Final Plat.
   A.   Applicability. Final plats are required for all subdivision of land in
Garner’s planning jurisdiction .
   B.   The Final Plat shall only constitute the portion of the approved
preliminary plat that the subdivider proposes to record and develop at the time
of submission. Approval shall be subject to the installation of subdivision
improvements described in this UDO.
   C.   Application.
      1.   The final subdivision plat shall be submitted in accordance with
G.S. § 47-30 and with the requirements maintained by the Planning Director .
      2.   Endorsements Required - See appendix of certificates.
         a.   Certificate of ownership
         b.   Certificate of survey and accuracy
         c.   Certificate of dedication, if applicable
         d.   Certificate of approval by the Planning Director
         e.   Certificate of approval by City of Raleigh Utilities, if
applicable
         f.   Wake County Plat Review Officer’s certificate
      3.   All major subdivision final plats located outside the corporate
limits of the Town, but within the planning jurisdiction , shall contain the
following additional certificates:
         a.   NCDOT Division 5 of Highways District 1 Engineer certificate.
         b.   Wake County Environmental Health certificate of approval of non-
municipal water supply and sewage disposal systems.
      4.   When required by the federal government, all final plats shall
contain a certificate for a federally funded project.
   D.   Approval.
      1.   After TRC certification that the final plat meets all applicable
requirements of this Ordinance, the Planning Director shall approve a final
subdivisionplat .
      2.   When sufficient financial security in the amount of 125% of the
required, uninstalled improvements is furnished to guarantee the completion of
the improvements, the Planning Director shall approve a final subdivisionplat
prior to the full installation of all improvements.
      3.   Additional approval criteria for minor subdivision final plat s.
         a.   The plat complies with the standards of
Article 8, Subdivision, design/improvements, and any other applicable
requirements of this UDO.
         b.   The plat is consistent with the approved preliminary plat, if
applicable.
         c.   The plat indicates that all subject lots will have frontage on
existing, approved streets or such provision will be made.
         d.   New or residual parcels will conform to the requirements of this
UDO and other applicable regulations.
         e.   No new streets (not including widenings of existing roads) or
road extensions are required or are likely to be required for access to
interior property, or they have been provided.
         f.   No drainage or utility easements will be required to serve
interior property, or they have been provided.
         g.   No extension of public sewerage or water lines will be required,
or they have been provided.
         h.   All necessary right-of-way has been offered for reservation or
dedication.
         i.   The proposed subdivision will not adversely affect permissible
development of the remainder of the parcel or of adjoining property.
   E.   Notice of Decision. Written decision as described in Section
3.4.8, Written Decision shall be provided to the applicant and filed in the
Planning Department.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
3.6.   SPECIFIC REVIEW PROCEDURES AND DEVELOPMENT APPROVALS – MAP AND TEXT
AMENDMENTS.
3.6.1.  Rezoning / Map Amendment.
   A.   Applicability. Any owner of land, their authorized representative, or
the Town Council may request that land be rezoned.
   B.   A rezoning request shall be filed with the Planning Director and shall
include, at a minimum:
      1.   The name, address, and phone number of the applicant.
      2.   A description of the affected property and the proposed zoning
change.
   C.   Receipt of Application. Upon receipt of a petition for a zoning map
amendment of any type, the Town Clerk shall establish a date for a public
hearing and schedule and advertise a public hearing.
   D.   The Planning Director shall prepare a report that reviews the request
and its compliance with the Comprehensive Plan and other adopted Town plans.
The report shall include an analysis of the reasonableness of the proposed
zoning. It shall be transmitted to the Planning Commission, Town Council, and
the applicant.
   E.   Planning Commission.
      1.   After the public hearing, the Council shall refer the case to the
Planning Commission for review and recommendation.
      2.   The Commission shall examine the request and forward a written
recommendation to Town Council remarking on consistency with all adopted plans
within sixty (60) days. After sixty days have passed, the Town Council can
proceed towards a decision without the Commission’s report.
   F.   Approval Criteria. In making recommendations regarding amendments to
the official zoning map, the following approval criteria shall be considered:
      1.   Consistency (or lack thereof) with the Comprehensive Growth Plan and
other adopted plans.
      2.   Compatibility with the present zoning and conforming uses of nearby
property and with the character of the neighborhood.
      3.   Suitability of the subject property for uses permitted by the
current versus the proposed district.
      4.   Whether the proposed change tends to improve the balance of uses or
meets a specific demand in the Town.
      5.   Availability of sewer, water, transportation infrastructure,
stormwater facilities, and other necessary infrastructure generally suitable
and adequate for the proposed use .
      6.   Preservation of key features of the natural environment.
   G.   Public Hearing. In addition to comments provided in person  at the
public hearing, any resident or property owner in the Town may submit a written
statement regarding the proposal to the Town Clerk at least two business days
prior to the proposed vote on such change. If submitted according to the
preceding condition, the Town Clerk shall submit said written statement(s) at
any time prior to the Town Council vote.
   H.   Modification of Application.
      1.   An applicant in a zoning matter may reduce the geographic scope or
propose a different district or combination thereof from that requested in the
application by filing a statement of the same with the Planning Director .
      2.   If the application is limited by excluding certain enumerated land
uses, either in the original application or in any amendment thereto, the
application shall be resubmitted as a conditional zoning request.
         Commentary (1/1/2021): Requesting to limit uses must be a condition on
a conditional zoning or conditional rezoning application.
   I.   Time Lapse Between Similar Applications.
      1.   In the event of a withdrawal of an application prior to action by
the Town Council on the merits, no application may be filed requesting the
rezoning of any parcel contained in the withdrawn application prior to the
expiration of a minimum period of six months from the withdrawal of the
application.
      2.   When the Town Council has voted on a zoning application and the
proposed rezoning has either been denied or has failed to be adopted, then the
application shall be deemed to have expired.
      3.   No subsequent application requesting a zoning change for any parcel
contained in an application which has expired may be made prior to the
expiration of a minimum period of six months from the date of expiration.
      4.   No subsequent application requesting the same zoning category for
any parcel contained in an application which has expired may be filed prior to
the expiration of a minimum period of one year from the expiration.
      5.   The Town Council, by a ¾-majority vote, may waive the timelapse
requirements of this section if the Council deems it to be in the public
interest to do so.
   J.   Town Council.
      1.   The Town Council may not take final action on a request until it has
received the Planning Commission recommendation or sixty (60) days have passed
since the map amendment was first heard by the Planning Board.
      2.   Pursuant to G.S. § 160D-605, the Council shall prepare a consistency
statement and describe the reasonableness of the proposal and show that the
proposal is in the public interest.
(Ord. No. 3376, §§ 8-11, 1-17-06; Ord. No. 3558, § 2, 7-7-09; Ord. No. 3801, §
3, 12-7-15; Ord., 3-16-21)
3.6.2.  Conditional Zoning.
   A.   Applicability. Conditional zoning shall follow the same review and
approval process as Section
3.6.1, with additional standards as described in this subsection. Where
conflict occurs, these standards shall apply.
   B.   Underlying General Zoning District. All conditional zoning districts
shall be based on an underlying (base) general use zoning district.
      Commentary (01/01/2021): Conditions may neither circumvent the intent of
the established general district nor alleviate the regulations without
providing a method of alternative compliance. Conditions may impose stricter
regulations.
   C.   Designation and Tracking. Any conditional zoning district shall be
designated by the letters “CZ” followed by a unique number identifying the
ordinance that created the district and followed by adding a numerical
subscript to indicate the order in which such districts are created or revised.
Thus, the first such district created might be designated CZ-4997-1. These
designations shall be applied to the official zoning map as in the case of
other amendments. All ordinances establishing a conditional district shall be
referenced in Appendix B to this UDO. Ordinances are on file in the Planning
Department.
   D.   Tiers. There are two tiers of conditional zoning districts.
      1.   Tier 1. Tier 1 conditional zoning requests identify a base district
(s) and any uses in that base district’s permitted use s which are excluded in
the conditional zoning district. Dimensional standards of the base district
remain intact and unchanged. Tier 1 conditional zoning requests do not require
a master plan. Any uses in the underlying zoning district identified as
requiring a special use permit  will still require special use permit  review
if they are to be constructed.
      2.   Tier 2. Tier 2 conditional zoning requests identify a base district
(s), any uses in that base district’s permitted uses which are excluded in the
conditional zoning district, dimensional standards for each use  permitted
(either by-right or by other criteria such as Special use permit ), and a
master plan. Tier 2 specifications shall also apply to any uses requiring
conditional zoning approval as outlined in Article 5, Use Regulations. Any uses
in the underlying zoning district identified as requiring a special use permit
will still require special use permit  review if they are to be constructed.
         a.   Master Plan. Tier 2 conditional zoning requests shall be
accompanied by a master plan which shall be reviewed and approved in concert
with the conditional zoning request. The master plan shall show the following:
            i.   The correct number of external, cross-access, and adjacent
property stub-out access points, although the exact location may be modified
through subsequent review.
            ii.   The uses desired and their general location and intensity or
density. Tier 2 conditional zoning requests shall include a table of permitted
uses for the proposed district. It shall include all uses listed in the table
of permitted uses in Article 5, and whether they are permitted or excluded.
               Commentary (01/01/2021): The uses should be of similar intensity
and complement each other to avoid creating conflicts or nuisances.
            iii.   The appropriate setbacks, dimensional standards, and other
regulations for each zoning district, use , or area. Tier 2 conditional zoning
requests shall include a table of dimensional standards. This shall be based on
the general zoning district and updated to reflect altered dimensional
standards. Any other information necessary to ensure that the master plan can
meet the standards required by this Ordinance to execute a logical development
plan.
   E.   If the Town Council modifies any conditions or imposes new ones, the
property owner or authorized agent must provide (or decline) written consent
prior to any decision of approval.
   F.   Addition of property to a conditional zoning district. Entitlement,
recordation, or construction of any or all portions of a conditional zoning
district master plan shall not constitute any precedent or vesting of rights,
design, development standards, uses, or otherwise, on any property that might
be proposed for addition to a conditional zoning master plan in the future. The
standards of this Ordinance in effect at the time of formal application of the
property addition to a conditional zoning district master plan shall prevail.
(Ord. No. 3396, § 1, 4-3-06; Ord. No. 3558, § 2, 7-7-09; Ord. No. 3801, § 4,
12-7-15; Ord. No. 3881, §§ 1, 2, 9-5-17; Ord., 3-16-21)
3.6.3.  Text Amendment (aka Ordinance Amendment).
   A.   Initiation. Text amendments to this Ordinance may be initiated by any
citizen, by the Town Council, or proposed to Council by staff.
   B.   Process.
      1.   Petition forms are available at Town Hall and shall be filed with
the Planning Director . Upon receipt of the form, any supporting materials, and
associated review fees, the Planning Director shall review the application and
determine if the proposed amendment should be treated as if it were initiated
by the Town.
      2.   The Planning Director shall prepare a written report to be provided
to the applicant, the Town Council, and the Planning Commission prior to the
legislative hearing.
      3.   Citizen Comments. In addition to comments provided at the public
hearing, any resident or property owner in the Town may submit a written
statement regarding a proposed text amendment to the Town Clerk at least two
business days prior to the proposed vote on the amendment. The Town Clerk shall
submit the written statement(s) to the Town Council at any time prior to the
vote.
      4.   The Town Council shall refer the text amendment to the Planning
Commission at the end of the hearing.
      5.   The Planning Commission shall review the proposed amendment and
forward a recommendation to the Town Council for consideration. If the Planning
Commission is not prepared to issue a recommendation, it may request the Town
Council delay or continue final action on the amendment until the Planning
Commission is prepared to give a recommendation.
      6.   The Town Council may not take final action on the proposed amendment
until it receives the recommendation from the Planning Commission or until
sixty (60) days have passed since the proposal referral.
   C.   Approval Criteria.
      1.   The extent to which the proposed text amendment is consistent with
the remainder of the UDO, including, specifically, any purpose and intent
statements.
      2.   The extent to which the proposed text amendment represents a new
idea not considered in the existing UDO, or represents a revision necessitated
by changing circumstances over time.
      3.   Whether or not the proposed text amendment corrects an error in the
UDO.
      4.   Whether or not the proposed text amendment revises the UDO to comply
with state or federal statutes or case law.
(Ord. No. 3376, § 7, 1-17-06; Ord. No. 3558, § 2, 7-7-09; Ord. No. 3801, § 2,
12-7-15; Ord., 3- 16-21)
3.7.   SPECIFIC REVIEW PROCEDURES AND DEVELOPMENT APPROVALS - PERMITS.
3.7.1.  Zoning Compliance Permit.
   A.   Applicability. Zoning compliance permits are required for all
activities that do not require special use permits (Section
3.9.1) or site plans (Section
3.8.1).
   B.   Effect. It shall be unlawful to construct, grade, alter, excavate, or
move, any land or building , including accessory structures, or to establish or
change any use, without a valid Zoning Compliance Permit issued by the Planning
Director .
   C.   Application.
      1.   Submittal. The application for a Zoning Compliance Permit shall be
submitted to the Planning Director  at the time of building  permit
application. Where a building  permit is not required, the application shall be
made prior to initiating any activity described herein.
      2.   Contents. The application form shall be accompanied by a written
statement and scaled plans or plat drawings showing the following detail:
         a.   Lot shape(s), location(s), and dimensions.
         b.   Building shape(s), size(s), and location(s).
         c.   Existing and intended use of lot and structures .
         d.   Additional information as requested by the Planning Director ,
including, parking, landscaping, screening, buffers, signage, flood hazards,
and floor areas.
   D.   Review.
      1.   Approval. If the Planning Director determines that the application
conforms to the requirements of this UDO, the Planning Director shall issue the
Zoning Compliance Permit.
      2.   Denial. If the Planning Director determines that the application
does not conform to the requirements of this UDO, the Planning Director shall
deny the Zoning Compliance Permit and provide written notice to the applicant.
   E.   Expiration. Failure to begin activities outlined in the Zoning
Compliance Permit within one year shall render the permit of no further force
and effect.
(Ord. No. 3558, § 2, 7-7-09; Ord., 3-16-21)
3.7.2.  Sign Permit.
   A.   Purpose. It is the purpose of this subsection to permit and regulate
signs and their placement in such a way as to support and complement the land
use objectives set forth in this UDO and in other Town Council declarations of
policy; to avoid endangering the public safety, and not confuse or mislead a
driver or obstruct the vision necessary for traffic safety; and to advance the
economic stability, preservation and enhancement of property values, and the
visual impact and image of the Town.
   B.   A sign permit is a type of Zoning Compliance Permit, with additional
standards as described herein. Where conflict occurs, these standards shall
apply. Where a standard is not referenced or modified, the existing standard
shall apply.
   C.   For standards related to signs and sign permit s, see
Article 7, General Development Standards.
   D.   Applicability.
      1.   Except as otherwise provided in this UDO, no sign may be erected,
moved, enlarged, or altered except in accordance with and pursuant to a sign
permit .
      2.   No sign permit shall be issued unless the plans and information
submitted demonstrate that the sign will conform to all applicable requirements
of this UDO.
   E.   Application. A sign permit  application shall be submitted in
accordance with the requirements maintained by the Planning Department.
   F.   The Planning Director shall review each sign permit application and act
to approve, approve with conditions, or deny the permit. The Planning Director
may grant approval with conditions only to the extent that such conditions
specify the actions necessary to bring the application into complete compliance
with this UDO.
   G.   A sign may also require separate building and electrical permits from
the Town.
   H.   Sign permits expire as a Zoning Compliance Permit would.
(Ord. No. 3558, § 2, 7-7-09; Ord., 3-16-21)
3.8.   SPECIFIC REVIEW PROCEDURES AND DEVELOPMENT APPROVALS - SITE PLANS AND
ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW.
3.8.1.  Site Plan.
   A.   Applicability. A valid site plan approval is required prior to issuance
of a Zoning Compliance Permit or building  permit for:
      1.   Any new nonresidential, mixed use, and residential development ,
excluding single family detached homes and duplex (aka two-family homes).
      2.   Any change of use from residential to nonresidential.
      3.   Any amenity, facility, parking area, developed common area, or
accessory area, excluding discrete areas of signage permitted through the sign
permit process.
   B.   Review. Upon certification by the TRC that the site plan meets (or will
meet) all applicable standards of this Ordinance and other Town ordinances, the
Planning Director shall approve the site plan with or without conditions.
Approval with conditions is only permitted to the extent that such conditions
specify the actions necessary to bring the application into complete compliance
with this UDO. Should the TRC determine that all such requirements and
provisions have not been satisfied, the Planning Director shall deny the
application.
(Ord. No. 3558, § 2, 7-7-09; Ord., 3-16-21)
3.8.2.  Administrative Modifications.
   A.   Applicability. An administrative modification may be requested for any
valid development  approval or site specific vesting plan, including
conditional zoning districts and special use permits.
   B.   The Planning Director shall make administrative design modifications to
approved plans, permits, or development approvals according to the following
standards.
   C.   Any design modifications not identified as “major” shall be considered
minor design modifications.
   D.   Minor Design Modifications.
      1.   Minor design modifications to approved permits are permissible with
the approval of the Planning Director .
      2.   Cumulative minor modifications that together would result in a major
modification or deviation from the original entitlement shall trigger review as
a major modification and shall be subject to the appropriate review process.
      3.   The Planning Director and TRC shall review the modifications for
consistency with this UDO and adopted Town plans and specifications and approve
or deny the modification.
      4.   If review of a minor modification requires the application of
subjective review criteria or standards, it shall be considered a major design
modification.
   E.   Major Design Modifications.
      1.   Major design modifications require review according to the
appropriate review procedure per the Review Authority Table (
3.3).
      2.   Major design modifications include:
         a.   Removal of a new vehicular access point to an existing street ,
road , or thoroughfare.
         b.   Modification of special performance criteria, design standards,
or other conditions or requirements specified in the original entitlement.
         c.   An increase or decrease in the total number of residential
dwelling unit s by ten percent or greater.
         d.   An increase in total floor area by ten percent or greater or a
decrease in total floor area by twenty percent or greater.
         e.   Any increase in number of parking spaces of greater than ten
percent.
         f.   Any increase greater than twenty percent or decrease of greater
than ten percent in open space.
         g.   Any increase greater than ten percent in the amount of public
right-of-way or utilities, provided that any change in location or reduction in
amount must also be reviewed and approved by TRC else it shall be determined a
major modification.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
3.8.3.  Written Interpretation.
   A.   Applicability. When uncertainty exists and unless otherwise specified,
the Planning Director shall be authorized to make all interpretations
concerning the provisions of this Ordinance, review of administrative decisions
taken in accordance with this Ordinance, including determination of existing
vested rights of property in accordance with Section
3.8.3.
   B.   Application Requirements. An application for a written interpretation
shall be submitted in accordance with this Section. Such application shall
provide a request of sufficient detail for the rendering of an interpretation.
   C.   Action.
      1.   The Planning Director shall review and evaluate the request in light
of the text of this Ordinance, the Zoning Map, all adopted plans, policies, or
land use documents, and any other relevant information.
      2.   Following completion of any technical reviews by staff, the Planning
Director shall render an opinion.
      3.   The interpretation shall be provided to the applicant in writing.
   D.   Official Record. The Administrator shall maintain an official record of
all interpretations. The record of interpretations shall be available for
public inspection during normal business hours. The rendering of an
interpretation on a specific piece of land does not necessarily constitute a
precedent.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
3.9.   SPECIFIC REVIEW PROCEDURES AND DEVELOPMENT APPROVALS – MISCELLANEOUS.
3.9.1.  Administrative Appeals.
   A.   Applicability. Any person  possessing standing under G.S. § 160D-1402
(c) may appeal a final order, interpretation, or administrative decision of the
Planning Director  to the Board of Adjustment.
      Commentary (01/01/2021): In general, only an aggrieved party may bring an
appeal.
   B.   Effect of Appeal. Pursuant G.S. § 160D-405(f), an appeal does not stop
action lawfully approved by the Town but stays enforcement of actions presumed
in violation of this UDO.
   C.   Enforcement and Fines. Pursuant G.S. § 160D-405, enforcement action and
accrual of fees and fines shall be stayed from the filing of the appeal until
the time of decision.
   D.   Process.
      1.   Application. The aggrieved party must file a petition with the Town
Clerk within thirty days of the written decision described in Section 3.4.8.
Any other party with standing must file a petition with the Town Clerk within
thirty days of actual or constructive notice of the disputed decision.
      2.   Record of Administrative Decision. The Planning Director  shall
transmit all materials constituting the record of the contested action to the
Board of Adjustment, the appellant and/or the owner.
      3.   Public Notice. Public notice is required in accordance with Section
3.4.6 Public Notice Requirements.
      4.   Witnesses. The official who made the decision, or his or her
successor, shall appear at the hearing as a witness.
      5.   Decision. The Board of Adjustment may make a motion to reverse,
affirm (wholly or partly), or modify the order. A majority shall be required to
decide the case. For the purposes of this Section, vacant positions on the
Board and members who are disqualified from voting shall not be included in the
calculation of the requisite majority if there are no qualified alternates
available.
      6.   Notice of Decision. See Section 3.4.8.
      7.   Appeals. Appeals of decisions of the Board of Adjustment shall be
directed to the Superior Court.
(Ord. No. 3558, § 2, 7-7-09; Ord. No. 3720, § 3, 12-2-2013; Ord., 3-16-21)
3.9.2.  Special Use Permit.
   A.   Special use permits, as defined in G.S. § 160D-102(30) and described in
G.S. § 160D- 705(c), are required for uses which in an unmitigated state may
create negative impacts to neighboring properties or uses. This process allows
each proposed use to be evaluated by its merits and conditions specific to each
site.
   B.   Applicability. In addition to the other special uses listed in the use
table in
Article 5, General Development Standards, the following development  types have
significant city-wide impacts and require special use permits:
      1.   Any nonresidential or mixed-use development encompassing 100,000 or
more square feet of gross floor area.
      2.   Any single-family residential subdivision of 200 or more lots.
      3.   Any multifamily residential development of 100 or more units.
   C.   Staff Review. Upon receipt of the application and determination of
completeness, the Planning Director shall create a report for the Town Council.
   D.   Special Use Review Criteria. Special use applications may be approved
by the Town Council if it finds that all the following findings of fact have
been met:
      1.   The proposed use will not endanger the public health or safety.
      2.   The proposed use will not substantially injure the value of
adjoining or abutting property.
      3.   If completed as proposed, the development will comply with all
requirements of this Ordinance.
      4.   The proposed use is consistent with the Town’s adopted
transportation plan(s), other relevant adopted plans and policies, and the
stated purpose and intent of this UDO (the fact that the use is permitted under
certain circumstances in the zoning district creates a rebuttable presumption
that the proposed use is in harmony with the intent of the UDO as relates to
the general zoning plan).
      5.   The proposed use is compatible with adjacent uses and proximate
neighborhood in terms of building scale, site design, buffering and screening,
operating characteristics (hours of operation, traffic generation, lighting,
noise, odor, dust, and other external impacts).
      6.   Any significant adverse impacts resulting from the use will be
mitigated or offset, including impacts on the natural environment.
      7.   The public safety, transportation and utility facilities and
services will be available to serve the subject property while maintaining
sufficient levels of service for existing development .
      8.   Adequate assurances of continuing maintenance have been provided.
   E.   Conditions of Approval.
      1.   Without limiting the foregoing, the permit-issuing authority may
attach a condition limiting the permit to a specified duration or may otherwise
impose such reasonable conditions as necessary to address the impacts of the
proposed developments on:
         a.   Adjoining property.
         b.   The existing natural and man-made features of the site.
         c.   Off-site and on-site traffic flow.
         d.   Public utilities, infrastructure, and services.
         e.   Such other public services or goals of the Comprehensive Growth
Plan, adopted plans, or the Transportation Plan that may be negatively impacted
by the proposed development .
      2.   All additional conditions or requirements shall be recorded on the
permit and shall be affirmed be deemed to have been consented to by the
applicant unless the decision is properly appealed in accordance with G.S.
160D-406(k).
      3.   All additional conditions or requirements authorized by this section
are enforceable in the same manner and to the same extent as any other
applicable requirements of this UDO.
      4.   A vote may be taken on additional conditions or requirements before
consideration of whether the permit should be denied for any of the reasons set
forth above. The applicant must give written consent to any conditions for the
permit to be valid.
(Ord. No. 3376, § 12, 1-17-06; Ord. No. 3396, § 2, 4-3-06; Ord. No. 3558, § 2,
7-7-09; Ord. No. 3694, § 1, 5-21-2013; Ord., 3-16-21)
3.9.3.  Traffic Impact Analysis.
   A.   Applicability.
      1.   A Traffic Impact Analysis (TIA) shall be required for projects that
are anticipated to generate 100 or more peak hour vehicle trips, based on the
latest edition of the Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE) Traffic
Generation Manual.
      2.   A Traffic Impact Analysis shall be required for projects that are
anticipated to generate 1,000 or more average daily trips (ADT), based on the
latest edition of the ITE Traffic General Manual.
      Commentary (01/01/2021): The application of these provisions should match
the type of development proposed so that excessive study scope requirements are
not unreasonably imposed.
   B.   Scope.
      1.   When a traffic impact analysis is required, the Planning Director
and the Town Engineer shall determine the type and scope of the study jointly
during a meeting with the applicant. The Planning Director may also involve
representatives of other agencies or departments. The elements to be determined
during the scoping session shall include:
         a.   Type of Study. A letter report, full traffic impact analysis
report, or special report (such as a sight distance survey) may be required.
         b.   Definition of Impact Area. The points of access and key streets
and intersections that may be affected by development  of the subject tract
constitute the impact area. Traffic recorder and turning movement assessment
locations shall also be determined.
         c.   Period of Analysis. The period of analysis shall be for both the
morning and afternoon peak hour.
         d.   Analysis Scenarios. Scenarios for analysis shall include existing
conditions, and opening year with and without development , and shall include
increments of five years after opening until the expected completion of the
project, with or without development .
         e.   Assumptions. Trip generation and distribution assumptions
including trip generation categories, diversion assumptions and distribution
assumptions. Assumed rate of growth in background traffic, and developments in
the area that have been approved or are under review shall also be included.
         f.   Duration of Study. The duration of traffic studies (the time
period for which they are considered a valid basis for approvals) for large
projects, particularly Planned Developments, will be evaluated on a case-by-
case basis as part of the application review process.
      2.   Study Elements.
         a.   The following details shall be required as determined in the
scoping meeting:
            i.   Existing Conditions Survey.
               (a)   Street System Description. The street  system shall be
described, including geometric features, lane usage, traffic control, signage,
sight distances, and adjacent uses and curb cuts.
               (b)   Traffic Volumes. Existing traffic volumes shall be
provided for the impact area, including both average annual daily traffic
(AADT) and peak hour volumes. AADT may be derived from current counts of the
North Carolina Department of Transportation (NCDOT), where available, and peak
hour volumes shall be provided from field counts. Data shall be adjusted for
daily and seasonal variations. Turning movement counts for peak hour shall be
provided for critical intersections.
               (c)   Capacity Analysis. Existing capacity of signalized and
unsignalized intersections.
               (d)   Other Details. Other details may be required at the
discretion of the Town Engineer or Planning Director  depending upon the type
and scale of the project. These may include, but are not limited to, queue
length analysis, pedestrian counts, accident data, traffic speeds (both 50th
and 85th percentile), and stopping distances.
            ii.   Future without Development. Capacity analysis shall be based
on the Highway Capacity Manual or other methodology approved in advance by the
Town Engineer.
            iii.   Future with Development.
               (a)   Projections of peak hour traffic generation shall be made
using the latest edition of the Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE)
Trip Generation Manual, unless the Town Engineer determines that locally
derived data will provide more accurate forecasts. Data from similar facilities
may be used where the information is not available from ITE.
               (b)   Special analysis may be required to determine the need for
signalization, minimum safe sight distances, gap analysis, turning radius
requirements, queue length analysis, turning lane length analysis, curb cut
locations or similar requirements.
            iv.   Mitigation Plan. Where the analysis indicates that the
project will create deficiencies in the impact area, improvements shall be
recommended, along with projected cost estimates. The design of improvements
shall be in accordance with the Town of Garner or the North Carolina Department
of Transportation (NCDOT), as appropriate. Where a mitigation plan is not
adequate to address the traffic impacts of the project, it may serve as a basis
for denial of the rezoning, preliminary plat, site plan or Planned Development
request.
            v.   Consultants. The Planning Director  or the Town Engineer shall
require that an independent consultant be hired by the Town to perform the
required studies, or to review all or part of a study prepared by the
applicant's consultant. The Planning Director  or Town Engineer are authorized
to administer the contract for any such consultant.
               (a)   The Town shall determine the scope of services to be
performed by the independent consultant and receive a cost estimate of such
services.
               (b)   The applicant shall provide an amount equal to the
estimate to the Town, who shall deposit the amount in an escrow or other
special account set up for this purpose. Any funds not used shall be returned
to the applicant in a timely manner, without interest.
               (c)   The Town may require additional funds for independent
review where a decision-making body expands the scope of the required review;
the applicant substantially amends the application; additional meetings
involving the consultant are requested by the applicant; or the consultant's
appearance is requested at public or affected agency meetings beyond those
anticipated in the original scope of services.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
3.9.4.  Variance.
   A.   Applicability.
      1.   Where, owing to special conditions, a strict enforcement of the
provisions of this UDO would result in unnecessary hardship to the property
owner, the Board of Adjustment is authorized to grant variances from standards
of this UDO in accordance with the public interest or the spirit of this UDO.
      2.   Variance s proposed within a floodway or regulatory floodplain must
also meet the criteria of Flood Mitigation (per Section
3.10.1).
   B.   Burden of Proof. The applicant seeking the variance shall have the
burden of presenting sufficient evidence to warrant Board approval.
   C.   Process.
      1.   Variance applications shall be submitted to the Planning Director
for review and determination of completeness. The Planning Director shall
prepare a written report to be provided to the applicant prior the Board of
Adjustment meeting.
      2.   Public notice shall be provided in accordance with Section
3.4.6.
      3.   The Board of Adjustment shall hold a public hearing to review the
matter. Pursuant to G.S. § 160D-705(d), the Board may grant variances which
meet the following findings of fact:
         a.   Unnecessary hardship would result from the strict application of
the regulation. It shall not be necessary to demonstrate that, in the absence
of the variance , no reasonable use can be made of the property.
         b.   That the hardship results from conditions that are peculiar to
the property, such as location, size, or topography. Hardships resulting from
personal circumstances, as well as hardships resulting from conditions that are
common to the neighborhood or the public, may not be a basis for granting a
variance .
         c.   The hardship did not result from actions taken by the applicant
or the property owner. The act of purchasing property with knowledge that
circumstances exist that may justify the granting of a variance shall not be
regarded as a self-created hardship.
         d.   The requested variance is consistent with the spirit, purpose,
and intent of the regulation, such that public safety is secured, and
substantial justice is achieved. A variance shall be granted when necessary and
appropriate to make reasonable accommodation under the Federal Fair Housing Act
for a person with a disability.
      4.   Upon Board review and the public hearing, the Board of Adjustment
shall make one of the following determinations:
         a.   Approval
         b.   Approval with Conditions or Modifications. Such conditions shall
be included in the written decision and shall be deemed to have been consented
to by the applicant unless the decision is properly appealed in accordance with
G.S. § 160D-406(k).
         c.   Denial
      5.   Written Decision. The written decision shall be provided to the
applicant.
(Ord. No. 3720, § 2, 12-2-2013; Ord., 3-16-21)
3.9.5.  Temporary Use Permit.
   A.   Applicability. Temporary uses operating for up to ninety days within a
one-year period shall obtain a temporary use permit from the Planning Director
that outlines conditions of operations to protect the public, health, safety,
and welfare.
   B.   Types. Temporary uses shall include short-term or seasonal uses that
are not otherwise permanently allowed in the zoning district regulations.
   C.   Application. Applications shall include a description of the proposed
use , the duration, the hours of operation, anticipated attendance, associated
structures  or signs , written permission from the property owner, and
additional information deemed necessary by the Planning Director .
   D.   Review by Technical Review Committee.
      1.   The application should be submitted at least thirty (30) days prior
to the requested start date.
      2.   The Planning Director shall request additional materials or
revisions to the application, approve, approve with conditions, or deny the
permit at least ten business days in advance of the requested start date.
      3.   The Planning Director shall provide written decisions for all
denials.
   E.   Approval Criteria. The Technical Review Committee shall evaluate
temporary uses based on the following standards:
      1.   Land Use Compatibility. The temporary use must be compatible with
the purpose and intent of this UDO and the associated zoning district. The
temporary use shall not impair the primary use  of the same site.
      2.   Review by Building Official. Any temporary structure s shall require
building  permits or approvals by the Building  Official and Fire Code
Inspector. If necessary, the applicant must obtain approvals from the State of
North Carolina and Wake County Health Department.
      3.   Hours of Operation and Duration. Hours of operation and duration
shall be approved by the Planning Director at the time of permit issuance.
      4.   Traffic Circulation. The Town Engineer shall determine that the
temporary use will not disturb traffic patterns or cause undue congestion.
      5.   Off-street Parking. Adequate off-street  parking must be provided
for the use  without creating greater than a 25% shortage of parking for
permanent uses.
      6.   Appearance and Nuisances. The temporary use shall be compatible in
intensity, appearance, and operation with surrounding land uses. It shall not
impair the usefulness, enjoyment, or value of the surrounding properties by
introducing nuisances.
      7.   Signs. The Planning Director  shall review and approve all signage
prior to issuing the permit.
   F.   Other Conditions. The applicant must adhere to conditions specified by
the Technical Review Committee. These conditions may but are not limited to
screening and buffering, site restoration, and clean-up provisions, in addition
to any of the criteria described above.
   G.   Expiration. If the temporary use has not commenced within ninety days
of the requested event start date, the permit shall expire.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
3.10.   SPECIFIC REVIEW PROCEDURES AND DEVELOPMENT APPROVALS - ENVIRONMENTAL.
3.10.1.  Flood Mitigation.
   Commentary (1/1/2021): The term “variance” as used in this subsection only
applies to variance relief from the stormwater provisions.
   A.   No variance shall be issued within any designated floodway or
regulatory floodplain unless the Board of Adjustment finds the following:
      1.   The proposed use is not likely to cause any increase in flood levels
during the base flood discharge; and
      2.   The granting of a variance will not result in increased flood
heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public expense,
create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization of the public, or conflict
with existing local laws or ordinances.
   B.   In evaluating a variance application, the Board of Adjustment shall
consider all technical evaluations and all relevant standards specified in
other sections of this UDO. Additionally, the Board shall assess:
      1.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others
      2.   The danger of life and property due to flooding or erosion damage
      3.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner
      4.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community
      5.   The necessity to the facility of waterfront location, where
applicable
      6.   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed uses
      7.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development
      8.   The relationship of the proposed use to the Comprehensive Growth
Plan and floodplain management program for that area
      9.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles
      10.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site and
      11.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and bridges.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
ARTICLE 4.  ZONING DISTRICTS
   
4.1.   Establishment of districts.
   
4.2.   Official zoning map.
   
4.3.   Rules for interpretation of district boundaries.
   
4.4.   Residential district purpose statements.
   
4.5.   Commercial district purpose statements.
   
4.6.   Industrial district purpose statements.
   
4.7.   Planned Development Districts (PUD, PRD, TND, MXD).
   
4.8.   Conservation Buffer Areas (CBA).
   
4.9.   Lake Benson Conservation District (LBC).
   
4.10.   Timber Drive Overlay District.
   
4.11.   U.S. 70/401 Thoroughfare Overlay District.
   
4.12.   I-40 Overlay District.
   
4.13.   Swift Creek Conservation District.
   
4.14.   Obsolete districts.
   
4.15.   Timber Drive East Overlay District.
   
4.16.   Garner Road Overlay District.
4.1.   Establishment of districts.
   For the purpose of this Unified Development Ordinance (UDO), portions of the
Town, as specified on the Town's official zoning map are hereby divided into
the following zoning districts:
For a printer-friendly version, please click here
PREVIOUS DISTRICT NEW DISTRICT
RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICTS
PREVIOUS DISTRICT NEW DISTRICT
RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICTS
R-40              Single-Family Residential  R-40    Single-Family Residential
R-20              Single-Family Residential  R-20    Single-Family Residential
R-15              Single-Family Residential  R-15    Single-Family Residential
R-12              Single-Family Residential  R-12    Single-Family Residential
R-9               Single-Family Residential  R-9     Single-Family Residential
MF-1              Multi-Family 1             MF-1    Multifamily Residential
MF-2              Multi-Family 2             MF-2    Multifamily Residential
R-5               Manufactured Home Park/    RMH     Manufactured Home Park/
                  Subdivision                        Subdivision
-MH               Mobile Home Floating       -MH     Manufactured HomeFloating
                  District                           Zone
COMMERCIAL ZONING DISTRICTS
—-              New                        NO      Neighborhood Office
NB                Neighborhood Business      NC      Neighborhood Commercial
CBD               Central Business District  CBD     Central Business District
OI                Office and Institutional   OI      Office and Institutional
CB                Community Business         CR      Community Retail
SB                Service Business           SB      Service Business
INDUSTRIAL ZONING DISTRICTS
I-1               Industrial 1               I-1     Light Industrial
I-2               Industrial 2               I-2     Heavy Industrial
PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICTS
—-              New                        PUD     Planned Unit Development
R-12-PR           Planned Residential 12     PRD     Planned Residential
                                                     Development
—-              New                        TND     Traditional Neighborhood
                                                     Development
MXD-1             Mixed Use District 1       MXD     Mixed UseDevelopment
OVERLAY ZONING DISTRICTS
—-              Conservation Buffer Area   CBA     Conservation Buffer Area
—-              Lake Benson Conservation   LBC     Lake Benson Conservation
OVERLAY ZONING DISTRICTS
------            Timber Drive Overlay       O-TD    Timber Drive Overlay
------            U.S. 70/401 Overlay        O-70    U.S. 70/401 Overlay
------            I-40/US 70 Special Highway O-40    I-40 Overlay
                  Overlay
-----             Garner Road Overlay        GROD    Garner Road Overlay
                  District                           District
OBSOLETE DISTRICTS
MR-1              Multi-Residential 1        MR-1    Multi-Residential 1
RCD               Residential Cluster        RCD     Residential Cluster
                  District                           District
R-12 PR           R-12 Planned Residential   R-12 PR Planned Residential
                  District                           District
MXD-1             Mixed UseDevelopment       MXD-1   Mixed UseDevelopment
                  District                           District
   Note: The MXD General Use District has been replaced by the MXD Planned
Development Floating District.  Existing MXD General Use Districts remained
mapped on the official zoning map and can be developed according to the
provisions of Section
4.14 Obsolete Districts.
      1.   General use districts. Also known as base zoning districts, these
represent the traditional residential, commercial, and industrial districts
established above. They set uniform standards for uses in their district and
are the governing standards unless overlaid with more restrictive standards as
in the case of an overlay district.
      2.   Conditional zoning districts.
         a.   The Town Council may establish by ordinance various conditional
zoning districts upon request by the owner.
         b.   Any conditional zoning district shall be designated by the
letters “CZ” followed by a unique number identifying the ordinance that created
the district and followed by adding a numerical subscript to indicate the order
in which such districts are created or revised. Thus, the first such district
created might be designated CZ1-4997-1. These designations shall be applied to
the official zoning map as in the case of other amendments. All ordinances
establishing a conditional district shall be referenced in
Appendix B to this UDO. Ordinances are on file in the Planning Department.
         c.   On January 1, 2021, any existing and legal Conditional Use zoning
districts , Special Use zoning districts or Planned Unit Development (PUD)
zoning districts that are valid and in effect shall be deemed a Conditional
Zoning (CZ) district subject to the same conditions of approval or operation of
the existing entitlement.
      3.   Floating districts. Floating districts are set forth in the
ordinance text but not on the initial official zoning map. A floating district
may be employed when the local government recognizes that a particular type of
activity is desired for a general area but the specific site has not been
located in advance. Property intended to be used for that activity may be
rezoned upon application if the owner can meet the conditions in the ordinance.
Uses typically designated in floating districts include Planned Developments
such as the PUD, PRD, TND and MXD districts.
      4.   Overlay districts. Overlay districts are established to define
certain sub- areas within which development  is subject to restrictions over
and above those applicable to the underlying district. Within these overlay
districts; any development  that occurs must be in compliance not only with the
regulations applicable to the underlying district but also with the additional
requirements of the overlay district. The Conservation Buffer , Lake Benson
Conservation, Swift Creek Conservation, I-40 Special Highway, Timber Drive, and
the U.S. 70/401 Thoroughfare are six such overlay districts. Overlay zones are
not required to be mapped on the official zoning map if the description of such
zones in this UDO is sufficient to define their extent and application to
specific properties.
      5.   Obsolete districts. Obsolete districts have been mapped on the
official zoning map of the Town of Garner, but are no longer part of the zoning
district hierarchy applied to the Town. These districts have been retained from
the previous version of the land use ordinance and land that is zoned with any
of the obsolete district designations will continue to be developable under
those use and dimensional regulations applicable to the districts immediately
prior to the effective date of this UDO. See Section
4.1 entitled establishment of districts for list of obsolete districts.
(Ord. No. 3558, § 2, 7-7-09; Ord., 3-16-21)
4.2.   Official zoning map.
   A.   There shall be a map known as the official zoning map, which shall show
the boundaries of all zoning districts within the Town's planning jurisdiction
. This map shall be drawn on a durable material or generated in a digital
format from which prints or digital copies can be made, shall be dated, and
shall be kept in the Town Hall. Both the current and prior zoning maps are
maintained and available for public inspection in the Planning Department.
   B.   The official zoning map is adopted and incorporated herein by
reference. Amendments to this map shall be made and posted in accordance with
Article 3.
   C.   Should the official zoning map be lost, destroyed, or damaged, it can
be redrawn on a durable material or generated in a digital format from which
prints can be made, so long as no district boundaries are changed in this
process.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
4.3.   Rules for interpretation of district boundaries.
   A.   Interpretations.
      1.   The Board of Adjustment is authorized to interpret the official
zoning map and to pass upon disputed questions of lot lines or district
boundary lines and similar questions. If such questions arise in the context of
an appeal from a decision of the Planning Director , they shall be handled as
provided in
Article 3.
      2.   An application for an official zoning map interpretation shall be
submitted to the Board of Adjustment by filing a copy of the application with
the Planning Director . The application shall contain sufficient information to
enable the Board of Adjustment to make the necessary interpretation.
      3.   Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of districts as shown
on the official zoning map, the following rules shall apply:
         a.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines
of alleys, streets , highways, streams , or railroads shall be construed to
follow such centerlines;
         b.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following lot lines, city
limits or extraterritorial boundary lines, shall be construed as following such
lines, limits or boundaries; and
         c.   Boundaries indicated as following shorelines shall be construed
to follow such shorelines, and in the event of change in the shoreline shall be
construed as following such changed shorelines.
      4.   Where a district boundary divides a lot or where distances are not
specifically indicated on the official zoning map, the boundary shall be
determined by measurement, using the scale of the official zoning map.
      5.   Where any street or alley is hereafter officially vacated or
abandoned, the regulation applicable to each parcel of abutting property shall
apply to that portion of such street or alley added thereto by virtue of such
vacation or abandonment.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
4.4.   Residential district purpose statements.
   A.   Single-family residential  districts (R-40, R-20, R-15, R-12, R-9).
These districts are designed to create and maintain residential neighborhoods
composed primarily of single-family residences  and, as special uses , such
institutional, public, and other compatible uses  that are designed,
constructed and maintained so as not to detract from the quality of each
district as a place for healthful, quiet, and aesthetically pleasing
residential living.
   B.   Multifamily residential districts (MF-1, MF-2). These districts are
designed to create and maintain higher density residential neighborhoods
composed primarily of multifamily residences  and, as special uses , those
service, institutional, public and other compatible uses  that are so designed,
constructed and maintained that they do not detract from the quality of the
neighborhood as a place for healthful, quiet and aesthetically-pleasing
residential living. When evaluating an application for the MF-1 or MF-2 zoning
district, emphasis shall be given to the location of the proposed district to
adjoining developed property to ensure that such district is carefully located
and achieves a satisfactory relationship with the surrounding properties.
   C.   Manufactured home park/subdivision (RMH). The RMH manufactured home
park/subdivision district is hereby established to provide for the development
of manufactured home parks or manufactured homesubdivisions in which class A,
class B or class C manufactured homes may be located.
   D.   Manufactured Homefloating zone (-MH).
      1.   District established. The manufactured homefloating zone hereby
established is provided for the designation of areas within selected
residential zones other than RMH within which class A manufactured homes may be
located. When the regulations and standards of this section are met, the suffix
-MH is attached to a base residential zone on the Town's official zoning map.
Without an -MH designation, a manufactured home cannot be placed in any
residential zone except RMH. Such -MH designated districts may not consist of
an individual lot or scattered lots, but shall consist of a defined area of not
less than two acres, and must conform to the requirements for conventional
residential subdivisions as set forth in
Article 8, as well as those contained herein.
      2.   Purpose and intent. This section is established to provide
alternative, affordable housing opportunities for Garner and its planning
jurisdiction by permitting the use of manufactured homes in selected single-
family residential zoning districts, subject to the requirements set forth
herein.
      3.   Rezoning procedures. The Town shall process manufactured home
district rezoning requests in the same manner as set forth by
Article 3  for all other rezoning requests.
      4.   Development  standards. The development  standards applicable to
manufactured homes  are located in
Article 6.
      5.   Additional requirements.Structures  within a district suffixed as a
manufactured home  district (-MH), must conform to the applicable dimensional,
parking and setback requirements of Articles
6 and
7, and specifically those applicable to the zoning district to which they are
suffixed. Developed subdivisions  containing other than manufactured homes
when rezoned with the -MH suffix may infill with either class A manufactured,
stick built, or modular homes . Class B or C manufactured homes  units are not
permitted.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
4.5.   Commercial district purpose statements.
   A.   Neighborhood Office (NO). The purpose of this district is to
accommodate modest-scale professional and service occupations, along with
single-family residential units, to serve as a neighborhood activity center and
as a transition between residential and more intense commercial uses.
   B.   Office and Institutional (OI). The purpose of this district is to
accommodate more intense professional and service occupations than permitted in
the neighborhood office (NO) district and to insure that the environmental
effects (including noise, odor, glare, heat, vibration and air pollution)
resulting from the conduct of such operations shall not interfere with the
quality of any surrounding district. This district is also intended to
accommodate, as special uses, certain other compatible uses that are so
designed, constructed and maintained that they do not interfere with the
conduct of permitted professional and service occupations. When used as part of
a rezoning, this district serves as a transition between residential districts
and more intense districts, including commercial districts.
   C.   Neighborhood Commercial (NC). This district is intended to accommodate
low intensity commercial enterprises that provide goods or services primarily
to residents of the surrounding neighborhood so that such residents can have
convenient access to such goods and services without the necessity for making
cross-town trips. The uses permitted are of such a nature and on such a scale
that incompatibility with or disruption to nearby residences is minimized, and
uses that by their very nature depend for a majority of their business upon
traffic from the whole community rather than the immediate neighborhood are not
permitted.
   D.   Community Retail (CR). This district is designed to accommodate
commercial activities that serve the entire community, especially retail
businesses conducted within a building.
   E.   Central Business District (CBD). This district is intended to provide
for and maintain the Main Street business district.
   F.   Service Business (SB). This district to accommodate commercial
activities that are more intense in nature than those permitted in neighborhood
or community business districts. This district allows merchandise or equipment
to be stored and operations to be conducted outside a building.
4.6.   Industrial district purpose statements.
   The following districts are established primarily to accommodate enterprises
engaged in the manufacturing, processing, creating, repairing, renovating,
painting, cleaning, or assembling of goods, merchandise or equipment. These
districts serve the entire community and are subject to the industrial
performance standards of
Article 6.
   A.   Light Industrial District (I-1). The Light Industrial District is
intended to provide for a limited range of low-intensity industrial uses that
are not noxious or offensive due to odors, smoke, dust, noise, fumes or
vibration and conducted. Operations are restricted to inside a building
(outdoor storage prohibited).
   B.   Heavy Industrial District (I-2). The Heavy Industrial District is
intended to provide for industrial uses  that are may be noxious or offensive
due to odors, smoke, dust, noise, fumes or vibration. Operations may be inside
or outside of a building .
(Ord., 3-16-21)
4.7.   Planned Development Districts (PUD, PRD, TND, MXD).
See Section 1.10.4, relating to the transition of these districts to
Conditional Zoning Districts. The remainder of this section is kept for
reference.
   There shall be a Planned Development District which shall consist of any of
the following types: Planned Unit Development (PUD), Planned Residential
Development (PRD), Traditional Neighborhood Development (TND), or Mixed Use
District (MXD). Each district is a floating district and additional standards
are located in
Article 6.
   A.   Planned Unit Development (PUD) purpose and intent. The PUD district is
intended to provide for a mix of uses, including commercial and residential
uses. PUD provisions are intended to encourage creativity in the design and
planning of parcels by allowing greater design flexibility than the underlying
base districts to protect natural features and concentrate development in more
suitable or less environmentally sensitive areas. The end result is creativity
in design, additional open space and an appropriate mix of uses. PUD
development is permissible on tracts of land of five acres or greater.
   B.   Planned Residential Development (PRD) purpose and intent. The PRD
district is intended to provide for master-planned residential communities
containing a mix of housing types, including associated amenities. This
district is primarily intended for large-scale residential projects that
require either additional flexibility not available in the base residential
districts, or greater scrutiny by the Town due to their scale. PRD development
is permissible on tracts of land of 15 acres or greater.
   C.   Traditional Neighborhood Development (TND) purpose and intent. TND is a
development option allowing new standards for development focused on mixed
residential development with a pedestrian orientation, and a centralized
commercial or mixed use node serving as the focal point for the development.
TND development must also incorporate a network of open space, a network of
internal streets, and connections to the surrounding area. TND development is
permissible on tracts of land of 40 acres or greater.
   D.   Mixed Use District (MXD) purpose and intent. Mixed Use Districts are
intended to produce higher levels of urban land use intensity at or near
community focus nodes or regional focus nodes, consistent with the Town's long-
range land use plan map. MXD zoning districts permit various combinations of
usually separated uses, primarily promoting the development of business parks.
It is not intended to be applied in a limited way to only inner city
development or to mixed uses within one structure (high-rise), but rather, may
be used to support either infill or new development on relatively large tracts.
MXD development is permissible on tracts of land of 75 acres or greater.
   E.   Rezoning criteria for all Planned Development  (PUD, PRD, TND, MXD). In
approving a rezoning for a Planned Development , the Town Council shall find
the district designation and Planned Development  master plan comply with the
general standards for all Planned Development  in this paragraph and the
specific standards for the proposed Planned Development  listed in
Article 6 .
      1.   Planned Development master plan. The development proposed in the
master plan is compatible with the character of surrounding land uses and
maintains and enhances the value of surrounding properties. The master plan
also illustrates:
         a.   A continuous pedestrian circulation system;
         b.   A network of open space serving the entire development and
providing internal connections within the project ;
         c.   Perimeter landscape areas to connect or buffer land uses both
inside and outside the perimeter of the Planned Development ; and
         d.   Preservation of the natural environment.
      2.   Design guidelines and dimensional standards. Each Planned
Development shall provide a comprehensive set of design guidelines that
demonstrate the project will be appropriate within the context of the
surrounding properties and the larger community. The dimensional standards
identified in
Article 6 may be varied in the development proposed in the master plan. The
Town Council is not obligated to accept or approve any variation if it deems
such variation to be inappropriate. Where such standards vary by more than 20
percent from the otherwise applicable numeric standard, a specific finding in
the Council approval as to the acceptability of such a variation shall be
required.
      3.   Off-street  parking and loading. Off-street  parking and loading
shall comply with
Article 7, except that variations from these standards may be permitted if a
comprehensive parking and loading plan for the Planned Development  is
submitted, and determined to be suitable and generally consistent with the
intent and purpose of the off-street  parking and loading regulations.
      4.   Signs .Signs  shall comply with
Article 7, except that signs  within the Planned Development  may be
constructed to alternate, but equivalent standards if a comprehensive sign
plan for the Planned Development  is submitted with the rezoning and master
plan applications that is determined to be suitable for the Planned Development
and generally consistent with the intent and purpose of the sign  regulations.
      5.   Public facilities.
         a.   The Planned Development master plan shall demonstrate a safe and
adequate on-site transportation circulation system. The on-site transportation
circulation system shall be integrated with the off-site transportation
circulation system of the Town.
         b.   The Planned Development master plan shall establish public places
that connect uses .
         c.   The Planned Development master plan shall demonstrate a safe and
adequate on-site system of potable water and wastewater service that can
accommodate the proposed development , and is efficiently integrated into off-
site potable water and wastewater public improvement plans.
         d.   Adequate off-site facilities for potable water supply, sewage
disposal, solid waste disposal, electrical supply, fire protection and roads
shall be planned and programmed for the Planned Development , and the
development shall be conveniently located in relation to schools and police
protection services.
         e.   The improvement standards applicable to the public facilities
that will serve the site shall comply with the provisions of
Article 8, Subdivision design/improvements. However, the development may
deviate from the city's road width standards in order to achieve greater
efficiency of infrastructure design.
      6.   Common recreation and open space. The development proposed in the
Planned Development master plan complies with the following common recreation
and open space standards:
         a.   Water bodies, lands within wildlife habitat areas, riparian
ecosystems and 100-year floodplains that are preserved as open space may be
counted toward this minimum standard, even when they are not usable by or
accessible to the residents of the Planned Development . A maximum of 50
percent of the required open space in a Planned Development may be comprised of
water bodies. No water bodies may be counted towards the requirements for
common recreation area.
         b.   All common open space and recreational facilities shall be shown
in the master plan and shall be constructed and fully improved according to the
development schedule established for each phase of the Planned Development .
         c.   All privately-owned common open space shall continue to conform
to its intended use , as specified in the Planned Development master plan. To
ensure that all the common open space identified in the master plan will be
used as common open space, restrictions or covenants shall be placed in each
deed to ensure their maintenance and to prohibit the partition of any common
open space.
         d.   If common open space is proposed to be maintained through an
association or nonprofit corporation, such organization shall manage all common
open space and recreational facilities that are not dedicated to the public,
and shall provide for the maintenance, administration and operation of such
land and any other land within the Planned Development not publicly owned, and
secure adequate liability insurance on the land. The organization shall also
conform to the following standards:
         e.   The association or nonprofit corporation shall be established
prior to the sale of any lots or units within the Planned Development .
         f.   Membership in the association or nonprofit corporation shall be
mandatory for all landowners within the Planned Development .
      7.   Stormwater  management. The Planned Development  master plan meets
or exceeds the standards of
Article 7.
      8.   Phasing. The Planned Development master plan includes a phasing plan
for the development, if appropriate, with specific build-out dates. If
development is proposed to occur in phases, then guarantees shall be provided
that project improvements and amenities that are necessary and desirable for
residents of the project, or that are of benefit to the Town, are constructed
with the first phase of the project, or, if this is not possible, then as early
in the project as is technically feasible.
      9.   Consistent with Comprehensive Growth Plan. The Planned Development
master plan shall be consistent with the Comprehensive Growth Plan.
      10.   Complies with this Code. The Planned Development master plan shall
comply with all other relevant portions of this UDO.
(Ord. No. 3558, § 2, 7-7-09; Ord., 3-16-21)
4.8.   Conservation Buffer Areas (CBA).
   A.   Purpose and intent. The Conservation Buffer Areas are designated for
the following purposes:
      1.   Soil and pollutants carried overland, primarily from roads,
construction and development , can be effectively trapped by leaving a
relatively undisturbed strip of vegetation parallel and adjacent to the
watercourse.
      2.   Properly managed overland water flow can be directed into this
buffer area in a manner that will reduce velocity and cause dispersion of the
water.
      3.   Sediments and associated pollutants carried by the water will settle
out as a result of this slowing and dispersion process.
      4.   These are highly desirable effects of stream and watershed
protection in that non-point pollution, erosion and sedimentation, and the
resulting property damage and devaluation, are so reduced.
   B.   Areas designated. The Conservation Buffer  Areas located within the
Town of Garner are not expressly mapped on the official zoning map. Each buffer
area can be determined by reviewing the text of
Article 7. These provisions do not create a new zoning district; rather, they
overlay whatever zoning is in place.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
4.9.   Lake Benson Conservation District (LBC).
   A.   Purpose and intent. The Council finds that Lake Benson, as a water
supply for the Raleigh water service area, which includes Garner, is sensitive
to and quickly impacted by pollutants set into the system by development.
Protection of the lake from non-point pollution sources is the intent of the
provisions of this section.
   B.   Lake Benson Conservation District Boundary. That portion of the
watershed which was made subject to watershed protection regulations known as
the Lake Benson Conservation District effective March 1, 1987, as shown on maps
previously adopted and reflecting approximately that area within 2,000 feet of
the northern shore line of Lake Benson, shall constitute the Lake Benson
Conservation District for purposes of this UDO. The boundary is shown on the
official zoning map maintained in both the Planning and Engineering Departments
of the Town.
   C.   Exemptions. All lots platted prior to March 1984 are exempt from the
requirements of this Lake Benson Conservation District Overlay.
   D.   Limitations on use in Lake Benson Conservation District.
      1.   Permitted uses. Within the Lake Benson Conservation District only
the following uses are permitted:
         a.   Agriculture;
         b.   Residential (meaning only the following uses as listed in
Article 3;
            ∙   Single-family residences; other than manufactured home parks or
manufactured homesubdivisions ;
            ∙   Duplex and triplex;
            ∙   Multifamily residences ;
            ∙   Townhouses and townhousedevelopments ;
         c.   Churches;
         d.   Cemeteries;
         e.   Public parks including ancillary concessions;
         f.   Community centers ;
         g.   Indoor and outdoor recreation;
         h.   Home occupations ;
         i.   Planned Residential Developments ;
         j.   Zero-lot -line developments ;
         k.   Necessary municipally owned and operated utilities; and
         l.   Individual residential wastewater holding tanks (sump pumps) and
conventional septic tanks, subject to the other provisions; and
         m.   Telecommunication facility.
      2.   Density.
         a.   Within the Lake Benson Conservation District, density shall not
exceed two and one-half residential units per acre where the development is
served by municipal water and sewer.
         b.   Within the Lake Benson Conservation District, density shall not
exceed one-half unit per acre where there is no municipal water and sewer.
   E.   Master plan required. A master plan detailing the distribution of units
and improvements across the total development, shall be presented as part of
application for land use permits. Where possible, developers shall use
innovative site planning techniques to keep units away from the lakefront,
streams, and other sensitive areas. Such techniques include but are not limited
to cluster development patterns, mixtures of zoning categories, strategic
location of densities so that larger and less densely developed lots are closer
to the lakefront and creative use of greenways and open space.
   F.   Performance standards. The Lake Benson Conservation District
performance standards are set forth in
Article 7.
   G.   Impervious surface limits.
      1.   Within the Lake Benson Conservation District, in order to reduce
stormwater pollution through natural infiltration on undisturbed vegetated
land, the impervious surface area may not exceed six percent regardless of lot
size or density, except where the stormwater runoff from a one-inch rainfall
event is retained by retention ponds or other approved devices.
      2.   Impervious surface area within the Lake Benson Conservation District
may be a maximum of 35 percent under the high density development option where
the stormwater runoff from a one-inch rainfall event is retained by retention
ponds or other approved devices.
      3.   Stormwater retention may be accomplished by paying a fee-in-lieu of
pond construction if the proposed development is within the Regional Retention
Pond Service District and meets the requirements of the table in
Article 7.
      4.   The calculation of the impervious surface ratio contained in
subdivisions or other developments required to apply for major subdivision
approval, special use permits shall include impervious areas from all newly
proposed collector and sub-collector streets , parking lots and tennis courts
as well as buildings , driveways , patios, decks and other impervious surfaces
.
      5.   The calculation of impervious surface ratios shall not include roads
that were publicly maintained prior to March 1984.
      6.   The calculation of impervious surface ratios may be based on the
land area of the lots and any common areas, rights-of-way and easements
dedicated pursuant to the development of the tract.
      7.   Where the project is developed in phases, with separately recorded
survey plats , the area to which the calculation is applied shall consist of
that area within the recorded plat . Such phases shall be based upon natural or
proposed drainage where practicable. The designation of a phase shall have as
its objective the principle of not overloading one drainage way with run-off
from high impervious surface ratios while under utilizing the capacity of other
drainage ways. Approval of the Town Engineer is required for designation of
each phase used in this calculation to ensure that the loading of drainage ways
is balanced.
   H.   Standards for stormwater drainage system. Standard 90-degree curb and
gutter construction is not allowed in the Lake Benson Conservation District.
Streets with properly maintained grass swales or roll type curb and gutter
construction may be allowed in the Lake Benson Conservation District as an
option by the Town Council if it concludes that regardless of street design
used, surface run-off is diverted to permanent retention ponds constructed in
accordance with the requirements of this UDO and the proposed design protects
the water quality of Lake Benson. 
(Ord. No. 3558, § 2, 7-7-09; Ord., 3-16-21; Ord. No. 5048, § 1, 7-6-21)
4.10.   Timber Drive Overlay District.
   A.   Purpose and intent. The Town Council finds that vehicular and
pedestrian mobility should be maximized along the Timber Drive Corridor. The
Council believes that Timber Drive is a place where residential neighborhoods
should be preserved and quality commercial uses should be located only in areas
recommended by the comprehensive growth plan, which together results in a
pleasing and harmonious environment of trees, natural and landscaped areas, and
building development. Therefore, the Council adopts the Timber Drive Overlay
District as a means to direct commercial development at recommended focus areas
along Timber Drive consistent with the standards established herein in order to
protect the general appearance of the Timber Drive Corridor, while sustaining
the livability of the surrounding residential neighborhoods and the natural
beauty of the area.
   B.   Overlay zone. The Timber Drive Overlay District is an overlay zone. The
land use regulations applicable to the underlying zone remain in full force and
effect except where superseded herein. Where there is a provision not expressed
in the underlying zone, or where a provision hereof is in conflict with the
underlying zone, the provision of the overlay ordinance shall be controlling.
   C.   Location. The Timber Drive Overlay District shall apply to the entire
length of Timber Drive from U.S. 70 to N.C. 50 for a depth of 250 feet from the
right-of-way line, on either side, and shall include all of the property within
the focus areas that has frontage on Timber Drive from N.C. 50 to U.S. 70. The
Town of Garner Official Zoning Map shall clearly indicate the boundaries of the
adopted Timber Drive Overlay District. In cases where any portion of a building
or parking area falls within the boundaries of the overlay district, these
provisions shall apply to all of the building(s) and parking areas.
   D.   Permissible and prohibited uses. Unless otherwise restricted below, all
uses allowed by the underlying zoning district are permissible in the Timber
Drive Overlay District provided all requirements and permits as required by
this UDO are satisfied.
      1.   Restricted uses . The following uses  are permissible in the Timber
Drive Overlay District provided the use  complies with special standards listed
below:
         a.   Temporary school classroom units are permissible provided they
are screened from all public street views. Any landscaping required to achieve
this standard shall be installed at an initial height of six feet.
         b.   Open storage and operations are restricted to only those
activities associated with a garden center use operated in conjunction with a
home improvement center or a large retail store provided the location of
outside storage is sufficiently screened from public street views as determined
by the Planning Department. The amount of outside storage areas is limited to
25 percent of the gross floor area of principal use served.
         c.   Fast food restaurants with drive-in window operations are
permissible only when such drive-in window service area(s) are not visible from
Timber Drive street views.
         d.   Convenience store or gas sales operations that meet the following
design criteria:
            (1)   Operation limited to between 5:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m.;
            (2)   The number of pump dispensing units shall be limited to a
maximum of four units with no more than eight fueling positions;
            (3)   Principal building shall have a pitched roof with shingle
roof material;
            (4)   Canopy structure (s) shall be detached;
            (5)   Canopy structures shall have a roof style and be constructed
of a building material to match the principal building and shall not exceed the
height of the principal building , but in no case shall the canopy height
exceed 20 feet (large canopy super structures are prohibited);
            (6)   Site lighting shall be designed to have a zero footcandle
measurement at property lines adjoining residential uses ;
            (7)   Canopy/gas island operational areas shall be screened from
adjoining residential uses to provide a 100 percent visual screen throughout
the year to a minimum height of eight feet using any combination of
landscaping, earthen berms or fencing; and
            (8)   Canopy/gas island operational vehicular areas shall be
screened from all public streets to a minimum height of three feet.
         e.   Gas sales operations, which may include a small kiosk or enclosed
structure not exceeding 300 square feet in size that is not designed for walk-
in traffic, are allowed in the Timber Drive Overlay District pursuant to the
requirements listed in subsection d. above have been satisfied with the
exception of [Subsection] d.(2), and that the following requirements have been
met.
            (1)   The site does not front directly on Timber Drive and the
building /canopy is located a minimum of 200 feet from Timber Drive.
            (2)   Up to a total of six gas dispensing units with no more than a
total of 12 fueling positions allowed.
            (3)   The overall appearance and design of the building and/or
canopy, including site landscaping, is consistent with surrounding development
in terms of scale, building materials and colors.
         f.   Automobile service centers that meet the following design
criteria:
            (1)   Automobile service centers are permissible on parcels located
within the Timber Drive Overlay District that directly front along U.S. 70 or
N.C. 50 only;
            (2)   All service bay(s) associated with uses shall be oriented so
as not to directly face U.S. 70, N.C. 50, or adjoining residential uses ;
            (3)   All service bays shall have 100 percent screen to a minimum
full height of two and one-half feet at time of plant installation, and shall
be maintained at a minimum height of three and one-half feet; and
            (4)   A type-A buffer with a 100 percent screen to a minimum height
of eight feet shall be required where the property directly adjoins a
residential use .
      2.   Prohibited uses. The following uses are prohibited in the Timber
Drive Overlay District.
         a.   Hotel and motels;
         b.   Sales and rental of goods, merchandise and equipment with storage
operations and display of goods outside fully enclosed building ;
         c.   Office, clerical, research and services not primarily related to
goods or merchandise where operations are conducted outside a fully enclosed
building ;
         d.   Manufacturing, processing, creating, repairing, renovation,
painting, cleaning, assembling of goods, merchandise and equipment;
         e.   Pool halls;
         f.   Golf driving ranges (not accessory to golf courses), miniature
golf courses, skateboard parks, water slides and similar uses ;
         g.   Drive-in movie theaters;
         h.   Bars, nightclubs, ABC permitted private clubs;
         i.   Adult cabarets and establishments;
         j.   Motor vehicle sales or rental or sales and service;
         k.   Auto service stations;
         l.   Automobile repair shop;
         m.   Car wash;
         n.   Storage and parking;
         o.   Scrap materials, salvage yards, junkyards, automobile graveyards;
         p.   Service and enterprises related to animals with outside
facilities for keeping animals;
         q.   Mining or quarrying operations; including on-site sales of
products; coal or aggregate sales and/or storage; concrete mixing plant;
         r.   Reclamation landfill ;
         s.   Towers and antennas greater than 35 feet tall;
         t.   Open air markets;
         u.   Bus stations;
         v.   Taxi base operations;
         w.   Commercial greenhouse operations;
         x.   Recyclable material collection centers ;
         y.   Solar farms .
   E.   Land disturbing activities.
      1.   All development plans submitted under this UDO shall show a
construction limit line delineating protected buffer areas and any tree save
areas intended for the property. Protective orange fencing, surrounding all
protective buffer areas plus ten feet and around tree save areas at the drip
line, shall be installed prior to construction . Any cutting or clearance
within an approved protected buffer or tree save areas shall be subject to a
fine of $5.00 per square yard of area in the protected buffer or tree save area
that has been prematurely denuded.
      2.   No minor clearance of the existing vegetation within an approved
protected buffer area or tree save area to be retained on the property shall be
allowed until after construction on the parcel is completed and upon approval
by the Planning Department.
      3.   Logging or timbering activities on properties within the corridor
are strongly encouraged to be limited to the interior portions of the lot
exclusive of required buffer areas unless specifically approved by the Town of
Garner.
      4.   Land development activities such as, but not limited to, site
grading, buildings , parking and vehicular areas, shall be excluded from the
perimeter area of lots in order to protect existing trees and vegetation in
required buffer areas unless otherwise approved by the permit issuing
authority.
      5.   Any grading or clearing (including removal of stumps) on land within
the overlay district, not part of a development proposal, requires site plan
approval by the Town of Garner prior to any such activity on the site. All such
activities shall be consistent with the standards of this UDO.
   F.   Street  access. The existing access location standards set forth in
this UDO shall govern driveway  locations on Timber Drive. Deviations from
these standards may be allowed via a Variance if, based upon a traffic impact
study submitted by a professional traffic engineer, the requested deviations do
not pose any traffic safety impacts to the public and that such deviations have
been recommended by the Town Engineer and the North Carolina Department of
Transportation.
   G.   Design standards. The following design standards shall apply to all new
development within the Timber Drive Overlay District:
      1.   Building  height. The maximum building  height for development
located in neighborhood or convenience focus areas is 35 feet unless the
building  setback from all property lines increases one foot for every foot the
building  exceeds 35 feet in height. For all other locations on the corridor
the applicable building  height limits are controlled by the existing
requirements of
Article 6. The building  height limitation for neighborhood or convenience
focus areas may be waived by the Board of Adjustment via a Variance  for the
building build to line option based upon findings that such an arrangement is
in harmony with surrounding development .
      2.   Building  setback from Timber Drive right-of-way.Building  setback
shall be 35 feet from the Timber Drive right-of-way line. Alternatively, a
build to line of 20 feet is permitted provided there are no vehicle surface
areas in front of the building . For all other building yard setbacks the
applicable underlying zoning standards shall apply.
      3.   Building design guidelines. All shopping centerdevelopment or
business complexes, as defined in
Article 11, Definitions, shall provide design guidelines consistent with the
following standards which must be approved by the Town of Garner as part of the
overall development plan submittal. An individual nonresidential building not
part of a larger shopping center or business complex shall be subject to the
following provisions:
         a.   No metal or vinyl siding on nonresidential buildings shall be
permitted;
         b.   Seventy-five percent of the primary building materials shall
consist of brick or decorative/scored concrete masonry units in styles and
colors approved by the Town of Garner. Such building materials shall be applied
on all building facades visible from Timber Drive;
         c.   All dumpster enclosures and accessory/storage buildings for new
development shall be of materials and colors that match the principal building
served and shall be sited on the property to minimize view from all public
streets ;
         d.   All building awnings used must be appropriately designed as part
of the buildings architecture and unified with the buildings colors and style.
Such awnings shall not be internally illuminated;
         e.   Buildings shall be limited to a maximum of three types of
materials and colors. If a building is part of a shopping center or business
complex , the materials and colors used must be consistent with the approved
design guidelines for the larger development ;
         f.   Design guidelines required by this UDO shall include provisions
that address building height, scale and setback distances, unifying site
elements such as building materials and colors, landscaping, site lighting
elements, and pedestrian circulation; and
         g.   Chain link fences in commercial zoning districts shall have vinyl
covering or some other similar material in a color that is compatible with the
principal building materials and colors.
   H.   Vegetation and landscaping standards.
      1.   General street buffer requirements.
         a.   An undisturbed street buffer along Timber Drive shall be
required. Minor underbrush clearing is permissible only by obtaining pre-
approval from the Planning Department. Such approval may not be unreasonably
withheld without just cause.
         b.   The street buffer shall extend 50 feet along corner side streets
and 40 feet along all entrances to new development .
         c.   The use of native or locally adaptable species is required.
         d.   Construction limit lines shall be shown on all site development
plans. Approved undisturbed areas shall be protected on the ground with orange
fencing and shall be installed prior to the issuance of a building permit. Such
fencing shall be maintained during the entire time of construction .
         e.   The suitability of existing vegetation to meet the planting
requirements for a required street buffer must be approved by the Planning
Department. Otherwise, the applicant shall be required to provide a new
landscape planting plan which meets the standards of this UDO as well all other
applicable requirements of
Article 7. Such plans must be approved by the Town of Garner Planning
Department.
      2.   Residential street buffer. Residential subdivisions and unsubdivided
developments with frontage along the right-of-way of Timber Drive shall
maintain a 25-foot undisturbed buffer. No fencing shall be allowed within the
25-foot buffer area. Fences shall not be allowed along property frontages with
Timber Drive unless they are of uniform height and design according plans that
have been approved by the permitting authority. Required landscape planting
within the residential street buffer shall consist of one street tree (ten-feet
tall with a two-inch caliper at installation) for every 40 feet of street
frontage, with a combination of vegetation and/or earthen berms to achieve a
100 percent screen to a height of four feet.
      3.   Nonresidential street buffer.
         a.   Undisturbed street buffer. A 20-foot undisturbed street buffer
along Timber Drive shall be required. Minor underbrush clearing of an
undisturbed street buffer is permissible only with pre-approval from the
Planning Department. Where existing trees and vegetation are retained that
qualify according to the terms of this UDO regarding types, sizes, locations,
and are healthy species as determined by the Planning Department, additional
landscaping may not be required. In cases where additional planting is required
when existing vegetation is not present in the street buffer area, a street
buffer planting plan must be approved by the Town of Garner. One street tree
shall be provided for every 40 feet of frontage. Such tree shall be a minimum
of 12 feet tall with a 2.5-inch caliper at installation. All vehicular surface
areas visible from Timber Drive must provide additional landscape screening to
achieve a 100- percent screen of the vehicular surface area to a minimum height
of three feet at installation.
         b.   Street buffer  for 20 foot build-to line option. A build-to line
option shall be approved when there is no vehicular surface area  between the
building  and the right-of-way of Timber Drive, a 20-foot street buffer  with
only a lawn area and one street tree  (12-feet tall with a 2.5-inch caliper  at
installation) for every 40 feet of frontage is permissible. Under this option,
vehicular surface areas  shall be located in the rear of the building  unless
otherwise approved by the permit issuing authority.
   I.   Site lighting. See
Article 7, Special standards in the Timber Drive Overlay District.
   J.   Signage.
Article 7 of the Unified Development Ordinance governs the sign  requirements
for property located in the Timber Drive Overlay District. In cases where a
property is located in the Timber Drive Overlay District and such property has
frontage directly on U.S. 70, the freestanding sign  requirements of the U.S.
70/401 Overlay District may apply provided the following is met:
         a.   The freestanding sign must be located directly on U.S. 70 and be
on a lot that meets the minimum lot width requirements of the controlling
zoning district; and
         b.   Any freestanding sign located directly on Timber Drive shall be
subject to the sign requirements of the Timber Drive Overlay District.
(Ord. No. 3487, §§ 1--3, 10-1-07; Ord. No. 3529, § 1, 10-6-08; Ord. No. 3558, §
2, 7-7-09; Ord. No. 3780, § 1, 7-7-15; Ord., 3-16-21)
4.11.   U.S. 70/401 Thoroughfare Overlay District.
   A.   Purpose and intent. The Town Council finds that both the U.S. 70 and
401 highway corridors play a vital role in shaping the communities future,
relative to transportation, economic development opportunities and the
appearance of the community that is portrayed to the traveling public.
Presently these highway corridors are characterized by large freestanding
signs, large expanses of unscreened surface parking areas with little or no
landscaping, poorly spaced driveway/access points in some locations, and a
generally uncoordinated approach to visual appearance matters. The Town Council
believes it is important for the community to improve these conditions in order
for U.S. 70 and U.S. 401 to function efficiently as transportation corridors,
to provide opportunities for new business locations and promote a strong
commitment to quality community appearance. Therefore, the Town Council adopts
these regulations as a means to address these aforementioned issues.
   B.   Overlay zone. The U.S. 70/401 Thoroughfare District is an overlay zone.
The land use regulations applicable to the underlying zone remain in full force
and effect except where superseded herein. Where there is a provision not
expressed in the underlying zone, or where a provision hereof is in conflict
with the underlying zone, the provision of the overlay ordinance shall be
controlling.
   C.   Location. The U.S. 70/401 Thoroughfare Overlay District applies to the
entire length of U.S. 70 and U.S. 401 located within Garner's zoning
jurisdiction. The overlay district shall be designated on each side of the
thoroughfare to a depth of 450 feet measured from the center line of the
applicable right-of-way line. The district shall include all of the property in
mapped focus areas with frontage on U.S. 70 and U.S. 401 as depicted on the
adopted Comprehensive Growth Plan's Future Land Use Intensities Map. The Town
of Garner Official Zoning Map shall clearly indicate the boundaries of the
adopted U.S. 70/401 Overlay Thoroughfare District. In cases where any portion
of a building  or parking area falls within the boundaries of the overlay
district, these provisions shall apply to all of the building (s) and parking
areas.
   D.   Prohibited and restricted uses. Unless otherwise prohibited or
restricted below, all uses allowed by the underlying zoning district are
permissible in the U.S. 70/401 Thoroughfare Overlay District, provided all
requirements and permits as required by this UDO are satisfied.
      1.   Prohibited uses. The following uses are prohibited in the U.S. 70/
401 Thoroughfare District.
         a.   Drive-in movie theaters;
         b.   Adult cabarets and establishments;
         c.   Outside storage of goods not related to sale or use on premises;
         d.   Scrap materials, salvage yards, junkyards, automobile graveyards;
         e.   Mining or quarrying operations; including on-site sales of
products; coal or aggregate sale and or storage; concrete mixing plant;
         f.   Reclamation landfill ;
         g.   Commercial greenhouse operations;
         h.   Recyclable material collection centers ; and
         i.   Solar farms .
      2.   Prohibited uses adjacent to existing residential uses. The following
uses are prohibited when directly adjacent to, or within 150 feet of
residential uses. This restriction applies to all of U.S. 401 within the
overlay district and to only the portion of U.S. 70 from New Rand Road west to
the Town limits at the intersection of U.S. 70 and Mechanical Boulevard in the
overlay district.
         a.   Hotel/motels;
         b.   Pool halls/bowling alleys only; and
         c.   Bars/night clubs/ABC-permitted private clubs.
      3.   Restricted uses. The following uses are permissible provided the
performance standards listed below are met. These standards shall apply only to
new development.
         a.   Retail sales, offices and other permissible uses with outside
display or storage of goods for sale:
            (1)   Outside display of goods for sale and/or outside storage
areas with direct frontage along street rights-of-way must be screened to a
minimum height of two and one-half feet planted every five feet on center at
installation;
            (2)   A maximum of 50 percent of the total property frontage along
U.S. 70/401 may be devoted to outside display or storage of goods when
vehicular parking areas (excludes vehicular loading/service areas) are located
in the street yard area. A maximum of 66 percent of the total property frontage
may be devoted to outside display or storage areas when vehicular parking/
service areas are located in side or rear yards ; and
            (3)   All outside displays of goods for sale or outdoor storage
areas shall have a minimum setback distance of 15 feet from the street right-
of-way.
         b.   Manufactured home sales lots:
            (1)   Model display units only are allowed in front areas (measured
100 feet from the r/w line) directly visible to U.S. 70 or U.S. 401;
            (2)   All display model units must have foundation planting and
underskirting material matching the unit; and
            (3)   All storage units must be located in the rear of display
model area and have appropriate screening if visible from the thoroughfare.
         c.   Motor vehicle sale lots:
            (1)   All vehicle display areas with frontage along U.S. 70 or U.S.
401 rights-of-way shall be screened to a minimum height of two and one-half
feet; and
            (2)   The two elevated display racks permitted per motor vehicle
sales lot ; not to exceed five feet in height.
         d.   Automobile service centers:
            (1)   All service bay areas shall be oriented so as not to directly
face U.S. 70 or U.S. 401; and
            (2)   All service bay areas shall have a 100 percent screen to a
minimum height of three and one-half feet if such areas are visible from public
street views. Such screening height must be achieved within two years.
         e.   Automobile repair and body shops:
            (1)   All service bay areas shall be located at the rear of the
building or be oriented in such a manner so as not to be directly visible from
U.S. 70 or U.S. 401; and
            (2)   All overnight vehicle storage areas shall be located in the
rear of the building . Such storage areas shall be 100 percent screened from
public street rights-of-way to a minimum height of 6 feet by the use of
fencing, landscaping, berms, or a combination thereof.
         f.   Veterinarians or kennels: Veterinarians or kennels with outside
facilities for keeping animals are permissible provided such operations are not
located within 500 feet of an existing residential use.
         g.   Truck terminals: Truck terminals are permissible provided all
operational and loading areas are located to the rear of the building and are
not directly visible from U.S. 70 or U.S. 401. Parking lots for employees/
visitors are permissible in front of the building.
         h.   Car washes: Car washes are permissible, provided the buildings
are oriented in such a manner that the wash bays do not directly face U.S. 70
or U.S. 401.
      4.   Amortization of nonconforming uses.
         a.   When a nonconforming use is abandoned or discontinued for a
period of 180 consecutive days, any subsequent use of the property thereafter
must comply with the applicable regulations of the Garner UDO regarding the use
of the property.
         b.   Any change of use as defined by this UDO requires full compliance
with the sign requirements of the Garner UDO.
   E.   Land disturbing activities.
      1.   All development plans submitted under this UDO shall show a
construction limit line delineating protected buffer areas and any tree save
areas intended for the property. Protective orange fencing, surrounding all
protective buffer areas plus ten feet, and around tree save areas at the drip
line, shall be installed prior to building and/or grading permit issuance. Any
cutting or clearance within an approved protected buffer or tree save area
shall be subject to a fine of $5.00 per square yard of area in the protected
buffer or tree save area that has been prematurely denuded and must be replaced
with equivalent vegetation as determined by the Town of Garner.
      2.   No minor clearing of the existing vegetation within an approved
protected buffer area or tree save area to be retained on the property shall
not be allowed until after construction on the parcel is completed and upon
approval by the Planning Department.
      3.   Logging or timbering activities on properties within the corridor
are strongly encouraged to be limited to the interior portions of the lot
exclusive of required buffer areas unless specifically approved by the Town of
Garner.
      4.   Land development activities such as, but not limited to, site
grading, buildings , parking and vehicular use areas, shall be excluded from
the perimeter area of lots in order to protect existing trees and vegetation in
required buffer areas.
      5.   Any grading or clearing (including removal of stumps) on land within
the overlay district, not part of a development proposal, requires site plan
approval by the Town of Garner prior to any such activity on the site. All such
activities shall be consistent with the standards of this UDO.
   F.   Access. The existing access location standards under
Article 8 of this UDO shall govern driveway  locations on U.S. 70 and U.S. 401.
Deviations from these access location spacing standards may be approved by
Variance  if the BOA concludes, based upon a traffic impact study submitted by
a professional traffic engineer, the requested deviations do not pose any
traffic safety impacts to the public and that such deviations have been
recommended by the Town Engineer and the North Carolina Department of
Transportation.
   G.   Design standards.
      1.   Building height standards identified below relate to areas depicted
on the Town of Garner's Comprehensive Growth Plan's Land Use Intensities Map.
         a.   Focus area. Building height is limited to 70 feet within the
first 100 feet; beyond the first 100 feet, height may be increased above 70
feet, provided for every additional foot of height the building setback is
increased one foot. Building height is limited to 85 feet within the first 100
feet in Regional Centers; beyond the first 100 feet, height may be increased
above 85 feet, provided for every additional foot of height the building
setback is increased one foot.
         b.   Support area. Building height is limited to 48 feet in first 100
feet; beyond first 100 feet height may be increased above 48 feet provided for
every additional foot of height the building setback is increased one foot.
      2.   When a nonresidential use directly adjoins an existing residential
use , the building height is limited to 24 feet. When increased building height
is authorized, an additional setback distance of one foot must be provided for
every additional foot of building height over 24 feet measured from the
property line adjoining the existing residential use . This requirement does
not apply to the property within the overlay district located east of New Rand
Road along U.S. 70.
      3.   Building setback standards identified below relate to areas depicted
on the Town of Garner's Comprehensive Growth Plan's Land Use Intensities Map.
 
      Focus Area                     Support Area
      20 foot minimum (no vehicular/ 30 foot minimum (no vehicular/parking
Front parking area permissible in    area permissible in setback);
      setback); otherwise 35 feet    otherwise 50 feet
Side  10 feet                        10 feet
Rear  15 feet                        15 feet
 
   H.   Building design guidelines. All shopping centerdevelopments, business
complexes or commercial subdivisions, as defined in this UDO, shall be required
to obtain Town approval of building design guidelines that are consistent with
the following standards. An individual nonresidential building, not part of a
larger shopping center, business complex, or commercial subdivision, shall also
be subject to these provisions. All new development must comply with the
following standards.
      1.   The use of prefabricated metal buildings shall not be permitted
unless all building facades visible from street views are treated with brick,
decorative/scored concrete masonry units (CMU), exterior insulated finishing
systems (EIFS), or other materials in styles and colors. The use of vinyl
siding on nonresidential buildings is not permitted.
      2.   All dumpster enclosures and accessory/storage buildings for new
development shall be constructed of materials and colors that match the
principal building served and shall be sited on the property in such a manner
to minimize view from all public streets .
      3.   All building awnings must be appropriately designed as part of the
buildings architecture and be unified with the buildings colors and style.
      4.   Design guidelines shall be required for all shopping centers ,
business complexes and commercial subdivisions located within the overlay
district. Such guidelines must be included as part of the initial overall
development plan submittal. All development that is subject to design
guidelines approved by the Town must be constructed in accordance with the
applicable standards for that specific development .
      5.   All design guidelines shall include, but not be limited to,
provisions that address building height, mass and scale, setback distances and
unifying site elements such as building materials and colors, landscaping, site
lighting elements, and pedestrian circulation systems.
      6.   Vehicular parking surface areas with direct frontage on U.S. 70 or
U.S. 401 shall have curb and gutter and be paved with a permanent surface
consisting of a minimum six inches of base stone and two inches of I-2 asphalt
from the edge of the front vehicular/parking surface area to the front building
line. An equivalent permanent surface material may be used as an alternative if
approved by the Town Engineer. Truck loading and/or vehicular service areas are
strongly encouraged to be oriented on the property so as to be out of public
street views consistent with the requirements herein.
      7.   Full lane widening with curb and gutter construction shall be
required for all new development with property frontage on U.S. 70 or U.S. 401.
This standard does not apply to new development where no direct driveway or
street access to U.S. 70 or U.S. 401 is proposed. For new development where
access to U.S. 70 or U.S. 401 is proposed and the total peak hour trip
generation according to the latest edition of the Institute of Transportation
Engineers (ITE) Trip Generation Manual does not exceed a total of 50 trips, a
deceleration lane without curb and gutter construction may be installed in lieu
of full lane widening.
   I.   General thoroughfare buffer requirements. In addition to complying with
all of the general landscape standards in the Garner UDO, new development must
meet the standards listed below.
      1.   The buffer shall extend 50 feet along corner side streets and 40
feet along all entrances to new development .
      2.   The use of native or locally adaptable species is required.
      3.   Construction limit lines shall be shown on all site development
plans. Approved undisturbed buffer areas shall be protected on the ground with
orange fencing and shall be installed prior to the issuance of a building and/
or grading permit. Such fencing shall be maintained during the entire time of
construction .
      4.   The suitability of existing vegetation to meet the planting
requirements for required buffer areas must be approved by the Planning
Department. If approved, it will be credited towards the project 's landscaping
requirements. Otherwise, the applicant shall be required to provide a new
landscape planting plan which meets the standards of this UDO as well as all
other applicable requirements of Article XIX entitled landscape and appearance.
Such plans must be approved by the Town of Garner Planning Department.
      5.   Thoroughfare buffer design standards.
         a.   A seven and one-half-foot wide thoroughfare buffer shall be
required on property lines along U.S. 70 or U.S. 401 for all development . One
street tree shall be provided for every 40 feet of property frontage along U.S.
70 or U.S. 401. Such tree shall be a minimum of ten feet tall with a two-inch
caliper at installation. All vehicular parking areas visible from U.S. 70 or
U.S. 401 must provide additional landscape screening to achieve a 100 percent
screen of the vehicular surface area to a minimum height of two and one-half
feet and planted every five feet on center at installation.
         b.   Where existing trees and vegetation can be retained that qualify
according to the terms of this UDO regarding types, sizes, and locations, and
are healthy species as determined by the Planning Department, additional
landscaping may not be required. In cases where additional planting is
required, a street buffer planting plan must be approved by the Town of Garner.
      6.   Additional screening, buffering and landscaping requirements in
street yards for high intensity uses (new development only). The objective of
this requirement is to provide denser screening, landscaping or a combination
thereof for more intense uses of land between U.S. 70/401 and the principal
improvements on the property which are identified as high intensity uses . High
intensity uses include outdoor operations (loading or assembly areas),
operation utility service areas, and similar uses . All such high intensity
uses not screened by an intervening building shall be screened 100 percent from
public street views by a continuous screen of evergreen plant material and/or
berm that reaches six feet in height.
      7.   Screening and landscape buffers adjoining residential uses .
         a.   The nonresidential uses listed below shall be required to provide
a 40-foot wide undisturbed buffer area with screening to a height of eight
feet, or to a buffer width and screening height provided by a professional
engineer and based upon results of a sight line study, when directly adjacent
to residential uses . Required screening may be achieved by using vegetation,
earthen berms, solid fences, or a combination thereof.
            (1)   Golf driving range;
            (2)   Veterinarian/kennel with outside operations;
            (3)   Auto service/auto repair; or
            (4)   Any other permissible use with outdoor display/storage that
directly adjoins existing residential property.
         b.   The permitting authority may approve deviations from these
presumptive standards if it concludes that the objectives underlying these
standards can be met without strict adherence to them, and that there are no
excessive measurable impacts to adjoining properties, and it finds that such
deviations are more likely to satisfy the above noted standards.
   J.   Parking lot landscape planting for existing uses.
      1.   All existing nonresidential uses of property with direct frontage on
U.S. 70 or U.S. 401 shall comply with the following requirements within three
years from the date the overlay district is adopted.
      2.   All affected properties shall comply with the street tree
requirements of the overlay district and screen all outside display/storage
areas or vehicular surface areas directly fronting along U.S. 70/401 to a
minimum height of two and one-half feet at installation and planted five feet
on center at installation.
      3.   Each property owner or designee shall be responsible for obtaining
landscape plan approval from the Planning Department which complies with these
standards and install the planting material prior to the three year deadline.
      4.   In cases where the existing property does not have sufficient land
area available to accommodate the required landscaping on site without severely
impacting business operations, the Planning Department may allow deviations
from these standards provided the following is accomplished.
         a.   An appropriate combination of street trees and shrubs is provided
in locations that effectively improve the appearance of the property and
special highway corridor as determined by the Planning Department (the use of
r/w area is permissible with an N.C. DOT encroachment agreement; maintenance by
property owner shall be required).
         b.   A maximum deviation of up to 50 percent of required landscaping
may be authorized by the Planning Department if it finds there is not
sufficient space available on private property and/or public right-of-way areas
(merely having to relocate storage areas when sufficient space elsewhere on
site is available does not qualify for this type of relief).
      5.   The decision of the Planning Department may be appealed to the
Planning Commission for review and recommendation with the final decision by
the Town Council.
   K.   Site lighting standards. See
Article 7, Special standards in the U.S. 70/401 Thoroughfare Overlay District.
   L.   Sign regulations.
      1.   The provisions set forth in
Article 7 specific to U.S. 70 or U.S. 401 shall govern all signage for
individual building development that is located within the U.S. 70/401
Thoroughfare Overlay District and is not defined as a shopping center ,
business complex or commercial subdivision . Shopping centers , business
complexes or commercial subdivisions are subject to uniform sign plan standards
contained in Section
7.5.N., unless otherwise noted in said section.
      2.   When a new business occupies an existing building , the new business
shall fully comply with the applicable sign regulations in
Article 7.
(Ord. No. 3558, § 2, 7-7-09; Ord. 3714, § 2, 10-22-13; Ord. No. 3780, § 2, 7-7-
15; Ord., 3-16-21)
4.12.   I-40 Overlay District.
   A.   Purpose and intent.
      1.   The Town Council finds that Garner is rich in natural scenic beauty
along I-40 within its planning jurisdiction . The Town Council finds that the
general welfare will be served by orderly development within the I-40 Overlay
District in a fashion which would preserve natural scenic beauty and aesthetic
character; promote design quality; and enhance trade, tourism, capital
investment, and the general welfare along the thoroughfare. The Town Council
therefore establishes these regulations in areas adjacent to I-40 to further
those objectives while encouraging the orderly development of land within these
corridors.
      2.   It is the intent of this section that as great a part of the tracts
within the corridor as possible be left in an undisturbed or enhanced state of
vegetation, and that sufficient areas of natural transitional buffer between
uses remain so that the proposed use will be visually in harmony with the
natural wooded character of the area. Removing or denuding natural forest
vegetation along I-40 is prohibited except as provided in this section.
      3.   The I-40 Overlay District (O-40) is an overlay zone. The land use
regulations applicable to the underlying zone remain in full force and effect
except where superseded herein. Where there is a provision not expressed in the
underlying zone, or where a provision hereof is in conflict with the underlying
zone, the provision of the overlay ordinance shall be controlling.
   B.   Location of I-40 Overlay District. The district is located on either
side of I-40 within the Garner zoning jurisdiction. The district shall extend
from the right-of-way of the highway, on either side, and measured from the
outside right-of-way line of the roadway at its farthest point, including
access ramps and interchanges, a distance of 1,250 feet, as shown on the
official zoning map maintained in the Planning Department. In cases where any
portion of a building or parking area falls within the boundaries of the
overlay district, these provisions shall apply to all of the building(s) and
parking areas.
   C.   Permits required. Within the I-40 Overlay District, all developments
for which a site plan or subdivisionplat approval is required pursuant to other
provisions of this UDO are required to receive a special use permit issued by
the Town Council prior to issuance of building permits.
   D.   Lot dimensional requirements. All dimensional requirements, including
minimum lot area and minimum lot width requirements, are established in the
underlying zones.
   E.   Maximum building height. No building shall exceed 150 feet above grade;
other building height restrictions are governed by the setback from the right-
of-way as set forth below.
   F.   Minimum building setback requirements. The required setback for yards
not adjacent to the right-of-way of I-40 shall be as set forth in the
underlying zone. The minimum building setbacks measured from the scenic
corridor right-of-way, including access ramps and interchanges, shall be as
follows:
      1.   For buildings up to 35 feet above grade, there shall be a minimum
setback of 50 feet from the right-of-way.
      2.   For buildings extending up to 60 feet above grade, there shall be a
minimum setback of 100 feet.
      3.   For buildings exceeding 60 feet above grade, there shall be an
additional setback, measured beyond the initial 100 foot setback, consisting of
two feet for each additional one foot in height up to the maximum height of 150
feet.
   G.   Buffering and screening. Buffering and screening are required. For
purposes of this section, the term buffer means a horizontal distance measured
perpendicular to the right-of-way. The term screen pertains to vertical
distance (height) of plantings, fences, berms and other landscape features.
Screens provide visual obstruction; buffers only provide the space in which
screens are used.
      1.   Yards not adjacent to the right-of-way of I-40. Those portions of
front, rear, side or corner side yards that are not adjacent to the I-40 50-
foot buffer and are not devoted to the uses, buildings and structures that are
permitted within this section shall provide screening and buffering consistent
with this UDO while emphasizing their natural wooded state, and where required,
shall provide landscaping, provided, however, a minimum of 50 feet of natural
transitional buffer area or its planted equivalent shall be preserved on corner
side lot lines within 200 feet from the intersection of the side road with I-
40. Provided, further, however, that this subsection shall not apply to single-
family residentialuses.
      2.   Yards adjacent to the right-of-way of I-40.
         a.   Development options within the 50-foot buffer. The 50-foot buffer
adjacent to the right-of-way of I-40 shall be preserved or constructed in
accordance with the following development options:
            (1)   A natural screen or its newly planted equivalent providing
the percentage of visual obstruction required by this section, established and
maintained by the owner. A landscape architect licensed in the state of NC
shall determine the vegetative composition of the equivalent planting.
Provided, however, that this subsection shall not apply to agricultural uses
where the 50 feet adjacent to I-40 has been cleared prior to December 7, 1987.
            (2)   A natural water body or one specifically designed as a
landscape feature adjacent to a low intensity use as defined herein.
            (3)   Other landscaping adjacent to a low intensity use as defined
herein.
            (4)   Other improvements which themselves provide no visual
obstruction, such as access roads, which meet the standards of paragraph P
below and for which the Board of Adjustment grants a variance if the Board
finds the proposed use will not result in a deviation from the letter of this
section to any greater extent than is necessary to allow for reasonable
development of the tract, provided that the site plan presented for the permit
shall contain a condition that the developer install and maintain compensatory
landscaping, screening or a combination thereof to meet the percentage of
visual obstruction otherwise required in the 50-foot buffer area.
         b.   Development options in the front yard beyond the 50-foot buffer.
            (1)   The front yard is defined as that area between the special
scenic corridor right-of-way and the area at which the principal building or
buildings are constructed. The front yard includes the buffer and any
additional area beyond the buffer as so defined.
            (2)   Development options within the front yard area beyond the
buffer , provided the screening requirements in the buffer are met first, or
that these options, combined with the screening provided in the buffer ,
satisfy the intent of this section, are as follows:
               (a)   Additional natural screening, water bodies and other
landscaping as set forth in paragraph G.2.a., above, provided the same are
adjacent to medium intensity uses or adjacent to low intensity uses .
               (b)   Other improvements, as set forth hereinafter which have
significant impact on the visual quality of the corridor, but which reduce that
impact to meet the intent of this section through the use of interior
landscaping and screening consistent with this section as follows:
                  (i)   Landscaped vehicular surface (parking) areas;
                  (ii)   Access roads with street yards;
                  (iii)   Accessory buildings ;
                  (iv)   Outdoor storage and/or display;
                  (v)   Loading areas;
                  (vi)   Utility service areas;
                  (vii)   Boundary fences, gates and security stations.
         c.   Additional screening, buffering and landscaping requirements, by
intensity of use, in any front yard. Generally, the objective of these
regulations is to provide a denser screening, landscaping or a combination
thereof for more intense uses of land between the special highway and the
principal improvements consistent with the purposes of this section and as
described herein be high intensity, medium intensity, and low intensity uses.
      3.   High intensity uses. For purposes of this section, high intensity
uses include outdoor operation (loading or assembly areas), outdoor storage,
and operation utility service areas, and similar uses. All such high intensity
uses not screened by an intervening building shall be completely screened (100
percent visual obstruction) from view from the right-of-way of I-40 except for
necessary access in the following manner:
         a.   A continuous screen of evergreen plant material and/or berm that
reaches at least ten to 12 feet high within three years is required. This
screen may be placed on either side of a public access road , provided the
screen blocks visual penetration throughout all seasons of the year.
         b.   Beyond the initial three year height requirement, all required
trees newly planted in the buffer must have an expected mature height of at
least 35 feet or greater, unless subject to an overhead power line in which
case the mature height may be within a range of 8 to 15 feet.
         c.   Alternative screening for utility service areas may be
accomplished by locally adapted planting (evergreen or deciduous) which are a
minimum of 18 inches tall when planted and are expected to reach height and
width equal to or greater than the utility service structures which are
required to be screened. Screening for utility service areas in the right-of-
way are to be installed by the utility company or person who installed the
service; in all other instances, the property owner shall install the
plantings.
      4.   Medium intensity uses. For purposes of this section, medium
intensity uses include vehicular surface parking areas in the front yard space
adjacent to the right-of-way of I-40. Where such uses are proposed, the
screening standards set forth herein apply and are designed to modify and
reduce the deleterious visual, environmental and aesthetic effects of existing
and proposed vehicular surface areas. Among other purposes, they are designed
to modify the appearance of parking areas and vehicular surface areas, to
encourage the construction of such necessary areas in a manner that more
closely follows the existing natural contours of the land; to distribute
planting areas around and within the parking area; and to break the visual
blight created by large expanses of vehicular surface areas. The screening
requirements are as follows:
         a.   An intermittent screen of mixed deciduous and/or evergreen plant
material in the buffer at least ten to 12 feet high within three years, so as
to achieve a 50 percent visual obstruction of the development , plus internal
vehicular surface area landscaping according to the standards of paragraph P
below.
         b.   Within the intermittent screen, beyond the initial three year
height requirement, all required trees newly planted in the buffer or in the
surface parking area must have an expected mature height of at least 35 feet or
greater. For deciduous trees, a mature crown spread of at least 30 feet or
greater is required unless subject to an overhead power line in which case the
mature height may be within a range of 8 to 15 feet.
      5.   Low intensity uses. For purposes of this section, low intensity uses
refer to instances where there is only grass or landscaping (including a water
body designed as a landscape feature) in the front yard space between the
building and the right-of-way of I-40. The screening requirement is an
intermittent screen of mixed deciduous and/or evergreen plant material in the
buffer at least ten to 12 feet high within three years, or landscaping provided
according to an approved plan, which achieves up to 25 percent visual
obstruction of the development.
   H.   Land disturbing activities.
      1.   Unless qualifying under development options set forth in subsection
G.2.a.(1) through (3) above, no clearing of vegetation shall be allowed for any
purpose, including agriculture and timber harvesting, within the 50-foot buffer
adjacent to the right-of-way of I-40 regardless of whether land use permits are
required under this UDO. Limited underbrush thinning is permitted for purposes
of maintaining or enhancing public safety.
      2.   Subject only to
Article 9, Nonconformities, any expansion of existing land uses involving
frontage on the special highway shall comply with this section.
         a.   Site plans submitted under this section shall show a construction
limit line delineating the buffer area existing prior to commencing
construction .
         b.   No construction , and only selective thinning of underbrush are
permitted in the buffer . No clearance of the existing vegetation within the
delineated buffer area is allowed until after construction on the parcel is
completed. Any cutting or clearance before completion of construction shall be
subject to a fine of $5.00 per square yard of area in the protected buffer that
has been prematurely denuded.
         c.   Upon completion of construction , if an approved screening/
landscaping plan has not already been approved, such plan shall be submitted at
that time indicating how the screening/landscaping objectives of this section
are to be achieved, with particular regard to the delineated buffer .
         d.   Any screening/landscaping plan submitted after construction is
completed shall be consistent with this UDO, be complete, and receive the
approval of the Town Council.
   I.   Sign  regulations. See
Article 7.
   J.   Restricted uses.
      1.   The following uses are permitted only if site plans are approved
which assure (i.e. condition) that these uses will have no visible outdoor
storage or operations adjacent to the special highway:
         a.   Truck service centers (truck stops);
         b.   Car and truck dealerships;
         c.   Uses with storage for retail such as lumber yards, heavy
equipment dealers, and similar uses .
      2.   Such site plans shall indicate that all outdoor storage and
operation will be located in the yard space farthest away from the special
highway and on the far side of the principal buildings .
      3.   Outdoor display (as differentiated from outdoor storage ) shall
consist of only a sampling of wares sufficient to convey what is sold and is
permitted in SB and I-2 zones on a limited basis in accordance with the
approved site plan.
   K.   Prohibited uses. The following uses are prohibited:
      1.   Truck terminals;
      2.   Mobile home parks and subdivisions ;
      3.   Mobile home sales lots ;
      4.   Scrap material salvage yards, junkyards, automobile graveyards;
      5.   Sanitary (reclamation) landfill ;
      6.   Body shops;
      7.   Storage of radioactive or otherwise hazardous wastes;
      8.   Outside kennels ;
      9.   Drive-in theaters;
      10.   Golf driving ranges;
      11.   Water slides;
      12.   Self-serve car washes;
      13.   Solar farms .
   L.   Access points.
      1.   For lots having more than 500 feet of frontage on an access or
frontage road , points of ingress and egress shall be no closer than 500 linear
feet.
      2.   For lots having less than 500 feet of frontage onto an access or
frontage road , only one point of ingress or egress shall be allowed. Whenever
possible, a minimum distance of 200 feet must be maintained between points of
ingress and egress.
      3.   Ingress to and egress from a lot shall be prohibited within 200 feet
of the intersection of a special highway.
   M.   Parking. See underlying zone (land use category). Also, parking areas
shall be paved with dust-free, all-weather surface, and shall be properly
drained and landscaped. The number of spaces required may be reduced in order
to accommodate landscaping required by this section.
   N.   Industrial performance standards. All outdoor lighting shall be
shielded in such a manner that no direct glare from the light source can be
seen from the special highway.
   O.   Regulations for screening, buffering, and landscaping in special
districts. The regulations set forth herein apply within the I-40 Overlay
District and elsewhere as specifically enacted now or hereafter by the Town
Council.
      1.   Street yard width and planting requirements.
         a.   Any nonresidential use of land (including vehicular surface areas
) established after the effective date of this section shall provide a street
yard along any existing or proposed public street right-of-way adjacent to or
adjoining the property except for those portions of the lot used for driveways
or buffers planted in accordance with this UDO. The street yard shall be
contiguous with the right-of-way.
         b.   The total square feet area of the street yard shall be at least
equal to five times the length in feet of frontage adjoining the public right-
of-way (i.e., have a minimum of five feet in width).
         c.   The minimum dimension of any street yard used to satisfy this
section shall be measured perpendicular to the recorded public street right-of-
way.
         d.   The street yard shall contain at least one natural tree for every
50 linear feet of street yard or fraction thereof as measured from the corners
of the property, and shall be located so that at least one natural tree is
within every 75 linear feet of street yard or fraction thereof and shall be
planted at least ten feet from any tree on the right-of-way; but along street
yards for display areas, the spacing of trees may be one natural tree every 150
linear feet of the street yard or fraction thereof.
         e.   The street yard shall contain natural trees, either existing or
planted, of at least eight feet in height and six and one-quarter inches in
circumference (two inches in diameter) measured at one-half foot above grade.
         f.   All required trees in the street yard must be a locally adapted
species with an expected mature height of 35 feet or greater and an expected
mature crown spread of at least 30 feet or greater, unless subject to an
overhead power line in which case the mature height may be within a range of 8
to 15 feet.
         g.   This yard shall be landscaped and be properly maintained by the
owner and shall have live vegetation, groundcover, grass, trees, shrubs, and
may, unless otherwise prohibited, include fences or walls, screening for
loading, utility, and display areas, and plantings for vehicular surface areas
. All fences must conform to the requirements of this UDO. No more than 15
percent of this required protective yard shall be covered with an impervious
surface which may be used without limitation for walkways, fountains or walls,
but not vehicular surface, storage, utility service, display, or loading areas.
      2.   Interior screening and landscaping standards.
         a.   These regulations shall apply to any vehicular surface area or
portions thereof built after the adoption of this section, and to pre-existing
vehicular surface area when there are additions or expansions which singularly
or collectively exceed 25 percent of the land area or gross building floor
areas existing at the time this section becomes applicable to the property.
These requirements are for all vehicular surface areas , required or otherwise,
regardless of the zoning district where they are located.
         b.   Landscaped planting areas shall be provided and maintained within
the interior of the vehicular surface area and adjacent thereto.
         c.   Each planting area shall contain a minimum of 300 square feet in
area with minimum dimensions of seven feet and, except for vehicular display
areas for which trees are not required, shall contain at least one naturally
locally adapted shade tree a minimum of six and one-quarter inches in
circumference (two inches in diameter) measured one-half foot above grade with
a minimum height of eight feet.
         d.   Trees shall be required at the minimum rate of one natural shade
tree for every 2,000 square feet of total vehicular surface. All vehicular
areas located serving one or more businesses or uses of land or share unified
ingress and egress shall be considered as a single vehicular surface area for
the purpose of computing the required rate of trees, notwithstanding ownership.
         e.   Shade trees as used herein means any tree, evergreen or
deciduous, whose mature height of its species can be expected to exceed 35 feet
and which has an expected crown spread of 30 feet or more, or is considered a
shade tree in accordance with American Standards of Nursery Stock, set forth by
the American Association of Nurserymen. The shade tree, existing or planted,
shall be at least eight feet in height and six and one-quarter inches in
circumference (two inches in diameter) measured at one-half foot above grade
for new planted trees and measured at four and one-half feet above grade for
existing trees.
         f.   Landscaped planting areas are to be located within or adjacent to
the parking area as tree islands, at the end of parking bays, inside seven-foot
wide or greater medians, or between rows of cars or as part of continuous
street or transitional protective yards. The number, size and shape of
landscaped planting area shall be at the discretion of the owner; however, no
vehicular parking space shall be separated from a shade tree by an intervening
building and be located farther than 50 feet from the tree trunk of a shade
tree planting area with one tree, or 75 feet from the tree trunk of a planting
area with two or more shade trees (existing or planted) provided that any
landscaped planting area has a minimum of 300 square feet of continuous growing
area for each tree therein.
         g.   Landscaped planting areas shall be distributed in a manner which
fulfills the purposes of this section.
         h.   For vehicular display areas which are not required to have trees,
measurements shall be made from the edge of the landscaped planting areas, and
no stored vehicle shall be farther than 50 feet from the edge of any landscaped
planting area without a tree.
         i.   The number of off-streetparking spaces required in this UDO may
be reduced by the following ratio: The square footage of required landscaped
planting area divided by 150, but no fraction thereof, provided that no
reduction in the number of off-streetparking spaces authorized by this section
in excess of ten percent shall occur without the prior approval of the Town
Council which shall first determine if further reductions will cause on-street
parking congestion.
         j.   Any vehicular surface area shall be provided with landscape areas
containing shrubs. Shrubs shall attain a minimum size of 30 inches high within
three years of planting. All shrubs shall be a minimum of 18 inches tall when
planted and there shall be no gaps between required shrubs greater than ten
feet. No more than 40 of the required shrubs may be deciduous. Shrubs shall be
required at a rate of one shrub per 500 total feet of vehicular surface area .
         k.   Earthen berms may be provided or the ground sloped. Any berms
used to comply with this section shall have a minimum height of one and one-
half feet and a minimum crown width of two feet and a total minimum width of
seven feet and shall be planted with a locally adapted species of shrubs which
conform to the first paragraph herein. However, shrubs planted on berms may
have a lesser height provided that the combined height of the berm and the
plantings after three years is at least 30 inches high.
(Ord. No. 3558, § 2, 7-7-09; Ord. No. 3780, § 3, 7-7-15; Ord., 3-16-21)
4.13.   Swift Creek Conservation District.
   A.   Purpose and intent. The purpose of these regulations is to protect and
preserve the water quality of the Swift Creek Watershed below Lake Benson while
allowing the orderly development of land in this environmentally sensitive
area. It has been determined by federal and state agencies that this watershed
area provides significant wildlife, aquatic, or plant life habitats; that
possess characteristics unique to the Town of Garner. It is the intent of these
regulations to protect the water quality in this watershed by requiring limits
on the amount of impervious surface areas permissible for new residential and
non-residential development.
   B.   Swift Creek Conservation District Boundaries. The portion of the Swift
Creek Watershed that is subject to these protection standards is located below
Lake Benson in the Town of Garner's zoning jurisdiction generally bounded by
Garner Road, N.C. 50, New Rand Road, White Oak Road and the southern Garner ETJ
boundary. The exact boundaries are shown on the Official Town of Garner Zoning
Map which constitute the official boundaries of the Swift Creek Conservation
District where these provisions shall apply for purposes of this UDO.
   C.   Use regulations. The uses permitted or prohibited in the Swift Creek
Conservation District shall be those uses permitted or prohibited in the
underlying zoning district that apply to a particular parcel of land.
   D.   Exempt from regulations. All parcels of land that fall within the
boundaries of the Swift Creek Conservation District which are identified on the
Town of Garner Official Zoning Map as being exempt properties, shall not be
subject to provisions of this overlay district.
   E.   Existing development , redevelopment, and expansions. Existing
development  (residential or non-residential) is not subject to the
requirements of this section; existing development  shall be considered to be
any existing impervious surfaces , or for which plan or permit approval has
been officially granted; or where a vested right  has been established, as of
May 31, 2005. Redevelopment or expansion of any existing non-residential
development  shall be subject to the requirements of this section; however, the
impervious surface  coverage of the existing development  is not required to be
included when applying the impervious surface  coverage limits of this section.
   F.   Development standards. The following standards shall apply for new
residential and non-residential development in Swift Creek Conservation
District.
      1.   The standards of both the Swift Creek Conservation District and the
underlying zoning district shall apply to each parcel. Where the standards of
the overlay district and the underlying district differ, the more restrictive
standards shall control development in new projects created after effective
date of the Swift Creek Conservation District which is May 31, 2005.
      2.   The maximum impervious surface coverage of the new residential
developmentprojects and new non-residential developmentprojects , which are
defined as those projects approved or permitted after the above noted effective
date of the Swift Creek Conservation District are as follows:
         a.   New single family detached residential
subdivisiondevelopmentprojects shall be limited to a maximum of 30 percent
total impervious surface area.
         b.   New multi-family residential developmentprojects defined to
include townhomes , condominiums , or apartments, shall be limited to a maximum
of 50 percent total impervious surface area.
         c.   New non-residential developmentprojects shall be limited to a
maximum of 70 percent of total of impervious surface area.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
4.14.   Obsolete districts.
   Commentary: These existing districts were applied to land in Garner prior to
the adoption of the UDO and remain mapped on the official zoning map, but are
no longer available for zoning future land.
   A.   Residential cluster district (RCD).
      1.   Purpose and intent. The purpose of cluster development regulations
is to provide an optional land development procedure which results in the
preservation of open space; protection of streams, floodplain areas and
significant existing tree cover; promotion of more efficient subdivisionstreet
and infrastructure networks; and encouragement of a variety of styles or types
of residential dwellings. Cluster development should provide a total living
environment for residential purposes that is in compliance with the land use
plan and other applicable local, state or federal laws or regulations.
   There shall be three residential cluster districts (RCD). Each residential
cluster district is a special purpose zoning district and is designed to have
similar density characteristics of the various residential zoning districts of
the ordinance (excluding the R-5 district) according to one of the following
three elements:
         a.   RCD-1 shall be the low density cluster development district and
shall have a permitted overall average tract density range of up to one
dwelling unit per acre. All development within the RCD-1 district shall be in
accordance with the provisions of
Article 6 and the all other applicable requirements of this UDO.
         b.   RCD-2 shall be the medium density cluster development district
and shall have a permitted overall average tract density range in excess of one
dwelling unit up to five dwelling units per acre. All development within the
RCD-2 district shall be in accordance with the provisions of Section
6.1 and all other applicable requirements of the UDO.
         c.   RCD-3 shall be the high-density cluster development district and
shall have a permitted overall average tract density range in excess of five
dwelling units up to 12 dwelling units per acre. All development within the
RCD-3 district shall be in accordance with Section
6.1 and all applicable requirements of the UDO.
      2.   Permitted uses . Residential cluster developments  may have as
permissible uses  single-family detached dwelling units , duplexes, residential
townhouse dwelling units , and residential condominium dwelling units  or any
combination thereof so long as the permitted density of the selected
residential cluster district is not exceeded.
      3.   General requirements.
         a.   Public sanitary sewer and water connections shall be required for
every lot or dwelling unit in a cluster development .
         b.   A master plan shall be required to be submitted if the cluster
development is to be the initial phase of a larger project . Conditional zoning
approval procedures and final plat approval procedures according to the
requirements of the land use ordinance shall apply to all cluster developments
in designated cluster development districts.
         c.   Each individual cluster developmentlot containing single family
detached or attached units public shall have street access according to the
criteria listed in applicable sections of the land use ordinance.
         d.   Residential condominiums and townhouses shall meet the access
standards, as well as other applicable sections of the land use ordinance.
         e.   Design of cluster developments will be reviewed by the Planning
Commission based upon accepted general design principles, and special design
criteria developed by the Commission and appropriate requirements of the
ordinance. Where possible, appropriate information on floor plans, building
areas, building elevations (materials colors) and landscape provisions should
be furnished along with all required information with the CUP application.
Restrictive covenants may be submitted to address the above related matters
with the CUP application.
         f.   A homeowner's association shall be established to own and
maintain all property or facilities held in common private ownership. Documents
regarding the homeowner's association shall be submitted to the Town for
approval with the final plat and shall be duly recorded with the final plat in
the Wake County Register of Deeds Office by the applicant.
         g.   A pre-application conference between the developer or agent and
the staff of the Town of Garner shall be required. The meeting should address
procedures and requirements of the land use ordinance, conformance with the
long range plan, availability of utilities, and general design related matters
associated with the project . The developer shall furnish three copies of a
conceptual plan which outlines the proposed development of the entire tract of
lands. Such plan shall include the following:
            (1)   Structures , location and arrangement.
            (2)   Circulations patterns, vehicular (streets ), pedestrian and
parking.
            (3)   Existing site conditions, topography, vegetation cover, soil
conditions, flood prone areas and streams , and other significant environmental
conditions.
            (4)   Tentative provisions for all utilities.
            (5)   Recreational and open space locations.
            (6)   Boundaries of the development including acreage.
            (7)   The conceptual plan should be at a scale of one inch equals
100 feet, or larger.
         h.   Dimensional standards.
            (1)   A cluster developmentlot shall not have a minimum lot area
requirement. The overall density or number of dwelling units in a cluster
development shall not exceed the allowable density provisions of the cluster
district.
            (2)   Front yards may be staggered to provide a variety in the size
of such yards. The minimum average of all front yards in a cluster development
shall be 20 feet; however, no front yard of any lot shall be less than 15 feet.
Side yards shall be a minimum of eight feet each; corner side yards shall be a
minimum of 15 feet. Rear yards shall be a minimum of 15 feet. Zero lot line
building orientations may be allowed in a cluster development subject to the
provisions of Section
6.5.A of the land use ordinance. Individual detached single family units in a
cluster development shall have a minimum lot width of 20 feet measured at the
street line. The provisions of
Article 6 regarding minimum lot widths shall apply to residential townhouse and
condominium units.
            (3)   A peripheral yard of at least 25 feet in width, shall be
provided along the entire perimeter of a cluster development .
            (4)   Each dwelling unit in a cluster development shall have two
off-streetparking spaces . In addition, there shall be one space for every two
dwelling units set aside in an auxiliary off-street parking area in a cluster
development .
         i.   Open space standards. Open space in cluster development shall be
no less than 35 percent of the gross area of the cluster development tract. All
open space provided in a cluster development shall meet the following criteria
in addition to the requirements of Article XIII of the land use ordinance:
            (1)   Open space shall abut 75 percent of the lots within the
subdivision and shall be well distributed throughout the development so as to
achieve the requirement herein.
            (2)   All open space areas shall be at least 40 feet in width,
except the open space that is provided around the perimeter of a cluster
development . The 40-foot width minimum nay be achieved through a combination
of common open space and private land disturbing activities .
            (3)   All open space shall be linked, either directly or across
street rights-of-way.
   B.   Multi-residential district (MR-1).
      1.   Purpose and intent. The MR-1 district must contain a minimum of five
acres and is designed to accommodate single family detached units, duplexes,
and triplexes as well as zero-lot-line attached units. This district is
designed to create and maintain higher density residential neighborhoods and,
as special uses, those service, institutional, public and other compatible uses
that are so designed, constructed and maintained that they do not detract from
the quality of the neighborhood as a place for healthful, quiet and
aesthetically-pleasing residential living. When evaluating an application for
the MR-1 zoning district, emphasis shall be given to the location of the
proposed district to adjoining developed property to ensure that such district
is carefully located and achieves a satisfactory relationship with the
surrounding properties.
      2.   Permitted uses. The MR-1 district shall permit the following uses:
         a.   Site-built and modular homes .
         b.   Duplexes and triplexes following approval of a special use permit
.
         c.   Nursing and intermediate care homes; group care homes , child
care homes , family care homes .
         d.   Zero lot line development following approval of a special use
permit .
         e.   Elementary and secondary schools following approval of a special
use permit .
         f.   Churches, synagogues and temples following approval of a special
use permit .
         g.   Libraries, museums, art galleries, art centers and similar uses
located within a building designed and previously occupied as a residence or
within a building having a gross floor area not in excess of 3,500 square feet.
         h.   Community centers following approval of a special use permit .
         i.   Publicly or privately owned outdoor lower intensity and lower
commercial recreational facilities such as golf and country clubs, swimming or
tennis clubs, parks, etc. following approval of a special use permit .
         j.   Police stations, fire stations, rescue squad or ambulance service
following approval of a special use permit .
         k.   Reclamation landfill following approval of a special use permit .
         l.   Cemetery following approval of a special use permit .
      3.   Density and dimensional regulations.
         a.   Minimum lot  size: 7,000 square feet for single-family residences
. Every lot  developed for multifamily residential purposes shall have at least
6,000 square feet for each dwelling unit .
   Commentary: Single-family detached setbacks follow the same setbacks as the
R-9 district.
         b.   Minimum lot width: 60 feet.
         c.   Minimum side setbacks:
            (1)   Fifteen feet from side lot boundary line for attached units.
Ten feet from side lot boundary line for detached units.
            (2)   Twenty-five feet from street right-of-way along side of
corner lot for attached units. Twenty feet from street right-of-way along side
of corner lot for detached units.
         d.   Minimum front and rear setbacks: Minimum front and rear setbacks
25 feet for both attached and detached units.
         e.   Maximum building height: 35 feet for residential buildings.
Nonresidential buildings may exceed the height of 35 feet provided the
following occurs:
            (1)   The depth of the required front, rear and both side yards
shall be increased one foot for each foot or fraction thereof of building
height in excess of 35 feet; and
            (2)   The building is otherwise designed or equipped to provide
protection against the dangers of fire.
         f.   Zero lot  line development : Zero-lot -line developments
consisting of groups of two or three attached units may be allowed in
accordance with
Article 6. Such developments  shall be reviewed only through a special use
permit , site plan and subdivision plat  concurrently submitted. In addition, a
master plan shall be submitted if a zero-lot -line development  is to be an
initial phase of a larger development .
   C.   Mixed UseDevelopment (MXD-1).
      1.   Applicability.
         a.   There shall be a Mixed Use District-1 established.
         b.   No area of less than 75 contiguous acres in single ownership or
control may be zoned as a MXD-1 zoning district. Section 157 of the land use
ordinance provides further guidance regarding MXD-1 regulations.
      2.   Purpose. MXD-1 is intended to produce higher levels of urban land
use intensity at or near Community Level Nodes or Metro-focus Nodes, consistent
with the Town's long-range plan. MXD-1 zoning permits various combinations of
usually separated uses, primarily promoting the development of "business
parks". It is not intended to be applied in a limited way to only inner-city
development or to mixed uses within one structure (high-rise), but rather, may
be used to support either infill or new development on relatively large tracts.
      3.   Permitted uses. Land shall be used and buildings erected, altered,
enlarged, or used only for a combination of the uses listed below:
         a.   Residential.
            (1)   Apartments and condominiums ;
            (2)   Townhomes ;
            (3)   Hotels and motels.
         b.   Sales and rental of goods, merchandise and equipment.
            (1)   No storage or display of goods outside fully enclosed
building ;
            (2)   Storage and display of goods outside fully enclosed building
if properly screened;
            (3)   Wholesale sales .
         c.   Office, clerical, research and services not primarily related to
goods or merchandise.
            (1)   Operations designed to attract and serve customers or clients
on the premises, such as attorneys, physicians, other professionals, insurance
and stock brokers, travel agents, government office buildings , banks, etc.;
            (2)   Operations designed to attract little or no client traffic
other than employees of the entity operating the principal use ;
            (3)   Offices or clinics of physicians or dentists;
            (4)   Operations conducted within a fully enclosed building .
         d.   Manufacturing, processing, creating, repairing, renovating,
painting, cleaning, assembling of goods, merchandise and equipment.
            (1)   Service, repair of goods, etc. sold or rented on-premises;
            (2)   Other fully-enclosed operations;
            (3)   Operations conducted outside fully enclosed building if
properly screened.
         e.   Educational, cultural, religious, philanthropic, social,
fraternal uses .
            (1)   Business or vocational schools;
            (2)   Churches, synagogues and temples, including associated
residential structures for religious personnel and associated buildings , but
not including elementary or secondary school buildings ;
            (3)   Libraries, museums, art galleries, art centers and similar
uses (including associated educational and instructional activities);
            (4)   Social, civic, service, fraternal clubs and lodges, union
halls, and similar uses .
         f.   Recreation, amusement and entertainment.
            (1)   Indoor tennis, racquetball courts, indoor athletic and
exercise facilities and similar uses ;
            (2)   Playhouse theaters, movie theaters, bowling, pool halls or
similar uses .
         g.   Institutional residence of care or confinement facilities.
            (1)   Hospitals, clinics, other medical including mental health,
treatment facilities in excess of 10,000 square feet of gross floor area ;
            (2)   Nursing care institutions , intermediate care institutions,
handicapped or infirm institutions ;
            (3)   Group care institution ;
            (4)   Continuing care retirement communities consistent with UDO
provisions.
         h.   Restaurants , bars, night clubs.
            (1)   Restaurants without drive-in service (ancillary drive-thru
window service allowed);
            (2)   Bars, nightclubs, ABC permitted private clubs.
         i.   Motor vehicle related sales and service operations.
            (1)   Motor vehicle sales or rental or sales and service;
            (2)   Automobile service stations;
            (3)   Gas sales operations.
         j.   Storage and parking.
            (1)   Automobile parking garages or parking lots (not provided to
meet parking requirements for a principal use );
            (2)   Storage of goods not related to sale or use of these goods on
the same lot where they are stored.
         k.   Services and enterprises related to animals.
            (1)   Veterinarian (inside facilities only).
         l.   Emergency services.
            (1)   Police stations;
            (2)   Fire stations;
            (3)   Rescue squad, ambulance service.
         m.   Miscellaneous public and semi-public utilities.
            (1)   Post office;
            (2)   Military reserve, national guard centers.
         n.   Dry cleaner, laundromat.
         o.   Towers and antennas greater than 35 feet tall.
         p.   Nursery schools, day care centers.
         q.   Temporary structures .
         r.   Public transportation facilities.
            (1)   Bus station.
         s.   Non-residential subdivisions .
         t.   Combination uses planned.
         u.   In addition, the MXD-1 district shall allow the use of "flex-
space" defined as follows: the sale, lease, or rental of space within a
structure or multiple structures that will allow a combination of uses
permitted in the MXD-1 district. The following parameters apply to the use of
flex-space .
            (1)   Changes in products, services, and square footage of the
permitted uses within a flex-spacestructure do not require approval of the
Town.
            (2)   Any portion of the gross floor area in each flex-
spacestructure may be commercial space.
            (3)   One parking space shall be provided for each 400 square feet
of floor area used as flex space .
      4.   Minimum standards for development plan. The MXD-1 district shall be
established through regular zoning procedures, except submission of a
conceptual plan, while not required, is strongly encouraged at the time of
submission of the zoning application.
         a.   Conceptual plan. "Conceptual" means that the developer intends to
develop the site in the general manner indicated and that he is not to be
literally held to specific configuration of the plan. If satisfactory, the
Planning Commission and Town Council may elect to "receive" or "accept" the
plan. If a conceptual plan is submitted, it should provide the following:
            (1)   Proposed use and general location with acres identified.
            (2)   Planned primary and secondary traffic circulation patterns
with proposed ingress and egress to the district. Identify and locate existing
roads, easements and proposed road improvements.
            (3)   Planned open space buffers and parks to be provided and
preserved, stating proposals for ownership, maintenance and preservation of
open space.
            (4)   Existing contours at vertical intervals of not more than five
feet. Floodplains (100-year) areas are to be delineated.
            (5)   Optional details may be required to provide the Town with a
better understanding of the proposed MXD-1.
         b.   MXD-1 district shall be a minimum of 75 contiguous acres in
single ownership or control at the time a rezoning application is submitted.
         c.   In addition to buffering and screening within the MXD-1,
perimeter buffer and screen which is also consistent with Section 307 of the
land use ordinance shall be provided around the development . A maintenance
agreement for all buffer areas shall be developed by the owner/developer , with
copies provided with the rezoning application.
         d.   Where applicable, the MXD-1 district shall be consistent with the
Town's parks and greenway plan, special highway overlay district (SHOD) and
other adopted Town policies.
         e.   A minimum of five percent of the total acreage in the overall
development zoned MXD-1 shall be designated as common open space in accordance
with the following guidelines:
            (1)   Floodplains , natural areas, buffers , landscaped areas ,
seeded areas and lakes may be included in open space.
            (2)   Roadways and parking areas may not be included in open space.
            (3)   Whether or not dedication/reservation of land is involved,
outdoor recreation facilities shall otherwise meet the standards of Section
202.
            (4)   The acreage provided as open space shall not count toward
satisfaction of the impervious surface requirements directed at controlling
run-off from individual lots set forth in this section.
         f.   The major entrance (ingress and egress) to a MXD-1 shall have
direct access to an existing thoroughfare or a thoroughfare proposed by the
developer . The purpose of this requirement is that roads of sufficient
capacity to support the proposed development either in place or provided.
         g.   A minimum of three of the use categories listed below shall be
included in any MXD-1 District and specified at the submission of subdivision
and/or site plans:
            (1)   Flex space ;
            (2)   Office/institutional;
            (3)   Research, technology, and industrial;
            (4)   Commercial;
            (5)   Hotel/motel;
            (6)   Cultural;
            (7)   Residential (maximum of 50 percent of MXD-1, and then, at no
more density than that permitted in Section 181 for MF-2. No detached single-
family residential is permitted).
            (8)   Impervious surface area of individual non-residential lots or
parcels in a MXD-1 district shall not exceed 80 percent. Residential uses shall
not exceed 70 percent impervious surface ratio.
            (9)   While loading areas and display areas are addressed elsewhere
in this section, other outdoor storage /operations shall be buffered and
screened so as to provide 100 percent visual obstruction, consisting of fencing
or berming and plantings, and otherwise consistent with Section 317 A(2).
      5.   Site development  criteria. The development  shall be implemented
through the site plan conditional zoning approval process, and shall meet the
following minimum standards:
         a.   Setbacks.Building setbacks shall not conflict with required
buffers from existing rights-of-way, and otherwise, shall meet the following:
            (1)   Setbacks for permissible residential uses :
               (a)   Front yard: 35 feet.
               (b)   Side yard: Ten feet.
               (c)   Rear yard: 25 feet.
               (d)   Corner side yard: 25 feet.
            (2)   Non-residential setbacks: There are no side and rear setbacks
between structures and interior property lines; however, if a separation is
proposed, the minimum distance between structures is 20 feet. Unless otherwise
identified below, and regardless of yard type, the minimum setback for non-
residential structures from any interior street right-of-way is 30 feet. From
exterior street right-of-way, the setback shall vary by classification of said
street as follows:
               (a)   Local and collector street: 60 feet.
               (b)   Major and minor thoroughfare: 75 feet.
         b.   Building height.Building height shall be in conformance with
Article 6, District development standards.
         c.   Landscaping.
            (1)   Each tract of land submitted for site plan review shall
provide a minimum of 20 percent of the site as landscaped areas . Landscaped is
defined as either natural areas or prepared planting areas containing trees,
shrubs, and ground covers and seeded areas, and unroofed plazas or common
areas, whether pervious or impervious, for pedestrian movement only.
            (2)   Necessary easements or fee for greenways, in accordance with
the Town's greenway plan, shall be dedicated with the approval of the site
plan.
         d.   Off-street parking, landscaping and loading requirements.
            (1)   Off-street parking shall be provided for each use permitted
within the MXD-1 district based on the Town of Garner's requirements. No on-
street parking shall be permitted on thoroughfare or collector streets within
nonresidential portions of the district. However, on-street parking is allowed
in the residential portions, but then, only on local streets .
            (2)   Except for work areas used for active loading/unloading and
temporary parking of transport vehicles, parking areas shall be landscaped in
accordance with Section 317(A)(2) of the Land Use Ordinance (although part of
the MXD-1 district may lie outside the SHOD referenced in paragraph (A) of this
section.
            (3)   Loading areas are allowed in any yard of industrial buildings
. Otherwise, loading areas shall be located at the rear of buildings . In any
case, such areas shall be screened from roads and adjacent property at the
perimeter of the MXD-1 district consistent with Section 317(A)(2).
            (4)   Refuse areas and dumpster locations shall be fully screened
from adjacent property and rights-of-way.
         e.   Signs. It is not the intent of this section to require uniform
signage throughout the entirety of acreage zoned MXD-1. However, any
developments meeting the definition of "shopping center", "business complex" or
"commercial subdivision" in Section
7.5 shall comply with the master sign plan requirements of that article. All
others signs shall comply with the remainder of said article.
   D.   Planned Residential Development.
      1.   Planned Residential Developments are permissible only in the R-12 PR
zoning district. Planned Residential Development is an option provided to
encourage a mix of housing options within a comprehensively Planned Development
, allowing a density bonus in return for provision of substantial landscaping,
screening and buffering.
      2.   Planned Residential Developments are permissible only on tracts of
at least five contiguous acres.
      3.   A Planned Residential Development may be developed up to but not
exceeding a density of 7,500 square feet per dwelling unit . However, at least
25 percent of the total number of dwelling units constructed must be single
family residences (other than mobile homes ); of the 25 percent, 60 percent of
the single family residences must be on lots of at least 12,000 square feet,
and 40 percent must be on lots of at least 9,000 square feet. Setbacks standard
to R-12 must be observed for these units.
      4.   The R-12 PR district also allows the construction of small detached
patio home lots with the option to have zero lot line orientation as provided
for in this ordinance. The maximum number of lots allowed under this option
shall not exceed 25 percent of the total number of dwelling units constructed
in an R-12 PR district.
      5.   Each patio or zero lot line dwelling unit in R-12 PR developments
shall meet one of the following parking standards:
         a.   A minimum of four off-streetparking spaces on each lot ;
         b.   A minimum of three off-streetparking spaces on each lot plus one
parking space for each dwelling unit set aside in auxiliary off-street parking
areas.
         Such parking areas shall be designed and constructed in accordance
with all other applicable parking provisions of the land use ordinance.
         c.   The BOA may approve an alternative parking design if it finds
that the alternative achieves a parking standard of four off streetparking
spaces for each lot . setback along the entire development perimeter is
required, except where 12,000 square foot lots abut similar development . Any
required screening and buffering (see
Article 7) shall be within this perimeter setback. Parking and access drives
may be permitted within the ten feet farthest from the development perimeter,
provided any required buffer is not intruded upon.
      6.   The screening requirements that would normally apply where a
multifamily development adjoins a single family development shall not apply
within the Planned Residential Development , but all screening requirements
shall apply between the development and adjacent lots . Preservation of
significant natural features shall be documented in the required permit
application materials, along with landscaping appropriate to the site, uses and
building locations. The provisions for recreation and open space shall be met
within the development tract.
      7.   A minimum separation between single-family and multifamily buildings
of 60 feet is required. The building to building separation between multifamily
buildings is specified in
Article 6.
      8.   The minimum dimensional standards for the R-12 PR district are as
follows:
         a.   Lot size: 7,500 square feet for overall project density.
         b.   Lot width: 70 feet for detached unit, 50 feet for patio unit or
zero lot line.
         c.   Front setback: Patio or zero lot line 15 feet or 20 feet with
garage (other units must meet setbacks according to lot size).  Side setback:
Patio or zero lot line aggregate of 15 feet minimum seven feet.
            Corner side setback: Patio or zero lot line is 15 feet or 20 feet
with garage.
            Rear setback: Patio or zero lot line is 20 feet.
(Ord. No. 3396, § 3, 4-3-06; Ord. No. 3523, § 2, 8-4-08; Ord. No. 3558, § 2, 7-
7-09; Ord., 3-16-21)
4.15.   Timber Drive East Overlay District.
   A.   Purpose and intent. The Town Council finds that vehicular and
pedestrian mobility should be maximized along the Timber Drive East Corridor.
The Council believes that Timber Drive East Extension is a place where
residential neighborhoods should be preserved and quality commercial uses
should be located only in areas recommended by the comprehensive growth plan,
which together results in a pleasing and harmonious environment of trees,
natural and landscaped areas, and building development. Therefore, the Council
adopts the Timber Drive East Overlay District as a means to direct commercial
development at recommended core areas along Timber Drive consistent with the
standards established herein in order to protect the general appearance of the
Timber Drive East Corridor, while sustaining the livability of the surrounding
residential neighborhoods and the natural beauty of the area.
   B.   Overlay zone. The Timber Drive East Overlay District is an overlay
zone. The land use regulations applicable to the underlying zone remain in full
force and effect except where superseded herein. Where there is a provision not
expressed in the underlying zone, or where a provision hereof is in conflict
with the underlying zone or other requirement, the stricter provision shall be
controlling.
   C.   Location. The Timber Drive East Overlay District shall apply to the
segment of Timber Drive from N.C. 50 to White Oak Road and shall include all of
the property with frontage on Timber Drive from N.C. 50 to White Oak Road as
defined by the Official Timber Drive East Overlay Map. The Town of Garner
Official Zoning Map shall be amended to clearly indicate the boundaries of the
adopted Timber Drive East Overlay District. In cases where any portion of a
building or parking area falls within the boundaries of the overlay district,
these provisions shall apply to all of the building(s) and parking areas.
   D.   Conditional zoning districts authorized.
      1.   The Town Council may establish conditional zoning districts upon
request by or on behalf of the property owner as provided herein only for
properties located within the Timber Drive East Overlay District.
   E.   Permissible and Prohibited uses . Unless otherwise restricted below,
all uses  allowed by the underlying zoning district are permissible in the
Timber Drive East Overlay District provided all requirements and permits as
required by this UDO are satisfied.
      1.   Restricted uses . The following uses  are permissible in the Timber
Drive East Overlay District provided the use  complies with special standards
listed below:
         a.   Temporary school classroom units are permissible provided they
are screened from all public street views. Any landscaping required to achieve
this standard shall be installed at an initial height of six feet.
         b.   Open storage and operations are restricted to only those
activities associated with a garden center use operated in conjunction with a
home improvement center or a large retail store provided the location of
outside storage is 100 percent screened from public street views as determined
by the Planning Department. The amount of outside storage areas is limited to
25 percent of the gross floor area of principal use served.
         c.   Fast food restaurants with drive-in window operations are
permissible only when such drive-in window service area(s) are not visible from
Timber Drive street views.
         d.   Convenience store or gas sales operations that meet the following
design criteria:
            (1)   Operation limited to between 5:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m.;
            (2)   The number of pump dispensing units shall be limited to a
maximum of four units with no more than eight fueling positions;
            (3)   Principal building shall have a pitched roof with shingle
roof material;
            (4)   Canopy structure (s) shall be detached;
            (5)   Canopy structures shall have a roof style and be constructed
of a building material to match the principal building and shall not exceed the
height of the principal building , but in no case shall the canopy height
exceed 20 feet (large canopy superstructures are prohibited);
            (6)   Site lighting shall be designed to have a zero footcandle
measurement at property lines adjoining residential uses ;
            (7)   Canopy/gas island operational areas shall be screened from
adjoining residential uses to provide a 100 percent visual screen throughout
the year to a minimum height of eight feet using any combination of
landscaping, earthen berms or fencing; and
            (8)   Canopy/gas island operational vehicular areas shall be
screened from all public streets to a minimum height of three feet.
         e.   Gas sales operations, which may include a small kiosk or enclosed
structure not exceeding 300 square feet in size that is not designed for walk-
in traffic may be allowed in the Timber Drive East Overlay District provided
that the requirements listed in Subsection d. above have been satisfied with
the exception of Subsection d.(2), and that the following requirements have
been met.
            (1)   The site does not front directly on Timber Drive and the
building /canopy is located a minimum of 200 feet from Timber Drive.
            (2)   Up to a total of six gas dispensing units with no more than a
total of 12 fueling positions allowed.
            (3)   The overall appearance and design of the building and/or
canopy, including site landscaping, is consistent with surrounding development
in terms of scale, building materials and colors.
         f.   Hotel and motels are allowed uses provided such uses are not
located closer than 300 feet to the boundary line of a single-family
residential zoning district.
         g.   Limited vehicle services are permitted/allowed provided the
following design criteria are met:
            (1)   Limited vehicle service centers are permissible on parcels
located within the Timber Drive East Overlay District that directly front along
U.S. 70 or N.C. 50 only;
            (2)   All service bay(s) associated with uses shall be oriented so
as not to directly face U.S. 70, N.C. 50, or an adjoining residential use ;
            (3)   All service bays shall have 100 percent screen to a minimum
full height of two and one-half feet at time of plant installation, and shall
be maintained at a minimum height of three and one-half feet; and
            (4)   A 100 percent screen to a minimum height of eight feet shall
be required where the property directly adjoins a residential use .
      2.   Prohibited uses. The following uses are prohibited in the Timber
Drive East Overlay District:
         a.   Sales and rental of goods, merchandise and equipment with storage
operations and display of goods outside a fully enclosed building .
         b.   Office, clerical, research and services not primarily related to
goods or merchandise where operations are conducted outside a fully enclosed
building .
         c.   Manufacturing, processing, creating, repairing, renovation,
painting, cleaning, assembling of goods, merchandise and equipment.
         d.   Pool halls.
         e.   Golf driving ranges (not accessory to golf courses), miniature
golf courses, skateboard parks, water slides and similar uses .
         f.   Drive-in movie theaters.
         g.   Bars, nightclubs, ABC permitted private clubs.
         h.   Adults cabarets and establishments.
         i.   Vehicle sales or rentals.
         j.   Auto service stations.
         k.   General vehicle repair.
         l.   Vehicle towing and/or storage.
         m.   Car wash.
         n.   Storage and parking.
         o.   Scrap materials, salvage yards, junkyards, and automobile
graveyards.
         p.   Service and enterprises related to animals with outside
facilities for keeping animals.
         q.   Mining or quarrying operations; including on-site sales of
products; coal or aggregate sales and/or storage; and concrete mixing plants.
         r.   Reclamation landfills .
         s.   Towers and antennas greater than 35 feet tall.
         t.   Open air markets.
         u.   Bus stations.
         v.   Taxi base operations.
         w.   Commercial greenhouse operations.
         x.   Recyclable material collection centers .
         y.   Flex space .
         z.   Outdoor entertainment facility.
         aa.   Jail/detention facility.
         bb.   Self-storage facility.
         cc.   Solar farms .
   F.   Land disturbing activities.
      1.   All development plans submitted under this UDO shall show a
construction limit line delineating protected buffer areas and any tree save
areas intended for the property. Protective orange fencing surrounding all
protective buffer areas, plus ten feet, and around tree save areas at the drip
line shall be installed prior to construction . Any cutting or clearance within
an approved protected buffer or tree save area shall be subject to a fine of
$5.00 per square yard of area in the protected buffer or tree save area that
has been prematurely denuded.
      2.   No minor clearance of the existing vegetation within an approved
protected buffer area or tree save area to be retained on the property shall be
allowed until after construction on the parcel is completed and upon approval
by the Planning Department.
      3.   Logging or timbering activities on properties within the corridor
are strongly encouraged to be limited to the interior portions of the lot
exclusive of required buffer areas unless specifically approved by the Town of
Garner, according to the general requirements of the UDO.
      4.   Land development activities such as, but not limited to, site
grading, buildings , parking and vehicular areas, shall be excluded from the
perimeter area of lots in order to protect existing trees and vegetation in
required buffer areas if allowed under the general provisions of the UDO.
      5.   Any grading or clearing (including removal of stumps) on land within
the overlay district, not part of a development proposal, requires site plan
approval by the Town of Garner prior to any such activity on the site. All such
activities shall be consistent with the standards of this UDO.
   G.   Street  access. The existing access location standards set forth in
Article 8 of the UDO shall govern driveway  locations on Timber Drive as well
as North Carolina Department of Transportation requirements. The permit issuing
authority may allow deviations from these standards if it concludes, based upon
a traffic impact study submitted by a professional traffic engineer, the
requested deviations do not pose any traffic safety impacts to the public and
that such deviations have been recommended by the Town Engineer and the North
Carolina Department of Transportation.
   H.   Design standards. The following design standards shall apply to all new
developments within the Timber Drive Overlay District:
      1.   Building  height. The maximum building  height for a development
located in the Timber Drive East Overlay District is 35 feet when it directly
adjoins residentially developed property, unless the building  setback from all
property lines increases one foot for every foot the building  exceeds 35 feet
in height. For all other locations on the corridor, the applicable building
height limits are controlled by the existing requirements of
Article 6.
      2.   Building  setback from Timber Drive right-of-way.Building  setback
shall be 35 feet from the Timber Drive right-of-way line. A build-to line of 20
feet is permitted when no vehicle surface areas are located in front of the
building . For all other building yard setbacks, the applicable underlying
zoning standards shall apply.
      3.   Building design guidelines. All shopping centerdevelopments,
business or office complexes shall provide design guidelines consistent with
the following standards which must be approved by the Town of Garner as part of
the overall development plan submittal. An individual nonresidential building
not part of a larger shopping center or business or office complex shall be
subject to the following provisions:
         a.   No metal or vinyl siding on nonresidential buildings shall be
permitted;
         b.   Seventy-five percent of the primary building materials shall
consist of brick or decorative/scored concrete masonry units in styles and
colors approved by the Town of Garner. Such building materials shall be applied
on all building facades visible from Timber Drive;
         c.   All dumpster enclosures and accessory/storage buildings for new
development shall be of materials and colors that match the principal building
served and shall be sited on the property to minimize views from all public
streets .
         d.   All building awnings used must be appropriately designed as part
of the building's architecture and unified with the building's colors and
style. Such awnings shall not be internally illuminated;
         e.   Buildings shall be limited to a maximum of three types of
materials and colors. If a building is part of a shopping center , business or
office complex, the materials and colors used must be consistent with the
approved design guidelines for the larger development ;
         f.   Design guidelines required by this UDO shall substantially meet
the applicable design recommendations of the comprehensive growth plan and
shall include provisions that address building height, scale and setback
distances, unifying site elements such as building materials and colors,
landscaping, site lighting elements, and pedestrian circulation systems; and
         g.   Chain link fences in commercial zoning districts shall have vinyl
covering or some other similar material in a color that is compatible with the
principal building materials and colors.
   I.   Vegetation and landscaping standards.
      1.   General street buffer requirements.
         a.   An undisturbed street buffer along Timber Drive shall be
required. Minor underbrush clearing is permissible only by obtaining
preapproval from the Planning Department. Such approval may not be unreasonably
withheld without just cause.
         b.   The street buffer shall extend 50 feet along corner side streets
and 40 feet along all entrances to new developments .
         c.   The use of native or locally adaptable species is required.
         d.   Construction limit lines shall be shown on all site development
plans. Approved undisturbed areas shall be protected on the ground with orange
fencing and shall be installed prior to the issuance of a building permit. Such
fencing shall be maintained during the entire time of construction .
         e.   The suitability of existing vegetation to meet the planting
requirements for a required street buffer must be approved by the Planning
Department. Otherwise, the applicant shall be required to provide a new
landscape planting plan which meets the standards of this UDO as well all other
applicable requirements of
Article 7. Such plans must be approved by the Town of Garner Planning
Department.
      2.   Residential street buffer. Residential subdivisions and unsubdivided
developments with frontage along the right-of-way of Timber Drive shall
maintain a 25-foot undisturbed buffer. No fencing shall be allowed within the
25-foot buffer area. Fences shall not be allowed along property frontages with
Timber Drive unless they are of uniform height and design according to plans
that have been approved by the permitting authority. Required landscape
planting within the residential street buffer shall consist of one street tree
(ten feet tall with a two-inch caliper at installation) for every 40 feet of
street frontage, with a combination of vegetation and/or earthen berms to
achieve a 100 percent screen to a height of four feet.
      3.   Nonresidential street buffer.
         a.   Undisturbed street buffer . A 20-foot undisturbed street buffer
along Timber Drive shall be required. Minor underbrush clearing of an
undisturbed street buffer is permissible only with preapproval from the
Planning Department. Where existing trees and vegetation are retained that
qualify according to the terms of this UDO regarding types, sizes, locations,
and are healthy species as determined by the Planning Department, additional
landscaping may not be required. In cases where additional planting is required
when existing vegetation is not present in the street buffer area, a street
buffer planting plan must be approved by the Town of Garner. One street tree
shall be provided for every 40 feet of frontage. Such tree shall be a minimum
of 12 feet tall with a two and one-half-inch caliper at installation. All
vehicular surface areas visible from Timber Drive must provide additional
landscape screening to achieve a 100 percent screen of the vehicular surface
area to a minimum height of three feet at installation.
         b.   Street buffer for 20-foot build-to-line option. Where the build-
to-line option is approved and there is no vehicular surface area between the
building and the right-of-way of Timber Drive, a 20-foot street buffer with
only a lawn area and one street tree (12 feet tall with a two and one-half-inch
caliper at installation) for every 40 feet of frontage is permissible. Under
this option, vehicular surface areas shall be located in the rear of the
building .
   J.   Site lighting. The provisions of
Article 7, Special standards in the Timber Drive Overlay District, shall apply
to properties located in the Timber Drive East Overlay District.
   K.   Signage. The provisions of
Article 7 regarding signage requirements for Timber Drive shall apply to
property located in the Timber Drive East Overlay District.
(Ord. No. 3497, § 1, 12-18-07; Ord. No. 3558, § 2, 7-7-09; Ord. No. 3780, § 4,
7-7-15; Ord., 3-16-21)
4.16.   Garner Road Overlay District.
   A.   Purpose and intent. The Town Council finds that Garner Road is an
important roadway corridor through the historic portion of the Town. It was the
first paved road in the state and once served as a main travel route connecting
central North Carolina to the coast. As such, this roadway corridor played a
very important role in the early development of Garner. Presently commercial
areas along this corridor are characterized by large signs, unscreened surface
parking areas with little or no landscaping and significant amounts of outdoor
storage. The Council believes it is important for the community to improve
these conditions in order for Garner Road to function efficiently as a
transportation facility, provide opportunities for new business locations and
promote a strong commitment to quality community appearance.
   B.   Overlay zone. The Garner Road Overlay District is an overlay zone. The
land use regulations applicable to the underlying zone remain in full force and
effect except where superseded herein. Where there is a provision not expressed
in the underlying zone, or where a provision hereof is in conflict with the
underlying zone or other requirement, the stricter provision shall be
controlling.
   C.   Location. The Garner Road Overlay District shall apply to the segment
of Garner Road located generally from Northview Street east to the limits of
the Town's jurisdiction near the intersection of Garner Road and Auburn-
Knightdale Road as illustrated on the attached map which is herein incorporated
as part of this ordinance. The Town of Garner Official Zoning Map shall be
amended to clearly indicate the boundaries of the adopted Garner Road Overlay
District. In cases where any portion of a building or parking area falls within
the boundaries of the overlay district, these provisions shall apply to all of
the building(s) and parking areas.
   D.   Permissible and prohibited uses. Unless otherwise restricted below, all
uses allowed by the underlying zoning district are permissible in the Garner
Road Overlay District provided all requirements and permits as required by this
UDO are satisfied.
      1.   Prohibited uses. The following uses are prohibited in the overlay
district:
         a.   Drive-in movie theaters;
         b.   Adult cabarets and establishments;
         c.   Outside storage of goods not related to sale or use on premises;
         d.   Junkyards, automobile graveyards;
         e.   Commercial greenhouse operations; and
         f.   Solar farms .
      2.   Prohibited uses adjacent to or within 150 feet of existing
residential uses. The following uses are prohibited adjacent to or within 150
feet of an existing residential use:
         a.   Pool halls/bowling alleys; and
         b.   Bars/night clubs/ABC-permitted private clubs.
      3.   Restricted uses. The following uses are permissible in the Garner
Road Overlay District provided the use complies with special standards listed
below:
         a.   Motor vehicle sale lots. All vehicle display areas with frontage
along Garner Road shall be screened to a minimum height of two and one-half
feet. Such screening height must be achieved within one year.
         b.   Automobile service centers. All service bay door areas shall be
oriented so as not to directly face Garner Road. All service bay doors areas
shall have a 100 percent screen to a minimum height of three and one-half feet
if such areas are visible from public street views. Such screening height must
be achieved within one year.
         c.   Automobile repair and body shops. All service bay areas shall be
located at the rear of the building  or be oriented in such a manner so as not
to be directly visible from Garner Road. All overnight vehicle storage areas
shall be located in the rear of the building . Such storage areas shall be 100
percent screened from public street  rights-of-way to a minimum height of six
feet by the use  of fencing, landscaping, berms, or a combination thereof.
         d.   Car washes. Car washes are permissible, provided the buildings
are oriented in such a manner that the wash bays do not directly face Garner
Road.
      4.   Nonconforming uses . The provisions of
Article 9 regarding nonconformities shall apply to properties located in the
Garner Road Overlay District.
      5.   Street  and driveway  access. The existing access location standards
set forth in Section
8.2 of the UDO shall govern driveway  locations on Garner Road as well as N.C.
DOT requirements. Deviations from these standards may be allowed via Variance ,
based upon a traffic impact study submitted by a professional traffic engineer,
the requested deviations do not pose any traffic safety impacts to the public
and that such deviations have been recommended by the Town Engineer and the
N.C. DOT.
      6.   Site lighting. The provisions of
Article 7 shall apply to properties located in the Garner Road Overlay
District.
      7.   Signage. The provisions of
Article 7 shall apply to property located in the Garner Road Overlay District.
      8.   Nonconforming sign requirements. Existing nonconforming signs
located in the Garner Road Overlay District as of the date of the adoption of
this ordinance shall be required to come into compliance when a change in
business operations occurs or a change in use occurs.
      9.   Building design standards. All retail or office complexes or
commercial subdivisions, as defined in this UDO, shall be required to obtain
Town approval of building design guidelines that are consistent with the
following standards. An individual nonresidential building, not part of a
larger retail center, office complex, or commercial subdivision, shall also be
subject to these provisions. All new development must comply with the following
standards:
         a.   The use of pre-fabricated metal buildings shall not be permitted
unless all building facades visible from street views are treated with brick,
decorative/scored concrete masonry units (CMU). Exterior insulated finishing
systems (EIFS), or similar materials may be used only as minor accents (less
than 25 percent of a visible building facade).
         b.   Design guidelines shall be required for all shopping centers ,
business or offices complexes and commercial subdivisions located within the
overlay district. Such guidelines must be included as part of the initial
overall development plan submittal. All development that is subject to design
guidelines approved by the Town must be constructed in accordance with the
applicable standards for that specific development .
         c.   All design guidelines shall include, but not be limited to,
provisions that address building height, mass and scale, setback distances and
unifying site elements such as building materials and colors, landscaping, site
lighting elements, and pedestrian circulation systems.
         d.   Vehicular parking surface areas with direct frontage on Garner
Road shall have curb and gutter and be paved with a permanent surface
consisting of a minimum six inches of base stone and two inches of I-2 asphalt
from the edge of the front vehicular/parking surface area to the front building
line. An equivalent permanent surface material may be used as an alternative.
Truck loading and/or vehicular service areas shall be oriented on the property
so as to be out of public street views unless consistent with the requirements
herein.
      10.   Requirements for existing uses . All existing nonresidential uses
of property with direct frontage on Garner Road shall comply with the following
requirements by December 31, 2010:
         a.   Parking lot landscape planting for existing uses.
            i.   All affected properties shall comply with the street tree
requirements of the UDO and screen all outside display/storage areas or
vehicular surface areas directly fronting along Garner Road to a minimum height
of 2' (2 feet) at installation and planted five feet on center at installation.
            All landscape areas shall be edged with curb and gutter
construction in a manner and location approved by the Town of Garner.
            ii.   Each property owner or designee shall be responsible for
obtaining plan approval from the Planning Department which complies with these
standards and install the required improvements prior to the December 31, 2010
deadline date.
            iii.   In cases where the existing property does not have
sufficient land area available to accommodate the required landscaping on site
without severely impacting business operations, the Planning Department may
allow deviations from these standards provided the following is accomplished:
               - An appropriate combination of street trees and shrubs is
provided in Locations that effectively improve the appearance of the property
and special highway corridor as determined by the Planning Department (the use
of new area is permissible with an NC DOT encroachment agreement; maintenance
by property owner shall be required).
               - A maximum deviation of up to 50 percent of required
Landscaping may be authorized by the Planning Department if it finds there is
not sufficient space available on private property and/or public right-of-way
areas (merely having to relocate storage areas when sufficient space elsewhere
on site is available does not qualify for this type of relief).
               - The decision of the Planning Department may be appealed to the
Planning Commission for review and recommendation with the final decision by
the Town Council.
         b.   Existing Businesses with outdoor storage.
            i.   All outdoor storage of unlicensed vehicles, equipment or other
materials as identified by the Town of Garner located between the front of the
building and the right-of-way of Garner Road shall be removed by December 31,
2010. This restriction includes the prohibition of overnight storage of
vehicles in the above defined area that are associated with automobile repair
shops. The provision is not intended to prohibit or restrict overnight parking
of licensed commercial vehicles associated with the conduct of the business.
            ii.   All outdoor storage of items described above shall be allowed
only if such storage is located in an area behind the front building line of a
building with 100% screening is provided up to a height of 6 feet from all
street views in a manner acceptable to the Town.
            iii.   Each property owner or designee shall be responsible for
obtaining plan approval from the Planning Department which complies with these
standards and install the required improvements prior to the December 31, 2010
deadline.
            iv.   Some minor deviation of the standards identified (b) (i)
above may be authorized by the Planning Department if it finds it is in the
public interest to grant some minor relief from these requirements.
            v.   The decision of the Planning Department may be appealed to the
Planning Commission for review and recommendation with the final decision by
the Town Council.
(Ord. No. 3528, § 1, 10-21-08; Ord. No. 3558, §§ 2, 3, 7-7-09; Ord. No. 3780, §
5, 7-7-15; Ord., 3-16-21)
Editor's note: The map referred to in subsection C. is not set out herein but
is on file and available for inspection in the offices of the Town.
ARTICLE 5.  USE REGULATIONS
   
5.1.   Use tables.
   
5.2.   Use categories.
   
5.3.   Specific use standards.
   
5.4.   Accessory uses and structures .
   
5.5.   Temporary uses .
5.1.   Use tables.
   A.   Types of use. All of the use categories listed in the use table are
defined and described in Section
5.2 immediately following the use table.
      1.   Uses  permitted by right. A "P" indicates that a use  is allowed by
right in the respective district. Such uses  are subject to all other
applicable regulations of this UDO. Such uses  may be subject to additional use
standards in this Article and are subject to all other applicable regulations
of this UDO.
      2.   Special uses . An "S" indicates that a use  is allowed only if
reviewed and approved as a special use permit  in accordance with Section 3.14.
Special uses  are subject to all other applicable regulations of this UDO.
   B.   Uses  not allowed. A blank cell in the use  table indicates that a use
or use  category is not allowed in the respective district.
   C.   Uses not listed. The Planning Director shall determine whether or not
an unlisted use is part of an existing use category defined in or is
substantially similar to an already defined use, using the criteria in Section
5.2, Use categories.
For a printer-friendly version, please click here
USE               RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS      NONRESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
P = Permitted by right;       See
Section 5.2 for additional standards, if applicable       S = Special use
permit required
Use     Specific R- R- R- R-     R M MF  MF         C B
Category Use      4  2  15 12 R-9 H   - 1 - 2 N O NC D   OI CR SB I-1 I-2 Notes
                  0  0
USE                                                          RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS NONRESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
P = Permitted by right;       See
Section 5.2 for additional standards, if applicable       S = Special use permit required
                                                             R- R- R- R- R- R MF MF N     C          I- I-
Use   Category                       Specific Use           4  2  15 12 9  M -  -  O  NC B OI CR SB 1  2  Notes
                                                             0  0           H 1  2        D
RESIDENTIAL
                                      Single-                P  P  P  P  P  P     P               6.1 &
                                      Family Detached                                                      6.8
                                      Residential Cluster    P  P  P  P  P   P  P                 6.3
                                      Two-Family Dwelling               P  P                 6.2
                                      Townhouse                         P  P    P  P P  P        6.5
                                      Condominium                       P  P    P  P P  P        6.5
                                      Multifamily (triplex
                                      and higher, including             P  P                 6.2
                                      apartment)
Household Living  (see 5.2D.1)       Upper-Story                           P  P  P   P        5.3A.5
                                      Residential
                                      Manufactured Home      P*                             6.7.B
                                      (Class A Unit Only)
                                      Manufactured Home Park           P                    6.6
                                      or Subdivision
                                      Single-Family          P  P  P  P  P                       
                                      ResidentialSubdivision
                                      Modular Home           P  P  P  P  P  P     P               6.8
                                      Security or                                    P  P  P   
                                      Caretaker's Quarters
                                      Family Care Home       P  P  P  P  P   P  P  P               5.3A.1
Group Living  (see 5.2D.2)           Group Care Home        P  P  P  P  P   P  P  P               5.3A.1
                                      Intermediate Care Home P  P  P  P  P   P  P  P               5.3A.1
PUBLIC, CIVIC AND INSTITUTIONAL
                                      Community Center       S  S  S  S  S  S S  S    S  S S  S  S       
                                      Library, Museum, Art                    P  P P  P  P       
                                      Gallery, Art Center
                                      Other Community                   S  S    S  S S  S  S       
Community Service  (see 5.2E.1)      Service
                                      Civil, Service
                                      Fraternal Clubs,       S                 S  S S  S  S       
                                      Lodges and Similar
                                      Uses
                                      Adult Day Care                        P* P*  P* P* P*     5.3B.3
                                      Child Day Care (up to  P  P  P  P  P  P P  P  P               5.3B.3
Day Care  (see 5.2E.2)               3 as home occupation )
                                      Family Child Day Care  P  P  P  P  P  P                    5.3B.3
                                      (up to 8 in- home)
                                      Day Care Center                       P  P   P  P  P      5.3B.3
                                      Business School,
                                      College or University                   P  P P  P  P      5.3B.1
                                      Satellite in Single
Educational Facilities and Services   Building
(see 5.2E.3)                          College/ University                        P  P  P       
                                      School, Public/Private S  S  S  S  S   S  S       S          5.3B.6
                                      Trade /Vocational                       S  S S  S  S  S  S  5.3B.8
                                      Music / Dance / Art                     P  P P  P  P       
                                      Instruction
Funeral Home and Crematorium                                               P    P P  P  P      5.3F
                                      Ambulance Service,
                                      Rescue Squad, Police   S  S  S  S  S  S S  S  S  S  S S  P  P  P  P   
                                      or Fire Station
                                      Government, Utility
Government Facilities  (see 5.2E.4)  Facility with Outdoor                          S    S   
                                      Storage
                                      Government Office                       S  S S  S  S       
                                      Prison, Jail,                                    S  S   
                                      Detention Facility
                                      Continuing Care,                  S  S       S          5.3B.10
                                      Retirement Facility
                                      Hospice                           P  P       P  P         
                                      Hospital                                  S S  S        5.3B.11
Health Care  (see 5.2E.5)            Ambulatory Health &
                                      Emergency Care                             S  S        5.3B.11
                                      Facility
                                      Medical Clinic                            P P  P  P       
                                      Mental Health Facility                     P  P         
                                      Group Care Facility                        P  P         
                                      Handicapped                                P  P         
                                      Institution
Institutions  (see 5.2E.6)           Intermediate Care                          P  P         
                                      Institution
                                      Nursing Care                               P  P  P       
                                      Institution
                                      Cemetery               P  P  P  P  P  P P  P  P  P  P P  P  P      5.3B.2
Parks and Open Space  (see 5.2E.7)   Public Park, Swimming
                                      Pool, Tennis Court,    S  S  S  S  S  S S  S  S  S  S S  S  S  S  S   
                                      Golf Course
                                      Bus Passenger Terminal                         S  S  S   
Passenger  Terminal (see 5.2E.8)     Taxicab or Limousine                           S  S  P   
                                      Operations or Facility
Religious  Institution (see 5.2E.9)                        P  P  P  P  P  P P  P  P  P  P P  P  P      5.3B.6
                                      Broadcast Tower                                  S  S   
                                      Minor Utility,
                                      Elevated Water Storage P  P  P  P  P  P P  P  P  P  P P  P  P  P  P  5.3B4
Utilities  (see 5.2E.10)             Tank
                                      Solar Farms            S                        S  S  S  5.3B.5
                                      Telecommunic ation     S                      S  S  P  P  5.3B.8
                                      Facility
                                      Other Major Utility    S                        S  S  S   
COMMERCIAL, OFFICE, RETAIL
                                      Bar, Nightclub, Tavern                    S   S  S  P* P* 5.3C.2
                                      Golf Course or Country S  S  S  S  S  S S  S  S  S  S S  S  S       
                                      Club, Private
                                      Gym, Spa, Indoor
                                      Tennis Court or Pool,                 P  P  P P  P  P  P  P  5.3C.6
                                      Private
                                      Horse Stables and      S                          P  P   
                                      Related Facilities
                                      Indoor Entertainment                      P   P  P  P  P  5.3C.6
                                      Facility
                                      Electronic Gaming                            P  P  P  P  5.3C.17
                                      Centers
                                      Outdoor Athletic or
Entertainment  (see 5.2F.1)          Entertainment                             S     S  S     
                                      Facility, Private
                                      Sexually Oriented                              S      5.3C.1
                                      Business                                                             0
                                      Theater                                   S   P  P       
                                      Theater, Drive-In                              S  S  S   
                                      Water Slide, Golf
                                      Driving Range,
                                      Miniature Golf,                                C  C     
                                      Batting Cage or
                                      Similar Use
                                      Medical Office,                       P  P  P P  P  P  P  P   
                                      Individual
                                      Other Office                          P  P  P P  P  P  P  P   
Overnight Accommodatio n  (see       Bed and Breakfast      S  S  S  S  S  S S  S  S  S  S S  S  S       
5.2F.3)                               Extended Stay Facility                         S  S  S  5.3C.5
                                      Hotel/Motel                                  S  S  S     
Parking,  Commercial (see 5.2F.4)                                             S S  S  S  S  S   
                                      Restaurant , Drive-In
                                      or Outdoor Curb                                P  P  P   
                                      Service
                                      Restaurant , Indoor                     P  P   P  P  P  P  5.3C.8
                                      with Seating Only
Restaurants   (see 5.2F.5)           Restaurant with
                                      Seating and Drive-                           P  P  P  P   
                                      Through Window
                                      Restaurant , Take-Out
                                      Only (Drive-Through or                  P  P   P  P  P  P  5.3C.9
                                      Walk Up)
                                      Convenience Store                       P  P   P  P  P  P  5.3C.4
                                      without Fuel Sales
                                      Convenience Store with                       P  P  P  P   
                                      Fuel Sales
                                      Open Air Market                           S     P  P  P   
                                      Personal Service-
                                      Oriented Use (excludes
                                      commercial greenhouses                  P  P   P  P  P  P   
                                      or any use with
                                      outdoor operations)
                                      Hair Salons
                                      Barbershops Beauty                    S  P  P P  P  P  P  P   
                                      Shops
Retail Sales and Service  (see       Banks or Financial                    P  P  P P  P  P  P  P  5.3C.1
5.2F.6)                               Institution
                                      Repair Oriented Use
                                      (no outdoor                             P  P P  P  P  P  P  5.3C.7
                                      operations)
                                      Sales Oriented Use (no                  P  P   P  P  P  P   
                                      outdoor operations)
                                      Sales Oriented Use
                                      with Outdoor                                   P    P   
                                      Operations
                                      Veterinarian/ Kennel ,                P  P  P P  P  P  P  P  5.3C.1
                                      Indoor                                                               5
                                      Veterinarian /Kennel                                                 5.3C.1
                                      with Outdoor                                   P    P  6
                                      Operations
Self-Service Storage  (see 5.2F.7)                                                 S  P  P   
                                      Car Wash                                       P  P  P  5.3C.3
                                      Vehicle General Repair                         P    P  5.3C.1
                                                                                                           1
Vehicle Sales and Service  (see      Vehicle Sales, Rental                          P    P  5.3C.1
5.2F.8)                                                                                                    2
                                      Vehicle Service,                             P  P  P  P  5.3C.1
                                      Limited                                                              3
                                      Vehicle Towing,                                P    P  5.3C.1
                                      Storage                                                              4
INDUSTRIAL AND MANUFACTURING
Aviation  Service (see 5.2G.1)                                                         S   
                                      Flex Space                                     P  P  P  5.3D.1
Light Industrial Service  (see       Industrial Use ,                               P  P  P  5.3D.2
5.2G.2)                               Indoor
                                      Industrial Use with                            P    P   
                                      Outdoor Operation
Manufacturing and  Production (see   Indoor or Outdoor                                  P  5.3D.3
5.2G.3)                               Indoor Only                               P     P  P  P  5.3D.3
Resource  Extraction (see 5.2G.4)                                                      S   
Warehouse and Freight Movement  (see Storage (including                             P    P  5.3D.6
5.2G.5)                               Outdoor)
                                      Truck Terminal                                     P   
                                      Recycling Collection                               P  5.3D.4
                                      (Outside)
                                      Recyclable Materials                           P    P  5.3D.5
                                      Collection Center
Waste Related Service  (see 5.2G.6)  Junk and or Salvage                                S   
                                      Yard
                                      Sanitary Landfill                                  S   
                                      Other Waste Related                                S   
                                      Service
Wholesale Sales   (see 5.2G.7)                                                     P  P  P  5.3D.7
OTHER
                                      Agriculture or         P  P                            5.3.E.
Agriculture  (see 5.2H.1)            Silviculture                                                         1
                                      Greenhouse, Nursery                            P  P  P   
                                      (Commercial)
 
(Ord. No. 3396, §§ 4, 7, 4-3-06; Ord. No. 3417, § 2, 7-5-06; Ord. No. 3423, §
1, 8-22-06; Ord. No. 3523, § 4, 8-4-08; Ord. No. 3579, § 1, 5-3-10; Ord. No.
3617; § 1, 4-4-11; Ord. No. 3656, § 1, 2-21-12; Ord. 3673, § 2, 10-1-12; Ord.
No. 3749, § 1, 10-6-14; Ord. No. 3780, § 6, 7-7-15; Ord. No. 3781, § 1, 7-7-15;
Ord. No.3801, § 6, 12-7-15; Ord. No. 3881, § 3, 9-5-17; Ord. No. 3929, § 1, 9-
4-18; Ord. No. 3963, § 1, 4-16-19; Ord. No. 5006, § 1, 1-4-21; Ord., 3-16-21)
5.2.   Use categories.
   A.   Basis for classification.Use categories classify land uses and
activities into use categories based on common functional, product or physical
characteristics. Characteristics include the type and amount of activity, the
type of customers or residents, how goods or services are sold or delivered and
site conditions. The use categories provide a systematic basis for assigning
present and future land uses into appropriate zoning districts.
   B.   Principal uses. Principal uses are assigned to the category that most
closely describes the nature of the principal use. The "characteristics"
subsection of each use category describes the common characteristics of each
principal use.
      1.   The developments with multiple principal uses. When all principal
uses of a development fall within one use category, the entire development is
assigned to that use category. A development that contains a coffee shop,
bookstore and bakery, for example, would be classified in the retail sales and
service category because all of the development's principal uses are in that
category. When the principal uses of a development fall within different use
categories, each principal use is classified in the applicable category and
each use is subject to all applicable regulations for that category. If a
principal use is not listed for a given district, it may not be developed in
that district, whether as part of a proposed mixed-useproject or a stand-alone
project.
      2.   Accessory uses.Accessory uses are allowed by-right in conjunction
with a principal use unless otherwise stated in this UDO. Also, unless
otherwise stated, accessory uses are subject to the same regulations as the
principal use. Common accessory uses are listed as examples in the use category
descriptions.
      3.   Use of examples. The "examples" subsection of each use category
lists common examples of uses included in the respective use category. The
names of these sample uses are generic. They are based on common meanings and
not on what a specific use may call itself. For example, a use that calls
itself "wholesale warehouse" but that sells mostly to consumers, is included in
the retail sales and service category rather than the wholesale sales category.
This is because the actual activity on the site matches the description of the
retail sales and service category.
   C.   Similar use interpretation criteria. The following considerations shall
be used in making similar use interpretations:
      1.   The actual or projected characteristics of the activity in
relationship to the stated characteristics of each use category;
      2.   The relative amount of site area or floor space and equipment
devoted to the activity;
      3.   Relative amounts of sales from each activity;
      4.   The customer type for each activity;
      5.   The relative number of employees in each activity;
      6.   Hours of operation;
      7.   Building and site arrangement;
      8.   Vehicles used with the activity;
      9.   The relative number of vehicle trips generated by the use ; and
      10.   How the use advertises itself.
   D.   Residential use categories.
      1.   Household living.
         a.   Characteristics. Household living is characterized by the
residential occupancy of a dwelling unit by a household. Tenancy is arranged on
a month-to-month or longer basis.
         b.   Accessory uses.Accessory uses commonly associated with household
living are recreational activities, raising of pets, hobbies and parking of the
occupants' vehicles. Home occupations are accessory uses that are subject to
additional regulations set forth in Section
5.4.
         c.   Examples.Uses include living in single-family, attached; single-
family detached; condominiums; townhouses on separately platted or combined
lots; mixed use dwellings; zero lot line dwelling; two-family dwellings;
triplexes and multifamily dwellings; retirement center apartments; some
continuing care facilities; manufactured housing, modular housing and other
structures with self-contained dwelling units.
         d.   Exceptions. Lodging in a dwelling unit or where units are rented
on a less than monthly basis is classified in the overnight accommodations
category.
      2.   Group living.
         a.   Characteristics. Group living is characterized by the residential
occupancy of a structure by a group of people who do not meet the definition of
household living. The size of the group may be larger than the average size of
a household. Tenancy is arranged on a monthly or longer basis. Uses where
tenancy may be arranged for a shorter period are not considered residential.
They are considered to be a form of transient lodging (see overnight
accommodations and community service categories). Generally, group living
structures have a common eating area for residents. The residents may receive
care, training or treatment, as long as the care givers also reside at the
site.
         b.   Accessory uses.Accessory uses commonly associated with group
living are recreational facilities, dining facilities and parking of vehicles
for occupants and staff.
         c.   Examples. Examples of group living include boarding house or
rooming house; family care home; group care home; immediate care home;
dormitories; and monasteries and convents.
         d.   Exceptions.
            (1)   Lodging where tenancy may be arranged for periods of less
than 30 days is classified in the overnight accommodations category.
            (2)   Lodging where the residents meet the definition of household
and where tenancy is arranged on a month-to-month basis, or for a longer period
is classified as household living.
            (3)   Continuing care facilities where individual units meet the
definition of a dwelling unit in
Article 11, Definitions, are classified as household living.
            (4)   Prisons, jails and other incarceration facilities are
classified as government facilities.
            (5)   Post-incarceration facilities are classified as institutions.
   E.   Public, civic and institutional use categories.
      1.   Community service.
         a.   Characteristics. Community Services are uses of a public,
nonprofit or charitable nature generally providing a local service to people of
the community. Generally, they provide the service on-site or have employees at
the site on a regular basis. The service is ongoing, not just for special
events. Community centers or facilities that have membership provisions are
open to the general public to join at any time, (for instance, any senior
citizen could join a senior center). The use may provide special counseling,
education, or training of a public, nonprofit or charitable nature.
         b.   Accessory uses.Accessory uses may include offices; meeting areas;
food preparation areas; parking, health and therapy areas and athletic
facilities.
         c.   Examples. Examples include libraries, museums, art galleries, art
centers, senior centers; community centers, youth club facilities, social
service facilities, civil, service, fraternal clubs, lodges and similar uses.
      2.   Day care.
         a.   Characteristics. Day care uses provide care, protection and
supervision for children or adults on a regular basis away from their primary
residence for less than 24 hours per day.
         b.   Accessory uses.Accessory uses include offices, recreation areas
and parking.
         c.   Examples. Examples include preschools, child care centers
(outside home), nursery schools, latch-key programs and adult day care
programs.
         d.   Exceptions. Day care does not include public or private schools
or facilities operated in connection with an employment use, shopping center,
religious institution or other principal use, where children are cared for
while parents or guardians are occupied on the premises or in the immediate
vicinity.
      3.    Educational facilities.
         a.   Characteristics. This category includes public and private
schools at the primary, elementary, middle, junior high or high school level
that provide state-mandated basic education. This category also includes
colleges and other institutions of higher learning that offer courses of
general or specialized study leading to a degree. Colleges tend to be in
campus-like settings or on multiple blocks. This category also includes
instruction in the fine arts such as music, dance, art etc. 
         b.   Accessory uses.Accessory uses at schools include play areas,
cafeterias, recreational and sport facilities, auditoriums and before- or
after-school day care.  Accessory uses at colleges include offices, housing for
students, food service, laboratories, health and sports facilities, theaters,
meeting areas, parking, maintenance facilities and support commercial..
         c.   Examples.  Examples include public, private and charter daytime
schools; business, trade and vocational schools; universities; liberal arts
colleges; community colleges; and instruction in music, dance, art and similar
fine arts.
         d.   Exceptions. Preschools are classified as Day Care uses.
      4.   Government facilities.
         a.   Characteristics. Government facilities includes offices, storage,
maintenance and other facilities for the operation of federal, state or local
government.
         b.   Accessory uses.Accessory uses include storage, maintenance and
fueling facilities, satellite offices and parking areas.
         c.   Examples. Examples include Town hall; public/community buildings;
government offices; municipal service facilities; maintenance and utility
facilities; fire stations, police stations and emergency medical and ambulance
stations; prisons and jails; post offices and federal, state or local offices.
         d.   Exceptions.
            (1)   Passenger terminals for airports and regional bus service are
classified as passenger terminals.
            (2)   State, county or city parks are classified as parks and open
space.
            (3)   Water and wastewater facilities, gas, electric and other
infrastructure services, whether public or private, are classified as
utilities.
            (4)   Waste and recycling services are classified as waste related
services.
      5.   Health care facilities.
         a.   Characteristics. Health care facilities include uses providing
medical or surgical care to patients and offering overnight care.
         b.   Accessory uses. Accessory uses include out-patient clinics,
offices, laboratories, teaching facilities, meeting areas, cafeterias, parking,
maintenance facilities and housing facilities for staff or trainees.
         c.   Examples. Examples include medical centers, hospices, continuing
care facilities, mental health facilities, ambulatory health and emergency care
facilities without overnight care, and hospitals.
         d.   Exceptions.
            (1)   Uses that provide exclusive care and planned treatment or
training for psychiatric, alcohol, or drug problems, where patients are
residents of the program, are classified in the institutional category.
            (2)   Medical clinics that provide care where patients are not kept
overnight are classified as office.
      6.   Institutions.
         a.   Characteristics. Institutions provide a variety of facilities
including housing and care for the disabled, care and medical supervision at a
lower level than a hospital in nursing care institutions for more than nine
people and housing related to treatment programs.
         b.   Accessory uses.Accessory uses include school facilities, meeting
rooms, parking and staff residences household living).
         c.   Examples. Examples include; some group homes for the physically
disabled, mentally retarded, or emotionally disturbed; nursing care
institutions and some residential programs for drug and alcohol treatment.
         d.   Exceptions.
            (1)   Continuing care facilities where individual units meet the
definition of a dwelling unit in
Article 11, Definitions, are classified as household living.
            (2)   Continuing care facilities where individual units do not meet
the definition of a dwelling unit are classified as health care.
      7.   Parks and open areas.
         a.   Characteristics. Parks and open areas are uses of land focusing
on natural areas consisting mostly of vegetative landscaping or outdoor
recreation, community gardens, or public squares. Lands tend to have few
structures.
         b.   Accessory uses.Accessory uses may include clubhouses, maintenance
facilities, concessions, caretaker's quarters and parking.
         c.   Examples. Examples include public parks; publicly-owned golf
courses; cemeteries; public squares; plazas; public swimming pools; public
tennis courts; recreational trails, botanical gardens and nature preserves.
         d.   Exceptions. Privately-owned golf courses are classified as
entertainment uses.
      8.   Passenger terminal.
         a.   Characteristics. Passenger terminal includes facilities for the
landing and takeoff of airplanes and helicopters, including loading and
unloading areas. Aviation facilities may be improved or unimproved. Passenger
terminal also includes passenger terminals for bus service and taxicab or
limousine operations or facilities.
         b.   Accessory uses. Accessory uses include freight handling areas,
concessions, offices, parking and maintenance and fueling facilities.
         c.   Examples. Examples include airports, bus passenger terminals,
taxicab and limousine operations and facilities and helicopter landing
facilities.
         d.   Exceptions.
            (1)   Bus passenger stations for local service such as mass transit
stops and park-and-ride facilities are classified as minor utilities.
            (2)   Private helicopter landing facilities that are accessory to
another use .
      9.   Religious institutions.
         a.   Characteristics. Religious institutions primarily provide meeting
areas for religious activities.
         b.   Accessory uses.Accessory uses include Sunday school facilities,
day care during services where parents are on the premises, parking,
caretaker's housing and group living facilities such as convents.
         c.   Examples. Examples include churches, temples, synagogues and
mosques.
         d.   Exceptions.
            (1)   Preschools are classified as day care uses .
            (2)   Day care provided when parents are not on the premises is
classified as day care.
            (3)   Schools providing a K--12 curriculum similar to public
schools are classified as schools.
      10.   Utilities.
         a.   Characteristics. Major utilities are infrastructure services
providing Town-wide service. Minor utilities are infrastructure services that
need to be located in or near the area where the service is provided. Utility
uses generally do not regularly have employees at the site. Services may be
publicly or privately provided.
         b.   Accessory uses.Accessory uses may include parking and control,
monitoring, data or transmission equipment.
         c.   Examples.
            (1)   Examples of major utilities include water towers ; radio and
television broadcast towers ; telecommunication towers ; solar farms ; water
plants; wastewater plants; and electrical substations.
            (2)   Examples of minor utilities include water and sewage pump
stations; stormwater retention and detention facilities; public transportation
facilities and telephone exchanges.
         d.   Exceptions.
            (1)   Maintenance yards and buildings , or other facilities with
outdoor storage are classified as government.
            (2)   Utility offices are classified as offices.
   F.   Commercial use categories.
      1.   Entertainment.
         a.   Characteristics. Entertainment uses are generally commercial
uses, varying in size, providing daily or regularly scheduled entertainment-
oriented activities.
         b.   Accessory uses.Accessory uses may include restaurants, bars,
concessions, parking and maintenance facilities.
         c.   Examples. Examples include athletic facilities; commercial
amusements; private entertainment facilities; horse stables; privately-owned
golf courses, golf driving ranges; miniature golf facilities; private country
club; privately-owned tennis facilities; skateboard park; water slide;
privately-owned active sports facilities such as ballfields and basketball
courts; bar, night club and tavern; indoor entertainment activities such as
bowling alleys, game arcades, pool halls, dance halls, indoor firing ranges,
theaters; membership clubs.
         d.   Exceptions.
            (1)   Banquet halls that are part of hotels or restaurants are
accessory to those uses .
            (2)   Publicly-owned golf courses are classified as parks and open
areas.
            (3)   Civic, service, fraternal clubs, lodges and similar uses are
considered public, civil, and institutional use categories.
      2.   Office.
         a.   Characteristics. Office uses are characterized by activities
conducted in an office setting and generally focusing on business, government,
professional, medical or financial services. No wholesale or external retail
sales activity is included.
         b.   Accessory uses.Accessory uses may include cafeterias, health
facilities, parking, or other amenities primarily for the use of employees in
the firm or building.
         c.   Examples. Examples include professional services such as lawyers,
accountants, engineers or architects; banks; financial institutions such as
lenders or brokerage houses; insurance agents or real estate agents;
administrative offices; data processing; sales offices; radio and television
stations/studios; and individual medical and dental offices.
         d.   Exceptions.
            (1)   Offices that are part of and located with a principal use in
another category are considered accessory to the firm's primary activity.
Headquarters offices, when in conjunction with or adjacent to a principal use
in another category, are considered part of the other category.
            (2)   Contractors and others who perform services off-site are
included in the office category if equipment and materials are not stored
outside and fabrication, services or similar work is not carried on at the
site.
            (3)   Medical and dental clinics and labs are classified as health
care.
      3.   Overnight accommodations.
         a.   Characteristics.Dwelling units arranged for short term stays of
less than 30 days for rent or lease.
         b.   Accessory uses.Accessory uses may include pools and other
recreational facilities, limited storage, food preparation and dining
facilities, laundry facilities, meeting rooms, off-street parking and offices.
         c.   Examples. Examples include bed and breakfast establishments;
hotels, motels, inns, and extended stay facilities.
      4.   Parking, commercial.
         a.   Characteristics. Commercial parking facilities provide parking
that is not accessory to a specific use. A fee may or may not be charged. A
facility that provides both accessory parking for a specific use and regular
fee parking for people not connected to the use is also classified as a
commercial parking facility.
         b.   Accessory uses. Small structures intended to shield parking
attendants from the weather.
         c.   Examples. Examples include short- and long-term fee parking
facilities and mixed parking lots (partially accessory to a specific use,
partially for rent to others).
         d.   Exceptions.
            (1)   Parking facilities that are accessory to a principal use ,
but that charge the public to park for occasional events nearby, are not
considered commercial parking facilities.
            (2)   Parking facilities that are accessory to a principal use are
not considered commercial parking uses , even if the operator leases the
facility to the principal use or charges a fee to the individuals who park in
the facility.
            (3)   Public transit park-and-ride facilities are classified as
utilities.
            (4)   Sales or servicing of vehicles is classified as vehicle sales
and service.
      5.   Restaurants .
         a.   Characteristics. Establishments that sell food for on- or off-
premise consumption.
         b.   Accessory uses.Accessory uses may include decks and patios for
outdoor seating, drive-thru facilities, customer and employee parking areas,
and valet parking facilities.
         c.   Examples. Includes restaurants, drive-ins, drive-throughs, fast
food establishments, yogurt or ice cream shops and pizza delivery facilities.
         d.   Exceptions. Nightclubs, taverns and bars are classified as
entertainment uses.
      6.   Retail Sales and Service.
         a.   Characteristics. Retail Sales and Service firms are involved in
the sale, lease or rent of new or used products to the general public. They may
also provide personal services, or provide product repair or services for
consumer and business goods.
         b.   Accessory uses.Accessory uses may include offices, storage of
goods, manufacture or repackaging of goods for on-site sale and parking.
         c.   Examples. Examples include uses from the three following groups:
            (1)    Sales-Oriented. Stores selling, leasing or renting,
consumer, home and business goods including alcohol, appliances, art, art
supplies, bicycles, books, building! lumber sales, clothing, dry goods,
electronic equipment, fabric, farm supplies, furniture, garden supplies, gifts,
groceries, hardware, home improvements, household products, jewelry,
manufactured home sales, marine and fishing equipment, monument, optical, pets,
pet food, pharmaceuticals, plants, printed material, stationary and medical and
dental supply stores, trailer equipment, videos; and food sales.
            (2)    Personal Service-Oriented. Banks; commercial greenhouse;
drive-in sales; dry cleaner/laundry; emergency medical care offices; funeral
home; household  equipment rental; photographic studios; photocopy and
blueprint services; hair, tanning and personal care services; health clubs and
gyms; office equipment rental; personal service shops, travel agencies; animal
hospital/care facility, and animal grooming.
            (3)    Repair-Oriented. Repair of TV’s, bicycles, clocks, watches,
shoes, guns, canvas products, appliances and office equipment: photo or laundry
drop-off; tailor; locksmith and upholsterer.
         d.   Exceptions.
            (1)   Restaurants are classified as restaurants .
            (2)   Laundry and dry-cleaning plants are considered light
industrial services.
            (3)   Lumber yards and other building material sales that sell
primarily to contractors and do not have a retail orientation are classified as
wholesale sales .
            (4)   Rental, repair and service of consumer motor vehicles,
motorcycles and light and medium trucks is classified as vehicle sales and
service.
            (5)   Taxicab and limousine operations or facilities are classified
as passenger terminals.
            (6)   Hair salons, barbershops and beauty shops are classified as a
separate land use category. Refer to the Use Table under Section
5.1 for zoning districts where this use is permitted.
      7.   Self-service storage.
         a.   Characteristics. Self-service storage uses provide separate
storage areas for individual or business uses. The storage areas are designed
to allow private access by the tenant for storing or removing personal
property.
         b.   Accessory uses.
            (1)   Accessory uses may include living quarters for a resident
manager or security and leasing offices and outside storage of boats and
campers.
            (2)   Use of the storage areas for sales, service and repair
operations, or manufacturing is not considered accessory to the self-service
storage use .
            (3)   The rental of trucks or equipment is also not considered
accessory to a self-service storage use .
         c.   Examples. Examples include facilities that provide individual
storage areas for rent. These uses are also called mini-warehouses.
         d.   Exceptions. A transfer and storage business where there are no
individual storage areas or where employees are the primary movers of the goods
to be stored or transferred is in the warehouse and freight movement category.
      8.   Vehicle sales and service.
         a.   Characteristics. Vehicle sales and service uses provide direct
services to motor vehicles. They also may include firms that rent or service
passenger vehicles, light and medium trucks and other consumer motor vehicles
such as motorcycles.
         b.   Accessory uses.Accessory uses may include offices, sales of parts
and vehicle storage.
         c.   Examples. Examples include automobile rental; automobile sales;
car washes; quick lubrication services; vehicle repair, transmission or muffler
shop; towing service; auto body shop; alignment shop; auto upholstery shop;
auto detailing; and tire sales and mounting.
         d.   Exceptions.
            (1)   Refueling facilities for vehicles that belong to a specific
use (fleet vehicles) are considered accessory uses if they are located on the
site of the principal use .
            (2)   Convenience stores with fuel sales are classified as retail
sales and service.
   G.   Industrial use categories.
      1.   Aviation service.
         a.   Characteristics. Aviation service firms are engaged in storage,
repair or servicing of airplanes, helicopters and related aviation equipment,
charter aviation services, flying-related education, and warehousing related to
air shipping.
         b.   Accessory uses . Accessory activities may include offices,
parking, warehousing and storage.
         c.   Examples. Examples include airplane landing strips, sales,
service and repair, fixed base operators, flying schools and air shipment
warehouses.
         d.   Exceptions.
            (1)   Car rental agencies associated with commercial air travel are
classified as passenger terminals.
            (2)   Warehousing not associated with air shipping is classified as
warehousing and freight movement.
      2.   Light industrial service.
         a.   Characteristics. Light industrial service firms are engaged in
the repair or servicing of industrial, business or consumer machinery,
equipment, products or by-products. Firms that service consumer goods do so by
mainly providing centralized services for separate retail outlets. Contractors
and building maintenance services and similar uses perform services off-site.
Few customers, especially the general public, come to the site. The uses may
have indoor or outdoor operations.
         b.   Accessory uses. Accessory activities may include offices, parking
and storage.
         c.   Examples. Examples include welding shops; sheet metal fabrication
shop; machine shops; tool repair; electric motor repair; farm equipment repair
and storage; repair of scientific or professional instruments; building,
heating, plumbing or electrical contractors; printing, publishing and
lithography; exterminators; janitorial and building maintenance services; fuel
oil distributors; research and development; testing and development
laboratories; sign shop; laundry, dry-cleaning and carpet cleaning plants and
photo-finishing laboratories.
         d.   Exceptions. Contractors and others who perform services off-site
are included in the office category, if major equipment and materials are not
stored on-site and fabrication or similar work is not carried on at the site.
      3.   Manufacturing and production.
         a.   Characteristics. Manufacturing and production firms are involved
in the manufacturing, processing, fabrication, packaging or assembly of goods.
Natural, man-made, raw, secondary, or partially completed materials may be
used. Products may be finished or semi-finished and are generally made for the
wholesale market, for transfer to other plants, or to order for firms or
consumers. Goods are generally not displayed or sold on site, but if so, they
are a subordinate part of sales. Relatively few customers come to the
manufacturing site.
         b.   Accessory uses. Accessory activities may include offices,
cafeterias, parking, employee recreational facilities, warehouses, storage
yards, repair facilities, truck fleets and caretaker's quarters.
         c.   Examples. Examples include processing of food and related
products, including apparel; catering establishments; concrete batching and
products and asphalt mixing; electric machines; food processing plants;
instruments and components; light manufacturing; woodworking, including cabinet
makers; production of chemical, rubber, leather, clay, bone, plastic, stone, or
glass materials or products; movie production facilities; production or
fabrication of metals or metal products including enameling and galvanizing;
office equipment and supplies; manufacture or assembly of equipment,
instruments, including musical instruments, appliances, precision items and
other electrical items; production of artwork and toys and sign making.
         d.   Exceptions.
            (1)   Manufacturing of goods to be sold primarily on-site and to
the general public are classified as retail sales and service.
            (2)   Manufacture and production of goods from composting organic
material is classified as waste related service.
      4.   Resource extraction.
         a.   Characteristics. Resource extraction uses include those uses that
rely on mining, quarrying or other similar activity to extract resources from
the ground.
         b.   Accessory uses. Accessory uses include offices for mining
personnel, parking and storage.
         c.   Examples. Examples include mines, borrow pits, and quarries.
      5.   Warehouse and freight movement.
         a.   Characteristics. Warehouse and freight movement firms are
involved in the storage, or movement of goods for themselves or other firms.
Goods are generally delivered to other firms or the final consumer, except for
some will-call pickups. There is little on-site sales activity with the
customer present.
         b.   Accessory uses. Accessory uses may include offices, truck fleet
parking and maintenance areas.
         c.   Examples. Examples include separate warehouses used by retail
stores such as building and lumber materials; storage used by furniture and
appliance stores; household  moving and general freight storage; cold storage
plants; truck terminals; storage garage warehouses, indoor only, including
frozen food lockers; storage tanks; parcel services; and the stockpiling of
gravel or other aggregate materials.
         d.   Exceptions.
            (1)   Uses that involve the transfer or storage of solid or liquid
wastes are classified as waste related service.
            (2)   Mini-warehouses are classified as self-service storage uses .
            (3)   Flex space is classified as light industrial service.
      6.   Waste related service.
         a.   Characteristics. Waste related services are characterized by uses
that receive solid or liquid wastes from others for disposal on the site or for
transfer to another location, uses that collect sanitary wastes, or uses that
manufacture or produce goods or energy from the composting of organic material.
         b.   Accessory uses.Accessory uses may include recycling of materials,
offices and repackaging and transshipment of by-products.
         c.   Examples. Examples include waste transfer or composting and large
recycling facilities and salvage/junk yards; reclamation landfill; and sanitary
landfill.
         d.   Exceptions. Disposal of dirt, concrete, asphalt and similar non-
decomposable materials is considered fill.
      7.   Wholesale sales.
         a.   Characteristics.Wholesale sales firms are involved in the sale,
lease, or rent of products primarily intended for industrial, institutional or
commercial businesses. The uses emphasize on-site sales or order taking and
often include display areas. Businesses may or may not be open to the general
public, but sales to the general public are limited. Products may be picked up
on-site or delivered to the customer.
         b.   Accessory uses.Accessory uses may include offices, product
repair, warehouses, parking, minor fabrication services and repackaging of
goods.
         c.   Examples. Examples include sale or rental of machinery,
equipment, heavy trucks, building materials, special trade tools, welding
supplies, machine parts, electrical supplies, janitorial supplies, restaurant
equipment and store fixtures; mail order houses; and wholesalers of food,
clothing, auto parts, building hardware.
         d.   Exceptions.
            (1)   Firms that engage primarily in sales to the general public or
on a membership basis are classified as retail sales and service.
            (2)   Firms that are primarily storing goods with little on-site
business activity are classified as warehouse and freight movement.
   H.   Other use categories.
      1.   Agriculture.
         a.   Characteristics. Agriculture includes activities that primarily
involve raising, producing or keeping plants or animals. Also includes direct
sales of such products at wholesale.
         b.   Accessory uses. Accessory uses include dwellings for proprietors
and employees of the use and animal training.
         c.   Examples. Examples include breeding or raising of fowl or other
animals; barn/ stable for private animal livestock; catfish farm; riding
academies; crop production; farming; pasturage; truck gardening and wholesale
plant nurseries or greenhouses.
         d.   Exceptions.
            (1)   Processing of animal or plant products are classified as
manufacturing and production.
            (2)   Plant nurseries or greenhouses that are oriented to retail
sales are classified as retail sales and service.
(Ord. No. 3396, § 5, 4-3-06; Ord. No. 3423, §§ 2, 3, 8-22-06; Ord. No. 3523, §
6, 8-4-08; Ord. No. 3579, §§ 2, 3, 5-3-10; Ord. No. 3656, § 2, 2-21-12; Ord.
No. 3749, § 2, 10-6-14; Ord. No. 3780, § 7, 7-7-15; Ord., 3-16-21)
5.3.   Specific use standards.
   A.   Residential uses .
      1.   Group Living.Family care, group care and intermediate care homes -
or another form of group living - are permitted in accordance with the use
table in Section
5.1 and the following standards:
         a.   No more than one family care home may be located within one-half
mile of another family care home , a group care home , an intermediate care
home or another form of group living permitted through a special exception;
measured by a straight line from the nearest property line. A family care home
shall be certified as a licensed family care home by the North Carolina
Department of Health and Human Services.
         b.   Group care homes shall not be located closer than one-half mile
to any other existing group care home, family care home , an intermediate care
home or another form of group living permitted through a special exception;
measured by a straight line from the nearest property lines.
         c.   Intermediate care homes shall not be located closer than one-half
mile to any other existing intermediate care home , family care home or group
care home ; measured by a straight line from the nearest property lines.
         d.   Family or group care homes shall be separated by a 15-foot wide
buffer with 50 percent screening to height of six feet from any abutting
property located in a residential district.
         e.    O ne streetparking space  shall be provided for every two beds
in a group care home  or facility plus one space for each staff person  per
shift. Parking improvements shall be constructed in accordance with all
applicable parking standards of
Article 7.
         f.   A residence used for a family or group care home shall maintain a
residential appearance which is compatible with the surrounding neighborhood
and no exterior alterations are permissible without prior approval from the
Town of Garner.
         g.   No family care , group care or intermediate care home - or other
forms of group living shall be established, constructed or expanded except in
accordance with applicable sections of this UDO and North Carolina State
Building Code.
         h.   Group care homes with a significant juvenile population shall be
required to have the rear yard area enclosed by a fence at least six feet in
height.
         i.   No family or group care home shall be established or maintained
without trained supervisory personnel on site.
      2.   Manufactured home . An individual manufactured home  may be allowed
in the R-40 districts. In the R-40, and the home must be a class A manufactured
home , as defined in
Article 6. A manufactured home  located on an individual lot  outside the RMH
or R-40 districts shall only be sited following approval of a manufactured home
floating zone  (-MH) through the rezoning procedures in
Article 3.
      3.   Residential uses  in the CBD. Residential uses  located within the
Central Business District shall conform to the following standards:
         a.   New single family residential development is not allowed;
         b.   Duplex, triplex and multifamily developments is not allowed
within the CBD;
         c.   Multifamily development of the downtown structures between Purvis
Street and Griffin Street shall be limited to the occupancy of the second floor
and shall require conformance to the North Carolina State Building Code for all
units prior to occupancy;
         d.   Townhouse or condominiumuses are allowed within the CBD and shall
meet the development standards of
Article 6.
      4.   Upper-story residential. Upper-story residential development  is
permitted provided it is part of a larger project , the residential component
does not exceed 50 percent of the land area of the project , and a site plan
for the project  is reviewed in accordance with
Article 3.
   B.   Public, civic and institutional uses.
      1.   Business school, college or university. Business schools, colleges
or universities in the NC, NO or CBD district are permitted, provided that:
         a.   Only a single building is used for the school, college or
university; and
         b.   All activities are conducted in a completely enclosed building .
      2.   Cemetery. Cemeteries are permitted in accordance with the use table
in Section
5.1 and the following standards:
         a.   When a cemetery abuts or is across a street , alley, or easement
from private property zoned in a residential district classification, a 20-foot
buffer shall be provided and the following conditions shall be observed:
            (1)   No burials shall be permitted in the buffer ;
            (2)   The buffer shall be landscaped with grass and trees, shrubs,
or other ornamental horticultural materials; and
            (3)   The buffer shall be maintained in a neat and orderly
condition at all times.
         b.   Warehouses, storage or maintenance buildings , mausoleums,
crematories, or columbaria shall be located not less than 150 feet from the
nearest private residential property line.
      3.   Day care. Day care (up to three children as a home occupation) is
permitted in accordance with the use table in Section
5.1. The following standards apply to child day care and adult day care uses:
         a.   Adult day care. Commercial adult day care is licensed by the
North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services.
         b.   Child day care. Up to three children cared for in a residence,
and subject to the requirements for a home occupation.
   Commentary: The State of North Carolina requires a license for the care of
three or more children.
         c.   Family child day care. Up to eight children in a residence, and
subject to a license from the North Carolina Department of Health and Human
Services.
            (1)   At least 100 square feet of outdoor play area shall be
provided for each child. The outdoor play area shall be enclosed by a fence
having a minimum height of four feet, which shall be maintained in good
condition.
            (2)   An off-street drop-off and loading area shall be provided.
            (3)   Family child day care shall only be permitted to operate
between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
            (4)   A 15-foot landscape buffer with a 50 percent screen to a
height of six feet adjacent to any property zoned or used residentially shall
be provided.
         d.   Day care center. Any day care not defined in paragraphs a through
c above.
            (1)   At least 100 square feet of outdoor play area shall be
provided for each child. The outdoor play area shall be located at least 50
feet from the lot line of any residential property, and enclosed by a fence
having a minimum height of four feet, which shall be maintained in good
condition.
            (2)   An off-street drop-off and loading area shall be provided.
      4.   Minor utilities.
         a.   Utilities are permitted in accordance with the use table in
Section
5.1 and the following standards:
         b.   Electric power, telephone, cable televisions, gas, water, and
sewer lines, wires or pipes, together with supporting poles or structures ,
located within a public right-of-way.
         c.   Neighborhood utility facilities located within a public right-of-
way with the permission of the owner (state or Town) of the right-of-way.
         d.   Wells, pumping stations, or other similar facilities that are
owned or operated by the City of Raleigh as part of the public water and sewer
system.
         e.   However, uses listed in paragraphs a and b above shall be subject
to any notification, review and plan submission requirements approved by the
Town Council.
         f.   On-site water or wastewater treatment facilities that are
authorized pursuant to an approved permit for a developmentproject ; provided
such facilities are designed and constructed to primarily serve said
development .
      5.   Solar Farms .
         a.   The maximum height for all solar panels, mounts and related
equipment or structures shall not exceed 15 feet. This includes solar panels at
maximum tilt.
         b.   The solar farm area shall be enclosed with a minimum 6-foot tall
security fence along its entire perimeter. Gates shall be locked and secured.
         c.   The minimum front and corner-side setback is 30 feet from the
right-of-way of a public or private road, or private road easement. In the case
of a public road that is designated by the current Town of Garner
transportation plan as a minor or major thoroughfare, freeway or interstate,
the minimum setback from the right-of-way of said designated road shall be 50
feet.
         d.   The minimum interior side and rear setbacks shall be equal to the
applicable buffer width specified in
Article 7.
         e.   With the exception of the perimeter security fence required in
subsection (b), all other solar farm structures; including but not limited to:
mechanical equipment, panels and mounts; and materials shall be set back a
minimum of 100 feet from footprint of any existing residential dwelling unit.
         f.   Solar farms shall meet the screening of objectionable views
requirements of
Article 7.
         g.   Solar farms shall meet the industrial performance standards of
Article 6.
         h.   Solar panels shall not create a traffic or safety hazard; solar
panels shall be arranged, angled or sited to minimize glare or reflection onto
adjoining properties and rights-of-way. Panels shall have a textured or anti-
reflective surface or coating. Mirrors or mirrored panels are prohibited.
         i.   Decommissioning Plan: A Decommissioning Plan shall be approved
and recorded as a condition of the Special Use Permit. At a minimum, the
Decommissioning Plan shall address the following requirements:
            (1)   Responsible parties.
            (2)   Timeline for the completion of all decommissioning plan
activities within 6 months of power ceasing to be provided to the recipient
client.
            (3)   Removal and disposal of all equipment and materials;
including but not limited to: panels, mounts, structures, pads, foundations,
underground wiring and fencing.
            (4)   Site reclamation and surface restoration; including but not
limited to: retention of installed landscaping, putting down new topsoil, re-
grading, and re-seeding.
            (5)   An “Estimated Net Cost of Decommissioning” prepared by a
licensed engineer, inclusive of salvage proceeds; and a mechanism to annually
report to the Town of Garner Planning Department a “Revised Estimate of the Net
Cost of Decommissioning” that accounts for items such as - but not limited to -
inflation, deflation and depreciation.
         j.   Decommissioning Surety: Prior to the issuance of any building
permits, a surety acceptable to the Town Attorney of the Town of Garner naming
the Town of Garner as beneficiary shall be posted for 125% of the Estimated Net
Cost of Decommissioning established within the approved Decommissioning Plan or
$25,000, whichever is greater.
   If at any time, the Revised Estimate of the Net Cost of Decommissioning
exceeds 90% of the value of the posted surety, a new or amended surety shall be
posted in the amount of 125% of the newly Revised Net Cost of Decommissioning.
      6.   Religious institutions.
         a.   [Religious institutions in residential districts.] Religious
institutions are permitted in residential districts in accordance with the use
table in Section
5.1 and the following standards:
            (1)   A minimum setback of 40 feet from all exterior lot lines is
required; and
            (2)   The minimum distance between any exterior lot lines and the
perimeter of a parking area shall be 25 feet where such boundaries adjoin a
residential zoning district.
            (3)   A religious institution in or adjacent to any residential
district shall have its principal vehicular entrance and exit on an arterial
street , or on a collector street within 150 feet of its intersection with an
arterial.
            (4)   The principal building and accessory uses must be on a
contiguous site or sites separated only by a public street .
            (5)   After the effective date of this UDO, a religious institution
shall not be established in a residential structure in any residential
district.
         b.   Religious institutions in the CBD.
            (1)   Religious institutions shall not be a permissible use within
existing commercial buildings in downtown Garner located along Main Street
between Purvis Street and Griffin Street and zoned CBD.
            (2)   Existing religious institutions located in commercial
buildings within the area defined above shall be permitted to continue after
the effective date of this ordinance; however, once an existing religious
institution located in a commercial building in the area defined above ceases
operation, a new or different religious institution shall not be permitted to
occupy the vacated location.
      7.   Schools in residential districts.
         a.   Public or private schools are permitted in accordance with the
use table in Section
5.1 and the following standards:
         b.   A minimum setback of 40 feet from all exterior lot lines is
required; and
         c.   The minimum distance between any exterior lot lines and the
perimeter of a parking area shall be 25 feet where such boundaries adjoin a
residential zoning district.
         d.   A school in or adjacent to any residential district shall have
its principal vehicular entrance and exit on an arterial street , or on a
collector street within 150 feet of its intersection with an arterial.
         e.   The principal building and accessory uses must be on a contiguous
site.
      8.   Telecommunication facility. Towers and antennas greater than 35 feet
in height are permitted in accordance with the use table in Section
5.1 and the following standards:
         a.   The Town Council encourages the co-location of antennas on
existing towers in the Town's planning jurisdiction where possible in order to
reduce the amount of visual clutter that new towers create in the community.
         b.   The applicant shall attend a pre-application meeting with the
Planning Department. The applicant shall provide information regarding the
proposed facility's service area requirements, co-location opportunities and
review a checklist of information required for the formal application.
Additional information necessary to review the impact of the proposed facility
on surrounding properties may be required by the Planning Director at the time
of pre-application meeting.
         c.   The application shall comply with the criteria of Article 3.14
where applicable of the ordinance and meet the following standards.
            (1)   Reserved.
            (2)   The applicant shall provide competent evidence to the Town
Council that all reasonable efforts have been made to co- locate on an existing
tower , building , or structure or that no existing tower , building or
structure will technically satisfy the applicant's needs.
            (3)   The applicant shall certify to the Town Council that a new
tower location will be constructed for co-location of future users and that
radio, television or similar reception for adjoining properties will not be
disturbed or diminished.
            (4)   Advertising copy or any logo which constitutes a sign is
prohibited on any tower and antenna or satellite dish antenna in any zoning
district.
            (5)   The proposed tower location must be in conformity with the
Comprehensive Growth Plan, the Transportation Plan and other plans officially
adopted by the Town Council and applicable zoning overlay districts (1-40, U.S.
70/401, Timber Drive , and Lake Benson Overlay ).
            (6)   To assure that the proposed tower will be in conformity with
the adopted plans and policies of the Town, the Town Council may require a
specific type of towerconstruction . Monopole towers shall be required for
sites that fall within the I-40, U.S. 70/401 and Timber Drive Overlay
Districts. The Council may require specific towerconstruction types in other
areas of the Town, based on site specific needs and characteristics of the
surrounding neighborhood.
            (7)   Setbacks.
               (a)   Minimum Setbacks. A setback radius as measured from the
center of the tower base shall be required as follows for all cell towers -
except for those located in the R-40 district (see subsection (15) below) - as
follows:
 
Adjacent Lot Type         Setback                  Notes
Developed Residential     200' from property line   
District
Undeveloped Residential   100% Tower Height        See subsection (b)
District
                                                   See subsection (d); 110% BMD
Non-Residential Districts 60% Tower Height or 110% may not be less than the
                          BMD*                     minimum side or rear yard
                                                   zoning district setbacks
 
*   Breakpoint Minimum Distance (BMD) is the distance from the top of the
structure to the breakpoint level of the structure .
               (b)   The Town Council may allow the setback adjacent to
undeveloped residential districts to be reduced to a minimum of 60% of the
tower height based on competent engineering evidence provided by the applicant
certifying that the structural integrity of the tower is designed to collapse
completely within the reduced setback distance and that affected owners of
record adjacent to the reduced setback distance provide written documentation
that they do not object to such setback reduction.
               (c)   Breakpoint design technology is defined as: The
engineering design of a tower wherein a specified point on the tower is
designed such that in the event of a structural failure, the failure will occur
at the breakpoint rather than at the base plate, anchor bolts, or any other
point on the tower. Certification by a registered professional engineer
licensed by the State of North Carolina of the breakpoint design and the
design's fall radius must be provided together with the other information
required herein from an applicant.
               (d)   The Town Council may require that a tower setback radius
area not contain any building s, structure s or land uses if the Council
concludes that such building s, structure s or land uses could be impacted by
the structural failure of the tower .
            (8)   Landscape screening and buffering. A landscape buffer shall
be required between a tower and all adjacent land uses with the exception of
manufacturing, airport, armory and crematorium uses . See
Article 7 for specific buffer and screening standards. In addition, the
following standards shall apply:
               (a)   The required landscape buffer shall be required between
the base of a tower and any street right-of-way from which the tower is
visible.
               (b)   The Planning Director has the discretion to require that
the landscape buffer be provided adjacent to the fencing surrounding the tower
base rather than at the property line, when the site conditions are such that
tower base location will create a more effective visual screen from the
adjacent property line or street right-of-way.
            (9)   The Town Council may require the applicant to apply to the
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) for compliance with FAA standards for a
dual lighting system rather than the red and white marking pattern, when such
marking pattern is determined to be aesthetically blighting due to the location
of surrounding land uses or the visibility of the tower .
            (10)   When tower lighting is proposed, the applicant shall certify
to the permitting authority, as part of the conditional or special use permit
application, that the lighting planned for the tower does not exceed the
minimum standards of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), as amended.
            (11)   The exterior appearance of all buildings associated with a
telecommunications tower located adjacent to any residential zoning district
may be required by the Town Council to resemble a residential dwelling,
including a pitched roof(s), and frame or brick veneer construction .
            (12)   The exterior appearance of all buildings associated with a
telecommunications tower located in a residential or non residential zoning
district, which is visible from a public right- of-way, may be required by the
Town Council to have architectural enhancements, such as, siding, split face
block or brick veneer on all facades visible from the public right-of- way.
            (13)   A tower that has been abandoned or has not been actively
used for a period of six consecutive months shall be removed by the tower user
that currently owns or leases the facility upon notice from the Town of Garner,
unless the Town Council grants a time extension at the owner's request, for a
period not to exceed one year from the date of official notice.
            (14)   The tower shall be a tapered monopole construction unless
otherwise approved by the Town Council. The tower shall not exceed a height of
200 feet (measured from the finish grade elevation to the top of the tower ).
However, the Town Council may require a tower be of a certain height, not to
exceed the maximum permitted, if it finds that such a requirement is necessary
to support the design for co-location of additional users or is needed to
address the impact of the tower on adjacent properties and uses .
            (15)   In addition to meeting the standards listed above towers
located in R-40 zoning districts shall comply with the requirements outlined
below.
               (a)   There shall be a minimum setback from all sides of a tower
equal to 2.5 times the tower height measured in a straight line to an existing
residence, excluding the applicant's residence.
               (b)   Towers located in R-40 districts greater than 75 feet in
height shall not be located closer than 2,500 feet to another tower greater
than 75 feet in height. This separation provision applies only to communication
towers which transmit or receive telephone, telecommunication, radio or TV
signals and does not include amateur or ham radio towers and antennas .
               (c)   Associated buildings used in connection with a tower
located in R-40 districts may not be used as an employment center for any
worker. This provision does not prohibit periodic maintenance and monitoring of
equipment and instruments.
               (d)   The applicant shall apply stealth technologies for towers
located in R-40 districts where practical. However, all antennas on towers in
R-40 districts shall employ a type of stealth application that visually screens
antennas from any off-site location in a manner approved by the Town Council.
               (e)   Tower locations in R-40 districts are subject to
applicable standards of the Town's landscape ordinance and shall comply with
the following specific landscaping/buffer standards:
                  i.   The base of the tower , including associated structures
, fences, etc. shall be surrounded by a forested area 75 feet wide buffer with
planted vegetation necessary to achieve a 100 percent screen at eight feet in
height. Existing mature forest areas may be used to reduce the buffer width
requirement if the screening standard can be met.
                  ii.   Landscape berms may be allowed in lieu of the required
landscaped forest area provided the landscape berm is appropriate for the tower
location and it achieves the required screening standards outlined above.
                  iii.   The Planning Director has the discretion to require
that the required Buffer be provided adjacent to the fencing surrounding the
tower base rather than at the property line, when the site conditions are such
that tower base location will create a more effective visual screen from the
adjacent property line or street right-of-way.
      9.   Trade/vocational educational facilities. Trade/vocational
educational facilities are permitted, provided that all activities are
conducted in a completely enclosed building.
      10.   Continuing care retirement facilities. Continuing care retirement
facilities shall meet the following provisions:
         a.   The number of persons who may be housed in non-independent rooms
or apartments (not including hospital or clinic beds) does not exceed the
number of persons housed in independent dwelling units by a ratio of 3:1.
         b.   The continuing care retirement facility do not exceed a density
of ten units per acre, not including the number of persons occupying hospital
or clinic beds.
         c.   The number of hospital or clinic beds shall not be more than 50
percent of the total number of permitted dwelling units .
         d.   Retail stores and personal service establishments located within
the continuing care retirement facility are permissible only when:
            (1)   Such uses exclusively serve the residents of the facility;
            (2)   There is no exterior evidence of such uses outside of the
building they are located in and have no outdoor entrance for customers
separate from the main entrance of the activity or administrative building ;
and
            (3)   The floor area devoted to such uses shall not exceed 50
percent of the floor area of the building where the uses area located.
         e.   The facility is located on a minor or major thoroughfare.
         f.   The total number of persons residing in the continuing care
retirement facility does not exceed 500.
         g.   A minimum of 25 percent of the tract must be retained on site as
permanent open space.
      11.   Hospitals or Ambulatory Health/Emergency Care with heliport
operations in the O&I and CR Districts.
      These provisions shall only apply to Hospitals or Ambulatory Health/
Emergency Care Facilities with heliport operations.
         a.   Structures shall be designed and placed in a manner that is not
to be detrimental to adjoining properties within a 1,000 feet radius of the
heliport site measured from the center of final approach and take off area.
         b.   Proof of airspace clearance from the Federal Aviation Agency must
be provided prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
         c.   Evidence of applicable approvals required by the North Carolina
Department of Transportation for helicopter flight operations must be provided
prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
         d.   The Town Council may require the applicant to implement noise
reduction measures or flight operational restrictions deemed reasonable in
order to protect the public health, safety and welfare of surrounding residents
and businesses.
         e.   A 6-foot tall, opaque, year round landscape buffers and/or
plantings is required in order to mitigate visual impacts to surrounding
ground-floor residential properties.
   C.   Commercial, office and retail uses.
      1.   Bank, financial institution. A bank, credit union, or other
financial institution located in the NO or NC districts shall provide only
indoor transactions, which shall be further limited to the hours between 6:00
a.m. and 10:00 p.m. No external automated teller machine, drive-through
windows, or night drop windows shall be permitted.
      2.   Bar, nightclub, tavern.
         a.   In the CR, SB, l-1 and I-2 districts, a bar, nightclub or tavern
shall not be permitted within 500 feet of any residential use or residential
district.
         b.   In the CBD district, a bar, nightclub or tavern may only be
located on parcels with frontage on Main Street between Montague and Griffin
Streets or along Rand Mill Rd.
         c.   In the CBD district, a bar, nightclub or tavern shall have a
minimum of 250 square feet devoted to food preparation (kitchen, food
refrigeration/freezers, etc.)
         d.   In the CBD district, a bar, nightclub or tavern shall be open no
later than 1:00 a.m.
      3.   Car wash. A car wash shall be permitted in accordance with the use
table in Section
5.1 and the following standards:
         a.   No outdoor storage is permitted;
         b.   Any bay doors shall not be oriented toward the public right-of-
way unless appropriately screened as determined by the permit-issuing
authority;
         c.   All washing operations shall be conducted within a completely
enclosed building ; and
         d.   No car wash facility, including any areas for vehicular use ,
shall be located within 500 feet of any existing residential zoning district.
         e.   No vehicles shall be stored overnight.
      4.   Convenience store without fuel sales. A convenience store in the NC
and CBD districts may not exceed 5,000 square feet in gross floor area.
      5.   Extended stay facility. Extended stay facilities are permitted in
accordance with the use table in Section
5.1 and the following standards:
         a.   All guest rooms shall take access from an interior hallway. No
guest rooms shall be accessible without passing through a secured area.
         b.   Staff or management shall be on duty 24-hours per day, seven days
per week;
         c.   Each guest room shall have a minimum of 280 square feet;
         d.   No outside storage or permanent parking of equipment or vehicles
shall be permitted; and
         e.   No buildings constructed under this section may be converted to
or used as apartments or condominiums .
         f.   No extended stay facility shall be located on a site within 500
feet of any residential district or use .
      6.   Gym, spa, indoor tennis court or pool, private. A private gym, spa,
indoor tennis court or pool in the NC and NO districts may not exceed 5,000
square feet in gross floor area.
      7.   Repair oriented use. A repair-oriented use in the NC district may
not exceed 5,000 square feet in gross floor area. No outdoor storage at a
repair-oriented use shall be permitted.
      8.   Restaurant, indoor with seating only. An indoor restaurant in the NC
district may not exceed 5,000 square feet in gross floor area.
      9.   Restaurant, take-out only. A take-out restaurant in the NC district
may not exceed 5,000 square feet in gross floor area.
      10.   Sexually oriented business (adult uses). Adult uses are permitted
in accordance with the use table in Section
5.1 and the following standards:
         a.   No adult cabaret or adult establishment shall be located closer
than a distance of 1,000 feet from a church, school, park, residential zoning
district or other adult cabaret or adult establishment . The 1,000 foot
distance shall be measured from the closest point on the perimeter of the lot
on which the described establishment is located to the nearest point on the lot
on which the church, school, park, residentially zoned district, adult cabaret
or adult establishment is located.
         b.   Except as permitted in Section
7.5, Sign regulations, no signs , logos , promotional materials or other
distinctive decorations or markings shall be placed on the exterior of the
establishment or shall be visible to the public from streets or highways,
pedestrian sidewalks or walkways.
      11.   Vehicle general repair. Outdoor storage is restricted to the rear
of a building and must be 100 percent screened from all street views. No
vehicles shall be stored for more than 30 days.
      12.   Vehicle sales, rental. Outdoor storage is restricted to the rear of
a building and must be 100 percent screened from all street views. Sales areas
where vehicles for sale are parked may be permitted, subject to any
restrictions for parking area in the SB district.
      13.   Vehicle service, limited. No outdoor storage  is permitted in the
CR and I-1 districts and no vehicles shall be stored overnight. Outdoor storage
in the SB district is limited to the rear of the building  with 100 percent
screening from all views.
      14.   Vehicle towing, storage.
         a.   No vehicle towing or storage facility shall be located within 500
feet of any residential use or district.
         b.   All overnight storage of vehicles shall be completely screened
from view from the public right-of-way and adjacent properties by a six- foot
fence or other methods that achieve the screening objective.
      15.   Veterinarian/kennel, indoor.
         a.   No veterinarian or kennel in the NC, NO or CBD districts shall
exceed 5,000 square feet.
         b.   All activity associated with the operation shall take place
within a completely enclosed building .
      16.   Veterinarian/kennel with outdoor operations. No veterinarian or
kennel with outdoor operations shall be located within 500 feet of any
residential use or district.
      17.   Electronic gaming center. No electronic gaming center shall be
located within ¼ mile of another electronic gaming center . The distance shall
be measured from the closest point on the perimeter of the parcel on which the
described establishments are located.
   D.   Industrial and manufacturing uses.
      1.   Flex space. Flex space is permitted in accordance with the use table
in Section
5.1 and the following standards:
         a.   Changes in products, services, and square footage of the
permitted uses within a flex-spacestructure do not require approval of the
Town.
         b.   Any portion of the gross floor area in each flex spacestructure
may be commercial space provided sufficient off-street parking is available on-
site.
         c.   One parking space shall be provided for each 400 square feet of
floor area used as flex space .
      2.   Industrial use , indoor. No outdoor storage  is permitted in the I-
1 district. Outdoor storage  in the SB district is limited to the rear of the
building  with 100 percent screening from all views.
      3.   Manufacturing and production. Manufacturing and production
facilities are permitted in accordance with the use table in Section
5.3 and the following standards:
         a.   No vibration shall be produced which is transmitted through the
ground (and is discernible without the aid of instruments) at or at any point
beyond the lot line.
         b.   All noise shall be muffled so as to not be objectionable due to
intermittence, beat frequency or shrillness.
         c.   Visible emissions of air pollutants of any kind at ground level,
past the lot line of the lot on which the source of emissions is located, are
prohibited.
         d.   No person shall cause or permit any materials to be handled,
transported or stored in such a manner which allows or may allow particulate
matter to become airborne.
         e.   No direct glare from high temperature processes such as
combustion or welding, which is visible at the lot line, shall be permitted.
         f.   There shall be no emission or transmission of heat or heated air
so as to be discernible from the lot line.
         g.   Any condition or operation which results in the creation of odors
of such intensity or character as to unreasonably interfere with the comfort of
the public shall be removed, stopped or modified so as to remove the odor.
         h.   Manufacturing and production uses shall not be a permissible use
within existing commercial buildings in downtown Garner located along Main
Street between Montague Street and Griffin Street, and zoned CBD.
      4.   Recycling collection (outside).Recycling collection points  are
permitted in accordance with the use  table in Section
5.1 and the following standards:
         a.   Recycling collection points shall be limited to one operation per
principle use (i.e., one per shopping center , or office complex or building ).
         b.   Recycling collection points shall present an appropriate
appearance in the community. This objective may be accomplished by the use of
containers which are uniform in size, color and shape, or by the use of
sufficient measures to screen recycling collection points from external views.
         c.   Materials collected at recycling collection points shall be
limited to aluminum, plastic, glass, or paper materials which may be recycled
for re-manufacture or reuse.
         d.   Recyclable materials shall be stored within a weather-tight
container or a durable material container. An individual container shall not
exceed a height of eight feet. The use of containers with self-closing doors is
strongly encouraged.
         e.   Outside recycling collection points should be located on a site
so as to avoid direct street view such as side or rear areas of existing
building . The location of a recycling collection point shall be situated on a
site so as not to create unsafe or hazardous traffic movements on or off the
site.
         f.   Processing equipment shall not be a part of a recycling
collection point .
         g.   The area immediately surrounding recycling collection points
shall be kept clean and in a good state of repair at all times. The Planning
Director shall have the authority to order, at the owner's expense, painting,
repair, alteration, screening or removal of containers or receptacles and the
cleaning of recycling collection point areas which constitute by reason of
inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, obsolescence, or abandonment, a public
nuisance or hazard to public health, safety or welfare. Failure to comply with
the provisions of this section shall result in enforcement action according to
the requirements of
Article 10, Enforcement.
         h.   The setback requirements that apply to the principal use of
property where a recycling collection point is located shall also apply to
individual recycling collection containers.
         i.   Signage for recycling collection points shall be subject to the
sign regulations set forth in
Article 7. The use of the recycling symbol as the only signage for recycling
collections points is required.
         j.   A minimum of five parking spaces per recycling collection point
or one parking space for each receptacle, whichever is greater, shall be
required.
         k.   In order to establish a recycling collection point , an applicant
shall submit information to the Planning Director outlining the general
operation of the use and a site plan depicting the location of all containers
on the site. The submitted information must be of sufficient detail; to enable
the Planning Director to determine if the standards of this UDO and other
applicable requirements have been met. A recycling collection point shall not
be established and operated until the Planning Director has issued written
approval of the request.
      5.   Recyclable material collection centers.Recyclable material
collection centers are permitted in accordance with the use table in Section
5.1 and the following standards:
         a.   Collectible recyclable materials shall be limited to aluminum,
copper, plastic, glass or paper.
         b.   Storage of collectible recyclable materials may be located inside
or outside of an enclosed building . If located outside of an enclosed building
, recyclable materials shall be stored within a trailer that is drawn by motor
power and bears a valid and current state license. Or, such material located
outside an enclosed building may be stored within weather tight metal
containers which do not exceed a height of eight feet.
         c.   Recyclable material collection centers outside of an enclosed
building should be located on a site to avoid direct street view, such as but
not limited to being located in the rear of existing building (s). Direct
street view of outside collection centers is permissible only when a 100
percent screen on all sides of the receptacle is completed by the developer
according to the standards outlined below prior to the start of collection
operations. Plans detailing how an outside collection center is to be screened
shall be submitted as part of the site plan application .
         d.   Where an outside collection receptacle is a trailer, screening
shall be accomplished by solid fencing sufficient to screen tires of all
trailer wheels and shall be located a maximum of six feet from the designated
trailer location closest to street view. A minimum of 50 percent of the solid
fence shall be softened with vegetation consisting of a combination of shrubs
and trees and shall extend 15 feet on either end of said fencing.
         e.   Where an outside collection receptacle is a weather tight metal
container, a 100 percent solid screen shall be provided on all sides with a
direct street view. Screening shall be accomplished by solid fencing to a
minimum height of eight feet; located a maximum of four feet from the
container. A minimum of 50 percent of the fence shall be softened with
vegetation consisting of a combination of shrubs and trees.
         f.   Processing equipment, such as but not limited to crushers,
sorting equipment shall not be part of an outside collection operation.
         g.   Collection containers shall be located a minimum of 50 feet from
any property line adjoining a residence or residential district. A type A
buffer /screen shall be required along such property lines.
         h.   Recyclable material collection center sites shall be kept clean
and free of materials, rubbish or debris. The exterior of outside collection
containers shall be kept clean and kept in a good state of repair at all times.
The Planning Director shall have the authority to order painting, repair,
alteration, or removal of receptacles and the cleaning of collection sites
which constitutes by reason of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation,
obsolescence, or abandonment, a public nuisance or hazard to public health,
safety or welfare.
         i.   All applicable setback requirements of
Article 6 shall apply to situations where all collection and storage operations
are conducted inside a completely enclosed building .
         j.   In situations where collection and storage operations occur
outside of an enclosed building the following setbacks shall apply:
 
Standard
Front setback 50 feet
Interior side 25 feet
Corner side   50 feet
Rear side     25 feet (50 feet if site abuts a street )
 
   Note: Greater setback may be required if site adjoins a residence or
residential district.
         k.   A minimum of five parking spaces per recyclable material
collection center site or two parking spaces for each receptacle, whichever is
greater, shall be required.
         l.   Signage for collection centers shall be subject to the sign
regulations set forth in Section
7.5.
         m.   A recyclable material collection center with outside operations
shall be located on a lot which abuts U.S. 401, U.S. 70, N.C. 50, or Mechanical
Boulevard.
      6.   Storage.
         a.   All outdoor storage areas shall be screened from view from any
public right-of-way or adjacent property with a six-foot opaque fence, wall; or
other methods that achieve the screening objective.
      7.   Wholesale sales . No outdoor storage is permitted in the I-
1 district. Outdoor storage in the SB district is limited to the rear of the
building with 100 percent screening from all views.
   E.   Other uses.
      1.   Agriculture and silviculture.
         a.   Agriculture. Structures for keeping and raising of livestock and
poultry shall be separated from residentially-zoned property by 500 feet.
         b.   Silviculture. Forest management, tree farm and timber areas are
permitted subject to the following standards:
            (1)   No clearing of timber, trees or understory vegetation will be
permitted in the perimeter and street buffers as established in
Article 7, except for any road /driveway necessary to serve the property;
            (2)   No site plan approval shall be issued within two years of the
harvesting of timber; and
            (3)   No clearing of timbers, trees or understory vegetation will
occur within 20 feet of the property line of an adjoining property devoted to a
residential use .
   F.   Funeral home and crematorium.
      1.   Crematoriums are allowed only as an accessory use to a funeral home.
      2.   All crematoriums must meet the requirements of the North Carolina
Crematory Act.
      3.   All crematorium operations must be conducted entirely within a
structure ; outdoor storage is prohibited.
      4.   All crematorium operations must provide certification from the N.C.
Division of Air Quality that a permit is or is not required.
(Ord. No. 3396, §§ 6--10, 4-3-06; Ord. No. 3502, §§ 1, 2, 3-3-08; Ord. No.
3523, § 5, 8-4-08; Ord. No. 3558, § 2, 7-7-09; Ord. No. 3656, § 3, 2-21-12;
Ord. No. 3673, § 3, 10-1-12; Ord. No. 3780, § 8, 7-7-15; Ord. No. 3881, § 4, 9-
5-17; Ord. 3929, § 2, 9-4-18; Ord. No. 3963, § 2, 4-16-19; Ord. No. 3999, § 1,
9-17-19; Ord. No. 5007, § 1, 1-4-21 ; Ord., 3-16-21; Ord. No. 5048, § 2, 7-6-21
)
5.4.   Accessory uses and structures.
   A.   General.
      1.   Whenever a use is conducted in conjunction with another principal
use , and the first use :
         a.   Constitutes only an incidental or insubstantial part of the total
activity on a lot ; or
         b.   Is commonly associated with the principal use and integrally
related to it,
      2.   Then the first use may be regarded as accessory and may be carried
on under the umbrella of the permit issued for the principal use .
   B.   Accessory buildings and uses in residential districts.
      1.   The following standards shall apply to all accessory building in
residential districts:
         a.   The maximum height of a garage shall not exceed the height of the
principal structure .
         b.   The maximum height of an accessory building other than a garage
shall be 20 feet.
         c.   The minimum setback from a side lot line is ten feet;
         d.   The minimum setback from a rear lot line is five feet;
         e.   If an easement exists along such a lot line, the minimum setback
will be coincident with the easement line if it is greater than the applicable
minimum stated above;
         f.   The floor area of the total number of accessory building shall
not exceed one-half of the heated square footage of the principal building
served, except in the R-40 district;
   Commentary: Floor area for accessory building cannot exceed one-half of the
heated space of the principal building , plus any existing accessory building
(s).
         g.   Residential accessory building , on lots of record prior to March
1984, may encroach into designated conservation buffers provided that: (1) such
buildings not exceed one-quarter of the area of the principal building served;
(2) such accessory building shall not be located in any designated floodway ;
(3) placement of an accessory building in a flood fringe area shall meet all
applicable construction requirements; and (4) including the accessory building
, the area of the lot covered by impervious surfaces shall not exceed 25
percent.
      2.   The following are specifically regarded as accessory to residential
principal uses so long as they satisfy the general criteria set forth in
paragraph 1., above:
         a.   Offices or studios within an enclosed building and used by an
occupant of a residence located on the same lot to carry on administrative or
artistic activities, so long as such activities do not fall within the
definition of a home occupation .
         b.   Hobbies or recreational activities of a noncommercial nature.
         c.   The renting out of one or two rooms within a single-family
residence (which one or two rooms do not themselves constitute a separate
dwelling unit ) to persons who are not part of the family that resides in the
single-family residence.
      3.   The following activities shall not be regarded as accessory to a
residential principal use and are prohibited in residential districts:
         a.   Storage or parking of any vehicle or trailer overnight or for a
longer period of time, if said vehicle or trailer is licensed or regularly used
for commercial or industrial purposes, and meets any of the following criteria:
            (1)   A vehicle for which a commercial driver's license is required
by state law; or
            (2)   A vehicle or trailer having in excess of two axles; or
            (3)   Any trailer bearing commercial signage, logo , or actually
carrying commercial or industrial equipment or materials, or
            (4)   A vehicle or trailer having a height in excess of 90 inches
stored or parked in any required front yard .
         b.   However, nothing in the UDO shall prohibit the overnight parking
or storage of pickup trucks or of trailers used exclusively for noncommercial
or non-industrial purposes.
         c.   Automotive repair, including engine, body or other repair or
repainting of any vehicle owned by a person not residing at that address,
notwithstanding whether compensation was paid for said service.
         d.   Skateboard ramps, except as follows:
            (1)   Ramps that do not exceed four feet in height off a horizontal
plane at the highest point of ground where the structure is immediately
erected; and
            (2)   That meet all side and rear yard setback requirements.
   C.   Junked or abandoned vehicles. The following activities shall not be
regarded as accessory to any principal use and are prohibited in all districts,
except as a principal use expressly allowed in the use table in Section
5.1:
      1.   Storage outside a substantially enclosed building of any junked or
abandoned motor vehicle that also constitutes a nuisance for more than 30 days.
(A building is substantially enclosed if the length of the additional wall
necessary to fully enclose it would not exceed 25 percent of the length of the
existing walls.) Abandoned and junked motor vehicles are defined as follows:
         a.   An abandoned motor vehicle is a self-propelled, land operated
vehicle (e.g., truck, car, tractor, etc.) that:
            (1)   Has been left upon a street or highway in violation of a law
or ordinance prohibiting parking; or
            (2)   Is left on property owned or operated by the Town for longer
than 24 hours; or
            (3)   Is left on private property without the consent of the owner,
occupant or lessee thereof for longer than two hours; or
            (4)   Is left on any public street or highway for longer than seven
days.
         b.   A junked motor vehicle is an abandoned motor vehicle that also:
            (1)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked; or
            (2)   Cannot be self-propelled or moved in the manner in which it
was originally intended to move; or
            (3)   Is more than five years old and worth less than $100.00; or
            (4)   Does not display a current license plate.
   D.   Automatic one bay (non-wand) car wash facility. A one bay automatic
(non- wand) car wash facility that is completely enclosed except for openings
necessary to allow entry and exit of vehicles is permissible in CR and SB
districts only, provided:
      1.   The facility serves as an accessory use to the principal use of a
convenience store only.
      2.   The car wash building or structure cannot exceed a height of 20 feet
or exceed an overall building dimension of 25 feet in width and 50 feet in
length.
      3.   The car wash accessory building shall have the same architectural
character as the onsite principal building and shall house car wash related
storage and/or rest rooms only. The doors of the car wash building shall be
architecturally compatible with the car wash building . The doors of the car
wash accessory building shall be closed when the facility is not in operation.
      4.   The car wash building and storage of auxiliary equipment related to
the car wash facility shall be located behind the rear building line of the
principle use building .
      5.   The orientation of a one bay automatic car wash structure shall be
sited so as to discourage direct street view of the facility. Direct street
access of a one bay automatic car wash structure and related auxiliary
equipment is permissible only when appropriate landscaped areas such as, but
not limited to, planter islands or other landscaped features are used to
provide a 50 percent screen of the facility and related equipment from street
view.
      6.   All one bay (non-wand) automatic car wash structures shall meet the
applicable setback standards of
Article 6. The use shall be subject to the noise standards.
      7.   In addition to meeting the screening standards outlined above, the
provisions of
Article 7, regarding buffer /screen requirements shall apply to a one bay
automatic car wash facility.
      8.   The property on which an accessory automatic non-wand car wash is
located shall abut the major thoroughfares, U.S. 401 and U.S. 70 and N.C. 50,
as designated on the adopted greater Capital Area Metropolitan Planning
Organization Transportation Plan.
      9.   All car wash facilities shall be equipped with a water recycling
system that meets all applicable standards and regulations of the Town, City of
Raleigh, Wake County and state or connect to the Town of Garner Sewer System
upon the approval of the Town Engineer.
   E.   Automatic car wash facility. An automatic (non-wand) car wash facility
that is completely enclosed except for openings necessary to allow entry and
exit of vehicles is permissible as an accessory use  to the principal use  of
an automobile service center , in the CR and SB districts provided the
following standards are met:
      1.   The number of car wash bays shall be limited to a maximum of two,
provided the number of car wash bays does not exceed more than one-third of the
total number of bays contained in the entire building .
      2.   The car wash bays shall be architecturally integrated into the
overall building to as to present a unified building design in a manner that
utilizes the same building materials and colors as the other portions of the
building .
      3.   Hours of operation for the automatic car wash shall be limited to
between 6:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. each day.
      4.   Appearance and landscaping.
         a.   The orientation of the automatic car wash bays shall be sited so
as to discourage direct street views of the facility where practical.
         b.   Automobile service centers with automatic car wash bays as an
accessory use located within the Timber Drive or U.S. 70/401 overlay districts
shall be subject to the landscape standards of those overlay districts.
         c.   Automobile service centers with automatic car wash bays as an
accessory use not located within a special overlay district shall provide a 100
percent screen of the facility and related equipment from street views to a
minimum height of four feet within two years of initial planting.
         d.   All car wash facilities shall be equipped with a water recycling
system that meets all applicable standards and regulations of the Town, City of
Raleigh, Wake County, and state or connect to the Town of Garner Sewer System
upon the approval of the Town Engineer.
   F.   Home occupations in residential zoning districts.
      1.   Defined. A commercial activity in any residential district that:
         a.   Is conducted by a person on the same lot where such person
resides; and
         b.   Is not so insubstantial or incidental or is not so commonly
associated with the residential use as to be regarded as an accessory use , but
that can be conducted without any significantly adverse impact on the
surrounding neighborhood.
      2.   Uses not permitted. A use may not be regarded as having an
insignificant adverse impact on the surrounding neighborhood if:
         a.   The home occupation changes the outside appearance of the
dwelling;
         b.   Goods, stock in trade, or other commodities are displayed;
         c.   It results in the outside storage or display of anything;
         d.   Any on-premises retail sales occur;
         e.   More than one person not a resident on the premises is employed
in connection with the occupation;
         f.   It generates traffic, parking, sewerage, or water use in excess
of what is normal in the residential neighborhood;
         g.   It results in the off-street or on-street parking of more than
two vehicles at any one time not owned by members of the occupant household ;
         h.   Creates a hazard to persons or property;
         i.   Is a nuisance;
         j.   It creates objectionable traffic, noise, fumes, odor, dust or
electrical interference; or
         k.   More than 25 percent of the total gross floor area of the
residential building plus other buildings used for the occupation, or more than
500 square feet of gross floor area , whichever is less, is used for home
occupation purposes.
      3.   Home occupation standards.
         a.   The residential character of the lot and dwelling shall be
maintained. Neither the interior nor the exterior of the dwelling shall be
structurally altered so as to require compliance with nonresidential
construction codes to accommodate the home occupation . A sign up to four
square feet in area and four feet in height may be allowed as noted in
Article 7, provided a sign permit is obtained.
         b.   No additional buildings or structures shall be added on the
property to accommodate the home occupation .
         c.   No outdoor storage or separate entrance shall be permitted.
         d.   Instruction in music, dancing and similar subjects shall be
limited to two students at a time.
         e.   Any activities involving outside visitors or clients shall be
limited to the hours between 8:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m.
      4.   Exclusions to home occupations. The following are expressly
prohibited as home occupations:
         a.   Animal hospitals, stables, or kennels ;
         b.   Barber, beauty and other personal service shops;
         c.   Dance studios, schools;
         d.   Mortuaries;
         e.   Private clubs;
         f.   Repair shops;
         g.   Restaurants ;
         h.   Automobile paint or repair shops; or
         i.   Doctor, dentist, veterinarian or other medically related office.
   G.   Home occupations in the Neighborhood Office zoning district.
      1.   Defined. A commercial activity in a single family dwelling located
in the Neighborhood Office district that:
         a.   Is conducted by a person on the same lot where such person
resides; and
         b.   Is not so insubstantial or incidental or is not so commonly
associated with the residential use as to be regarded as an accessory use , but
that can be conducted without any significantly adverse impact on the
surrounding neighborhood.
      2.   Uses not permitted. A home occupationuse is not allowed if:
         a.   The home occupation changes the outside appearance of the
dwelling;
         b.   Goods, stock in trade, or other commodities are displayed;
         c.   It results in the outside storage or display of anything;
         d.   Any on-premises retail sales occur;
         e.   More than six people not a resident on the premises are employed
in connection with the occupation;
         f.   It generates traffic, parking, sewerage, or water use in excess
of what is normal in the residential neighborhood;
         g.   It results in any on-street parking of vehicles;
         h.   Creates a hazard to persons or property;
         i.   Is a nuisance;
         j.   It creates objectionable traffic, noise, fumes, odor, dust or
electrical interference; or
         k.   More than 50 percent of the total gross floor area of the
residential building plus other buildings used for the occupation, or more than
700 square feet of gross floor area , whichever is less, is used for home
occupation purposes.
      3.   Home occupation standards.
         a.   The residential character of the lot and dwelling shall be
maintained. The dwelling must comply with all applicable NC Building Codes
necessary to accommodate the home occupation .
         b.   A sign up to four square feet in area and four feet in height may
be allowed as noted in
Article 7 provided a sign permit is obtained.
         c.   No additional buildings or structures shall be added on the
property to accommodate the home occupation .
         d.   No outdoor storage or separate entrance shall be permitted.
         e.   Instruction in music, dancing and similar subjects shall be
limited to two students at a time.
         f.   All activities involving the home occupation limited to the hours
between 7:30 a.m. and 8:00 p.m.
         g.   Off-street parking shall be provided in the amount of one parking
space per employee in addition to required parking for the residential use of
the dwelling. All parking must be designed to meet the requirements of
Article 7 of the UDO.
         h.   Commercial vehicles as defined in Section
5.4.3(a) are prohibited as part of the home occupation .
      4.   Exclusions to home occupations. The following are expressly
prohibited as home occupations:
         a.   Animal hospitals, stables, or kennels ;
         b.   Dance studios, schools;
         c.   Mortuaries;
         d.   Private clubs;
         e.   Repair shops;
         f.   Restaurants ;
         g.   Automobile paint or repair shops; or
         h.   Doctor, dentist, veterinarian or other medically related office.
   H.   Fences and walls. Fences and walls are permitted in any yard or along
the edge of any yard and to such heights as follows, provided the vision
necessary for safe vehicular and pedestrian movement on driveways and streets
is not impeded:
      1.   All residential, OI, NC and CR districts. Open and solid fences to
four feet in front and corner side yards; solid fences to six feet in side and
rear yards; open fences to any structurally-sound height in side and rear
yards; solid rear and side yard fences to eight feet as a special exception if
granted by the Board of Adjustment.
      2.   Service Business (SB) districts. Solid fences to four feet in front
yards; solid fences to ten feet in side and rear yards; open fences to any
structurally-sound height in any yard.
      3.   Industrial districts (I-1, I-2). Solid and open fences to any
structurally-sound height.
      4.   Salvage operations. Solid fences not less than eight feet in height
must be provided to enclose any salvage, scrap or reclamation operation.
      5.   Swimming pools. Swimming pools shall be completely isolated from
adjacent properties and from streets by a fence or wall having a minimum height
of four feet, and a maximum height as provided above, constructed so as to
prevent the passage of small children.
      6.   Water impoundment ponds or other water feature.
         a.   Where a water impoundment pond or other water feature is located
more than 100 feet from the property line of any adjacent residential use or
zoning district and provides an aquatic shelf acceptable to the Town Engineer,
no fence shall be required.
         b.   Where no such shelf is proposed, or the site is located closer
than 100 feet to the property line of any residential use or zoning district,
the pond or water feature shall be fenced and landscaped.
         c.   As an alternative to subparagraphs a. and b. above, a pre-
existing pond may be retained without fencing if the real property on which it
is situated is owned by a homeowners' association which maintains a liability
insurance policy, prepaid annually, with minimum limits of $1,000,000 which
lists the Town as an additional insured; the H.O.A. must submit an initial
budget which provides for payment of the premium, and must assure that its
agent annually certifies such coverage to the Town. A lapse in coverage shall
be punishable as a misdemeanor. The homeowners' association shall notify the
Town of any lapse in coverage. The declaration shall provide that any person or
entity which pays the delinquent premium has a lien on the common areas and on
each lot affected by the declaration. Lapse of coverage is also enforceable by
any other enforcement means available to the Town, including nuisance
abatement, civil penalty, injunctive relief and otherwise.
      7.   Maintenance and appearance standards. These provisions shall apply
to all fences and walls installed as part of an approved development screening
requirement and to fences and walls that are an accessory structure to a
residential or commercial property visible from a major or minor thoroughfare.
Streets considered major and minor thoroughfares are listed under Subsection
5.4(H)(7)(h). The responsibility for maintenance of fences and walls shall be
the property owner or an authorized designee.
         a.   A fence or wall shall not be disfigured [by] such as, but not
limited to, graffiti, cracks, peeling paint or other material.
         b.   A fence shall not stand with bent or broken supports.
         c.   Fences shall be kept free of missing boards and gaps.
         d.   Repair of fences and walls shall be completed with the same or an
acceptable similar material as the original structure . Size, width and other
dimensional attributes of existing fences and walls shall be used for
replacement material.
         e.   When portions of fences and walls are removed or taken down with
no intention to rebuild or replace, all portions of the fence must be removed.
In cases where the fence or wall is part of the screening required for an
approved developmentproject , the fence or wall must be replaced consistent
with the provisions of this section.
         f.   If a nonconforming fence or wall is damaged and it is determined
by the Planning Director that such damage is greater than 50 percent of the
replacement value of the entire fence or wall, the entire fence or wall must be
reconstructed to conform with the provisions regulating fences and walls.
         g.   Fences shall be constructed such that exposed framing faces the
interior yard and not visible from the street right-of-way.
         h.   The provisions of this section apply to all existing or future
major or minor thoroughfares listed on the Town's adopted Transportation Plan
as amended.
            (1)   Major thoroughfares: Garner Road, Jones Sausage Road,
Mechanical Boulevard, N.C. 50, Old Stage Road, Ten Ten Road, Timber Drive, U.S.
70, U.S. 401, Vandora Springs Road, and White Oak Road.
            (2)   Minor thoroughfares: Auburn-Knightdale Road, Auburn Church
Road, Aversboro Road, Buffaloe Road, Creech Road, Grovemont Road, New Bethel
Church Road, New Rand Road, Rand Road, Woodland Road, and Yeargan Road South.
         i.   An appeal by any person aggrieved by a final order,
interpretation or decision of the Planning Director , Building Official or
other administrator of the Town may be taken to the Board of Adjustment in
accordance with
Article 3.
   I.   Towers and antennas or satellite dishes 35 feet tall or less.
      1.   Towers and antennas or satellite dishes 35 feet tall or less,
mounted on the ground are considered accessory uses and structures in all zones
provided they meet the following criteria:
         a.   Towers and antennas or satellite dish antennas shall not be
located in a public right-of-way or public easement.
         b.   Towers and antennas or satellite dish antennas shall be
prohibited in front and corner-side street yards in all residential districts.
         c.   Towers and antennas or satellite dish antennas shall meet the
applicable rear or interior side yard setback requirement in all residential
zoning districts.
         d.   Satellite dish antennas in all residential zoning districts shall
not exceed a height of 20 feet and 12 feet in diameter and shall be limited to
one device per lot . A satellite dish that exceeds four feet in diameter shall
be constructed of black mesh material.
         e.   Towers and antennas or satellite dish antennas shall meet the
applicable yard setback requirement in all nonresidential districts.
         f.   In addition, the following criteria must be met:
            (1)   The owner of a tower and antenna or satellite dish shall
certify that radio, television or similar reception for adjoining properties
will not be disturbed or diminished.
            (2)   Advertising copy or any logo which constitutes a sign are
prohibited on any tower and antenna or satellite dish antenna in any zoning
district.
            (3)   A satellite dish antenna located in a residential zoning
district shall be screened from all street views. The screen shall be made of
plant materials, enclosed fences or walls, earthen beams or any combination
thereof which is immediately adjacent to the dish antenna . Such screening
shall be a height of six feet above ground elevation.
   J.   Towers and antennas or satellite dishes, 20 feet tall or less.
      1.   Towers and antennas or satellite dishes, 20 feet tall or less,
mounted on the roof of a building or structure are considered accessory uses in
all zones provided they meet the following criteria:
         a.   The applicant shall submit a site plan and roof plan showing the
exact location of the satellite dish antenna and how its location and/or
architectural enhancements will provide a 50 percent screen of the structure
from all street views for dish antennas located in nonresidential districts and
a 75 percent screen from all street views in residential districts.
         b.   The applicant shall certify that radio or television or similar
reception for adjoining properties will not be disturbed or diminished by a
satellite dish.
         c.   Advertising copy or logos which meets the definition of a sign
shall not be permitted on any tower and antenna or satellite dish antenna in
any zoning district.
         d.   A roof mounted satellite dish antenna in a residential district
that exceeds four feet in diameter shall be constructed of black mesh material.
      2.   The Board of Adjustment may grant an exception to these requirements
regarding the location, height and setback requirements provided the Board
concludes the following conditions have been satisfied.
         a.   The applicant provides acceptable evidence that literal
compliance with the required locational or dimensional standards will result in
the obstruction of the antenna or satellite dish's reception and will not
permit the normal use of the antenna or satellite dish.
         b.   The applicant provides acceptable evidence to the Board of
Adjustment that the granting of the exception is the minimum necessary to
operate the antenna or satellite dish in a normal manner according to the
manufacturer's specifications.
         c.   In addition to the above required findings, in order to grant an
exception the Board of Adjustment must find the following:
            (1)   That the request will be in general harmony with adjoining
properties;
            (2)   That the request will not endanger the public safety or
welfare; and
            (3)   That the request does not violate any other local, state or
federal laws or regulations.
   K.   Accessory solar energy systems .
      a.   Generally. Solar panels shall not create glare that constitutes a
traffic safety hazard or nuisance to neighboring properties. As such, they
shall:
         (1)   be arranged, angled or sited to minimize glare or reflection
onto adjoining properties and rights-of-way; and
         (2)   have a textured or anti-reflective surface or coating (mirrors
or mirrored panels are prohibited).
      b.   Additional regulations for ground-mounted panels and related
equipment associated with residential uses:
         (1)   The maximum height at maximum tilt is eight (8) feet;
         (2)   The area shall not exceed 25% of the principal residential
building's footprint (not total square footage);
         (3)   Location is restricted to the interior side and rear yards only
and shall not encroach into any perimeter buffer required by Section 7.1K(6):
Buffer width charts;
         (4)   Minimum setbacks shall meet those specified for accessory
structures; however, the area shall not count towards any accessory structure
allowances; and
         (5)   Views from street rights-of-way and adjacent parcels shall be at
least 50% screened to a height of eight (8) feet.
      2.   Non-residential uses in the CBD zoning district: Only flush-mounted
solar roof panels or solar shingles are permitted.
(Ord. No. 3396, § 11, 4-3-06; Ord. No. 3418, §§ 1--5, 7-5-06; Ord. No. 3519, 7-
7-08; Ord. No. 3523, § 1, 8-4-08; Ord. No. 3780, § 9, 7-7-15; Ord. No. 5005, §
1, 1-4-21; Ord., 3-16-21)
5.5.   Temporary uses.
   A.   Permit required. A temporary use  or structure  for one or more of the
following described uses  in paragraph C., below, shall be permitted in any
district. All temporary uses  and structures  shall obtain a temporary use
permit pursuant to the procedures set forth in
Article 3.
   B.   General regulations. The general regulations of this section shall
apply to all allowed temporary uses unless otherwise expressly stated.
      1.   Permanent changes prohibited. Permanent changes to the site of a
temporary use are prohibited.
      2.   Accessory signage.
         a.   Permanent signs accessory to temporary uses are prohibited;
         b.   Signs accessory to temporary uses shall be limited to the
premises of the temporary use except as specifically permitted under
Article 7;
         c.   Not more than one double-faced, non-illuminated sign shall be
permitted;
         d.   Said sign shall not exceed 32 square feet in area nor eight feet
in height and shall be set back not less than five feet from the front and/or
side property line;
         e.   Signs accessory to temporary uses require a permit; and
         f.   All signs accessory to temporary uses shall be removed when the
activity ends.
      3.   Temporary uses shall not violate any applicable conditions of
approval that apply to the principal use on the site.
      4.   The operator must obtain all other required permits applicable to
the activity, such as health department permits.
      5.   All temporary structures shall be erected in a safe manner in
accordance with any applicable Town codes, ordinances or standards.
         a.   No temporary use shall be placed on any public sidewalk, public
street , or other public property except as provided in the Town of Garner Code
of Ordinances; and
         b.   Electrical and utility connections, if applicable, shall be
approved by the Town.
   C.   Temporary uses allowed. Temporary uses shall be allowed in accordance
with the standards of this section.
      1.   Table of temporary uses permitted by district:
Allowable  Temporary R40 R-20, R-15, R-12, R- NO, NC, CBD OI, CR, SB I-1, I-2
Use                       9, RMH, MF-1, MF-2
                                   R-20, R-15,
Allowable  Temporary R40          R-12, R-9,   NO, NC, CBD  OI, CR, SB  I-1, I-2
Use                                RMH, MF-1,
                                   MF-2
                                   Not Allowed;
                                   except
                                   rodeos in
                                   the R-20
                                   district,
                                   subject to
                                   all
                                   activities
Carnivals, Fairs,     Permit       being        Permit       Permit      Permit
Circuses, Concerts    Required     located a    Required     Required    Required
and Similar Uses                   minimum of
                                   100 feet
                                   from any lot
                                   line zoned
                                   residential
                                   or used as a
                                   residence
                                   with Permit
                                   Required
Natural Disasters and Allowed      Allowed      Allowed      Allowed     Allowed
Emergencies Offices
Parking Lot Sales     Not Allowed  Not Allowed  Not Allowed  Permit      Permit
                                                             Required    Required
Seasonal Outdoor      Not Allowed  Not Allowed  Permit       Permit      Permit
Sales                                           Required     Required    Required
Temporary
Construction ,        Permit       Permit       Permit       Permit      Permit
Security, Real Estate Required     Required     Required     Required    Required
Sales Offices
Yard or Garage Sales  Allowed      Allowed      Not Allowed  Not Allowed Not Allowed
                                                Registration Registratio Registration
                                                Required;    n Required; Required;
Temporary Storage    Registration Registration Permit       Permit      Permit
Container             Required     Required     Required     Required    Required
                                                after 15     after 15    after 15
                                                days         days        days
 
      2.   Carnivals, fairs, circuses, concerts and other public entertainment.
Such temporary, outdoor events shall be governed by the provisions of the Town
of Garner Code of Ordinances. No person shall permit, maintain, promote,
conduct, advertise, act as entrepreneur, undertake, organize, manage or sell or
give tickets to an actual or reasonably anticipated assembly of 500 or more
people which continues or can reasonably be expected to continue for 18 or more
consecutive hours, whether on public or private property, unless the standards
of this section are met.
         a.   Exemptions.
            (1)   This section shall not apply to any regularly established,
permanent place of worship, stadium, athletic field, arena, auditorium,
coliseum, or other similar permanently established place of assembly for
assemblies that do not exceed by more than 250 people the maximum seating
capacity of the structure where the assembly is held.
            (2)   This section shall not apply to government-sponsored fairs
held on regularly established fairgrounds nor to assemblies required to be
licensed by other ordinances and regulations of the Town.
         b.   Required facilities. Prior to commencement of the assembly, the
organizer shall provide the following facilities to ensure the assembly causes
as little disruption and inconvenience as possible to adjacent properties,
neighborhoods and traffic patterns.
            (1)   A fence completely enclosing the proposed location, of
sufficient height and strength to prevent people in excess of the maximum
permissible number from gaining access to the assembly grounds, which shall
have at least four gates, at least one at or near four opposite points of the
compass.
            (2)   Potable water meeting all federal and state requirements for
purity, sufficient to provide drinking water for the maximum number of people
to be assembled at the rate of at least one gallon per person per day.
            (3)   Separate enclosed toilets for males and females, meeting all
state and local specifications, conveniently located throughout the grounds,
sufficient to provide facilities for the maximum number of people to be
assembled at the rate of at least one toilet for every 200 females and at least
one toilet for every 300 males, together with an efficient, sanitary means of
disposing of waste matter deposited, which is in compliance with all state and
local laws and regulations.
            (4)   A sanitary method of disposing of solid waste in compliance
with state and local laws and regulations, sufficient to dispose of the solid
waste production of the maximum number of people to be assembled at the rate of
at least two and one-half pounds of solid waste per person per day, together
with a plan for holding and a plan for collecting all such waste at least once
each day of the assembly and sufficient trash cans with V-lids and personnel to
perform the task.
            (5)   EMS personnel and at least one emergency ambulance must be
available for use at all times.
            (6)   If the assembly is to continue during hours of darkness,
illumination sufficient to light the entire area of the assembly at the rate of
at least five footcandles, but not to shine unreasonably beyond the boundary
enclosed location of the assembly.
            (7)   Security guards, either regularly employed, duly sworn, off-
duty North Carolina peace officers or private guards licensed in North
Carolina, sufficient to provide adequate security for the maximum number of
people to be assembled at the rate of at least one security guard for every 750
people.
            (8)   Fire protection, including alarms, extinguishing devices and
fire lanes and escapes, sufficient to meet all state and local standards for
the location of the assembly as set forth in the North Carolina Administrative
Code and ordinances of the Town, and sufficient emergency personnel to
efficiently operate the required equipment.
            (9)   All reasonably necessary precautions to ensure that the sound
of the assembly will not carry unreasonably beyond the enclosed boundaries of
the location of the assembly.
            (10)   Traffic control plan that is acceptable to the Planning,
Engineering and Police Departments.
      3.   Natural disasters and emergencies. Temporary uses  and structures
needed as the result of a natural disaster or other health and safety
emergencies are allowed for the duration of the emergency, but shall be
coordinated with the Town Manager's office.
      4.   Parking lot sales. Temporary outdoor retail sales on private
property are permitted subject to the following:
         a.   Temporary outdoor retail sales are only allowed on property with
an already operating permitted, and licensed if applicable, commercial or
industrial principal use . Locating on vacant property or on property with a
vacant or abandoned use is not permitted.
         b.   Temporary outdoor retail sales refers to the sale of goods or
merchandise that are not generally sold as part of the principal use's
inventory. Sales for the temporary outdoor retail operation shall be separate
and apart from sales for the principal use .
         c.   The proposed temporary outdoor use shall not conflict with
principal activities conducted on the site.
         d.   The sales and display area of the temporary outdoor retail use
shall not exceed ten percent of the gross floor area of the principal building
on the premises.
         e.   Only one temporary outdoor retail use is allowed per site at a
time. The use shall last no longer than three consecutive days. Permits for no
more than three such temporary outdoor retail sales shall be issued for a given
location within a single calendar year.
         f.   A temporary retail use operator shall operate not more than three
such uses anywhere in the Town within a single calendar year.
         g.   The temporary retail use shall operate only when the principal
use is operating.
         h.   No sales shall be conducted from a truck or other vehicle.
         i.   It shall be unlawful to conduct business within 500 feet of the
entrance of any place of business that sells the same commodity.
         j.   Items allowed for sale may include food, but may not include
potentially hazardous food (such as uncooked and unprepared fish and seafood
products).
         k.   Second-hand goods may not be sold under this paragraph.
      5.   Seasonal outdoor sales. Seasonal outdoor sales for Christmas trees
or Halloween pumpkins are allowed at a religious institution or school
regardless of zoning classification. Each seasonal sales activity is limited to
a maximum of 45 consecutive days. Not more than three events are allowed per
calendar year subject to the following provisions:
         a.   Permits for Christmas tree sales shall expire on December 26th.
The lot , and any abutting private or public property, shall be cleaned and any
remaining trees shall be disposed of by an approved method on or before
December 31st of the year of issue of said permit.
         b.   The Planning Director shall require the applicant to deposit such
sum as specified in the schedule of fees to guarantee the proper cleaning of
the site and proper disposal of any remaining materials.
         c.   Any temporary outdoor storage shall be subject to the
requirements of
Article 7.
         d.   A temporary use permit shall not be required for seasonal outdoor
sales when such sales are part of the inventory of an established business
holding a valid building permit.
      6.   Temporary construction, security, real estate sales offices. The
applicant for a temporary use permit for such temporary office shall comply
with all conditions imposed by the Planning Director, which conditions may
include fencing, surfacing, setbacks, etc., as deemed necessary to ensure no
undue interference with the use and enjoyment of neighboring property. Such
office shall be located within a reasonable distance, as determined by the
Planning Director, of the primary development or improvement.
         a.   The owner of a constructionproject may place on the construction
site and utilize a trailer coach as a temporary office for use by construction
, security, and real estate sales personnel.
         b.   The temporary office shall be located on the lot on which
construction or development is occurring and shall not be located within 25
feet of any abutting residential use .
         c.   The office shall be removed within ten days after final
inspection of the permanent structure or expiration of the corresponding
building permit, whichever event occurs first. In the case of residential
developmentprojects , the office must be removed within ten days of sale or
lease of all dwelling units .
         d.   The owner of a permitted business who requires security
protection during hours of closure may maintain a travel trailer for that
purpose until a permanent facility can be constructed. In no case shall the use
of such security trailer be for longer than a six month period.
      7.   Yard or garage sales accessory to a dwelling. No temporary use
permit is required for a yard or garage sale accessory to a residential
dwelling, religious institution or school, subject to the following conditions.
         a.   All yard and garage sales shall be conducted so that no goods
offered for sale are located on any public street or sidewalk, and so that
vehicle and pedestrian traffic on public streets and sidewalks is not
obstructed.
         b.   No sign advertising a yard or garage sale may be posted on any
public property.
         c.   Only goods of the property owner or tenant shall be sold.
      8.   Other uses. The Planning Director may approve other temporary uses
and activities or special events including specific time limits, if it is
determined that such uses would not jeopardize the health, safety or general
welfare, or be injurious or detrimental to properties adjacent to, or in the
vicinity of, the proposed location of the activity.
      9.   Temporary storage container. A transportable unit designed and used
primarily for temporary storage of household goods, commodities, building
materials and other items on a limited basis.
         a.   Residential use or district.
            (1)   Temporary storage containers in residential zoning districts
or use must be registered by the service provider or property owner with the
Town of Garner Planning Department. Storage containers are permitted for a
total of 60 consecutive days.
            (2)   If placement of a storage container is in conjunction with an
active construction permit for renovation, the container is permitted for the
duration of the construction permit.
            (3)   Placement of unit is restricted to the driveway or designated
parking area with a minimum distance of ten feet from the existing structure .
If, because of lot size or obstructions the portable storage unit cannot be
located in a driveway or designated parking area, then the placement of the
unit shall be contiguous to the parking area and maintain a five foot setback
from side and rear property line.
            (4)   Temporary storage containers for any residential housing type
other than single family detached residences shall be located in an onsite
vehicular use area and shall not obstruct any drive aisle or block any required
parking space .
            (5)   Temporary storage containers shall not be located in the
street or in such a manner to impair a motor vehicle operator, bicyclist or
pedestrian's view, upon entering or exiting the street , or obstruct the flow
of vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
            (6)   Temporary storage containers shall be no greater than eight
feet six inches in height, eight feet in width and 20 feet in length.
            (7)   A maximum of two temporary storage containers may be placed
on a property at any one time.
            (8)   Temporary storage containers may be placed on property for a
maximum of two times per year.
            (9)   Temporary storage containers shall be in good condition;
i.e., no rust, primer patches, etc. Signage may identify the owner or provider
of the storage container only and shall not include the advertisement of any
other product or service.
            (10)   Temporary storage containers on property at the time of
adoption of this ordinance must comply with this section.
            (11)   Temporary storage containers may not be used as permanent
accessory building .
            (12)   Storage containers used for new construction shall comply
with the requirements outlined in
Article 5 for temporary construction offices.
         b.   Nonresidential use or district.
            (1)   A temporary storage unit in nonresidential zoning districts
or uses , for 15 days or less must be registered with the Town of Garner
Planning Department by the storage unit provider or business owner.
            (2)   A temporary use permit is required for temporary storage
containers in nonresidential zoning districts or use for more than 15 days.
Applications for the temporary use permits shall include a site plan, showing
the proposed location of the container on the site in relation to the building
, street , driveway and parking area; such other information as may be required
to determine full compliance with this and other applicable ordinances of the
Town; contact information for the leasing company or owner of the storage
container.
            (3)   [Reserved.]
            (4)   Temporary storage containers may be placed on property for a
maximum of 90 consecutive days. Placement for greater than 90 days shall be
considered permanent and requires site plan approval and compliance with
applicable ordinances of the Town.
            (5)   If placement of a temporary storage container is in
conjunction with an active construction permit for renovations, etc., the
container is permitted for the duration of the construction permit.
            (6)   Placement of temporary storage containers for nonresidential
zoning districts and uses shall meet all of the following provisions:
               (a)   The container shall be placed to minimize visibility from
adjacent properties and rights-of-way; in the rear yard when possible.
               (b)   The container shall meet building setbacks.
               (c)   Placement is limited to areas that are surfaced with
asphalt, concrete, gravel or other materials equal in quality.
               (d)   Placement of the storage container in an existing parking
area may not reduce the amount of available parking below the required minimum.
               (e)   The storage container must be a minimum of ten feet from
the primary structure .
            (7)   Temporary storage containers shall be no greater than eight
feet six inches in height, eight feet in width and 40 feet in length.
            (8)   A maximum of two temporary storage containers may be placed
on a property at any one time; more than two may be permitted with prior
approval from the Planning Director .
            (9)   Temporary storage containers shall be in good condition;
i.e., no rust, primer patches, etc. Signage may identify the owner or provider
of the storage container only and shall not include the advertisement of any
other product or service.
            (10)   Temporary storage containers on property at the time of
adoption of this ordinance must comply with this section and secure a temporary
use permit for the unit.
            (11)   Storage containers used for new construction shall comply
with the requirements outlined in
Article 5 for temporary construction offices.
   D.   Prohibited temporary uses.
      1.   Sales of firearms.
      2.   Sales of any materials characterized by an emphasis on specified
anatomical areas or specified sexual activities.
(Ord. No. 3559, §§ 1, 2, 7-7-09; Ord., 3-16-21)
ARTICLE 6.  DISTRICT DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
   
6.1.   Residential district development standards.
   
6.2.   Multifamily residential dimensional standards.
   
6.3.   Residential cluster development .
   
6.4.   Alternative single-family options.
   
6.5.   Townhouse and condominiumdevelopments .
   
6.6.   Manufactured home parks and subdivisions .
   
6.7.   Manufactured homes .
   
6.8.   Special development standards for single family and modular homes .
   
6.9.   Nonresidential district standards.
   
6.10.   Measurement and exceptions.
   
6.11.   Planned Unit Development (PUD) standards.
   
6.12.   Planned Residential Development (PRD) standards.
   
6.13.   Traditional Neighborhood Development (TND) standards.
   
6.14.   Mixed UseDevelopment (MXD) standards.
6.1.   Residential district development standards.
   A.   Single-family residential dimensional standards.
 Single-Family Residential Districts
 R-40 R-20 R-15 R-12 R-9 RMH
                                            Single-Family Residential Districts
                                            R-40   R-20   R-15               R-12               R-9                RMH
Lot Dimensions:                                                                              
                                                                                                                   5,000
                                            40,000 20,000                                                          sq.
Minimum Lot Area                            sq.    sq.    15,000 sq. ft.     12,000 sq. ft.     9,000 sq. ft.      ft.* 70
                                            ft.    ft.                                                             ft. in
                                                                                                                   Park
                                            100                                                                    50 ft.
Minimum Lot Width                           ft.    90 ft. 80 ft.             70 ft.             60 ft.             in
                                                                                                                   Subdiv.
Minimum Yards:                                                                               
Front Yard                                  35 ft. 35 ft. 30 ft.             30 ft.             25 ft.             25 ft.
Rear Yard                                   25 ft. 25 ft. 20 ft.             20 ft.             20 ft.             25 ft.
Side Yard                                   10 ft. 10 ft. 6’ minimum 15’ 6’ minimum 15’ 6’ minimum 15’ 10 ft.
                                                          combined**         combined**         combined**
Corner LotSide Yard                         25 ft. 25 ft. 20 ft.             20 ft.             20 ft.             25 ft.
Maximum Height                              35 ft. 35 ft. 35 ft.             35 ft.             35 ft.             35 ft.
Maximum Gross DU/Acre  (Applies to Cluster 0.8    1.5    2.0                2.5                3.0                —
Only)
* Note: 10,000 square foot minimum required for RMH lots without both public
water and sewer. Wake County Health Department may require larger lot sizes.
** Interior side setback distance less than 10 feet requires a five-foot
property maintenance easement be provided on the adjoining lot and recorded on
the final subdivision plat.
   B.   Special lot area  reduction adjacent to conservation or other
designated buffer . Lots  adjacent to a conservation or other officially
designated buffer  may be reduced by up to 20 percent where the buffer  itself
would, in theory, make up the remaining lot  size. No lots  shall extend into
the conservation buffer  other designated buffer  and such buffers  shall be
protected in perpetuity by a conservation easement.
(Ord. No. 3813, § 1, 4-19-16)
6.2.   Multifamily residential dimensional standards.
Standards Multifamily Districts
          MF-1 MF-2
Standards            Multifamily Districts
                     MF-1          MF-2
Lot Dimensions: 
Lot area , minimum
Two-family lot       9,000 sq. ft. 8,000 sq. ft.
MF, first unit       6,000 sq. ft. 5,000 sq. ft.
MF, additional units 4,500 sq. ft. 3,000 sq. ft.
Lot width, minimum   60 ft.        60 ft.
Minimum Yards:
Front yard           35 ft.        35 ft.
Rear yard            25 ft.        25 ft.
Side yard            15 ft.        15 ft.
Corner lotside yard  25 ft.        25 ft.
Maximum Height       See Section   See Section
                     6.10.F        6.10.F
 
6.3.   Residential cluster development.
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of cluster development  regulations is to provide
an optional land development  procedure which results in the preservation of
open space; protection of streams , floodplain  areas and significant existing
tree cover; promotion of more efficient subdivision street  and infrastructure
networks; and encouragement of a variety of styles or types of residences.
Cluster development  should provide a total living environment for residential
purposes that is in compliance with the Comprehensive Growth Plan and other
applicable local, state or federal laws or regulations.
   B.   General requirements.
      1.   Cluster developments shall be developed on tracts of five acres or
more.
      2.   Cluster developments may have as permissible uses : single-family
detached, zero lot line and village houses.
      3.   Public sanitary sewer and water connections shall be required for
every lot or dwelling unit in a cluster development , except in the R-40
district, where the Wake County Health Department may approve a shared private
sanitary sewer and water system.
      4.   A master plan shall be required to be submitted if the cluster
development is to be the initial phase of a larger project . Final plat
approval procedures according to the requirements of the UDO shall apply to all
cluster developments .
      5.   Each individual cluster developmentlot containing single-family
detached or attached units shall have public or private street access according
to the criteria listed in applicable sections of this UDO.
      6.   A homeowner's association shall be established to own and maintain
all property or facilities held in common private ownership. Documents
regarding the homeowner's association shall be submitted to the Town for
approval with the final plat and shall be duly recorded with the final plat in
the Wake County Register of Deeds Office by the applicant.
      7.   A pre-application conference between the developer or agent and the
staff of the Town of Garner shall be required.
   C.   Dimensional standards.
      1.   The maximum permissible gross density in a cluster development shall
be that set forth for the applicable single family zoning district in the Table
in
Article 6. Cluster development in the MF-1 and MF-2 zoning districts shall be
limited to a maximum of six dwellings per acre. Land not required for
residential lots and associated development shall be maintained as undisturbed
permanent open space except for required stormwater management devices provided
no more than 25 percent of open spaces areas are devoted to such uses .
      2.   Cluster developments containing single-family development may use
the minimum dimensional standards shown in the table below.
Cluster Development R-40, R-20 R-15, R- 12, R-9 MF-1, MF-2
Cluster Development   R-40, R-20     R-15, R- 12, R-9 MF-1, MF-2
Lot Dimensions:
  Lot area , minimum 12,000 sq. ft. 6,000 sq. ft.    5,000 sq. ft.
  Lot width, minimum 70 ft.         50 ft.           50 ft.
Minimum Yards:
  Front yard         35 ft.         20 ft.           20 ft.
  Rear yard          25 ft.         20 ft.           15 ft.*
  Side yard          10 ft.         10 ft.           7.5 ft.**
  Corner lotside yard25 ft.         20 ft.           15 ft.***
Maximum Height        35 ft.         35 ft.           35 ft.
 
* The rear setback for lots that abut open space may be reduced to ten feet as
long as the overall width still meets or exceeds the otherwise required setback
width.
** The interior side setback may be reduced to a minimum of five feet when
individual building footprints are shown on the preliminary subdivisionplat .
In such cases a five-foot property maintenance easement must be provided on the
adjoining property and recorded on the final subdivisionplat .
*** The corner side setback may be reduced to a minimum of ten feet when
individual building footprints are shown on the preliminary subdivisionplat and
no garage access is provided on the corner side and the Town Engineer,
determines there is no sight distance obstruction or public safety concern that
results.
      3.   a.   When a cluster development located in the R-40, R-20, R-15, R-
12 or R-9 zoning district adjoins a single family residential zoning district
or an existing single family development then one of the following shall be
required:
            i.   if the perimeter row of lots in the cluster development is to
be reduced in size below the minimum lot size of the adjoining single family
residential zoning district, then a perimeter buffer measuring at least 50 feet
in width along the affected perimeter of the said cluster development shall be
required. No land disturbing activities are allowed within this buffer .
            ii.   if the perimeter row of lots in the cluster development is
not reduced in size below the minimum lot size of the adjoining single family
residential zoning district or development , then a 50 foot perimeter buffer is
not required.
         b.   i.   Cluster development in MF-1 and MF-2 zoning districts shall
provide a 30 foot perimeter buffer along the entire boundary of the development
that adjoins a single family residential zoning district or a single family
development . No land disturbing activities are allowed within this buffer
except for required landscaping. Such perimeter buffer must have the required
mix of plant material that meets 50 percent of the perimeter landscape buffer
planting requirements of the Landscape Ordinance.
         ii.   No buffer shall be required where the lots are the same size or
larger than those on the adjacent residential parcel.
      4.   No garage door shall be located closer than the lesser of the
minimum setback or 20 feet back from the right-of-way line, or rear edge of the
adjacent sidewalk, whichever is greater, in order to ensure that vehicles
parked on the driveway do not hinder pedestrian access.
   D.   Open space standards. Open space in cluster development shall be no
less than 25 percent of the gross area of the cluster development tract. All
open space provided in a cluster development shall meet the following criteria
in addition to the requirements of this UDO:
      1.   Open space shall abut 40 percent of the lots within the subdivision
and shall be well distributed throughout the development so as to achieve the
requirement herein.
      2.   All open space areas shall be at least 20 feet in width, except the
open space that is provided around the perimeter of a cluster development .
Such open space areas shall be undisturbed.
      3.   All open space shall be linked, either directly or across street
rights-of-way.
   E.   Parking standards. All cluster development  shall meet the parking
requirements of
Article 7.
(Ord. No. 3417, § 1, 7-5-06; Ord., 3-16-21)
6.4.   Alternative single-family options.
   The following alternative single-family residential options are allowed only
in residential cluster developments .
   A.   Zero lot line.
      1.   Description. A zero lot  line development  is where houses in a
development  on a common street  frontage are shifted to one side of their lot
. This provides for greater usable yard space on each lot . These developments
require that planning for all of the house locations be done at the same time.
Since the exact location of each house is predetermined, greater flexibility in
site development  standards are possible while assuring that single-family
residential character is maintained.
      2.   Setbacks. The side building setback may be reduced to zero on one
side of the house. This reduction does not apply to the street side setback or
to the interior side setback adjacent to lots that are not part of the zero lot
line project. The reduced setback may be located anywhere between the lot line
and the minimum setback required for the district. The remaining side yard
setback shall be equal to two times the side yard setback required for the
district.
      3.   Additional standards.
         a.   Distance between houses. The minimum distance between all
buildings in the development must be equal to twice the required side setback
required by the underlying zoning district. A deed restriction must be recorded
on the deed of each applicable lot to ensure continued compliance with this
setback.
         b.   Eaves. The eaves on the side of a house with a reduced setback
may project a maximum of 18 inches over the adjacent property line. In this
case, an easement for the eave projection must be recorded on the deed for the
lot where the projection occurs.
         c.   Maintenance easement. An easement between the two property owners
to allow for maintenance or repair of the house is required when the eaves or
side wall of the house are within four feet of the adjacent property line. The
easement on the adjacent property must provide at least five feet of
unobstructed space between the furthermost project of the structure and the
edge of the easement. The easement shall be recorded on the subdivisionplat.
         d.   Privacy. If the side wall of the house is on the property line,
or within three feet of the property line, windows or other openings that allow
for visibility into the side yard of the adjacent lot are not allowed. Windows
that do not allow visibility into the side yard of the adjacent lot, such as a
clerestory window or a translucent window, are allowed. All materials within
three feet of the property line shall be fire-rated to meet building code
requirements.
   B.   Village house. A village house may be permitted in a cluster
development  with a reduced front yard  setback of 15 feet, provided that no
front yard  parking is allowed and alley or other rear access is provided for
any garage.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
6.5.   Townhouse and condominium developments.
   A.   In general.
      1.   Townhouses and townhousedevelopment occur in two different patterns:
         a.   Condominium (development with private drives and a homeowner's
association); and
         b.   Fee simple townhouse (development with public or private streets
and a homeowner's association).
      2.   The standards for each type of townhousedevelopment are listed
below.
   B.   Condominium. This form of townhousedevelopment occurs on a unified
parcel, where multiple townhouse units may lie on a single tract of land. The
units may be made available through sale as condominium, or through lease
(rental).
      1.   Homeowner's association.
         a.   Homeowner's association declaration and by-law documents shall be
submitted to the Town of Garner for acceptance.
         b.   Such homeowner's association documents shall have adequate
provisions to insure proper maintenance of all privately-owned areas such as,
but not limited to, open space, recreational facilities and areas, parking lot
areas and private drives.
         c.   Applicants are encouraged to submit homeowner's association
documents which contain provisions addressing exterior appearance and
maintenance standards according to a set of architectural design criteria.
         d.   The homeowner's association documents shall clearly state that
the Town of Garner shall be held harmless from liability responsibility
relative to the delivery of Town services on privately-owned property in the
townhousedevelopment .
      2.   Interior roads.
         a.   Determination of whether interior roads shall be constructed as
public streets or private drives or a combination of public streets and private
drives shall be based upon recommendations from the Planning Department and
Engineering Department. Consideration shall be given to the adopted major
transportation plan, existing and proposed neighborhood streets and circulation
needs, to the relationship of the site to adjoining lands, the size and shape
of the tract to be developed, to the number of ultimate dwelling units to be
constructed on the tract and on adjoining lands and to anticipated traffic
volumes.
         b.   The determination of whether interior roads shall be public or
private will consider only the minimum needs of the public for the public
streets and will recognize the privacy, security and safety advantages of
private drives. All public streets shall have curb and gutter according to Town
standards. Private drives are interior circulation roads designed and
constructed to carry vehicular traffic from a public street within or adjoining
the site to terminal parking areas and service areas, or back to said public
street .
         c.   The design and arrangement of private streets shall be subject to
review and approval by the Planning Department and Engineering Department.
            (1)   When there is a distance of 150 feet or more between an
existing public street and points of refuse collection, a private drive shall
be required.
            (2)   All portions of such private drives shall not be more than
1,000 feet from their point of public access.
            (3)   When the development is required to have a private drive, the
private drive shall be paved to a minimum width of at least 27 feet, measured
from edge of pavement. Concrete curb and gutter sections may be required, if
determined necessary by the Planning, Engineering and Public Works Departments.
            (4)   A private drive may be constructed in the peripheral yard
provided it is located a minimum distance of 25 feet off any property line or
complies with the provisions of
Article 7.
            (5)   A base course shall be applied to the entire required paved
width of private drives and parking lots and shall consist of at least eight
inches of compacted crushed stone.
            (6)   A surface course shall be applied to the entire required
paved width of private drives and parking lots and shall consist of at least
two inches of 1-2 asphalt paved surface.
            (7)   Cul-de-sac or dead-end streets shall be provided with a
vehicular turning circle at least 80 feet in diameter, measured on the center
line of the street or other acceptable design criteria for dead-end streets .
            (8)   Street jogs, intersections block lengths including cul-de-
sac, street deflections shall conform to the design criteria set forth in
Article 8.
            (9)   A permanent street address approved by the Planning
Department shall be assigned to the private drives.
      3.   Maintenance required. Homeowner's association documents shall
include adequate provisions to ensure proper maintenance by the homeowner's
association of private drives, units, their structural components and
exteriors, yard spaces and other commonly owned property and shall be recorded
with the final plat .
      4.   Minimum lot size. There is no minimum lot size for individual units;
density is controlled by district regulations. However, every individual lot
shall meet the following criteria:
         a.   The minimum lot width is 16 feet;
         b.   The minimum frontage on a public street is 16 feet; and
         c.   The minimum front yard setback is 25 feet. (This setback is not
in addition to the development -wide standard. However, where a 50 feet setback
is required under development -wide standards, each affected lot must maintain
the minimum 50-foot setback rather than the 25-foot setback.)
   C.   Fee simple townhouse.
      1.   Special provisions. This form of townhousedevelopment involves
attached housing units purchasable on a fee simple basis, on individual lots
meeting minimum requirements and fronting on a dedicated public street , with
or without provisions for commonly owned property controlled by a homeowner's
association. This form of townhousedevelopment differs from other
townhousedevelopments in that no common areas may be required. Developers are
encouraged to utilize restrictive covenants for townhousedevelopments that
address architectural standards, exterior maintenance of units and other
appropriate matters through homeowner association documents. It is strongly
recommended that such agreements be made to insure the proper maintenance of
units, their structural components and exteriors, and yard spaces. Where there
is the provision of commonly owned land in a fee simple townhousedevelopment a
homeowner's association shall be required. Such documents shall be subject to
the provisions of
Article 6.
      2.   Interior roads.
         a.   Determination of whether interior roads shall be construed as
public streets or private drives or a combination of public streets and private
drives shall be based on recommendations from the Planning and Engineering
Departments.
         b.   Consideration shall be given to the adopted major transportation
plan, existing and proposed neighborhood streets and circulation needs, to the
relationship of the site to adjoining lands, the size and shape of the tract to
be developed, to the number of ultimate dwelling units to be constructed on the
tract and on adjoining lands, and to anticipated traffic volumes.
         c.   The determination of whether interior roads shall be public or
private will consider only the minimum needs of the public for the public
streets and will recognize the privacy, security and safety advantages of
private drives.
         d.   All public streets shall be constructed according to Town of
Garner standards. All private drives shall be constructed according to the
provisions of
Article 6.
         e.   The issuance of any building permits shall not be permitted until
a major subdivision final plat , meeting the appropriate requirements, has been
approved by the Planning Director as set out in this UDO.
      3.   Minimum lot size. There is no minimum lot size for individual units;
density is controlled by district regulations. However, every individual lot
shall meet the following criteria:
         a.   The minimum lot width is 18 feet;
         b.   The minimum frontage on a public street is 18 feet; and
         c.   The minimum front yard setback is 25 feet where garages are
accessed from the front. If rear access to garages is provided, the minimum
front yard may be reduced to 15 feet, except that in the Central Business
District, the minimum front yard may be reduced to 5 feet.
(Ord. No. 3761, § 1, 2-2-15; Ord. No. 5006, § 2, 1-4-21; Ord., 3-16-21)
6.6.   Manufactured home parks and subdivisions.
   Manufactured home parks and subdivisions shall be subject to all applicable
state and local regulations, as well as with the following standards.
   A.   Land area. The minimum land area required for a manufactured housing
park is three acres.
   B.   Density limitations. Any lot or tract of land occupied by a
manufactured housing park shall have a maximum density of five dwelling units
per gross acre.
   C.   Lot size standards. Single-family residentialdevelopment in the RMH
district requires a minimum 5,000 square foot lot for sites with both public
water and sewer available, and a 10,000 square foot lot where either a well or
septic system is used. Wake County Health Department regulations may require
larger lots. Minimum lot widths shall be 50 feet in a manufactured home park
and 70 feet in a manufactured home subdivision.
   D.   Orientation of manufactured homes. No manufactured home shall face the
narrow end of the manufactured unit to the public street unless the width of
the unit is greater than 24 feet.
   E.   Separation of service buildings. Every service building in a
manufactured home park shall be at least 25 feet from the boundary of any other
property in any residential zoning district.
   F.   Accessory structures in manufactured home parks. No accessory
structures, except common park structures, shall be located on manufactured
home park spaces.
   G.   Required parking. A minimum of two off-street parking spaces  shall be
provided for each dwelling unit within a manufactured housing park.
   H.   Street and drives.
      1.   No private drives are permitted within a manufactured home
subdivision . Public streets must be constructed in accordance with Town of
Garner standards.
      2.   For manufactured home parks, the tract as whole shall have a minimum
20-foot frontage on a public right-of-way. Internal access may be by private
drives. All private drives shall have a minimum of 24 feet of pavement. A
minimum six-foot wide strip adjoining and parallel to the paved surface of the
drive, on both sides, shall be reserved from use except for driveways ,
walkways and vegetation. The outer edge of the six-foot reserved strip is the
limit of the reserved area referenced in previous sections of this UDO.
   I.   State standards. All manufactured housing units shall conform to the
State of North Carolina Standards for manufactured housing anchorage, tie downs
and blocking.
   J.   Site plan. Prior to the development of any new manufactured housing
park established after the effective date of this UDO, and prior to the
enlargement of any existing manufactured housing park, a site plan conforming
to the requirements of this subsection shall be approved by the Planning
Director. The required site plan shall be drawn to scale and shall explicitly
illustrate at least the following features.
      1.   Location and dimensions of all park boundaries.
      2.   Location of pavement on adjoining street rights-of-way.
      3.   Location and dimensions of any permanent improvements existing or
planned within the park, including but not limited to the following:
         a.   Improved surfaces for common driveways , off-street parking and
recreation areas.
         b.   Buildings for management, maintenance and recreational purposes.
         c.   Any other recreational facilities.
         d.   Any fences or walls.
         e.   The location of pipelines and systems for potable water
distribution, sewage collection and fire protection, including location of all
fire hydrants.
   K.   Subdivisionplat required. A subdivisionplat in accordance with Section
3.5 is required for all manufactured homesubdivisions.
   L.   Phasing. Phasing of a proposed manufactured home park or subdivision
may be allowed, provided the proposed phasing is approved by the Town Council
and will not create undue hardships for the residents of the development or
those vehicles that can reasonably be expected to service the development.
(Ord. No. 3558, § 2, 7-7-09; Ord., 3-16-21)
6.7.   Manufactured homes.
   Commentary: An individual manufactured home type A unit is permitted in the
R-40 district or through rezoning to the -MH overlay.
   A.   Application of standards. There are three different classes (A, B, and
C) of manufactured homes. The main differences are size, roof pitch and siding
material.
   B.   Manufactured home class A. A manufactured home constructed after July
1, 1976 and meeting or exceeding the construction standards promulgated by the
U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development that were in effect at the
time of construction. Additionally, class A manufactured homes shall meet all
of the following requirements:
      1.   It shall be occupied as a single-family dwelling unit only;
      2.   It shall have a minimum of two sections that when combined the total
is a minimum of 24 feet in width;
      3.   It shall have a length not exceeding four times its width, with
length measured along the longest axis and width measured at the narrowest part
of the shorter axis;
      4.   The towing apparatus, wheels, axles and transporting lights shall be
removed and shall not be included in measurements;
      5.   The orientation of the structure must be consistent with that of the
predominant number of units in the surrounding neighborhood. In special cases,
the short axis (width) may face the road if the front door is incorporated in
the unit's floor plan to be a part of the short axis;
      6.   It shall be installed in accordance with the standards established
by the North Carolina Department of Insurance. In addition, a continuous,
permanent masonry foundation or masonry curtain wall constructed in accordance
with the standards of the North Carolina Uniform Residential Building Code for
One and Two-Family Dwellings, un-pierced except for required ventilation and
access, shall be installed under the perimeter of the manufactured home ;
      7.   The exterior shall consist of one or more of the following:
         a.   Vinyl or metal siding (whose reflectivity does not exceed that of
flat white paint);
         b.   Cedar or other wood siding;
         c.   Weather resistant press board siding; or
         d.   Stucco siding, brick or stone siding, which shall be comparable
in composition, appearance and durability to the exterior siding commonly used
in the standard residential construction of the surrounding neighborhood.
      8.   The pitch of the roof shall have a minimum vertical rise of three
and one-half feet for each 12 feet of horizontal run;
      9.   The roof shall be finished with a roof covering that meets the
minimum standards of the Federal Housing Administration;
      10.   All roof structures shall provide an eave projection of no less
than six inches, which may include a gutter;
      11.   Stairs, porches, entrance platforms, ramps and other means of
entrance and exit to and from the manufactured home , shall be installed or
constructed in compliance with the standards of the North Carolina Building
Code, attached firmly to the primary structure , and anchored securely to the
ground. Wood stairs shall only be used in conjunction with a porch or entrance
platform with a minimum of 24 square feet. Use of wood stairs without a porch
is prohibited at any entrance to a manufactured home ;
      12.   Minimum square footage of the home shall be compatible with the
surrounding neighborhood. The length and size shall be no smaller than the
average unit in this neighborhood; and
      13.   For any unit on a lot that is less than 30,000 square feet, a
community well or Town water and sewer is required. All units not connected to
either a community or Town system shall present proof of utility approval by
the Wake County Health Department.
   C.   Manufactured home  class B. A manufactured home  meeting or exceeding
the construction  standards promulgated by the U.S. Department of Housing and
Urban Development that were in effect at the time of construction .
Additionally, class B manufactured homes  shall meet the following
requirements:
      1.   It shall be occupied as a single-family dwelling unit only;
      2.   It shall have a minimum of two sections that when combined the total
is a minimum of 24 feet in width;
      3.   There are no length requirements;
      4.   The towing apparatus, wheels, axles and transporting lights shall be
removed and shall not be included in measurements;
      5.   The orientation of the structure must be consistent with that of the
predominant number of units in the surrounding neighborhood. In special cases
the short axis (width) may face the road if the front door is incorporated in
the unit's floor plan to be a part of the short axis;
      6.   It shall be installed in accordance with the standards established
by the North Carolina Department of Insurance. In addition, a continuous,
permanent masonry foundation or masonry curtain wall constructed in accordance
with the standards of the North Carolina Uniform Residential Building Code for
One and Two-Family Dwellings, un-pierced except for required ventilation and
access, shall be installed under the perimeter of the manufactured home ;
      7.   Exterior standards are to be consistent with the industry's
standards for class B;
      8.   The pitch of the roof shall have a minimum vertical rise of two and
one-half feet for each 12 feet of horizontal run;
      9.   The roof shall be finished with a roof covering that meets the
minimum standards of the Federal Housing Administration;
      10.   There are no required eave projections;
      11.   Stairs, porches, entrance platforms, ramps, and other means of
entrance and exit to and from the manufactured home , shall be installed or
constructed in compliance with the standards of the North Carolina Building
Code, attached firmly to the primary structure , and anchored securely to the
ground. Wood stairs shall only be used in conjunction with a porch or entrance
platform with a minimum of 24 square feet. Use of wood stairs without a porch
is prohibited at any entrance to a manufactured home ;
      12.   Minimum square footage of the home shall be compatible with the
surrounding neighborhood. The length and size shall be no smaller than the
average unit in this neighborhood; and
      13.   For any unit on a lot that is less than 30,000 square feet, a
community well or Town water and sewer is required. All units not connected to
either a community or Town system shall present proof of utility approval by
the Wake County Health Department.
   D.   Manufactured home  class C. Any single-wide manufactured home  meeting
or exceeding the construction  standards promulgated by the U.S. Department of
Housing and Urban Development that were in effect at the time of construction ,
shall meet the following requirements:
      1.   It shall be occupied as a single-family dwelling unit only;
      2.   It shall have a minimum width of 14 feet;
      3.   There are no length requirements;
      4.   The towing apparatus, wheels, axles and transporting lights shall be
removed and shall not be included in measurements;
      5.   There is no parallel orientation requirement;
      6.   All units shall be firmly anchored to the ground as required by the
North Carolina Building Code and the Town shall designate and enforce a uniform
type of foundation enclosure (skirting) for all manufactured home parks and
subdivisions ;
      7.   Exterior standards are to be approved by the Planning Director ;
      8.   There are no roof pitch requirements;
      9.   The roof shall be finished with a roof covering that meets the
minimum standards of the Federal Housing Administration;
      10.   There are no required eave projections;
      11.   Stairs, porches, entrance platforms, ramps and other means of
entrance and exit to and from the manufactured home , shall be installed or
constructed in compliance with the standards of the North Carolina Building
Code, attached firmly to the primary structure , and anchored securely to the
ground. Wood stairs shall only be used in conjunction with a porch or entrance
platform with a minimum of 24 square feet. It is the intent of this subsection
to prohibit the use of wood stairs only at any entrance to a manufactured home
;
      12.   There is no minimum square footage requirement; and
      13.   For any unit on a lot that is less than 30,000 square feet, a
community well or Town water and sewer is required. All units not connected to
either a community or Town system shall present proof of utility approval by
the Wake County Health Department.
   E.   Manufactured homes  not located in RMH district. The placement of a
manufactured home  in any R-40 district, or manufactured home floating zone
(but not in RMH districts) must meet the following additional requirements. The
purpose of these requirements is to protect the character of existing
neighborhoods, and to establish new neighborhoods whose character is internally
consistent, by achieving compatible exterior appearance between manufactured
homes  and stick- or modular-built homes on adjacent or nearby lots , or with
other manufactured homes  in an existing RMH district (appearance criteria). In
satisfying this requirement, the applicant must also present illustrative
examples of the types and design of structure  they propose, plus photographs
of at least five residences in the immediate vicinity in order to document that
the exterior appearance of the proposed unit will be similar (as determined by
the Planning Director ) to the other homes that have been or will be
constructed.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
6.8.   Special development standards for single family and modular homes.
   A.   General size and landscaping standards for modular and site-built
homes. The following standards shall apply only to new modular homes  or
single-family detached site-built homes. The provisions of this subsection
shall not apply to properties zoned R-40 or additions to existing residential
buildings .
      1.   Foundation planting consisting of evergreen shrubs shall be
installed along the entire front foundation wall of the building . Plant
installation shall be a minimum of two feet in height planted at three- to
four-foot intervals.
      2.   All yard areas, excluding decorative landscaped areas , shall be
appropriately graded and seeded up to 35 feet from the dwelling as applicable
in order to establish a permanent lawn.
      3.   A maximum 2.7 to 1 length to width ratio shall be required for new
structures . The length shall be measured along the longest axis of the
structure and the width shall be measured along the shortest axis of the
structure .
(Ord. No. 3801, § 1, 12-7-15)
6.9.   Nonresidential district standards.
   A.   Nonresidential development standards. The following table illustrates
the dimensional standards that apply in the Town's commercial, industrial and
special purpose districts.
Standard NO NC CBD OI CR SB I-1 I-2
Standard    NO       NC      CBD     OI      CR      SB       I-1      I-2
Lot                                                              
Dimensions:
Lot area ,  6,000    6,000   6,000   6,000   6,000   6,000    None     None
minimum     sq. ft.  sq. ft. sq. ft. sq. ft. sq. ft. sq. ft.
Lot width,  60 ft.   60 ft.  60 ft.  60 ft.  60 ft.  60 ft.   100 ft.  100 ft.
Minimum
Lot depth,  None     None    None    None    None    None     None     None
minimum
Minimum                                                          
Yards:*
Front yard  35 ft.   35 ft.  None    35 ft.  35 ft.  35 ft.   50 ft.   50 ft.
Rear yard   25 ft.   0/25    0/15    25 ft.  0/25    0/25 ft. 0/50 ft. 0/50 ft.
                     ft.     ft.             ft.
Side yard   0/15 ft. 10/15   0/15    10/15   10/15   0/25 ft. 0/25 ft. 0/25 ft.
                     ft.     ft.     ft.     ft.
Corner
lotside     35 ft.   35 ft.  20 ft.  35 ft.  35 ft.  35 ft.   35 ft.   35 ft.
yard
Maximum     35 ft.   35 ft.  None    None    None    None     None     None
Height
            6,000
            sq. ft.
            per      6,000   3,000   6,000
Maximum Net single   sq. ft. sq. ft. sq. ft. None    None     None     None
DU/Acre     family   per     per     per
            detached unit    unit    unit
            dwelling
            unit
* Note:
      1.   The minimum setback distance from a building to a street right-of-
way is 35 feet; except front yard setbacks in the I-1 and I-2 districts
required to be a minimum of 50 feet.
      2.   Where two-yard standards are shown in the tables above (0/15 feet,
for example), the first standard shall apply if the lot is not adjacent to a
residential, NC, NO or OI district. Additional fire-rated wall construction may
be required on side and rear facades.
   B.   Industrial performance standards.
      1.   In general.
         a.   Zoning regulations typically attempt to classify and segregate
uses according to their differing impacts. For example, residences are usually
allowed in certain zones and manufacturing plants in others because it is
perceived that the impact of the latter would be detrimental to the former.
Because the impacts associated with certain types of uses are well recognized,
it is possible to regulate impacts indirectly by controlling the types of uses
permissible in various zoning districts. Given the wide variety of impacts
possible within the industrial use classification, it is not feasible to use an
indirect method of controlling impacts. Therefore this part attempts to control
impacts of industrial classification uses directly by establishing the
performance standards set forth in this part.
         b.   For the reasons set forth in paragraph above, it is necessary to
use performance standards to determine what types of industrial and
manufacturing uses (see
Article 5) should be permissible in various zoning districts. However, the use
of performance standards involves advance prediction of the extent to which a
proposed development will generate negative impacts, and subsequent monitoring
to determine the actual extent of such impacts. Because this advance prediction
and subsequent verification may be cumbersome, time-consuming, and expensive,
performance standards (other than noise standards) are applied only to uses
within the industrial use classification.
      2.   Smoke.
         a.   To determine the density of equivalent opacity of smoke, the
Ringlemann Chart, as adopted and published by the United States Department of
Interior, Bureau of Mines Info. Circular 8333, May 1967, shall be used. The
Ringlemann numbers cited refer to the area of the Ringlemann Chart that
coincides most nearly with the visual equivalent opacity of the smoke emission
observed.
         b.   All measurements shall be taken at the point of emission of the
smoke.
         c.   In the OI, NC, CR, CBD, SB, MXD-l and all PUD districts, no
industrial use classification use may emit from a vent, stack, chimney, or
combustion process any smoke that is visible to the naked eye.
         d.   In the I-1 district, no industrial use classification use may
emit from a vent, stack, chimney, or combustion process any smoke that exceeds
a density or equivalent opacity of Ringlemann No. 1, except one emission not
exceeding an equivalent of Ringlemann No. 2 is permissible for a duration of
not more than four minutes during any eight hour period if the emission source
is not within 250 feet of a residential district.
         e.   In the I-2 district, no industrial use classification use may
emit from a vent, stack, chimney, or combustion process any smoke that exceeds
a density or equivalent opacity of Ringlemann No. 2, except that an emission
not exceeding an equivalent of Ringlemann No. 3 is permissible for a duration
not more than four minutes during any eight hour period if the source of
emission is not located within 500 feet of a residential district.
      3.   Noise.
         a.   The following definitions shall apply in this section. All
definitions shall be in conformance with those contained in ANSI 5.1.1-1960, R
1971, Acoustical Terminology.
         b.   With respect to the standards established in the table of maximum
permitted sound level (paragraph c., below), dB(A) are expressed in terms of
the tenth percentile sound level (L10), which must be calculated by taking 100
instantaneous A-weighted sound levels at ten second intervals and computing the
(L10) in accordance with the community noise measurement data sheet set forth
in
Appendix C.
         c.   No person may operate or cause or permit the operation of any
stationary source of sound that exceeds the limits set forth herein for the
following receiving land use districts when measured at the boundary or at any
point within the property affected by the noise.
 
Table of Maximum Permitted Sound Level [dB(A) ]
Receiving  Use DistrictsDay  (7:00 a.m.—10:00 p.mNight  (10:00 p.m.—7:00
                                                     a.m.)
Residential              60                          55
Commercial               65                          60
Industrial               75                          75
 
         d.   When a noise source can be identified and its noise measured in
more than one land use category, the limits of the most restrictive use shall
apply at the boundaries between different land use categories.
         e.   For any stationary source of sound which emits a pure tone ,
cyclically varyingsound or repetitive impulsive sound , the standards defined
herein shall be reduced by five dB(A) .
         f.   The standards set forth in this section shall not apply to the
following sources:
            (1)   Emergency warning devices and emergency equipment including
medical transport helicopters;
            (2)   Lawn care equipment used during daytime hours;
            (3)   Equipment being used for construction .
         g.   Notwithstanding any other provision of Article VIII
(Nonconforming situations ), any person who operates or permits to be operated
any new stationary noise source after the effective date of this section shall
comply with the standards defined herein.
         h.   Measurement techniques to determine compliance with this section
are set forth in
Appendix C.
      4.   Vibration.
         a.   No industrial use classification in any commercial district may
generate any ground-transmitted vibration perceptible to the human sense of
touch measured at (i) the outside boundary of the space leased, rented or
occupied by the enterprise generating the vibration if the enterprise is one of
several located on a lot , or (ii) the lot line if the enterprise generating
the vibration is the only enterprise located on a lot .
         b.   No industrial use classification use in the MXD-1, I-1 or I-
2 district may generate any ground transmitted vibration in excess of the
limits set forth in paragraph e below. Vibration shall be measured at any
adjacent lot line or residential district line as indicated in the table set
forth below in paragraph d.
         c.   The instrument used to measure vibrations shall be a three
component measuring system capable of simultaneous measurement of vibration in
three mutually perpendicular directions.
         d.   The vibration maximum set forth in paragraph e below are stated
in terms of particle velocity, which may be measured directly with suitable
instrumentation or computed on the basis of displacement and frequency. When
computed, the following formula shall be used:
   P.V. = 6.28 F × D
   P.V. = Particle velocity, inches per second
   F = Vibration frequency, cycles per second
   D = Single amplitude displacement of the vibration, inches
   The maximum velocity shall be the vector sum of the three components
recorded.
 
Table of Maximum Ground Transmitted Vibration
Zoning District Adjacent Lot Lines Residential  District
MXD             0.10               0.02
I-1             0.10               0.02
I-2             0.20               0.02
 
         e.   The values stated in paragraph d above may be multiplied by two
for impact vibrations, i.e., discrete vibration pulsations not exceeding one
second between pulses.
         f.   Vibrations resulting from temporary construction activity that
occurs between 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. shall be exempt from the requirements of
this section
      5.   Odors.
         a.   For purposes of this section, the odor threshold is defined as
the minimum concentration in air of a gas, vapor, or particulate matter than
can be detected by the olfactory systems of a panel of healthy observers.
         b.   No Industrial use classification in any district may generate any
odor that reaches the odor threshold, measured at:
            (1)   The outside boundary of the space leased, rented or occupied
by the enterprise generating the odor; or
            (2)   The lot line if the enterprise generating the odor is the
only enterprise located on a lot .
      6.   Air pollution.
         a.   Any industrial use classification that emits any air contaminant
(as defined in G.S. 143-213) shall comply with applicable state standards
concerning air pollution, as set forth in Article 21B of Chapter 143 of the
North Carolina General Statutes.
         b.   No site or special use permit may be issued with respect to any
development covered by paragraph a above until the state Division of
Environmental Management has certified that the appropriate state permits have
been received by the developer (as provided in G.S. 143-215.108) or that the
developer will be eligible to receive such permits, and that the development is
otherwise in compliance with applicable air pollution laws.
      7.   Disposal of liquid wastes.
         a.   No industrial use classification in any district may discharge
any waste contrary to the provisions of G.S. 143-214.2.
         b.   No industrial use classification in any district may discharge
into the City of Raleigh's sewage treatment facilities any waste that cannot be
adequately treated by biological means or otherwise violates applicable City of
Raleigh requirements or standards.
      8.   Water consumption. No industrial use classification that requires
for its operations a one and one-half-inch or larger meter is permissible in
any district unless specifically approved to do so by the Town Council.
      9.   Electrical disturbance or interference. No industrial use
classification may:
         a.   Create any electrical disturbance that adversely affects any
operations or equipment other than those of the creator of such disturbance; or
         b.   Otherwise cause, create, or contribute to the interference with
electronic signals (including television, and radio broadcasting transmissions)
to the extent that the operation of any equipment not owned by the creator of
such disturbance is adversely affected.
(Ord. No. 3502, § 4, 3-3-08; Ord. No. 3558, § 2, 7-7-09; Ord. No. 3656, § 5, 2-
21-12; Ord. No. 3813, § 2, 4-19-16; Ord. 5006, § 3, 1-4-21; Ord., 3-16-21)
6.10.   Measurement and exceptions.
   A.   Density. Density refers to the number of dwelling units per unit of
land area. Density is calculated by dividing the number of dwelling units on a
site by the gross area (in acres) of the site on which the dwelling units are
located. The number of dwelling units allowed on a site is based on the
presumption that all other applicable standards will be met. The maximum
density established for a district is not a guarantee that such densities may
be obtained, nor shall the inability of a development to achieve the stated
maximum density be considered sufficient justification for varying or otherwise
adjusting other density, intensity or dimensional standards.
   B.   Lot area.
      1.   Measurement. Lot area refers to the gross horizontal land area
within lot lines, including any wetlands. No conservation buffer or other
officially designated buffer area shall be included within the boundaries of
any lot.
      2.   Exceptions. No building permit or development approval may be issued
for a lot that does not meet the minimum lot area requirements of this UDO
except in the following cases:
         a.   Nonconforming lots may be used in accordance with the provisions
set forth in
Article 9.
         b.   Utilities using land or an unoccupied building covering less than
1,000 square feet of site area shall be exempt from minimum lot area standards.
      3.   Absence of sewer or water. In the absence of public water or public
sewer, no building permit shall be issued until the lot meets all applicable
requirements of this UDO and Wake County.
   C.   Minimum lot widths.
      1.   No lot may be created that is so narrow or so irregularly shaped
that it would be impracticable to construct on it a building that:
         a.   Could be used for purposes permissible in that zoning district;
         b.   Could satisfy setback requirements for that district.
      2.   Lot width.
         a.   Without limiting the generality of this standard, the following
minimum lot widths are deemed presumptively to satisfy the standard. The lot
width shall be a straight line measurement between opposite-side boundaries at
the minimum required setback from the street , sufficiently distant from the
street to meet the setback requirement and permit compliance with the standard.
For instance, a cul-de-sac lot may not be 80 feet wide at the 35 feet front
setback, but may be 80 feet wide 45 feet into the lot . Lot width would be
measured at the 45 foot line except as provided for under D.3 of this section.
         b.   The minimum lot width of any rental space in a manufactured home
park shall be 50 feet. The minimum lot width in an RMH zoned manufactured home
subdivision shall be 70 feet.
         c.   No lot created after the effective date of this UDO having less
than the recommended width shall be entitled to a variance from any building
setback requirement.
         d.   The minimum lot width in a cluster development shall follow the
provisions set forth in
Article 6.
      3.   Flag lots. Flag lots are defined as an irregularly shaped lot where
the buildable section (flag) of the lot is connected to a public or private
street by a narrow nonbuildable strip of land (pole). The front setback line
will be measured from that lot line more or less parallel to the public or
private street.
         a.   The Town discourages the creation of flag lots in subdivisions .
A flag lot will only be permitted via a successful Variance .
         b.   In addition to the standards of a Variance, flag lots are
prohibited unless the BOA determines one of the following applies:
            i.   Necessary to eliminate access onto a major thoroughfare;
            ii.   Necessary to reasonably use irregularly shaped property;
            iii.   Necessary to reasonably use land with significant topography
limitations;
            iv.   Necessary to reasonably use land with limited sites for
septic tank drain fields; or
            v.   Necessary to provide protection of significant environmental
resources.
         c.   If approved, the minimum lot width for a flag lot is 20 feet at
the street ; however a greater width may be required if the BOA finds that a
greater width is needed to ensure adequate and safe access to the property.
         d.   Subdivisions approved and recorded after the effective date of
this ordinance shall not be re-subdivided to create flag lots .
         e.   No flag lot will be allowed if it increases the number of access
points to a major thoroughfare.
   D.   Setbacks. Setbacks refer to the unobstructed, unoccupied open area
between the furthermost projection of a structure and the property line of the
lot on which the structure is located, except as modified by the standards of
this section.
      1.   Features allowed within setbacks. No enclosed usable space of a
structure may project into any required yard space, except in the case of
permitted rear yardaccessory building. The following features may be located
within a required setback:
         a.   Trees, shrubbery or other landscape features.
         b.   Fences and walls that meet the standards in
Article 5.
         c.   Driveways may be located in any setbacks.
         d.   Sidewalks may be located within any required setback.
         e.   Utility lines, wires and associated structures , such as power
pole.
         f.   Uncovered porches, uncovered steps to building entrances,
uncovered patio decks and uncovered balconies may extend up to five feet into
any required front, rear or street side setback.
         g.   Openwork fire balconies and fire escapes may extend up to five
feet into any required setback.
         h.   Sills, belt courses, cornices, buttresses, bay windows, eaves and
other architectural features may extend up to two feet into any required
setback.
         i.   Chimneys and flues may extend up to two feet into any required
setback.
         j.   Impervious surface associated with parking, driveways , etc. for
single family detached dwellings shall occupy no more than 40 percent of the
required front yard as established in
Article 11.
      2.   Measurement of setback distances. Setback distances shall be
measured from the right-of-way line or property line (as applicable) to the
nearest extension of any part of the building that is a substantial part of the
building itself and not mere appendage to it (such as a flagpole or antenna).
      3.   Reduction for public purpose. When an existing setback is reduced
because of conveyance to a federal, state or local government for a public
purpose and the remaining setback is at least 50 percent of the required
minimum setback for the district in which it is located, then that remaining
setback will be deemed to satisfy the minimum setback standards of this UDO.
      4.   Yard exceptions in all zoning districts. The following exceptions
shall apply in all zoning districts.
         a.   Projection of open structures into required yards.
            (1)   Porches, canopies, stairways, carports, sundecks and similar
structures completely open except for necessary supports, may extend into or
over not more than 30 percent of the required rear yard distance or more than
20 percent into a front yard . Open stairways may extend into the front yard
setback as required to meet the building code.
            (2)   Projections of the above-described open structures beyond the
allowable encroachment of 30 percent into a rear yard or more than 20 percent
into a front yard will be permitted only if granted by special exception from
the Board of Adjustment. In no case shall any projection into a front or rear
yard be greater than 45 percent of the required front or rear yard setback
distance. At no time shall an exception be granted if it results in
interference with a required sight distance triangle, substantial interference
with convenient and enjoyable use of adjacent property or substantial danger to
the public health or safety.
            (3)   Projections of the above-described open structures in any
required side yard will be permitted only by special exception from the Board
of Adjustment. Such projections shall not extend more than 40 percent into the
required side yard distance, including gutters, except in no case shall any
projection be closer than five feet to the side property line.
      5.   Decorative walls, planting areas and uncovered paved areas, such as
stoops, patios, drives not more than three and one-half feet above surrounding
grade level, may project not more than 20 percent into any required yard. If
such areas are constructed at surrounding grade, they may extend into any yard
spaces; except that at-grade swimming pool surroundings shall be no closer to
any property line than five feet.
      6.   The Planning Director , or designee, shall grant a deviation of not
more than ten percent from any setback or triangulation distance specified in
this article when a violation of any such requirements has been created through
a good faith error of the property owner or a person  acting on his behalf, the
error cannot be corrected without substantial hardship or expense, or that
granting this relief would not substantially interfere with the convenient and
enjoyable use  of adjacent property or pose any substantial danger to the
public health or safety. Prior to any decision to grant relief under this
section, the owners of the directly adjoining properties shall be given notice
by certified  mail that a request for this encroachment has been made to the
Planning Department. The notice given shall give the adjoining property owners
a minimum of seven days from the date of receipt to provide any comments
regarding the request to the Planning Department. The decision of the director
of planning or designee may be appealed to the Board of Adjustment as provided
under Section
3.16.
      7.   In NC, CR, SB, I-1 and I-2 districts, gas pump islands (without pay
booths) and all canopies not attached to buildings  may be permitted to
encroach into the required front and corner side yard  setbacks up to 75
percent, so long as a minimum front setback of 25 feet or corner side yard
setback of 18 feet remains between the right-of-way line and the closest canopy
structure  support face or pump island; encroachments of 21 percent to 75
percent may be permitted only by special exception granted by the Board of
Adjustment. Approval of the special exception may be granted if all required
findings can be made. The Board of Adjustment must be able to find that such
projections will not interfere with adequate sight distance or negatively
impact traffic circulation patterns.
   E.   Minimum building separation.
      1.   In MF-1 and MF-2 districts, the minimum building to building
separation for multifamily developments , (other than duplexes), shall be
determined through the triangulation formula identified in E.2., below.
      2.   The horizontal length of each exterior wall shall serve as the base
of an isosceles triangle, the altitude of which shall be the length of this
base line times the appropriate factor from the following table provided no
building :
 
Stories in Structure Factor
1                    0.3
2                    0.4
3 and above          0.5
 
      3.   These isosceles triangles shall not overlap. However, in no case
shall the side yard separation between one-story buildings be less than 15 feet
or 20 feet for buildings two-story and above.
   Commentary: Where individual units within a single building vary
significantly in location (five feet or more) and, therefore, do not form a
continuous straight building line, the isosceles triangle may be applied to
each individual unit.
   F.   Building  height limitations. For purposes of this section:
      1.   The height of a building shall be the vertical distance measured
from the mean elevation of the finished grade at the front of the building to
the highest point of the building .
      2.   A point of access to a roof shall be the top of any parapet wall or
the lowest point of a roof's surface, whichever is greater. Roofs with slopes
greater than 75 percent are regarded as walls.
      3.   All buildings may exceed the designated height limit for the
district, provided the depth of the required front, rear and both side yards
shall be increased one foot for each foot or fraction thereof, of building
height in excess of 35 feet; and
      4.   Exceptions to height limits. Unless otherwise expressly stated, the
height limitations of this UDO shall not apply to any of the following:
         a.   Electrical power transmission lines;
         b.   Flagpoles, belfries, cupolas, spires, domes, monuments, chimneys,
radio/television receiving antennas or chimney flues; or
         c.   Bulkhead, elevator, water tank, or any other similar structure or
necessary mechanical appurtenance extending above the roof of any building if
such structure does not occupy more than 33 percent of the area of the roof.
(Ord. No. 3396, § 12, 4-3-06; Ord. No. 3532, § 1, 11-4-08; Ord., 3-16-21)
6.11.   Planned Unit Development (PUD) standards.
   A.   Minimum requirements. Planned Unit Developments  are permissible only
as conditional zoning on tracts of at least five contiguous acres. The general
standards and criteria in Section
4.7 shall also be met.
   B.   Required development mix. All PUD development shall adhere to the
following maximum percentages of listed land uses.
 
Land Use                        Maximum Percentage
Single-Family Residential       40 percent
Multifamily Residential         45 percent
Public, Civic and Institutional 15 percent
Commercial, Office and Retail   15 percent
 
   C.   PUD master plan. The proposed Planned Unit Development  master plan
shall indicate the particular portions of the lot  that the developer  intends
to develop for each of the elements described above. See
Appendix D for the maps, information and analysis required as part of the
submittal for PUD approvals. In addition to the requirements in above, the PUD
master plan also illustrates:
      1.   Neighborhood character and identity; and
      2.   A mixture of land uses , including commercial and residential.
   D.   Nonresidential development  restrictions. The nonresidential portions
of any Planned Unit Development  may not be occupied until all of the
residential portions of the development  are completed or their completion is
guaranteed by any of the mechanisms provided in
Article 8. The intent of this provision is to ensure that the Planned Unit
Development  procedure is not used, intentionally or unintentionally, to create
nonresidential uses  in areas generally zoned for residential uses  except as
part of an integrated and well-planned, primarily residential, development .
   E.   Perimeter setback required. A minimum 25-foot setback along the entire
development perimeter is required, except where single-family residentiallots
of the standard required square footage of the district in which they are
located abut similar single-family development. The setback from any street
bordering the PUD tract is 35 feet unless a greater setback is required by this
UDO.
   F.   Building separation. A minimum separation between single-family and
multifamily buildings of 60 feet is required. Building to building
relationships are otherwise specified in
Article 6.
   G.   Screening and buffering. No required buffer  shall be intruded on by
any building , parking area or access drive. Screening and buffering between
uses  within the PUD shall be in conformance with
Article 7. Reservation of significant natural features shall be documented in
the required permit application materials, along with landscaping appropriate
to the site, uses  and building locations.
   H.   Common recreation and open space. A minimum of 25 percent of the gross
land area in the PUD master plan shall be reserved for common recreation and
usable open space.
   I.   Deviations. Any requested deviation from the standards otherwise
applicable in this UDO shall be set forth in the documentation approved as part
of the conditional rezoning.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
6.12.   Planned Residential Development (PRD) standards.
   A.   Minimum requirements.Planned Residential Development  is an option
provided to encourage a mix of housing options within a comprehensively Planned
Development , allowing a density bonus in return for provision of substantial
landscaping, screening and buffering. Planned Residential Developments  are
permissible only on tracts of at least 15 contiguous acres. The general
standards and criteria in
Article 4 shall also be met.
 
Standard                              Requirement
Maximum Density                       7,500 sq. ft. per unit
Minimum Single-Family Requirement (no 25 percent of total units
manufactured homes )
                                      Of All Single-Family Lots : 
Minimum Single-Family Lot Percentages 60 percent = 12,000 sq. ft. minimum
                                      40 percent = 9,000 sq. ft. minimum
Setbacks Required                     See setbacks for R-12 district
 
   B.   PRD master plan. In addition to the requirements in above, the PRD
master plan also illustrates:
      1.   Identifiable neighborhoods that have a variety of residence types;
and
      2.   A mix of housing types and lot sizes.
   C.   Perimeter setback required. A 25-foot setback along the entire
development  perimeter is required, except where 12,000 square foot lots  abut
similar development . Any required screening and buffering, located in
Article 7, shall be within this perimeter setback. Parking and access drives
may be permitted within the ten feet farthest from the development  perimeter,
provided any required buffer  is not intruded upon.
   D.   Screening and buffering. The screening requirements that would normally
apply where a multifamily development adjoins a single-family development shall
not apply within the Planned Residential Developmentt, but all screening
requirements shall apply between the development and adjacent lots.
Preservation of significant natural features shall be documented in the
required permit application materials, along with landscaping appropriate to
the site, uses and building locations.
   E.   Common recreation and open space. A minimum of 25 percent of the gross
land area in the PRD master plan shall be reserved for common recreation and
usable open space.
   F.   Minimum building separation. A minimum separation between single-family
and multi-family buildings  of 60 feet is required. The building to building
separation between multi-family buildings  is specified in Section
6.11.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
6.13.   Traditional Neighborhood Development (TND) standards.
   A.   Minimum requirements. Traditional Neighborhood Development  is an
option provided to encourage a compact housing within a comprehensively Planned
Development  that incorporates the principles of new urbanism. Traditional
Neighborhood Developments  are permissible only as conditional zoning on tracts
of at least 40 contiguous acres. The general standards and criteria in Section
4.7 shall also be met.
   B.   TND master plan. In addition to the requirements in above, the TND
master plan also illustrates:
      1.   A Town center which is memorable with a square, green and/or transit
stop, with retail and office uses connected to the mix of residential uses in a
practical way;
      2.   Conformance with a general development pattern employing a grid
pattern for a majority of development , with back alleys and garages and
parking at the rear of buildings ;
      3.   Identifiable neighborhoods that have a variety of residence types;
      4.   Shops and offices located at the edge of the neighborhoods;
      5.   Interconnection of the Town center and neighborhoods with pedestrian
ways and streetscapes;
      6.   Common areas and meeting places within the general design of
development , including churches and schools;
      7.   Relatively narrow streets , with trees and sidewalks on both sides;
      8.   A network of open space serving the entire development and providing
internal connections within the project ;
      9.   Prominent sites reserved for civic and other important community
buildings ; and
      10.   Resulting land use patterns that promote and expand opportunities
for pedestrian activity, public transportation and an efficient compact network
of streets .
   C.   Perimeter setback required. A 25-foot setback along the entire
development  perimeter is required, except where 12,000 square foot lots  abut
similar development . Any required screening and buffering, located in
Article 7, shall be within this perimeter setback. Parking and access drives
may be permitted within the ten feet farthest from the development  perimeter,
provided any required buffer  is not intruded upon.
   D.   Screening and buffering. The screening requirements that would normally
apply where a multifamily development adjoins a single-family development shall
not apply within the Traditional Neighborhood Development, but all screening
requirements shall apply between the development and adjacent lots.
Preservation of significant natural features shall be documented in the
required permit application materials, along with landscaping appropriate to
the site, uses and building locations.
   E.   Public facilities.
      1.   The TND master plan shall establish public squares and meeting
places that connect uses .
      2.   The development may deviate from the City's road width standards, so
the development achieves installation consistent with neo-traditional or new
urban design principles as deemed appropriate by the Town Council.
   F.   Common recreation and open space. A minimum of 35 percent of the gross
land area in the TND master plan shall be reserved for common recreation and
usable open space.
   G.   Minimum building separation. Minimum building separation is specified
in Section
6.1.
   H.   Traditional Neighborhood Development guidelines.
      1.   A central community gathering place, surrounded by civic and
nonresidential or mixed uses should be developed as focal point of the
development .
      2.   Residential densities in a Traditional Neighborhood Development
should range from five to eight single family units per net acre, and from 15
to 25 multifamily units per net acre.
      3.   Accessory dwelling units , as defined in
Article 11, should make up approximately ten percent of the single-family
housing stock of the development .
      4.   Blocks within the development should range from 200 to 400 feet
deep, and 400 to 800 feet long.
      5.   A hierarchy of streets should be developed that includes collectors
with two 12-foot travel lanes, subcollectors with two ten-foot travel lanes,
local streets with two ten-foot lanes, and alleys with one 12-foot lane.
      6.   Shared parking is encouraged, and a base ratio of one space per 500
square feet of Mixed UseDevelopment should be applied.
      7.   Architectural standards should be incorporated that are responsive
to the community's context. The standards should include site design issues
such as building orientation and location on the site, location of parking
areas, and mixing of uses .
   I.   Deviations. Any requested deviation from the standards otherwise
applicable in this UDO shall be set forth in the documentation approved by the
Town Council as part of the conditional rezoning.
(Ord. No. 3558, § 2, 7-7-09; Ord., 3-16-21)
6.14.   Mixed UseDevelopment (MXD) standards.
   A.   Minimum requirements. Mixed Use Developments  are permissible only as
conditional zoning on tracts of at least 40 contiguous acres. The general
standards and criteria in Section
4.7 shall also be met.
   B.   Required developmentmix. A minimum of three of the use categories
listed below shall be included in any MXD district:
      1.   Flex space ;
      2.   Office/institutional;
      3.   Research, technology, and industrial;
      4.   Commercial;
      5.   Cultural; and
      6.   Residential (Maximum of 50 percent of MXD, and then, at no more
density than permitted in
Article 6 for MF-2. No detached single-family residential is permitted).
   C.   MXD master plan. The proposed Mixed UseDevelopment master plan shall
indicate the particular portions of the lot that the developer intends to
develop for each of the elements described above. See
Appendix D for the maps, information and analysis required as part of the
submittal for MXD approvals.
   D.   Perimeter setback required. A minimum 50-foot setback along the entire
development perimeter is required. The setback from any street bordering the
MXD tract shall be 35 feet unless a greater setback is required by this UDO.
   E.   Building separation. Building to building relationships are otherwise
specified in
Article 6.
   F.   Screening and buffering. No required buffer shall be intruded on by any
building, parking area or access drive. Screening and buffering between uses
within the MXD shall be in conformance with Section
7.1, Landscaping and tree protection. Reservation of significant natural
features shall be documented in the required permit application materials,
along with landscaping appropriate to the site, uses and building locations.
   G.   Public facilities. Where residential uses are proposed, the MXD master
plan shall establish public squares and meeting places that connect uses.
   H.   Common recreation and open space. A minimum of five percent of the
gross land area in the MXD master plan shall be reserved for common recreation
and usable open space.
   I.   Mixed use guidelines.
      1.   The Mixed UseDevelopment should contain some buildings that are
vertically mixed in use .
      2.   Retail uses should be placed at street level, while office and
residential uses should be placed in the rear or on the upper stories.
      3.   Any limitation on residential density should be a function of
parking demands, vehicular traffic generation, adequate utility service,
building height, and lot coverage.
      4.   Streets should interconnect within the development and with
adjoining development . Streets should be planned with due regard to the
designated corridors shown on the thoroughfare plan.
      5.   Mid-block and rear alleys should be utilized for access to parking,
service and loading areas to minimize the number of driveways along the main
pedestrian spaces.
      6.   To facilitate transit usage and circulation, Mixed UseDevelopment
should provide transit stops at key nodes with easy access to the surrounding
thoroughfares along routes through the development planned to accommodate the
technical requirements of bus operations.
      7.   Locate buildings close to the street , with parking behind and/or
beside buildings. If the building is located at a street intersection, place
the main building , or part of the building , at the corner. Parking, loading
or service may not be located at an intersection.
      8.   Pedestrian circulation should be an integral part of the initial
site layout. Organize the site so that the buildings frame and reinforce
pedestrian circulation, and so that the pedestrians walk along building fronts
rather than along or across parking lots and driveways .
   J.   Deviations. Any requested deviation from the standards otherwise
applicable in this UDO shall be set forth in the documentation approved by the
Town Council as part of conditional zoning.
(Ord. No. 3558, § 2, 7-7-09; Ord., 3-16-21)
ARTICLE 7.  GENERAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
   
7.1.   Landscaping and tree protection.
   
7.2.   Stormwater management.
   
7.3.   Outdoor storage and display.
   
7.4.   Off-street parking and loading standards.
   
7.5.   Sign regulations.
   
7.6.   Outdoor lighting standards.
   
7.7.   Access standards.
7.1.   Landscaping and tree protection.
   A.   Purpose and intent. The purpose of this section is to regulate the
planting and preservation of landscape material, to promote the general health,
safety and welfare of the community and in addition, to facilitate the creation
of an attractive environment to protect property values and to further the
urban design and economic development objectives of the Town-wide Comprehensive
Growth Plan. This section is intended to apply minimum standards, which result
in a better overall appearance of the community by:
      1.   Achieving a harmonious relationship between the natural landscape
and manmade structures ;
      2.   Enhancing the community's natural, cultural and visual resources.
      3.   Achieving the goals and policies of the officially adopted
Comprehensive Growth Plan currently in force.
   B.   Applicability. The provisions of this section and the Town of Garner
Planting Manual contained in
Appendix E shall apply to all public and private land located within the Town
of Garner.
      1.   New development . The requirements of this section apply to the
entire site for all new development.
      2.   Expansion of existing development. Where existing development is
expanded as described below, the requirements of this section shall apply to
the entire site:
         a.   Residential district or exclusive residential use in any
district. Any increase in the gross floor area of the building , developed area
or site of 20 percent or more, or 1,000 square feet, whichever is less.
         b.   Commercial district or use . Any increase in the gross floor area
of the building , developed area or site by ten percent or more, or 1,000
square feet, whichever is less.
         c.   Industrial district or use . Any increase in the gross floor area
of the building , developed area, or site by 20 percent or more, or 5,000
square feet, whichever is less.
      3.   Exemptions to the landscape/maintenance requirements.
         a.   Improvements or repairs to the interior or exterior of structures
or buildings that do not result in an expansion or change in use shall be
exempt from the landscape planting requirements, but not the maintenance
requirements.
         b.   A single detached dwelling on its own lot shall be exempt from
landscape planting and maintenance requirements.
   C.   Landscape plans.
   Commentary: Landscape plans should be prepared with the appropriate mix of
plant varieties and quantities necessary to meet the requirements of Section
7.1 of the UDO. In cases where overhead power or utility lines exist, selected
landscape material located underneath said lines must be the appropriate plant
type so as not to create future conflicts. Information regarding the types of
trees and shrubs that can be planted near power or utility lines can be
obtained from the Garner Planning Department.
   A registered landscape architect shall prepare landscape plans, except where
expressly exempted by the Planning Director . The landscape treatment shall
adequately detail the requirements of this section; planting, landscape and
buffer treatments required by the Town of Garner Planting Manual contained in
Appendix E; and all other applicable sections of this UDO.
      1.   Required planting components.
         a.   There are four required planting components that may need to be
addressed for any site subject to this section, as follows:
            (1)   Tree canopy cover;
            (2)   Tree preservation (if required);
            (3)   Buffers , yards, vehicular surface areas and street trees ;
and
            (4)   Screening of objectionable views.
         b.   These subsections address the minimum planting requirements for
plan submittals.
      2.   Landscape plan required. Landscape plans shall include the
following.
         a.   Any natural features that influence the site's design.
         b.   Elements of required landscaping including buffers , tree cover,
street yards, side and rear yards , open space, greenways, site distance
triangles and easements.
         c.   Proposed plant schedule to include plant types, botanical and
common name, spacing, quantities, sizes (height and spread and container size)
and quantities. Tree cover calculations adequate in detail to determine
compliance with these standards.
         d.   Proposed drives, paving, decks, walks, pools and other man-made
structures /elements which are to be introduced within the property.
         e.   Proposed grades on landscape plan shall be half-toned on the
print so as not to conflict with the legibility of the planting scheme and
labels.
         f.   Construction notes/details relating to hardscape elements,
specific material and planting procedures, and seeding schedules.
         g.   A plant points table that indicates the calculation of required
and proposed landscape plantings for the development , detailing the use of the
existing plant material, and the new plantings that are to be applied toward
the required buffers , yards and vehicular surface areas .
         h.   Show calculations for tree canopy cover requirements.
         i.   If underground irrigation is to be used, all double check or RPZ
valves and controllers shall be located on the landscape plans submitted and
shall be screened from view from adjacent right-of- way.
         j.   Sight line drawings may be required by the Planning Director for
development that proposes inappropriate building scale, materials or
architecture or has a substantial grade difference or proposes insufficient
screening treatments.
   D.   Plant material installation requirements. Plant material requirements
are based on square footage area of the four required planting components, and
may be based on sight line drawings. Credits are based on the size and height
of existing or proposed material. Refer to the credit for retaining mature
trees chart and the plant points table below. Also refer to the residential and
non-residential development cover requirements in Sections I.2.c. and d.; the
perimeter and street buffer charts in Sections K.6 and Sections K.8 and
Sections L.2.c, L.3.b, and L.4.b.
      1.   Conditions.
         a.   All plant material installed must meet standards set by American
Association of Nurserymen, Inc., "Standards for Nursery Stock".
         b.   The minimum number of plants required, regardless of area
calculations, is three trees and 20 shrubs.
         c.   A minimum of ten percent of the required landscape installation
based on the total plant points for the entire site shall be installed next to
the building .
         d.   For large-scale buildings a minimum of 25 percent of the area of
the front wall and of the building shall be screened with large trees planted
within 25 feet of the building .
      2.   Credit for retaining mature trees. In order to promote the retention
of existing mature trees, the following schedule provides more credits for
existing mature trees with diameter at breast height (DBH ) sizes as noted than
are awarded in the plant points table for installed trees with smaller trunks.
Qualification requires that the trees be in good health and of good quality, as
determined by a landscape architect licensed in NC or a certified arborist.
 
Points Small Hardwoods     Large Hardwoods     Softwoods
40     2½ to 4 inches     6 to 9 inches       8 to 11 inches
50     5 to 8 inches       10 to 17 inches     12 to 17 inches
64     9 to 11 inches      18 to 24 inches     18 to 29 inches
96     12 inches or larger 24 inches or larger 30 inches or larger
 
      3.   Plant points table.
Plant Type Height   Size Root/  Container 1Caliper   (inches)Points
           (feet)
Plant Type                                Height   Size Root/  Container Caliper    Points
                                          (feet)    1                      (inches)
                                          14        B&B                    3 to 9      40
Large Canopy Tree  (minimum 35 feet at   12        B&B                    2.5         32
maturity)                                 10        B&B                    2           25
                                          9         B&B                    1.5         15
                                          8         B&B                    1.25        8
                                          9         B&B                    1.5         32
Small Canopy Tree  (less than 35 feet at 8         B&B                    1.25        25
maturity)                                 6         B&B                    1           15
                                          5         B&B                    0.75        8
                                          8         B&B                    —         15
                                          6         15 gallon/B&B          —         12
                                          4         10 gallon              —         10
Shrubs                                    3         7 gallon               —         8
                                          2         5 gallon               —         6
                                          18        3 gallon               —         3
                                          < 18      or 1 gallon            —         1
         1  "Balled & Burlapped"
 
   E.   Protection of planting areas. Planting areas shall be permanently
protected from damage by vehicular traffic through the use of curbing and or
wheel stops. Wheel stops shall be used in parking areas where:
      1.   Curbing has not been used or is less than six inches in height.
      2.   Proposed new trees and shrubs are planted within five feet from
adjacent curbing or edge of vehicular surface area paving.
   F.   Completion of work/letters of credit.
      1.   A certificate of occupancy shall be issued only when all plantings
have been installed and all the work shown on the approved landscape plan has
been completed. Substantial changes in plantings which have changed the intent
of the approved plans and changed the credit totals used to meet the ordinance
requirements shall be reviewed by the Town staff for compliance prior to the
issuance of the certificate of occupancy.
      2.   An irrevocable letter of credit or bond for 125 percent of the cost
of landscaping and uncompleted work, as determined by the executed contract,
will be accepted in lieu of installation where periods of adverse planting
conditions prohibit the installation of the work or where the certificate of
occupancy is required prior to the completion of the landscaping.
   G.   Tree preservation/protection.
      1.   Purpose and intent. The purpose of this section to promote the
preservation and protection of existing tree coverage on a site. Existing trees
enhance and improve overall land values and aesthetics, contribute to the
production of oxygen, reduction of carbon dioxide and water runoff while at the
same time reducing the overall urban heat buildup and soil erosion.
      2.   Exemptions for timbering and silviculture. Normal forestry
activities on property taxed under present-use  value standard or conducted
pursuant to a forestry management plan, prepared and approved by a forester
registered according to G.S. § 89B are exempt from tree preservation
requirements.
         a.   No forestry activities may take place on property until the
property owner or his representative has obtained a forestry permit from the
Town of Garner Planning Department. Failure to obtain a permit shall subject
the owner to a fine not to exceed $500.00. Each day the violation continues
shall be considered a new violation, subject to a new penalty.
         b.   Forestry activities are strongly encouraged to exclude all tree
harvesting and thereby preserving all trees within following perimeter buffer
areas:
            (1)   Fifty-five-foot wide buffers located along roadways or
located adjoining developed properties; and
            (2)   Thirty-foot wide buffers located adjoining undeveloped
properties.
         c.   In cases where all trees or substantially all trees are removed
from the above referenced perimeter buffers , the Town will not grant site plan
or subdivision plan approval for said property for a period of five years
following the harvest of such trees. The five-year waiting period may be waived
if the Town Council, by a three-quarters vote, determines a project to be
desirable and grants the right to immediate development on recently timbered
land where no perimeter buffer was kept.
      3.   Significant or specimen tree protection requirements.Rare species
listed under the North Carolina Natural Heritage Program shall be saved. Such
trees shall be required to be saved unless the BOA concludes such trees do not
significantly contribute to the Town's appearance and natural environment, and
where retaining such trees unreasonably burdens development, as described
below.
 
Tree Type               Tree Size
Overstory Hardwood Tree 24" DBH or greater
Evergreen Tree          30" DBH or greater
Understory Tree         10" DBH or greater
         a.   When development is unreasonably burdened by retaining such
trees, the following criteria is used to prioritize trees to be saved based on
the following criteria.
            (1)   Rareness of species;
            (2)   Evidence of disease/insects;
            (3)   Size and age of tree;
            (4)   Aesthetic value (i.e. flower, fruit, color, etc.);
            (5)   Expected longevity of species;
            (6)   Size at maturity; and
            (7)   Severity of slope.
   H.   Stop work orders and violations/penalties. See
Article 10, Enforcement.
   I.   Tree canopy cover.
      1.   Purpose and intent. The objective of tree canopy cover standards is
to preserve and maintain appropriate undisturbed tree cover, and where needed,
require the provision of replacement tree cover on development sites within the
Town of Garner zoning jurisdiction. Such standards support the reduction of
soil erosion, air pollution, stormwater runoff and noise; moderate
temperatures; and protect plant and wildlife habitat, which together assist in
providing a healthier living environment for the citizens of the Town.
      2.   Tree cover requirements.
         a.   All new development must meet the tree cover requirements
outlined in the tables below. These standards can be achieved by preserving
existing trees on the site, or by planting replacement trees. Trees in required
buffer yards and easements, and street trees may be credited towards the tree
cover requirements. Preference is given to preserving existing trees, rather
than preservation and planting, or exclusive planting, and this preference is
reflected in the standards of the table.
         b.   Water surface areas of ponds, lakes or other surface water bodies
(excluding stormwater control structures ) shall be excluded from the total
land area for the purposes of calculating tree cover requirements.
         c.   Tree residential development cover requirements.
 
Preserved Tree  Cover AreaReplacement Tree  Cover Minimum Total  Tree Cover
                           Area                     Area
12%                        Plus 0% equals           12%
8.5%                       Plus 4% equals           12.5%
5%                         Plus 8% equals           13%
1.5%                       Plus 12% equals          13.5%
0%                         Plus 14% equals          14%
 
         d.   Non-residential development cover requirements.
 
Preserved Tree  Cover AreaReplacement Tree  Cover Minimum Total  Tree Cover
                           Area                     Area
10%                        Plus 0% equals           10%
7.5%                       Plus 3% equals           10.5%
5%                         Plus 6% equals           11%
2.5%                       Plus 9% equals           11.5%
0%                         Plus 12% equals          12%
         e.   Areas required to be undisturbed by other requirements of the
Garner UDO shall be presumed to meet requirements of this section, provided
applicable standards are met.
         f.   All preliminary major subdivision plans, site plans, final plats
and other types of plans or permits as determined by the Planning Director
shall clearly indicate all tree preservation and tree replacement areas.
         g.   Existing tree cover areas in new subdivisions are strongly
encouraged to be located in common open space areas or protected buffers ,
where possible. Where this is not practical, perimeter buffer areas or
conservation easement areas may be increased, provided the root zone of such
trees can be protected during construction .
      3.   Tree cover preservation area requirements. Trees proposed to be
preserved to meet the tree cover requirements above must also meet the
following requirements for tree cover preservation areas.
         a.   Preservation of groups of trees must occur in areas of at least
1,000 square feet on sites greater than one acre with no dimension less than 15
feet. For sites of one acre or less, preservation areas for groups of trees
shall be a minimum of 500 square feet in area with no dimension less than 15
feet.
         b.   Individual tree cover preservation area is defined by its root
zone protection area, and must be minimum size of 200 square feet, even where
the root zone protection area is smaller than this size. Where specimen trees
are preserved outside of other required buffers , credit shall be granted at a
rate of two times the square footage of the root zone protection area.
         c.   In order to receive credit as tree cover, the minimum size for
trees in a tree preservation area shall be two and one-half-inch DBH (except
where such trees are specimen trees).
         d.   In cases where there is uncertainty regarding the size and
quality of trees proposed for preservation, the Planning Director shall have
the authority to require submittal of a limited tree survey to substantiate
that such areas meet the minimum standards.
      4.   Replacement tree cover requirements.
         a.   Replacement trees are required to meet the standards listed in
the table below.
         b.   At least 50 percent of the replacement trees shall be two and
one- half-inch DBH or larger.
         c.   At least 50 percent of the replacement trees must be large
hardwoods native to this region.
         d.   A variance is required to approve replacement trees of different
sizes or species when it determines that some flexibility is needed to better
meet the purpose and intent of these regulations. For every one-half-inch
caliper above what is listed below a credit of 25 square feet may be allowed
(i.e. three-inch tree may receive a credit of 225 square feet).
 
DBH (inches) Credit (square feet)
2½          200
2            175
1½          150
1            100
Less than 1  No credit
 
      5.   Protection subsequent to plan approval.
         a.   Fencing. During the entire period of construction activity on the
site, all protected trees shall be surrounded and protected by an orange Tensar
geogrid fencing fabric or approved equal fencing. Tree protection fencing shall
be installed a minimum of ten feet from the trunk of any protected tree or drip
line, whichever is greater. For any tree greater than ten inches DBH, this
distance shall be increased one foot for every one inch in DBH. Tree protection
fencing shall be maintained until a final certificate of occupancy has been
issued, unless expressly exempted by the Planning Director. One sign shall be
placed every 200 feet along fencing to read:
 
"TREE PROTECTION AREA—DO NOT ENTER/ 
PARA PROTECCION DE LOS ARBOLES—PROHIBIDO ENTRAR"
      6.   Soil disturbance. Subsequent to plan approval and during the entire
period of construction, there shall be no soil disturbance or compaction within
areas designated for tree preservation and protection, and areas protected by
tree protection fencing. This includes no stockpiling of construction or other
material, and no bore sampling or other similar vehicular traffic. Failure to
comply with this prohibition shall subject the owner to a fine in accordance
with Section
10.3.
      7.   Tree survey.
         Commentary: Tree surveys are not mandatory, but may be required if
landscape credit is requested for existing trees proposed for preservation when
the location and size of said trees cannot easily be determined by the Planning
Department.
      A tree survey when required by the Planning Director shall include:
         a.   General significant area outline of existing trees to be saved
and any individual trees meeting minimum requirements with species
(abbreviated) and DBH next to each location;
         b.   Any trees meeting the DBH standards in paragraph G.3., above; and
         c.   Any existing tree eight inches DBH or greater within the first 15
feet of the portion of the buffer closest to the subject development .
         d.   Specimen trees located within the following areas are not
required to be surveyed:
            (1)   Floodway ;
            (2)   Floodway fringe;
            (3)   Preserved wetlands;
            (4)   Stream buffers ; and
            (5)   Undisturbed steep slopes.
      8.   Tree preservation incentives.
         a.   The Planning Director shall approve up to a 15-percent reduction
in the required number of parking spaces if at least one significant tree for
every three parking spaces is saved outside of the required buffers and
floodways .
         b.   Trees and shrubs retained on-site may be used to meet landscape
requirements if the trees and shrubs meet the standards of the buffer or yard
to which they are being applied.
         c.   Undisturbed areas may be counted towards nitrogen reduction
requirements.
   J.   Xeriscape landscape design and planting.
      1.   Purpose and intent. Xeriscaping is a landscaping method that
maximizes the conservation of water by the use of site appropriate plant
material, adequate soil preparation, proper maintenance practices and efficient
irrigation that conserves water and protects the environment. Implementing the
seven principles of xeriscaping below reduces the use of fertilizers and
chemicals, and can reduce water consumption and improve plant vigor.
      2.   Reduction in buffer  width for xeriscaping. Where the applicant
demonstrates that all seven of the xeriscaping principles in the paragraph
below have been satisfied, a reduction of up to ten percent of a required
perimeter buffer  width shall be allowed.
      3.   Seven principles of xeriscaping.
         a.   Planning and design. Analyze the site to take advantage of the
existing conditions (i.e. solar orientation, existing vegetation etc.) that can
facilitate the conservation of utility and water usage and over all maintenance
costs to a site, locate and develop use areas to accommodate specific
activities, identify zones of varying water requirements.
         b.   Soil analysis and preparation. Typical construction site soils
lack desirable soil structure and available water or nutrients. Xeriscape
methods encourage plants to develop deep root growth so that plants have access
to moisture after soils dry out. This is accomplished by breaking up soil
compaction and adding organic matter to keep soils porous, as well as
chemically improving soils with nutrient additives. Both physical and chemical
improvements are needed for deep root growth. A successful xeriscape plan
includes soil test results of each water requirement zone with recommendations
on correcting deficiencies in soil pH, nutrients, and amendments. If soil test
is not available the following soil improvements may be used as substitute:
            (1)   Till the soil to a depth of six inches to break up
compaction; and
            (2)   Incorporate topsoil, add four inches of shredded or composted
organic matter, lime 9, and a balanced fertilizer to the top two to four inches
of soil.
         c.   Appropriate plant selection. When deciding on plant material, it
is important to select material that is not only compatible with the design but
also well suited to the site, adaptable to the local environment, and grouped
according to water needs.
         d.   Practical turf areas. To reduce maintenance and utility costs, it
is important to design turf areas that are specific to a use (i.e. accent area
in front of a doorway, entertainment zone, or play area for children) and
reduce or eliminate other areas of turf grass.
         e.   Efficient irrigation. Zone the different plant materials by water
requirements and provide the type of irrigation appropriate to the zone.
Irrigate between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m. so as to decrease water
loss due to evaporation. Use drip irrigation in beds that are mulched or on
steep slopes to thoroughly soak the area without washing away the mulch or
causing run-off. Wet the soil to a depth of six to eight inches to encourage
deep root growth. Simply sprinkling mulched areas lightly can induce shallow
root growth; shallow-rooted plants suffer in dry periods. If necessary, split
water applications into two time blocks to allow the soil to absorb the water.
         f.   Mulching. Use two to four inches of fine-textured organic mulches
(wood chips, composted leaves, shredded bark, pine straw) to conserve moisture
and reduce the need for supplemental water. Do not use inorganic mulches, such
as gravel, which accelerates water loss from plants and soil by absorbing and
reradiating heat from the sun. Do not use plastic as a soil cover as it
prevents oxygen exchange and encourages shallow root growth.
         g.   Appropriate maintenance. Maintain xeriscape planting by
fertilizing less during dry periods so as not to dehydrate roots, prune lightly
especially during dry periods to avoid production of new growth when water is
scarce, test the soil pH and correct for deficiencies; water thoroughly at a
rate that matches soil absorption to encourage deep root growth and reduce run-
off; mow turf grass often and high to encourage deep root growth and to shade
the soil thereby reducing water use; regularly maintain and adjust irrigation
systems for maximum efficiency; and, aerate to correct soil compaction and to
reduce weeds and pests.
      4.   More information. For more information on xeriscaping, refer to the
Town of Garner Planting Manual (in
Appendix E) for details.
   K.   Buffers.
      1.   Purpose and intent. Buffers  are required where incompatible uses
are adjacent to or directly across the street  from each other. There are two
types of buffers : perimeter buffers  along side and rear lot  lines and street
buffers  along lot  lines adjacent to private or public streets . Perimeter
buffers  perform a dual role of providing both horizontal separation and
vertical screening. Street buffers  provide horizontal separation only. Both
perimeter and street buffers  shall retain all existing vegetation a minimum of
four inches DBH  or greater. The potential negative effect of the incompatible
use  of the subject property shall determine the required buffer  width. No
land disturbing activities  are allowed except where specified below. Minor
clearing of underbrush is allowed in order to maintain or enhance public
safety. Buffer  requirements may be met with supplemental planting.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4447ce03978db0feab4258ffc8ecb3f9806deb9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1184.jpg]
 
      2.   Buffer  vegetation requirements. No land disturbing activities  are
permitted in buffers  containing existing trees with a minimum caliper DBH  of
four inches except as provided below. A tree survey, in accordance with
[Section
7.1] I.7, Tree survey, may be required for buffers  containing significant or
specimen trees that meet the requirements set forth in Subsection G.3,
Significant or specimen tree protection requirements. No land disturbing
activities  shall be permitted within the critical root zone  of any retained
significant or specimen trees. When development  is unreasonably burdened by
saving significant or specimen trees within buffer  classifications 3 through
6, the developermay file a Variance application with the BOA to determine what
replanting and/or screening measures shall be implemented.
         a.   Limited grading within buffers . Limited grading within
designated buffers  may be permissible according to the following limitations
when grading encroachment is the only practical solution after all other
reasonable alternatives have been exhausted.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4447ce03978db0feab4258ffc8ecb3f9806deb9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2267.jpg]
 
            (1)   In cases where designated buffers completely lack existing
trees and vegetation, grading within the buffer area is permitted.
            (2)   In all other cases, grading encroachment is allowed only in
buffers 35 feet wide or greater and is limited to a maximum of 15 percent into
the development side of the buffer as illustrated by the above graphic. The
length of the grading encroachment in the buffer area is limited to a maximum
of 15 percent of the total length of the affected buffer .
            (3)   If retaining walls are used, grading shall not exceed a slope
ratio of 2 1/2:1.
         b.   Existing vegetation. Existing vegetation can be used to meet all
or part of the requirements of this section where such vegetation meets the
minimum standard for vertical screening under the appropriate classification.
Where supplemental planting is required, the Planning Director shall have the
authority to specify the location to account for and provide maximum screening
in the event of significant grade differences between properties to which the
buffer standard applies.
         c.   Proposed vegetation. Where supplemental planting is required in
buffers, the Planning Director shall have the authority to specify the location
to account for and provide maximum screening in the event of significant grade
differences between properties to which the buffer standard applies. Proposed
vegetation shall adhere to the following buffer planting requirements:
            (1)   Required planting shall use a mix of deciduous overstory
trees , evergreen trees, deciduous understory trees/large shrubs, and small
evergreen shrubs to provide vertical screening;
            (2)   Monoculture plantings are not permitted;
            (3)   The mix shall create a 100 percent screening buffer within
two years of planting.
            (4)   In calculating buffer planting requirements, areas of
driveways and sight distance triangles shall be excluded; and
            (5)   Deciduous overstory trees , small trees or large shrubs,
evergreen shrubs and evergreen trees shall be distributed along the entire
length of the buffer . Due to unique characteristics of a site, or design
objectives, alternative designs that achieve the required screening may be
approved by the Planning Director .
      3.   Site-specific conditions. At the time of site plan approval, the
Planning Director may require additional berming, landscaping, or screen walls
to satisfy buffer separation and screening requirements on a case-by-case
basis.
         a.   If berming is used, it shall not exceed a slope ratio of 2:
1 feet. The berm must be vegetated with plant material that will accomplish a
height of six feet including the berm within two years of planting.
         b.   If an opaque fence or wall is to be used, the height shall be six
feet with the finished side facing adjacent property or right-of-way.
      4.   Buffers and clear sight triangles. No screening or buffering shall
interfere with the sight distance triangles required for safe traffic movements
at driveway or street intersections.
      5.   Land usebuffer classifications.
 
Class Uses Included
1     Single-family detached, modular single family homes, manufactured homes ,
      cemeteries*, public park (passive use only)
      Townhomes , condominiums (less than 12 units in project ), two-family
      dwelling, apartments (12 units or less per acre), multiplex units,
      manufactured home parks, family care homes , group care homes ,
2     intermediate care homes, library, museum, art gallery, art center, day
      care facility, continuing care facility, group care facility, handicapped
      institution, intermediate care institution , nursing home, child care
      home , adult care, bank, community center (less than 5,000 sq. ft.)
      Apartments (13 units or greater per acre), townhomes and condominiums
      (more than 12 units or more in project ), business schools, public or
      private schools, post office, medical clinic, mental health facility,
      public park (active use only), minor utility, restaurant , public
      swimming pool, public tennis courts, indoor entertainment facility,
3     theater, medical office, convenience store (without gasoline sales),
      office, retail sales with no outdoor operations, personal service,
      community ctr. (greater than 5,000 sq. ft.), gym, spa, bed and breakfast,
      religious institutions, agriculture, golf course/country club, private
      swimming pool), private indoor/outdoor tennis court, Town hall, hospice,
      hospitals or ambulatory health/emergency care facilities without heliport
      operations
      Bus passenger terminal, taxi/limousine operations or facility, trade/
      vocational schools, hospital, major utility, telecommunication facility,
      drive in /up restaurant , horse stable, extended stay facility, hotel/
4     motel, convenience store (with gasoline sales), open air markets, indoor
      veterinarian/kennel facility, car wash, vehicular repair, vehicular sales
      and rentals, limited vehicular service, commercial parking lots , private
      outdoor athletic facility, water slide, outdoor entertainment, shopping
      center
      College or university, ambulance service, rescue squad, fire station,
5     police station, solar farms, bar, tavern, night club, outdoor
      veterinarian/kennel facility, retail with outdoor operation, self service
      storage (inside or outside), railroad tracks
      Military reserve, prison or jail, sexually oriented business, drive in
      theater, aviation service, light industrial flex space , manufacturing/
      production, mining/quarry operations, warehouse or freight storage, truck
6     terminals, reclamation landfill , recyclable material collections,
      salvage yard, sanitary landfill , wholesale sales , industrial (outside),
      vehicle towing, greenhouse, hospitals or ambulatory health/emergency care
      facilities with heliport operations
Note: Projects (new or expansion to existing ones) that abut an existing
cemetery shall provide a minimum ten-foot wide buffer area with landscaping to
achieve a 100 percent screen up to a height of six feet. New cemeteries or
expansion to existing ones must meet required landscape and buffers
requirements of this ordinance.
      6.   Buffer width charts. The following tables provide requirements for
buffers between two uses. To use the tables identify the appropriate
classification numbers for the proposed use and adjacent property or street.
The required buffer width is listed at the intersection of the respective row
and column.
         a.   Perimeter buffers adjacent to developed zoning district.
Proposed Use   ClassificationAdjacent Developed Classification  (width in
                              feet)
Proposed Use   ClassificationAdjacent Developed Classification  (width in
                              feet)
                              1  2  3  4  5  6
1                             0  15 25 25 35 45
2                             25 15 15 15 25 35
3                             35 25 15 15 25 25
4                             45 35 25 15 15 15
5                             55 45 35 25 15 15
6                             65 55 45 35 25 15
 
         b.   Perimeter buffers adjacent to undeveloped zoning district.
Proposed Use   ClassificationAdjacent Undeveloped Zoning District 
                              (width in feet)
                              Adjacent Undeveloped Zoning District 
Proposed Use   Classification(width in feet)
                              SF MF NC, NO CR, CBD, SB OI I-1, I-2
1                             0  15 25     25          25 35
2                             15 15 15     15          15 25
3                             25 15 15     15          15 25
4                             25 20 15     15          15 15
5                             35 25 15     15          15 15
6                             45 25 15     20          20 15
         c.   Streetbuffers across from existing and proposed development. The
street buffer has only a horizontal separation requirement. For screening
requirements, refer to Section L.4.b, Planting requirements in vehicle surface
area, and Section M., Screening of objectionable views. Streetbuffers include
land classifications across an adjacent street or railroad track. Refer to
overlay districts for further landscaping requirements specific to
thoroughfares.
Proposed Use   ClassificationStreet Buffer Width  (width in feet)
Proposed Use   ClassificationStreet Buffer Width  (width in feet)
                              1  2  3 and 4 5 and 6
1                             0  15 20      25
2                             15 15 15      25
3                             20 15 15      15
4                             25 25 15      15
5                             25 25 15      15
6                             25 25 15      15
      7.   Buffer width reductions.
         a.   Where two adjacent properties, both in classifications 3 through
6, have planting requirements for perimeter buffers , the subject property may
be allowed a 50% reduction in the required adjacent perimeter buffer width and
planting. If the adjoining property is developed and has a continuous planting
of existing, mature evergreen shrubs along the entire length of the adjacent
side property line the subject property may reduce the adjacent perimeter
buffer by up to 50 percent and install only half the required side buffer
planting requirements.
         b.   If the adjoining property is undeveloped and has a planting
requirement along the entire length of the adjacent side property line the
subject property may reduce the adjacent perimeter buffer by up to 50 percent
and install only half the required side buffer planting requirements.
      8.   Planting requirements. Planting requirements shall apply only to
screening for perimeter buffers . Planting requirements shall apply to all
classifications and shall be satisfied in accordance to this subsection.
         a.   Trees. Trees shall be evenly distributed along the entire length
of the buffer. To calculate the required number of trees refer to Section K.5,
Land usebuffer classifications, and Section K.6, Buffer width charts, above. To
calculate the spacing constraints for the respective trees/large shrubs and
evergreen shrubs use the following applicable requirements:
            (1)   Deciduous overstory trees.
               (a)   No tree with a caliper less than two and one-half inches
shall be permitted.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4447ce03978db0feab4258ffc8ecb3f9806deb9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1188.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4447ce03978db0feab4258ffc8ecb3f9806deb9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1190.jpg]
 
               (b)   Of the total number of required trees, 20 to 30 percent
shall be deciduous overstory trees .
               (c)   The planting rate per square foot shall be calculated in
accordance to the following table:
BUFFER POINTS FOR TREES
Buffer Width One Tree per  Square Feet of Buffer
BUFFER POINTS FOR TREES
Buffer Width      One Tree per  Square Feet of Buffer
15 feet           200 square feet
25 feet           300 square feet
35 feet           350 square feet
45 feet           400 square feet
55 feet           475 square feet
65 feet and above 550 square feet
            (2)   Deciduous understory trees/large shrubs.
               (a)   No deciduous understory tree/large shrub less than eight
feet tall shall be permitted to be planted.
               (b)   Of the total number of required trees, between 20 and 30
percent shall be deciduous understory trees/large shrubs.
               (c)   The shrubs can be deciduous or evergreen.
               (d)   If there is significant existing vegetation and/or
significant site characteristics/design solutions that provide adequate
screening, two smaller deciduous understory trees/large shrubs with a minimum
height of four and half feet can be substituted for one required deciduous
understory tree/large shrub .
            (3)   Large evergreen trees.
               (a)   No large evergreen trees less than eight feet tall shall
be permitted.
               (b)   Of the total number of required trees, at least 50 percent
shall be large evergreen trees.
               (c)   If there is significant existing vegetation and/or
significant site characteristics/design solutions that provide adequate
screening, two smaller evergreen trees with a minimum height of four and half
feet can be substituted for one required large evergreen tree.
         b.   Evergreen shrubs.
            (1)   Evergreen shrubs shall be installed at a minimum height of 36
inches.
            (2)   Evergreen shrubs shall reach six feet within two years of
planting.
            (3)   To calculate the required numbers of shrubs refer to Section
K.5, Land usebuffer classifications, and Section K.6, Buffer width charts.
            (4)   Evergreen shrubs shall be evenly distributed along the entire
length of the buffer at the following rates per square foot:
BUFFER POINTS FOR SHRUBS
Buffer Width One Shrub per  Square Feet of Buffer
BUFFER POINTS FOR SHRUBS
Buffer Width      One Shrub per  Square Feet of Buffer
15 feet           50 square feet
25 feet           75 square feet
35 feet           125 square feet
45 feet           200 square feet
55 feet           300 square feet
65 feet and above 450 square feet
 
      9.   Sight line drawings.
         a.   The Planning Director shall require sight line drawings to be
submitted with landscape plans if the proposed development is adjacent to a
residential district or use or in cases where the proposed development may have
some impact on street views.
         b.   The Planning Director may require sight line drawings to be
submitted with landscape plans based on, but not limited to, the following
criteria:
            (1)   Where existing vegetation or proposed vegetation and berming
is not adequate;
            (2)   Where the first story finished floor elevation of the
proposed development is a minimum six feet higher or lower than adjacent
residential zoning or use ;
            (3)   Where materials, character or architectural features for the
proposed building are different from adjacent residential structures ;
            (4)   Where the proposed building volume is five times or greater
than adjacent residential building volume, and/or the height of the proposed
building is three stories (or equivalent) or higher.
         c.   Implications for site layout may include increased buffer width
and standards, revision to building footprint dimension or location, revision
to building orientation, revision to location of site support structures
(dumpster, accessory building ).
   L.   Street trees, street yard, side and rear yard, vehicular surface areas.
      1.   Street trees. Street trees shall create an environment that benefits
from the aesthetic and environmental qualities of a consistent tree canopy
along public and private streets and highways. Trees improve the overall
appearance and provide shade, visual interest and reduce heat build up and run
off.
         a.   All new development and qualified expansion of existing
development , on both private and public street frontage, shall install at one
overstory tree with a minimum caliper of two and one-half inches every 40 feet
on average, or as close thereto as practicable. Planted trees shall be a
minimum of five feet and maximum of 15 feet from the road right-of-way and
shall be located within a public street tree easement. Variance from this
spacing may be allowed to accommodate existing utilities or natural
obstructions.
         b.   Street trees shall be deciduous overstory trees that reach a
minimum height of 35 feet at maturity. Where overhead wiring exists, small
ornamental trees shall be used.
         c.   To avoid a monoculture-planting scheme, it is recommended that a
variety of tree species be planted for more diversity along the roadways.
         d.   Credit will be given for the preservation of existing overstory
trees that are healthy and of good quality. The developer may be required to
submit a tree survey of all existing trees to be preserved. A minimum of two-
thirds of the land area within each tree's critical root zone must be preserved
for such trees to receive credit.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4447ce03978db0feab4258ffc8ecb3f9806deb9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1192.jpg]
 
         e.   One hundred percent of the required street trees may be applied
to the planting requirements of Section L.2, Street yards.
         f.   The BOA may waive strict compliance with this subsection if
proposed alternative concepts would meet or exceed the visual impact provided
by the deciduous overstory trees along the rights-of-way.
      2.   Street yards. A street yard is the protected landscape area
contained by the existing or proposed street right-of-way and an imaginary line
extending along the adjacent building facade or wall to the side property line
(see illustrations on the next page). Street yards are intended to provide
attractive vehicular and pedestrian views of the properties, to retain or
supplement existing vegetation and to provide a visual and physical barrier
between transportation routes and other land uses. Refer also to the overlay
districts for discussion on street yards. Street yard requirements do not apply
to single-family residential districts or uses.
         a.   Design requirements.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4447ce03978db0feab4258ffc8ecb3f9806deb9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1195.jpg]
 
            (1)   Landscaping within the right-of-way of state roads requires
an encroachment agreement from North Carolina's Department of Transportation
(NCDOT). Applicants must contact NCDOT for their approval and coordinate
landscape installation with any existing or proposed utility easements or
services in the right-of-way. Applicants must provide the Town of Garner
Planning Department with a copy of an approved encroachment agreement prior to
the issuance of a building permit.
            (2)   Sight distance triangles must be maintained at all
intersections (see Section K.4). Plantings must not create any visual
obstruction between 30 inches and seven feet in height within this triangle.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4447ce03978db0feab4258ffc8ecb3f9806deb9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1197.jpg]
 
            (3)   Refer to the plant point table in Section D.3 for point
assignments specific to plant types and sizes. Refer to Section L.4.b, Planting
requirements in vehicle surface area, for additional required screening of
views of vehicles from the street right-of-way.
            (4)   If two street yards cross, the street yard with the lesser
width between the right-of-way and the building wall/facade shall be used in
this area of overlap. Refer to overlay districts for additional requirements.
         b.   Modification permitted in industrial subdivisions . The
landscaping requirements for industrial subdivision  shall be met in a manner
that enhances street  appeal and maximizes screening of objectionable views. Up
to 75 percent of the required plantings in the side and rear yard  area, and
vehicular surface area  plantings can be applied toward street  yard areas for
maximum street  appeal. No reduction shall be allowed in side and rear yards
where that yard is adjacent to existing residential uses  or districts.
         c.   Planting requirements. The required tree and shrub installation
is based on the total required points in street yards for the subject property.
            Calculate the required points by determining the area in street
yard(s). Multiply that area by a factor specific to the subject property's
zoning district as follows:
 
Proposed Use                Points per Square Foot  of Street Yard
Residential and Multifamily 0.06
Office and Industrial       0.025
Commercial                  0.025
Retail, up to 3 acres       0.025
Retail, 3 acres or greater  0.015
 
            (2)   Reduction of total required points in street yards is allowed
for large front setbacks according to the following percentages:
               (a)   Setbacks for commercial, office, and industrial districts
up to 100 feet shall meet 100 percent of the total landscape credit
requirements in the street yard for planting development .
               (b)   Setbacks for commercial, office, and industrial districts
up to 200 feet shall meet 85 percent of the total landscape credit requirements
in the street yard for planting development .
               (c)   Setbacks for commercial, office, and industrial districts
greater than 200 feet shall meet 75 percent of the total landscape credit
requirements in the street yard for their planting development .
            (3)   Fifty percent of all required points in street yards shall be
supplied by trees, and 50 percent of all required points in street yards shall
be supplied by shrubs.
            (4)   Required buffer plantings, required street trees , required
street yard plantings, and required vehicular surface area (VSA) plantings may
be credited at 100 percent towards street yard plant point requirements.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4447ce03978db0feab4258ffc8ecb3f9806deb9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1199.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4447ce03978db0feab4258ffc8ecb3f9806deb9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1201.jpg]
 
      3.   Side and rear yards. The side and rear yard is that part of the lot
not in the street yard. Side and rear yard plant distribution shall occur
throughout the entire side and rear yard. The side and rear yard area planting
requirements shall be calculated by measuring the area bounded by the property
line and the required side and rear building setbacks or the areas of required
buffer, whichever area is greater.
         a.   Design requirements.
            (1)   Where the planting requirements are greater for the side and
rear yard than the perimeter buffer then 100 percent of both requirements shall
be installed.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4447ce03978db0feab4258ffc8ecb3f9806deb9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1203.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4447ce03978db0feab4258ffc8ecb3f9806deb9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1205.jpg]
 
            (2)   Where the planting requirements are greater for the perimeter
buffer than the side and rear yard then only the buffer requirements shall be
installed.
         b.   Planting requirements. The required tree and shrub installation
is based on the total required plant points in the side and rear yard for the
subject property. The required plant points vary according to the zoning
district of the subject property as listed on the following page. At least 50
percent of the plant points must be from trees, and the remainder must be from
shrubs.
 
Proposed Use                Points per Square Foot of Side/Rear Yard
Residential and Multifamily 0.030
Office                      0.020
Commercial                  0.020
Retail, up to 3 acres       0.015
Retail, 3 acres or greater  0.010
Industrial                  0.025
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4447ce03978db0feab4258ffc8ecb3f9806deb9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1207.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4447ce03978db0feab4258ffc8ecb3f9806deb9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1209.jpg]
 
      4.   Vehicular surface areas. The purpose of this section is to provide
visual    relief from large expanses of pavement through the introduction of 
landscape plantings. Landscaping lessens the visual impact of parking areas
while reducing heat, glare and pollution.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4447ce03978db0feab4258ffc8ecb3f9806deb9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1211.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4447ce03978db0feab4258ffc8ecb3f9806deb9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1213.jpg]
 
         a.   Design requirements.Vehicular surface areas may be located within
the street, side and rear yards.  Planting requirements are created for these
vehicular surface areas based upon the yards they are within. Planting
incorporated into these areas shall be designed using the following design
guidelines and criteria.
            (1)   Landscape islands shall be evenly distributed throughout the
vehicular surface areas for maximum shade. No parking space shall be more than
65 feet from the trunk of a deciduous overstory tree . Trees are permitted to
be planted in clustersprovided that it exceeds all other planting requirements.
            (2)   Plantings used to meet these requirements shall be located
within the vehicular surface area or in plant beds within ten feet of the
parking surface areas. Trees in the adjacent street or side and rear yard that
are within ten feet from the vehicular surface area may be used to meet this
requirement.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4447ce03978db0feab4258ffc8ecb3f9806deb9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1215.jpg]
 
            (3)   Landscape islands within the vehicular surface area shall be
a minimum of 198 square feet in area and 11 feet in width from back-of-curb to
back-of-curb.
            (4)   Landscape planting areas adjacent to vehicular surface areas
and perpendicular to parking spaces shall be a minimum of ten feet in width.
Unless a parking space contains a specified wheel stop, trees and shrubs shall
be a minimum of five feet from the edge of the pavement.
            (5)   Planting areas at the end of parking space rows shall be
required as follows:
               (a)   The maximum number of continuous parking spaces shall be
13.
               (b)   There shall be a planting island at least 198 square feet
in size at the end of every row of perimeter parking spaces exceeding 13
parking spaces .
               (c)   There shall be a planting island at least 198 square feet
in size at the end of every single row of interior parking spaces .
               (d)   There shall be a planting island at least 396 square feet
in size at the end of every double row of interior parking spaces .
               (e)   Planting areas inside of parking islands shall contain
positive drainage with no low spots that could trap water. All parking lot
planting islands shall have curbing, pavement edging, or similar treatment
around the perimeter to protect plant material.
         b.   Planting requirements.
            (1)   Screening of vehicular surface area from adjacent public
rights-of-way or private streets is required. One hundred percent of the
vehicular surface area requirements can be applied toward yard and buffer
planting requirements if the planting used to meet specific yard and buffer
planting requirements do not adequately provide the proper screening.
               (a)   Vehicular surface areas shall have a visually modifying
year-round screen that screens a minimum of 75 percent of the vehicular surface
area from the public right-of-way and private street . The screen shall have a
minimum height of 18 inches at planting. The screening must reach a height of
three feet within two years of planting.
               (b)   The screen used may be composed of plant material, fences,
walls, berms or any combination of these elements. Berms shall have a slope
ratio no greater that 2.5:1 (max. slope) with a minimum crown width of at least
two feet and shall be stabilized and predominantly covered with staggered
clusters of shrub plantings an average six feet on center.
               (c)   Fences and walls shall be compatible with the adjacent
existing or proposed structures . Fence or walls shall be supplemented with
plant material, which shall screen 25 percent of the fence or wall area within
one year of plant installation.
               (d)   The required area to be landscaped within and directly
adjacent to the vehicular surface area is based on the total size in vehicular
surface area as follows:
 
Vehicular Surface Area       Required Landscaping
Under 10,000 square feet     5 percent
10,000 to 40,000 square feet 6 percent
Over 40,000 square feet      8 percent
 
            (2)   Verification of obstructions shall be the responsibility of
the developer through the use of sections and details illustrating the site
conditions.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4447ce03978db0feab4258ffc8ecb3f9806deb9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1217.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4447ce03978db0feab4258ffc8ecb3f9806deb9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1219.jpg]
 
         c.   Parking lots equal to or greater than 75,000 square feet.
            (1)   A planting median is required in parking lots of all new
development and qualified expansion of existing development . Parking lots
equal to or greater than 75,000 square feet are required to provide a planting
island a minimum of ten feet wide after every sixth single parking row.
            (2)   The planting median shall contain at a minimum one shade tree
for every 65 linear feet. A maximum of 30 percent of the island can be an
impervious surface .
            (3)   Existing trees protected in an island may be counted toward
this requirement after completion of all construction in the adjacent area.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4447ce03978db0feab4258ffc8ecb3f9806deb9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1221.jpg]
 
            (4)   The installation of every planting island that is a minimum
of 306 square feet in area at the end of a single or perimeter row or a minimum
of 612 square feet at the end of every double row of interior parking spaces
may result in the reduction of one required off-streetparking space for a
maximum of a 12 percent reduction in required off-streetparking spaces .
   M.   Screening of objectionable views.
      1.   Trash container areas. Trash container areas shall be subject to the
following requirements:
         a.   Trash container areas shall be shall be separated at least 50
feet from residential districts or uses.
         b.   Trash collection areas shall be fully enclosed with a fence or
wall to a minimum height of eight feet to block 100 percent of the view into
the enclosed area. The enclosure shall match the primary color and material of
the building when viewed from public or private right-of- way and/or adjacent
residential districts and uses . If the enclosure is not visible from a public
or private right-of-way and/or adjacent residential district or use the
enclosure panels and gate may be constructed of wood on metal posts/supports.
The minimum eight- foot tall gate shall include a self-latching mechanism.
         c.   Plant material shall supplement berms, walls or fences. Planting
material shall screen 25 percent of the dumpster wall area. Planting material
shall consist of a minimum of six low branching evergreens shrubs a minimum of
three feet in height at time of planting.
         d.   Standard dumpster enclosures shall be a minimum of 12 feet across
by 12 feet deep for a single dumpster and 24 feet wide for a double dumpster. A
six-inch thick reinforced concrete (3,000 psi) pad shall be 12 feet wide by 15
feet deep per container.
      2.   Service and loading areas. Service and loading areas shall be
subject to the following screening requirements:
         a.   Provide a minimum 100 percent year-round screen of all loading
and service areas from the adjacent public and private right-of-way, and/or
adjacent residential districts and uses .
         b.   This screen shall consist of berms, walls, fences, plant material
or combination totaling eight feet in height at installation or completion of
construction .
         c.   Wall or fence materials shall be compatible with the primary
structure . Plantings shall be low branching evergreens and a minimum height of
five feet at time of installation.
         d.   Where a service or loading area is located closer than 25 feet
from a property line adjacent to a residential district, the minimum required
height of the plantings shall be six feet at time of installation.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4447ce03978db0feab4258ffc8ecb3f9806deb9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1223.jpg]
 
      3.   Stormwater devices. All detention/retention ponds shall be screened
on all sides with evergreen shrubs maintained at a minimum height of four feet.
(Note: See also the general fencing requirements)
      4.   Utility elements. Utility elements shall be subject to the following
requirements:
         a.   All utility devices visible from the public right-of-way or
private street shall be screened with low branching evergreen shrubs a minimum
of 30 inches tall at installation. Screening material shall be planted a
minimum of ten feet from the access doors to provide room for service and
utility maintenance activities.
         b.   Property owners shall follow the above requirements concerning
utilities located on their property.
         c.   Miscellaneous elements (air conditioning units, storage tanks,
non- utility transformers, compactors, and other similar elements) shall be
screened entirely from vehicular view from the public right-of-way and private
streets . Access to elements shall be from a side other than side facing the
right-of-way.
         d.   All roof-mounted elements shall be 100 percent screened from view
from the public right-of-way and/or adjacent properties.
      5.   Solar Farms . In addition to the buffer requirements of Section
7.1K, solar farms shall be screened from view as follows:
         a.   Where a solar farm area is visible from a public right-of-way or
private street , an evergreen screen of low-branching trees/shrubs shall be
provided. All screening material shall be installed adjacent to security
fencing surrounding the solar farm area and be a minimum of six (6) feet in
height with an expected minimum height at maturity of 10 feet.
         b.   Screening material required by subsection (1) shall be planted on
center no more than 10 feet apart.
      6.   Screening industrial properties. Screening in industrial
subdivisions shall be subject to the following requirements:
         a.   Fencing, walls, hedges, landscaping, berms, natural areas or any
combination of the above which is consistent with the requirements of this
section shall be provided to obscure uses or portions of a specific use which
by their nature have the potential to negatively impact the community and
properties outside the subdivision .
         b.   The following specific uses shall be 100 percent screened from
adjacent properties outside the subdivision and from view from public rights-
of-way:
            (1)   Dumpsters and trash handling areas.
            (2)   Service entrances and utility facilities .
            (3)   Loading docks or spaces.
            (4)   Outdoor storage and any material stocks or equipment,
including, but not limited to, motor vehicles, farm or construction equipment,
or other similar items.
         c.   No buffer or screening is required in the side or rear yards
between parcels with an industrial subdivision . The following standards shall
apply where adjacent parcels are not within the industrial subdivision .
            (1)   Buffer.
               (a)   A minimum 15-foot evergreen vegetative buffer will be
required adjacent to lots not within the subdivision unless buffer table
dictates wider buffer requirements.
               (b)   Where lots adjacent to industrial subdivisions are vacant
at the time the industrial subdivision receives site permit approval, then the
minimum vegetative buffer shall be 15 feet unless the buffer table dictates
wider buffer requirements.
            (2)   Screening.
               (a)   One hundred percent screening will be required in the 15-
foot buffer area.
               (b)   Existing vegetation meeting the standards of this UDO can
be used on a one-for-one basis in the areas where it meets the screening
requirements.
   N.   Maintenance requirements.
      1.   Owner/agent responsibility. The owner/agent is responsible for the
upkeep of their property with a regular and proper maintenance program. A
proper program will reduce disease, insect problems, weed control, pruning and
watering. For further details refer to the Town of Garner Planting Manual in
Appendix E for landscape maintenance guidelines.
      2.   Slope stabilization. All disturbed areas shall be stabilized from
soil erosion immediately upon planting and shall be permanently maintained.
Slopes greater than three to one shall not be stabilized with turf grass and
shall require the planting of groundcover to stabilize any disturbed soil.
      3.   Replacement planting. The owner is responsible for maintaining all
required plant material in good health. Any dead, unhealthy or missing plants
must be replaced in a manner consistent with the requirements contained in
paragraph O., below (for replacement requirements where significant plant
material has been lost due to catastrophe or natural causes).
      4.   Re-inspection program. The owner is responsible for maintaining all
required plant material in good health for the duration of the use of the
property. Any dead, unhealthy or missing plants must be replaced with locally
adapted vegetation, which conforms to the initial planting standards of this
UDO and the Town of Garner Planting Manual contained in
Appendix E.
      5.   Excessive tree pruning prohibited. The owner is responsible for
following accepted pruning practices for all required plant material and shall
avoid excessive pruning of said material. Excessive pruning is defined as:
removal of more than 25 percent of the crown or root system; failure to conform
to standard pruning practices; or cutting other than for hazard, utility, or
maintenance pruning. Illegally pruned trees must be replaced with trees
proportional to the size of the tree damaged with the minimum replacement size
of three inches caliper  in a 200 square foot plant bed required. The
applicable penalty provisions of
Article 10 shall be applied to excessive pruning violations.
   O.   Loss due to catastrophe. Should significant amounts of landscaping used
to meet the requirements of this section be lost due to unusual causes or
catastrophe, the owner of the property shall submit a plan detailing his/her
intent in replacing lost material. Replacement planting may occur on a phased
basis as approved by the Planning Director. Maximum time allowed in the phasing
program is two years from the submittal of plans to the Town.
   P.   Flexibility in administration authorized. The landscaping and tree
protections requirements are established by the Town Council as standards that
presumptively result in a better overall appearance of the built environment
and protect the natural resources of the community. The Town Council recognizes
that due to the particular nature of a tract, the nature of the proposed
facilities, or other factors, the objectives of this article may be achieved
even though the standards are not adhered to with mathematical precision.
      1.   The Planning Director shall permit minor deviations of no more than
10 percent from the general landscape standards and up to a 30 percent buffer
width reduction.
      2.   The BOA may allow greater deviations only for situations where a
building or development was constructed prior to the adoption of the UDO and
the buffer landscape planting standards or buffer width requirements cannot met
without removing significant portions of an existing building or significantly
altering the property.
      3.   Any deviation under this section may only be allowed when it is
determined that:
               (a)   The objectives underlying these standards can be met
without strict adherence to them.
               (b)   Because peculiarities in the developer's tract of land or
the facilities proposed it would be unreasonable to require strict adherence to
these standards.
      4.   Where deviations are authorized, the official record of action taken
on the development application shall contain a statement of the reasons for the
deviation.
(Ord. No. 3396, § 15, 4-3-06; Ord. No. 3558, § 2, 7-7-09; Ord. No. 3656, § 4,
2-21-12; Ord. No. 3780, §§ 10, 11, 7-7-15; Ord. No. 3881, §§ 5, 6, 9-5-17 ;
Ord., 3-16-21 )
7.2.   Stormwater management.
   Commentary: The stormwater management provisions apply seven sets of rules,
covering the areas of erosion control, stormwater quantity, conservation or
protected buffers , nitrogen reduction, water supply, watershed protection,
environmentally sensitive watershed protection and floodplain management.
Often, more than one element will apply to an individual property. Questions
about the application of these provisions should be discussed with the Town
Engineer.
   A.   Application to existing development.
      1.   Existing structures which become nonconforming with respect to
watershed regulation by the adoption of this UDO are not affected unless and
until there is a repair or expansion of or reconstruction of such structure .
      2.   Existing structures which become nonconforming with respect to
watershed regulation by the adoption of this UDO may be repaired or
reconstructed without a stormwater permit or watershed protection occupancy
permit provided that there is no net increase in impervious surface .
      3.   Existing structures , whether conforming or nonconforming, may be
added to or expanded without a stormwater permit or watershed protection
occupancy permit provided there is no net increase in impervious surface .
      4.   In determining whether there is additional impervious surface area,
and in determining the best management practices to be utilized in watershed
protection in connection with an addition or expansion to an existing structure
, the built-upon area of the existing development is to be excluded from any
density calculations which are required to be performed.
   Commentary: This means, for example, that the owner of an existing lot may
build on up to 70 percent of the remaining pervious surface , rather than the
70 percent limitation being applied to the entire lot including pre-existing
development .
   B.   Stormwater Compliance Required.
      1.   Application.Stormwater compliance review materials shall be
submitted to the Town Engineer for review and determination of completeness.
      2.   Issuance. The Town Engineer, the Board of Adjustment sitting as the
Watershed Review Board, or in the case of a variance, the Environmental
Management Commission.
      3.   Vested Rights. See
Article 3. All other stormwater compliance(s) shall expire within twelve (12)
months of the date of issuance.
      4.   Watershed  Protection Occupancy Permit. Upon completing
construction, the applicant shall report to the Town and request issuance of a
watershed protection occupancy permit described.
      5.   Variance s.
         a.   In the event of a deviation from the stormwater management
standards outlined in this UDO, the variance process described in
Article 3.
         b.   Records shall be submitted to the supervisor of the
classification and standards group, water quality section, and Division of
Environmental Management on or before January 1st of the following year.
   C.   Erosion and sedimentation control.
      1.   A permit shall be obtained from the Wake County Erosion Control
Inspector before a developer undertakes any land disturbing activity that would
result in the uncovering of 40,000 square feet or more, and that no such permit
may be issued for any development that would uncover 40,000 square feet or more
until an erosion and sedimentation control plan is submitted and approved,
provided, that this section does not apply to activity under the exclusive
jurisdiction of the North Carolina Sedimentation Control Commission.
      2.   No use permit may be issued or final plat approval be given for any
development that would cause land disturbing activity subject to the
jurisdiction of Wake County Erosion Control Inspector or the North Carolina
Sedimentation Control Commission unless such inspector or agency has certified
to the Town that:
         a.   Any permit required by such inspector or agency has been issued
or any erosion control plan required by such inspector or agency has been
approved; or
         b.   Upon examination of the preliminary plans for the development it
appears that any required permit or erosion control plan can be approved upon
submission by the developer of more detailed construction or design drawings.
However, construction of the development may not begin until such inspector or
agency issues any required permit or approves any required erosion control
plan.
   D.   Stormwater  quantity.
      1.   Stormwater management; relation to adjacent properties. No
development shall unreasonably burden adjacent properties with surface waters
as a result of such development, including specifically the following:
         a.   No development may be constructed or maintained so that such
development unreasonably impedes the natural flow of water from higher to lower
properties, thereby causing substantial damage to such higher properties; and
         b.   No development may be constructed or maintained so that surface
waters from such development are unreasonably collected or diverted onto lower
properties, thereby causing substantial damage to lower properties.
      2.   Stormwater runoff design standards.
         a.   To the extent practicable, all development shall conform to the
natural contours and drainage patterns (watersheds ) of the land, and retain
existing patterns of flow;
         b.   To the extent practicable, lot boundaries shall be made to
coincide with natural drainage ways within subdivisions to avoid the creation
of lots that can be built upon only by altering such natural drainage ways;
         c.   All developments shall have a drainage system adequate to prevent
the undue retention of surface water on the development site. Surface water
shall not be regarded as unduly retained if:
            (1)   The retention results from a deliberate approved
sedimentation or storm water run-off control plan.
            (2)   The retention is not substantially different in location or
degree than in the site's development stage, unless such retention presents a
danger to health or safety.
         d.   No surface water may be channeled or directed into a sanitary
sewer;
         e.   Whenever practicable, drainage systems shall coordinate with and
connect to drainage systems or drainage ways on surrounding properties or
streets ; and
         f.   Drainage swales in subdivisions are provided for in
Article 8, Streets . Private roads and access ways within unsubdivided
developments shall utilize curb and gutter and storm drains to provide adequate
drainage if the grade of such roads or access ways is too steep to provide
drainage in another manner or if other sufficient reasons exist to require such
construction .
      3.   Evaluation of detention needs. Applicants for development approval
shall evaluate detention needs for the development as follows:
         a.   Except in certain situations, stormwater detention will be
required on new development . The design standard for detention will be based
upon peak flow reduction to predevelopment (existing) conditions for the 1-,
10-, 25-, and in some cases, the 100-year return frequency storm events.
         b.   Detention requirements may be reduced or eliminated by the Town
Engineer upon a showing that installation of reduced or eliminated detention
facilities will not create adverse downstream impacts.
      4.   Stormwater control structure requirements.
         a.   All stormwater control structures and any modifications thereto,
shall be designed and sealed by a North Carolina registered professional
engineer, except such a structure may be designed by a registered land
surveyor, where the runoff consists solely incidental drainage within a
subdivision , as provided in G.S. § 89(c)-3(7); and
         b.   All water quality controls shall use retention ponds,
bioretention areas or other approved devices, as a primary treatment system.
All approved devices shall be designed for specific pollutant removal according
to modeling techniques approved by the North Carolina Division of Environmental
Management. Specific requirements for these systems shall be in accordance with
the North Carolina Division of Environmental Management design criteria or
otherwise as approved by the Town Engineer.
         c.   All water quantity controls shall use detention ponds,
bioretention areas or other devices or systems as approved by the Town
Engineer. Detention facilities shall be designed using the design procedures
set forth in Elements of Urban Stormwater Design, Malcolm, or other design
procedures as approved by the Town Engineer.
         d.   A maintenance and operations plan, acceptable to the Town
Engineer, shall be developed for each water quantity and water quality control
structure proposed as part of the development .
      5.   Maintenance of retention facilities and private streets.
         a.   All water quality controls and devices which are installed solely
to provide 85 percent total suspended solid (TSS) removal in order to satisfy
the water supply watershed protection section of the UDO shall be maintained by
the Town of Garner. Such maintenance by the Town will be limited to the water
quality treatment function of the stormwater control system. Maintenance
activities not related to water quality such as aesthetics, nuisance control,
etc. will not be the responsibility of the Town but shall be the responsibility
of the owner. The developer shall deed, dedicate or grant sufficient easement
or right-of-way to allow for the access and maintenance of the water quality
control system.
         b.   All water quality controls and devices which are installed to
meet the nitrogen reduction requirements of this UDO shall maintained by the
property owner or the person or persons responsible for the maintenance of the
property. In the case of residential or commercial subdivisions , a home owners
association or merchants association shall be established in order to identify
the person or persons responsible for the maintenance of the property. The
developer shall deed, dedicate, or grant sufficient easement or right-of-way to
for the access and inspection of the water quality control system.
         c.   All water quantity controls and devices shall maintained by the
property owner or the person or persons responsible for the maintenance of the
property. In the case of residential or commercial subdivisions , a home owners
association or merchants association shall be established in order to identify
the person or persons responsible for the maintenance of the property. The
developer shall deed, dedicate, or grant sufficient easement or right-of-way to
for the access and inspection of the water quality control system.
   E.   Watershed  Conservation Buffer  Areas.
      1.   Areas defined.
         a.   The development on lots abutting or including Lake Benson or any
of the streams identified in this section shall be limited by an adjacent
buffer area.
         b.   This section shall apply to the following streams and lakes,
including all branches of the identified streams to the limit of the
intermittent and perennial streams as defined by the Neuse River Riparian
Buffer rule, and if a future extraterritorial expansion includes any stream
having a designated 100-year floodplain , such stream shall automatically be
included as if listed below:
Stream Name
Stream Name
Adams Branch              Mahler's Creek
Bagwell Branch            Reedy Branch
Big Branch #1             Reedy Creek Tributary
Big Branch #2, Mill Creek Swift Creek
Big Branch Tributary      Walnut Creek
Buck Branch               White Oak Creek (see c. below)
Echo Creek                Yates Branch
Hilliard Creek
 
         c.   The Watershed Conservation Buffer Area requirements for
nonresidential development shall not apply for property located adjacent to
White Oak Creek. This exemption shall not apply to residential development to
adjacent to White Oak Creek. In such cases where residential development
adjoins White Oak Creek, a Watershed Conservation Buffer Area shall be required
according to the provisions of this section.
      2.   Limitations on development in Conservation Buffer Areas.
         a.   Development is prohibited in both the floodplain and the
Watershed Conservation Buffer Areas for streams described in paragraph 1.,
above.
            (1)   Development within and adjacent to the Watershed Conservation
Buffer Areas shall be subject to the following criteria:
            (2)   Buffer width: Along the lakefront or streams within 5,000
feet of the Lake Benson shoreline, the buffer area shall include the 100-year
floodplain plus an area whose width is proportional to its distance from Lake
Benson, beyond the edge of the floodplain and parallel to the stream , as
follows:
 
Distance from Lake Benson                    Buffer
Lakefront and within 1,000 feet of lakefront 100 feet
100 to 2,000 feet from lake                  90 feet
2,001 to 3,000 feet from lake                80 feet
3,001 to 4,000 feet from lake                70 feet
4,001 to 5,000 feet from lake                60 feet
            (3)   Along other identified streams and along streams beyond 5,000
feet from the lakefront, the buffer area shall include the 100-year floodplain
plus a 50-foot wide area beyond the edge of the floodplain and parallel to the
stream ; and
            (4)   If no floodplain exists on the portion of a stream in
question, the buffer shall be considered to be the calculated 100-year storm
high water mark based upon a built-out condition upstream.
            (5)   Application of a conservation buffer shall not diminish other
riparian buffer requirements.
         b.   Buffers from which the vegetation cover has been removed shall be
provided with ground cover. Crossings by streets , bridges, utilities or other
facilities shall be kept at a minimum and their negative impact minimized.
         c.   Residential accessory building , on lots of record prior to March
1984, may encroach into designated conservation buffers provided that:
            (1)   Such buildings not exceed 25 percent of the area of the
principal building served; and
            (2)   Such accessory building shall not be located in any
designated floodway .
         d.   Placement of an accessory building in a flood fringe area shall
meet all applicable construction requirements; and the area of the lot covered
by impervious surfaces , including the accessory building , shall not exceed 25
percent.
         e.   Buffers shall be protected by easements and shall remain, where
possible, in private ownership.
      3.   Land disturbance limits in Conservation Buffer Areas.
         a.   No land-disturbing activities (including agricultural uses ) are
permitted within the Conservation Buffer Areas, except for the following uses :
            (1)   Street and associated facilities;
            (2)   Greenways and pedestrian paths; and
            (3)   Utility mains, pump stations and drainage facilities which
comply with Town of Garner standards.
         b.   Community service facilities, educational facilities, government
facilities, parks and open space uses or public or private water dependent
structures (functionally dependent facilities) may encroach into conservation
buffer areas provided that:
            (1)   The area of encroachment does not exceed ten percent of the
total buffer area on the project site and a minimum of 40 feet of the buffer
width remains undisturbed;
            (2)   The area of encroachment is the minimum amount necessary in
order to reasonably use the property;
            (3)   No direct discharge of stormwater into the buffer from
rooftops is allowed;
            (4)   No vehicular parking/loading areas or driveways are allowed
within the buffer ;
            (5)   The elevation of all finished floors of all structures
located within the buffer shall be a minimum of two feet above the base flood
elevation; and
            (6)   No encroachment into the floodplain or floodway shall be
allowed except for water dependent structures and then only in accordance with
the requirements and restrictions contained within Subsection
7.2.H. of this article.
         c.   Within areas of the Lake Benson Conservation District not
constituting the Conservation Buffer Areas, site disturbance on existing lots
of record as of March 1984, except for agricultural use , including the cutting
of trees, shall be permitted only pursuant to a removal plan approved by the
Planning Director and the cutting of trees shall not exceed five times the
actual impervious surface area planned for each site.
         d.   Throughout the Lake Benson Conservation District and Conservation
Buffer Areas, strict compliance with the Wake County Erosion and Sedimentation
Control Ordinance is required. No construction is allowed in classes of soils
which have severe erosion potential, or are classified as being otherwise
unsuitable for urban uses , under the Urban Suitability Soil Groups in the
Planning Guide to the Wake County Soil Survey (1970), unless the developer can
provide either of the following:
            (1)   An independent (sealed) engineering study which documents
that the soils to be developed are not in the stated erosion categories, or
            (2)   Erosion prevention control measures that satisfy the Wake
County Erosion and Sedimentation Control Ordinance.
   F.   Nitrogen reduction.
      1.   Stormwater requirements for nitrogen control. All new development
shall be meet the requirements of the "The Town of Garner Stormwater Program
for Nitrogen Control." The major requirements that must be met by new
development, as contained in the stormwater program, are as follows:
         a.   New development shall comply with the requirements for protecting
and maintaining riparian buffers as specified in the Riparian Buffer Rule 15A
NCAC 2B.0233.
         b.   As required by the Neuse Stormwater Rule 15A NCAC 2B.0235 the
nutrient load contributed by new development activities is limited to 3.6
pounds per acre per year (lbs/ac/yr) of nitrogen loading. Development shall
have the option of partially offsetting projected nitrogen loads by funding
wetland or riparian area restoration through the North Carolina Wetland
Restoration Program. However, the total nitrogen loading rate cannot exceed 6.0
lbs/ac/yr for residential development or 10.0 lbs/ac/yr for nonresidential
development . Best management practices (bmps) provided for in the stormwater
program must be used to reduce nitrogen loading to the 6.0 and 10.0 limits and
may be used to reduce nitrogen loading to the 3.6 limit. Maintenance of any
bmps installed will be the responsibility of the development .
         c.   Except in certain situations, stormwater detention will be
required on new development . The design standard for detention will be based
upon peak flow reduction to predevelopment (existing) conditions for the 1-,
10-, 25-, and in some cases, the 100-year return frequency storm events.
   G.   Water supply watershed  protection. The water supply watershed
protections areas described below are identified on the Town of Garner
Watershed  Protection Map.
      1.   Water supply watershed protection areas.
         a.   Swift Creek Watershed Protection Area. The Town of Garner Swift
Creek-Lake Benson public water supply watershed protection area (also variously
known as the Swift Creek Watershed, Lake Benson Watershed, or Watershed
Protection Area) is that portion of the land area within the present Town of
Garner zoning jurisdiction designated on the Town of Garner Watershed
Protection Map.
         b.   Lake Benson Conservation District. This district constitutes what
the state refers to as the critical area  north of Lake Benson. Additional
information is included in the zoning overlay district in
Article 4.
         c.   Conditional zoning districts. Conditional zoning district SB-C22
and conditional zoning district R-12-C53 and R1 2PR-C54. These constitute the
portion of the Swift Creek critical area  west of Lake Benson which is within
the Town zoning limits.
      2.   Exemptions. The water supply watershed protection ordinances of the
Town of Garner shall apply to the above-described land area, except, however
that the watershed protection ordinances shall not apply to:
         a.   Existing development , although they shall apply to future
additions, expansion, repair, or reconstruction of existing development which
are of such nature to create additional impervious surface ; or
         b.   To the development of a single existing lot for single-family
residential purposes; although they shall apply to single-family
residentialdevelopment of multiple contiguous lots with common ownership.
      3.   Impervious surface limits.
         a.   Swift Creek Watershed Protection Area. Within the Garner Swift
Creek Watershed, impervious limits may not exceed 12 percent of land area, per
lot, except that impervious limits may be a maximum of 70 percent, known as the
high density option, where the stormwater runoff from a one inch rainfall event
is retained by retention ponds, or other approved devices designed to achieve
85 percent total suspended solids as approved by the North Carolina Division of
Environmental Management and the Town of Garner, constructed in accordance with
best management practices.
         b.   Lake Benson Conservation District. Within that part of the Swift
Creek Watershed Protection Area designated as the Lake Benson Conservation
District, the impervious surface may not exceed six percent of land area per
lot, except where runoff as described above is retained by retention ponds or
other approved devices constructed pursuant to best management practices in
which case it may not exceed, but may be a maximum of 35 percent. Performance
standards are illustrated in the table captioned Lake Benson/Swift Creek
Watershed Performance Standards.
         c.   Conditional districts. Within that area subject to CUD SB-C-22 or
CUD R-l2PR-C29, the impervious surface  limits set therein, of 12 percent to 30
percent with retention ponds, or other approved devices, retaining the runoff
as described and constructed pursuant to the best management practices  in the
area previously classified by the Swift Creek Land Management Plan as suburban
new and 12 percent to 70 percent with retention ponds, or other approved
devices, retaining the runoff as described above and constructed pursuant to
the best management practices  in the area classified in the Swift Creek Land
Management Plan as urban new, shall apply pursuant to those Ordinances No.
(1988) 2293 and (1989) 2370.
         d.   Watershed performance standards.Watershed performance standards
are contained in the table below.
 
                                             Maximum Impervious Surface               Maximum  Residential
Area                                         Low  Density High Density  Option*     Density
                                             Option        Residential Nonresidential
Swift Creek  Watershed (except areas listed 12 percent    70 percent  70 percent     Controlled by
below)                                                                                underlying zoning
Lake Benson Conservation District (Critical  6 percent     35 percent  35 percent     2.5 DU/Acre
Area )
Conditional Use District SB- C22 and R-12PR- 12 percent    30 percent  70 percent     2.0 DU/Acre
C29
Conservation Buffer Areas                    See Section
                                             4.8
      *Note: High density option requires construction of on-site retention
ponds designed to retain runoff from a one-inch rainfall evenet or other
approved devices.
         e.   Front yards . Impervious surface  shall occupy no more than 40
percent of the required front yard .
   H.   Swift Creek Conservation District.
      1.   Location. This district constitutes an environmentally sensitive
area located in the Swift Creek Watershed  below Lake Benson as illustrated on
the Town of Garner Official Zoning Map. Additional information is provided in
Article 4 regarding zoning overlay districts.
      2.   Use regulations. The uses permitted or prohibited in the Swift Creek
Conservation District shall be those uses permitted or prohibited in the
underlying zoning district that apply to a particular parcel of land.
      3.   Exempt from regulations. All parcels of land that fall within the
boundaries of the Swift Creek Conservation District which are identified on the
Town of Garner Official Zoning Map as being exempt properties, shall not be
subject to provisions of this overlay district.
      4.   Existing development, redevelopment, and expansions.Existing
development (residential or non-residential) is not subject to the requirements
of this section; existing development shall be considered to be existing any
impervious surfaces, or for which plan or permit approval has been officially
granted; or where a vested right has been established, as of May 31, 2005.
Redevelopment or expansion of any existing non-residential development shall be
subject to the requirements of this section; however, the impervious surface
coverage of the existing development is not required to be included when
applying the impervious surface coverage limits of this section.
      5.   Development standards. The following standards shall apply for new
residential and non-residential development in Swift Creek Conservation
District:
         (1)   The standards of both the Swift Creek Conservation District and
the underlying zoning district shall apply to each parcel. Where the standards
of the Overlay District and the underlying district differ, the more
restrictive standards shall control development in new projects created after
effective date of the Swift Creek Conservation District which is May 31, 2005.
         (2)   The maximum impervious surface coverage of the new residential
developmentprojects and new non-residential developmentprojects , which are
defined as those projects approved or permitted after the effective date of the
Swift Creek Conservation District are as follows:
            a.   New single family detached residential
subdivisiondevelopmentprojects shall be limited to a maximum of 30 percent
total impervious surface area.
            b.   New multi-family residential developmentprojects defined to
include townhomes , condominiums , or apartments shall be limited to a maximum
of 50 percent total impervious surface area.
            c.   New non-residential developmentprojects shall be limited to a
maximum of 70 percent of total of impervious surface area.
      6.   Lake Benson and buffer area development  standards. All building
footprints and front, rear, and side yard areas as required by this UDO shall
be provided outside of conservation buffers protecting the watershed of Lake
Benson or other officially designated protected buffer areas. Rear yard areas
adjacent to a conservation buffer shall be reduced to a minimum of fifteen feet
during the review of a subdivision. However, no reduction, waiver, or variance
below this fifteen-foot minimum shall be permitted.
   I.   Floodplain management.
      Commentary: The stormwater management provisions apply seven sets of
rules, covering the areas of erosion control, stormwater quantity, conservation
or protected buffers, nitrogen reduction, water supply watershed protection,
environmentally sensitive watershed protection and floodplain management. The
Town of Gamer adopted floodplain regulations to be consistent with federal and
state requirements. However, Town regulations specifically prohibit development
in the 100-year floodplain and in conservation or protected buffers areas
except as noted in Section
7.2.D.1(c).
      Often, more than one element of the stormwater provisions will apply to
an individual property. Questions about the application of these provisions
should be discussed with the Town Engineer.
      1.   Statutory authorization, findings of fact, purpose and objectives.
         A.   Statutory authorization. The Legislature of the State of North
Carolina has delegated to local governmental the responsibility units to adopt
regulations designed to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare
of its citizenry.
   Therefore, the Town Council of the Town of Garner North Carolina, does
ordain the following findings of fact:
            (1)   The flood prone areas within the jurisdiction of Town of
Garner are subject to periodic inundation which results in loss of life,
property, health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental
services, extraordinary public expenditures of flood protection and relief, and
impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public health,
safety, and general welfare.
            (2)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities
and by the occupancy in flood prone areas of uses vulnerable to floods or other
hazards.
         B.   Statement of purpose. It is the purpose of this ordinance to
promote public health, safety, and general welfare and to minimize public and
private losses due to flood conditions within flood prone areas by provisions
designed to:
            (1)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health,
safety, and property due to water or erosion hazards or that result in damaging
increases in erosion, flood heights or velocities;
            (2)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities
that serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
            (3)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains; stream
channels, and natural protective barriers, which are involved in the
accommodation of floodwaters;
            (4)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and all other development
that may increase erosion or flood damage; and
            (5)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers that
will unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to
other lands.
         C.   Objectives. The objectives of this ordinance are:
            (1)   To protect human life and health;
            (2)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood
control projects ;
            (3)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated
with flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
            (4)   To minimize prolonged business losses and interruptions;
            (5)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities (i.e.
water and gas mains, electric, telephone, cable and sewer lines, streets, and
bridges) that are located in flood prone areas ;
            (6)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound
use and development of flood prone areas ; and
            (7)   To ensure that potential buyers are aware that property is in
a special flood hazard area .
      2.   Definitions. Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases
used in this ordinance shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they
have in common usage and to give this ordinance its most reasonable
application. The definitions listed below apply to Section
7.2H only.
         "Accessory structure (appurtenant structure)" means a structure
located on the same parcel of property as the principal structure and the use
of which is incidental to the use of the principal structure. Garages, carports
and storage sheds are common urban accessory structures. Pole barns, hay sheds
and the like qualify as accessory structures on farms, and may or may not be
located on the same parcel as the farm dwelling or shop building.
         "Addition (to an existing building)" means an extension or increase in
the floor area or height of a building or structure.
         "Appeal" means a request for a review of the floodplain
administrator's interpretation of any provision of this ordinance.
         "Area of shallow flooding" means a designated Zone AO on a community's
flood insurance rate map (FIRM) with base flood depths determined to be from
one to three feet. These areas are located where a clearly defined channel does
not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate, and
where velocity flow may be evident.
         "Area of special flood hazard" see "Special flood hazard area (SFHA)".
         "Basement" means any area of the building having its floor subgrade
(below ground level) on all sides.
         "Base flood" means the flood having a one percent chance of being
equaled or exceeded in any given year.
         "Base flood elevation (BFE)" means a determination of the water
surface elevations of the base flood as published in the flood insurance study.
When the BFE has not been provided in a "special flood hazard area", it may be
obtained from engineering studies available from federal or state or other
source using FEMA approved engineering methodologies. This elevation, when
combined with the "freeboard", establishes the "regulatory flood protection
elevation".
         "Building" see "Structure".
         "Chemical storage facility" means a building, portion of a building,
or exterior area adjacent to a building used for the storage of any chemical or
chemically reactive products.
         "Development" means any man-made change to improved or unimproved real
estate, including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining,
dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or
storage of equipment or materials.
         "Disposal" means, as defined in NCGS 130A-290(a)(6), the discharge,
deposit, injection, dumping, spilling, leaking, or placing of any solid waste
into or on any land or water so that the solid waste or any constituent part of
the solid waste may enter the environment or be emitted into the air or
discharged into any waters, including groundwaters.
         "Elevated building" means a non-basement building which has its lowest
elevated floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear walls,
posts, piers, pilings, or columns.
         "Encroachment" means the advance or infringement of uses, fill,
excavation, buildings, permanent structures or development into a floodplain,
which may impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
         "Existing manufactured home park or manufactured home subdivision"
means a manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of
facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be
affixed (including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the
construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of
concrete pads) was completed before the original effective date of the
floodplain management regulations adopted by the community.
         "Flood" or "flooding" means a general and temporary condition of
partial or complete inundation of normally dry land areas from:
            (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
            (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface
waters from any source.
         "Flood boundary and floodway map (FBFM)" means an official map of a
community, issued by the federal emergency management agency, on which the
special flood hazard areas and the floodways are delineated. This official map
is a supplement to and shall be used in conjunction with the flood insurance
rate map (FIRM).
         "Flood hazard boundary map (FHBM)" means an official map of a
community, issued by the federal emergency management agency, where the
boundaries of the special flood hazard areas have been defined as Zone A.
         "Flood insurance" means the insurance coverage provided under the
National Flood Insurance Program.
         "Flood insurance rate map (FIRM)" means an official map of a
community, issued by the federal emergency management agency, on which both the
special flood hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the
community are delineated.
         "Flood insurance study (FIS)" means an examination, evaluation, and
determination of flood hazards, corresponding water surface elevations (if
appropriate), flood hazard risk zones, and other flood data in a community
issued by the federal emergency management agency. The flood insurance study
report includes flood insurance rate maps (FIRMs) and flood boundary and
floodway maps (FBFMs), if published.
         "Flood prone area" see "Floodplain".
         "Floodplain" means any land area susceptible to being inundated by
water from any source.
         "Floodplain administrator" is the individual appointed to administer
and enforce the floodplain management regulations.
         "Floodplain development permit" means any type of permit that is
required in conformance with the provisions of this ordinance, prior to the
commencement of any development activity.
         "Floodplain management" means the operation of an overall program of
corrective and preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and
enhancing, where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including, but
not limited to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain
management regulations, and open space plans.
         "Floodplain management regulations" means this ordinance and other
zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations,
special purpose ordinances, and other applications of police power which
control development in flood prone areas. This term describes federal, state or
local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards for
preventing and reducing flood loss and damage.
         "Floodproofing" means any combination of structural and nonstructural
additions, changes, or adjustments to structures, which reduce or eliminate
flood damage to real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation
facilities, structures, and their contents.
         "Floodway" means the channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
         "Flood zone" means a geographical area shown on a flood hazard
boundary map or flood insurance rate map that reflects the severity or type of
flooding in the area.
         "Freeboard" means the height added to the base flood elevation (BFE)
to account for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater that the height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway
conditions, such as wave action, bridge openings, and the hydrological effect
of urbanization on the watershed. The base flood elevation plus the freeboard
establishes the "regulatory flood protection elevation".
         "Functionally dependent facility" means a facility which cannot be
used for its intended purpose unless it is located in close proximity to water,
such as a docking or port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of
cargo or passengers, shipbuilding, or ship repair. The term does not include
long-term storage, manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
         "Hazardous waste facility" means, as defined in NCGS 130A, Article 9,
a facility for the collection, storage, processing, treatment, recycling,
recovery, or disposal of hazardous waste.
         "Highest adjacent grade (HAG)" means the highest natural elevation of
the ground surface, prior to construction, immediately next to the proposed
walls of the structure.
         "Historic structure" means any structure that is:
            (a)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic
Places (a listing maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or
preliminarily determined by the Secretary of Interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the National Register;
            (b)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
            (c)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic
landmarks in communities with a "Certified Local Government (CLG) Program"; or
            (d)   Certified as contributing to the historical significance of a
historic district designated by a community with a "Certified Local Government
(CLG) Program".
   Certified Local Government (CLG) Programs are approved by the U.S.
Department of the Interior in cooperation with the North Carolina Department of
Cultural Resources through the State Historic Preservation Officer as having
met the requirements of the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966 as
amended in 1980.
         "Lowest adjacent grade (LAG)" means the elevation of the ground,
sidewalk or patio slab immediately next to the building, or deck support, after
completion of the building.
         "Lowest floor" means lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area
(including basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely
for parking of vehicles, building access, or limited storage in an area other
than a basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor, provided that
such an enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of
the applicable non-elevation design requirements of this ordinance.
         "Manufactured home" means a structure, transportable in one or more
sections, which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or
without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The
term "manufactured home" does not include a "recreational vehicle".
         "Manufactured home park or subdivision" means a parcel (or contiguous
parcels) of land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or
sale.
         "Market value" means the building value, not including the land value
and that of any accessory structures or other improvements on the lot. Market
value may be established by independent certified appraisal; replacement cost
depreciated for age of building and quality of construction (actual cash
value); or adjusted tax assessed values.
         "Mean sea level" means, for purposes of this ordinance, the National
Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) as corrected in 1929, the North American
Vertical Datum (NAVD) as corrected in 1988, or other vertical control datum
used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the floodplain,
to which base flood elevations (BFEs) shown on a FIRM are referenced. Refer to
each FIRM panel to determine datum used.
         "New construction" means structures for which the "start of
construction" commenced on or after the effective date of the original version
of the community's flood damage prevention ordinance and includes any
subsequent improvements to such structures.
         "Non-encroachment area" means the channel of a river or other
watercourse and the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to
discharge the base flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface
elevation more than one foot as designated in the flood insurance study report.
         "Post-FIRM" means construction or other development for which the
"start of construction" occurred on or after the effective date of the initial
flood insurance rate map for the area.
         "Pre-FIRM" means construction or other development for which the
"start of construction" occurred before the effective date of the initial flood
insurance rate map for the area.
         "Principally above ground" means that at least 51 percent of the
actual cash value of the structure is above ground.
         "Public safety" and/or "nuisance" means anything which is injurious to
the safety or health of an entire community or neighborhood, or any
considerable number of persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or
use, in the customary manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream,
canal, or basin.
         "Recreational vehicle (RV)" means a vehicle, which is:
            (a)   Built on a single chassis;
            (b)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
            (c)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a
light duty truck; and
            (d)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but
as temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal
use.
         "Reference level" is the top of the lowest floor for structures within
special flood hazard areas designated as Zone A1--A30, AE, A, A99 or AO.
(Alternative acceptable language for reference level) "Reference level" is the
bottom of the lowest horizontal structural member of the lowest floor,
excluding the foundation system, for structures within all special flood hazard
areas.
         "Regulatory flood protection elevation" means the "base flood
elevation" plus the "freeboard". In "special flood hazard areas" where base
flood elevations (BFEs) have been determined, this elevation shall be the BFE
plus two feet of freeboard. In "special flood hazard areas" where no BFE has
been established, this elevation shall be at least two feet above the highest
adjacent grade.
         "Remedy a violation" means to bring the structure or other development
into compliance with state and community floodplain management regulations, or,
if this is not possible, to reduce the impacts of its noncompliance. Ways that
impacts may be reduced include protecting the structure or other affected
development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement provisions of the
ordinance or otherwise deterring future similar violations, or reducing federal
financial exposure with regard to the structure or other development.
         "Riverine" means relating to, formed by, or resembling a river
(including tributaries), stream, brook, etc.
         "Salvage yard" means any non-residential property used for the
storage, collection, and/or recycling of any type of equipment, and including
but not limited to vehicles, appliances and related machinery.
         "Solid waste disposal facility" means, as defined in NCGS 130A-290(a)
(35), any facility involved in the disposal of solid waste.
         "Solid waste disposal site" means, as defined in NCGS 130A-290(a)(36),
any place at which solid wastes are disposed of by incineration, sanitary
landfill, or any other method.
         "Special flood hazard area (SFHA)" means the land in the floodplain
subject to a one percent or greater chance of being flooded in any given year,
as determined in Section
7.2H(3)b of this ordinance.
         "Start of construction" includes substantial improvement, and means
the date the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of
construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement, or
other improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start
means either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a
site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory building, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start
of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of the building, whether or not that alteration affects
the external dimensions of the building.
         "Structure" means a walled and roofed building, a manufactured home,
or a gas, liquid, or liquefied gas storage tank that is principally above
ground.
         "Substantial damage" means damage of any origin sustained by a
structure during any one-year period whereby the cost of restoring the
structure to its before damaged condition would equal or exceed 50 percent of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred. See definition of
"substantial improvement". Substantial damage also means flood -related damage
sustained by a structure on two separate occasions during a 10-year period for
which the cost of repairs at the time of each such flood event, on the average,
equals or exceeds 25 percent of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred. (The last sentence is OPTIONAL but required for eligibility
for increased cost of compliance (ICC) benefits for repetitive losses.)
         "Substantial improvement" means any combination of repairs,
reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement of a structure,
taking place during any one-year period for which the cost equals or exceeds 50
percent of the market value of the structure before the "start of construction"
of the improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred
"substantial damage", regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term
does not, however, include either:
            (a)   Any correction of existing violations of state or community
health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been identified by
the community code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or,
            (b)   Any alteration of a historic structure , provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
historic structure .
         "Variance" is a grant of relief from the requirements of this
ordinance.
         "Violation" means the failure of a structure or other development to
be fully compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A
structure or other development without the elevation certificate, other
certifications, or other evidence of compliance required in Sections
7.2H(3) and
7.2H(4) are presumed to be in violation until such time as that documentation
is provided.
         "Water surface elevation (WSE)" means the height, in relation to mean
sea level, of floods of various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains
of coastal or riverine areas.
         "Watercourse" means a lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or
other topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
Watercourse includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
      3.   General provisions.
         a.   Lands to which this ordinance applies. This ordinance shall apply
to all special flood hazard areas within the jurisdiction, including extra-
territorial jurisdictions (ETJs) if applicable, of Town of Garner and within
the jurisdiction of any other community whose governing body agrees, by
resolution, to such applicability.
         b.   Basis for establishing the special flood hazard areas. The
special flood hazard areas are those identified under the cooperating technical
state (CTS) agreement between the State of North Carolina and FEMA in its Flood
Insurance Study (FIS) and its accompanying flood insurance rate maps (FIRM),
for Wake County dated May 2, 2006, which are adopted by reference and declared
to be a part of this ordinance.
         c.   Establishment of floodplain development permit. A floodplain
development permit shall be required in conformance with the provisions of this
ordinance prior to the commencement of any development activities within
special flood hazard areas determined in accordance with Section
7.2(4)c of this ordinance.
         d.   Compliance. No structure or land shall hereafter be located,
extended, converted, altered, or developed in any way without full compliance
with the terms of this ordinance and other applicable regulations.
         e.   Abrogation and greater restrictions. This ordinance is not
intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or
deed restrictions. However, where this ordinance and another conflict or
overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
         f.   Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of this
ordinance, all provisions shall be:
            (1)   Considered as minimum requirements;
            (2)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
            (3)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted
under state statutes.
         g.   Warning and disclaimer of liability. The degree of flood
protection required by this ordinance is considered reasonable for regulatory
purposes and is based on scientific and engineering consideration. Larger
floods can and will occur. Actual flood heights may be increased by man-made or
natural causes. This ordinance does not imply that land outside the special
flood hazard areas or uses permitted within such areas will be free from
flooding or flood damages. This ordinance shall not create liability on the
part of Town of Garner or by any officer or employee thereof for any flood
damages that result from reliance on this ordinance or any administrative
decision lawfully made hereunder.
         h.   Penalties for violation. Violation of the provisions of this
ordinance or failure to comply with any of its requirements, including
violation of conditions and safeguards established in connection with grants of
variance or special exceptions, shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who
violates this ordinance or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall,
upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $50.00 or imprisoned for not
more than 30 days, or both. Each day such violation continues shall be
considered a separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent Town of
Garner from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or
remedy any violation.
      4.   Administration.
         a.   Designation of Floodplain Administrator. The Town Engineer,
hereinafter referred to as the "Floodplain Administrator", is hereby appointed
to administer and implement the provisions of this ordinance.
         b.   Floodplain development application requirements.
            Application for a floodplain development permit shall be made to
the floodplain administrator prior to any development activities located within
special flood hazard areas . The following items shall be presented to the
floodplain administrator to apply for a floodplain development permit :
            (1)   A plot plan drawn to scale which shall include, but shall not
be limited to, the following specific details of the proposed
floodplaindevelopment :
               (a)   The nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the
area of development /disturbance; existing and proposed structures , utility
systems, grading/pavement areas, fill materials, storage areas, drainage
facilities, and other development ;
               (b)   The boundary of the special flood hazard area as
delineated on the FIRM or other flood map as determined in Section
7.2H(3)b or a statement that the entire lot is within the special flood hazard
area ;
               (c)   Flood zone (s) designation of the proposed development
area as determined on the FIRM or other flood map as determined in Section
7.2H(3)b the boundary of the floodway (s) or non-encroachment area (s) as
determined in Section
7.2H(3)b;
               (d)   The base flood elevation (BFE) where provided as set forth
in Section
7.2H(3)b;
7.2H(4)e(11 and 12) or
7.2H(5)d;
               (e)   The old and new location of any watercourse that will be
altered or relocated as a result of proposed development ;
               (f)   Certification of the plot plan by a registered land
surveyor or professional engineer.
            (2)   Proposed elevation, and method thereof, of all development
within a special flood hazard area including but not limited to:
               (a)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the proposed
reference level (including basement ) of all structures ;
               (b)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any non-
residential structure in Zone AE, A or AO will be flood -proofed; and
               (c)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any
proposed utility systems will be elevated or floodproofed;
            (3)   If floodproofing , a floodproofing certificate (FEMA Form 81-
65) with supporting data and an operational plan that includes, but is not
limited to, installation, exercise, and maintenance of floodproofing measures.
            (4)   A foundation plan, drawn to scale, which shall include
details of the proposed foundation system to ensure all provisions of this
ordinance are met. These details include but are not limited to:
               (a)   The proposed method of elevation, if applicable (i.e.,
fill, solid foundation perimeter wall, solid backfilled foundation, open
foundation on columns/posts/piers/piles/shear walls);
               (b)   Openings to facilitate equalization of hydrostatic flood
forces on walls in accordance with Section
7.2H(5)(b)(4), when solid foundation perimeter walls are used in Zones A, AO,
AE, and A1--30;
            (5)   Usage details of any enclosed areas below the regulatory
flood protection elevation .
            (6)   Plans and/or details for the protection of public utilities
and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems to be located
and constructed to minimize flood damage;
            (7)   Copies of all other local, state and federal permits required
prior to floodplain development permit issuance (wetlands, endangered species,
erosion and sedimentation control, riparian buffers, mining, etc.)
            (8)   Documentation for placement of recreational vehicles and/or
temporary structures , when applicable, to ensure Section
7.2H(5)b(6 and 7) of this ordinance are met.
            (9)   A description of proposed watercourse alteration or
relocation, when applicable, including an engineering report on the effects of
the proposed project on the flood -carrying capacity of the watercourse and the
effects to properties located both upstream and downstream; and a map (if not
shown on plot plan) showing the location of the proposed watercourse alteration
or relocation.
         c.   Permit requirements. The floodplain development permit shall
include, but not be limited to:
            (1)   A description of the development to be permitted under the
floodplain development permit .
            (2)   The special flood hazard area determination for the proposed
development per available data specified in Section
7.2H(3)b.
            (3)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
reference level and all attendant utilities.
            (4)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
protection of all public utilities.
            (5)   All certification submittal requirements with timelines.
            (6)   A statement that no fill material or other development shall
encroach into the floodway or non-encroachment area of any watercourse , as
applicable.
            (7)   The flood openings requirements, if in Zones A, AO, AE or A1-
-30.
         d.   Certification requirements.
            (1)   Elevation certificates.
               (a)   An elevation certificate (FEMA Form 81-31) is required
prior to the actual start of any new construction . It shall be the duty of the
permit holder to submit to the floodplain administrator a certification of the
elevation of the reference level , in relation to mean sea level . The
floodplain administrator shall review the certificate data submitted.
Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the permit holder
prior to the beginning of construction. Failure to submit the certification or
failure to make required corrections shall be cause to deny a floodplain
development permit .
               (b)   A final as-built elevation certificate (FEMA Form 81- 31)
is required after construction is completed and prior to certificate of
compliance/occupancy issuance. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to
submit to the floodplain administrator a certification of final as- built
construction of the elevation of the reference level and all attendant
utilities. The floodplain administrator shall review the certificate data
submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
permit holder immediately and prior to certificate of compliance/occupancy
issuance. In some instances, another certification may be required to certify
corrected as-built construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure
to make required corrections shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a
certificate of compliance/occupancy.
            (2)   Floodproofing certificate. If non-residential floodproofing
is used to meet the regulatory flood protection elevation requirements, a
floodproofing certificate (FEMA Form 81-65), with supporting data and an
operational plan, is required prior to the actual start of any new construction
. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the floodplain
administrator a certification of the floodproofed design elevation of the
reference level and all attendant utilities, in relation to mean sea level .
Floodproofing certification shall be prepared by or under the direct
supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by same. The
floodplain administrator shall review the certificate data and plan.
Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the applicant prior
to permit approval. Failure to submit the certification or failure to make
required corrections shall be cause to deny a floodplain development permit .
Failure to construct in accordance with the certified design shall be cause to
withhold the issuance of a certificate of compliance/occupancy.
            (3)   If a manufactured home is placed within Zone A, AO, AE, or
A1--30 and the elevation of the chassis is more than 36 inches in height above
grade, an engineered foundation certification is required per Section
7.2H(5)(b)3.
            (4)   If a watercourse is to be altered or relocated, a description
of the extent of watercourse alteration or relocation; a professional
engineer's certified report on the effects of the proposed project on the flood
-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the effects to properties located
both upstream and downstream; and a map showing the location of the proposed
watercourse alteration or relocation shall all be submitted by the permit
applicant prior to issuance of a floodplain development permit .
            (5)   Certification exemptions. The following structures , if
located within Zone A, AO, AE or A1--30, are exempt from the elevation/
floodproofing certification requirements specified in item (a) of this
subsection:
               (a)   Recreational vehicles meeting requirements of Section
7.2H(5)b(6)a;
               (b)   Temporary structures meeting requirements of Section
7.2H(5)b(7); and
               (c)   accessory structures less than 150 square feet meeting
requirements of Section
7.2H(5)b(8).
         e.   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator. The
Floodplain Administrator shall perform, but not be limited to, the following
duties:
            (1)   Review all floodplaindevelopment applications and issue
permits for all proposed development within special flood hazard areas to
assure that the requirements of this ordinance have been satisfied.
            (2)   Advise permittee that additional federal or state permits
(wetlands, endangered species, erosion and sedimentation control, riparian
buffers, mining, etc.) may be required, and require that copies of such permits
be provided and maintained on file with the floodplain development permit .
            (3)   Notify adjacent communities and the North Carolina Department
of Crime Control and Public Safety, Division of Emergency Management, State
Coordinator for the National Flood Insurance Program prior to any alteration or
relocation of a watercourse , and submit evidence of such notification to the
federal emergency management agency (FEMA).
            (4)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood -carrying capacity is
not diminished.
            (5)   Prevent encroachments into floodways and non-encroachment
areas unless the certification and flood hazard reduction provisions of Section
7.2H(5)e are met.
            (6)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level ) of
the reference level (including basement ) and all attendant utilities of all
new or substantially improved structures , in accordance with Section
7.2H(4)d.
            (7)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level ) to
which all new and substantially improved structures and utilities have been
floodproofed, in accordance with Section
7.2H(4)d.
            (8)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level ) of
all public utilities in accordance with Section
7.2H(4)d.
            (9)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure ,
obtain certifications from a registered professional engineer or architect in
accordance with Section
7.2H(4)d and Section
7.2H(5)b(2).
            (10)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of
boundaries of the special flood hazard areas (for example, where there appears
to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions), make
the necessary interpretation. The person contesting the location of the
boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation
as provided in this article.
            (11)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data has not been provided
in accordance with Section
7.2H(3)b, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation (BFE)
data, along with floodway data or non-encroachment area data available from a
Federal, State, or other source, including data developed pursuant to Section
7.2H(5)d(2)b, in order to administer the provisions of this ordinance.
            (12)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is provided but no
floodway nor non-encroachment area data has been provided in accordance with
Section
7.2H(3)b, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any floodway data or non-
encroachment area data available from a federal, state, or other source in
order to administer the provisions of this ordinance.
            (13)   When the lowest ground elevation of a parcel or structure in
a special flood hazard area is above the base flood elevation , advise the
property owner of the option to apply for a letter of map amendment (LOMA) from
FEMA. Maintain a copy of the letter of map amendment (LOMA) issued by FEMA in
the floodplain development permit file.
            (14)   Permanently maintain all records that pertain to the
administration of this ordinance and make these records available for public
inspection.
            (15)   Make on-site inspections of work in progress. As the work
pursuant to a floodplain development permit progresses, the floodplain
administrator shall make as many inspections of the work as may be necessary to
ensure that the work is being done according to the provisions of the local
ordinance and the terms of the permit. In exercising this power, the floodplain
administrator has a right, upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter on
any premises within the jurisdiction of the community at any reasonable hour
for the purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
            (16)   Issue stop-work orders as required. Whenever a building or
part thereof is being constructed, reconstructed, altered, or repaired in
violation of this ordinance, the floodplain administrator may order the work to
be immediately stopped. The stop-work order shall be in writing and directed to
the person doing the work. The stop-work order shall state the specific work to
be stopped, the specific reason(s) for the stoppage, and the condition(s) under
which the work may be resumed. Violation of a stop-work order constitutes a
misdemeanor.
            (17)   Revoke floodplain development permits as required. The
floodplain administrator may revoke and require the return of the floodplain
development permit by notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason
(s) for the revocation. Permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure
from the approved application, plans, or specifications; for refusal or failure
to comply with the requirements of State or local laws; or for false statements
or misrepresentations made in securing the permit. Any floodplain development
permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state or local law may
also be revoked.
            (18)   Make periodic inspections throughout all special flood
hazard areas within the jurisdiction of the community. The floodplain
administrator and each member of his or her inspections department shall have a
right, upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within
the territorial jurisdiction of the department at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
            (19)   Follow through with corrective procedures of Section
7.2H(4)f.
            (20)   Review, provide input, and make recommendations for variance
requests.
            (21)   Maintain a current map repository to include, but not
limited to, the FIS Report, FIRM and other official flood maps and studies
adopted in accordance with Section
7.2H(2)b of this ordinance, including any revisions thereto including letters
of map change, issued by FEMA. Notify state and FEMA of mapping needs.
            (22)   Coordinate revisions to FIS reports and FIRM s, including
letters of map revision based on fill (LOMR-F) and letters of map revision
(LOMR).
         f.   Corrective procedures.
            (1)   Violations to be corrected: When the floodplain administrator
finds violations of applicable state and local laws, it shall be his or her
duty to notify the owner or occupant of the building of the violation. The
owner or occupant shall immediately remedy each of the violations of law cited
in such notification.
            (2)   Actions in event of failure to take corrective action: If the
owner of a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action,
the floodplain administrator shall give the owner written notice, by certified
or registered mail to the owner's last known address or by personal service,
stating:
               (a)   That the building or property is in violation of the flood
damage prevention ordinance;
               (b)   That a hearing will be held before the floodplain
administrator at a designated place and time, not later than ten days after the
date of the notice, at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in
person or by counsel and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the
matter; and,
               (c)   That following the hearing, the floodplain administrator
may issue an order to alter, vacate, or demolish the building ; or to remove
fill as appears appropriate.
            (3)   Order to take corrective action: If, upon a hearing held
pursuant to the notice prescribed above, the floodplain administrator shall
find that the building or development is in violation of the flood damage
prevention ordinance, they shall issue an order in writing to the owner,
requiring the owner to remedy the violation within a specified time period, not
less than 60) calendar days, nor more than 180 calendar days. Where the
floodplain administrator finds that there is imminent danger to life or other
property, they may order that corrective action be taken in such lesser period
as may be feasible.
            (4)   Appeal: Any owner who has received an order to take
corrective action may appeal the order to the local elected governing body by
giving notice of appeal in writing to the floodplain administrator and the
clerk within ten days following issuance of the final order. In the absence of
an appeal, the order of the floodplain administrator shall be final. The local
governing body shall hear an appeal within a reasonable time and may affirm,
modify and affirm, or revoke the order.
            (5)   Failure to comply with order: If the owner of a building or
property fails to comply with an order to take corrective action for which no
appeal has been made or fails to comply with an order of the governing body
following an appeal, the owner shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
punished at the discretion of the court.
         g.   Variance procedures.
            (1)   The Board of Adjustment as established by the Town of Garner,
hereinafter referred to as the "appeal board", shall hear and decide requests
for variances from the requirements of this ordinance.
            (2)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the appeal board may
appeal such decision to the Court, as provided in Chapter 7A of the North
Carolina General Statutes.
            (3)   Variances may be issued for:
               (a)   The repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon
the determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude
the structure's continued designation as a historic structure and that the
variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design
of the structure ;
               (b)   Functionally dependent facilities if determined to meet
the definition as stated in Section
7.2H(2) of this ordinance, provided provisions of Section
7.2H(4)g(9)b and e have been satisfied, and such facilities are protected by
methods that minimize flood damages and;
               (c)   Any other type of development , provided it meets the
requirements stated in this section.
            (4)   In passing upon variances , the appeal board shall consider
all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in
other sections of this ordinance, and:
               (a)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to
the injury of others;
               (b)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
               (c)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its
contents to flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
               (d)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed
facility to the community;
               (e)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location as
defined under Section
7.2H(2) of this ordinance as a functionally dependent facility , where
applicable;
               (f)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to
flooding or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
               (g)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development ;
               (h)   The relationship of the proposed use to the Comprehensive
Growth Plan and floodplain management program for that area;
               (i)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
               (j)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise,
and sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
               (k)   The costs of providing governmental services during and
after flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
            (5)   A written report addressing each of the above factors shall
be submitted with the application for a variance .
            (6)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the
purposes of this ordinance, the appeal board may attach such conditions to the
granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this
ordinance.
            (7)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given
written notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation (BFE)
and the elevation to which the structure is to be built and that such
construction below the base flood elevation increases risks to life and
property, and that the issuance of a variance to construct a structure below
the base flood elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood
insurance up to $25.00 per $100.00 of insurance coverage. Such notification
shall be maintained with a record of all variance actions, including
justification for their issuance.
            (8)   The floodplain administrator shall maintain the records of
all appeal actions and report any variances to the federal emergency management
agency and the State of North Carolina upon request.
            (9)   Conditions for variances :
               (a)   Variances shall not be issued when the variance will make
the structure in violation of other federal, state, or local laws, regulations,
or ordinances.
               (b)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated
floodway or non-encroachment area if the variance would result in any increase
in flood levels during the base flood discharge.
               (c)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that
the variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
               (d)   Variances shall only be issued prior to development permit
approval.
               (e)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
                  i.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
                  ii.   A determination that failure to grant the variance
would result in exceptional hardship; and
                  iii.   A determination that the granting of a variance will
not result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety , or
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
            (10)   A variance may be issued for solid waste disposal facilities
, hazardous waste management facilities , salvage yards , and chemical storage
facilities that are located in special flood hazard areas provided that all of
the following conditions are met.
               (a)   The use serves a critical need in the community.
               (b)   No feasible location exists for the use outside the
special flood hazard area .
               (c)   The reference level of any structure is elevated or
floodproofed to at least the regulatory flood protection elevation .
               (d)   The use complies with all other applicable federal, state
and local laws.
               (e)   The Town of Garner has notified the Secretary of the North
Carolina Department of Crime Control and Public Safety of its intention to
grant a variance at least 30 calendar days prior to granting the variance .
      5.   Provisions for flood hazard reduction.
         a.   General standards. In all special flood hazard areas the
following provisions are required:
            (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
designed (or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse,
and lateral movement of the structure .
            (2)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
            (3)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damages.
            (4)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as
to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components during
conditions of flooding . These include, but are not limited to, HVAC equipment,
water softener units, bath/kitchen fixtures, ductwork, electric/gas meter
panels/boxes, utility/cable boxes, appliances (washers, dryers, refrigerators,
freezers, etc.), hot water heaters, and electric outlets/switches.
            (5)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be
designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
            (6)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed
to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters.
            (7)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and
constructed to avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during
flooding .
            (8)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a
structure , which is in compliance with the provisions of this ordinance, shall
meet the requirements of "new construction " as contained in this ordinance.
            (9)   Nothing in this ordinance shall prevent the repair,
reconstruction, or replacement of a building or structure existing on the
effective date of this ordinance and located totally or partially within the
floodway , non-encroachment area , or stream setback, provided there is no
additional encroachment below the regulatory flood protection elevation in the
floodway , non-encroachment area , or stream setback, and provided that such
repair, reconstruction, or replacement meets all of the other requirements of
this ordinance.
            (10)   New solid waste disposal facilities and sites , hazardous
waste management facilities , salvage yards , and chemical storage facilities
shall not be permitted, except by variance as specified in Section
7.2H(4)g(10). A structure or tank for chemical or fuel storage incidental to an
allowed use or to the operation of a water treatment plant or wastewater
treatment facility may be located in a special flood hazard area only if the
structure or tank is either elevated or floodproofed to at least the regulatory
flood protection elevation and certified according to Section
7.2H(4)d of this ordinance.
            (11)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals
shall be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
            (12)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals
shall have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and
water systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
            (13)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals
shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
            (14)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals
shall have received all necessary permits from those governmental agencies for
which approval is required by federal or state law, including Section 404 of
the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334.
            (15)   Fill material located within any 100-year floodplain used
for a proposed development shall require certification by a professional
engineer, supported by appropriate documentation, that such fill material will
not raise the 100- year floodplain elevation on any upstream property during a
base flood event.
         b.   Specific standards. In all special flood hazard areas where base
flood elevation (BFE) data has been provided, as set forth in Section
7.2H(2), or Section
7.2H(4)e(11 and 12), the following provisions, in addition to Section
7.2H(5)a, are required:
            (1)   Residential construction. New construction  and substantial
improvements shall have the reference level , including basement , elevated no
lower than the regulatory flood protection elevation , as defined in Section
7.2 H(2) of this ordinance.
            (2)   Non-residential construction. New construction and
substantial improvement of any commercial, industrial, or other non-residential
structure shall have the reference level, including basement, elevated no lower
than the regulatory flood protection elevation, as defined in Section
7.2H(1) of this ordinance. Structures located in A, AE and A1--30 Zones may be
floodproofed to the regulatory flood protection elevation in lieu of elevation
provided that all areas of the structure, together with attendant utility and
sanitary facilities, below the regulatory flood protection elevation are
watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water, using
structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and the effect of buoyancy. For AO Zones, the floodproofing
elevation shall be in accordance with Section
7.2H(5)g(2). A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the standards of this subsection are satisfied. Such certification shall be
provided to the Floodplain Administrator as set forth in Section
7.2H(4)d, along with the operational and maintenance plans.
            (3)   Manufactured homes.
               (a)   New or replacement manufactured homes shall be elevated so
that the reference level of the manufactured home is no lower than the
regulatory flood protection elevation , as defined in Section
7.2H(2) of this ordinance.
               (b)   Manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to an
adequately anchored foundation to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral
movement, either by engineer certification, or in accordance with the most
current edition of the State of North Carolina Regulations for Manufactured
Homes adopted by the Commissioner of Insurance pursuant to NCGS 143-143.15.
Additionally, when the elevation would be met by an elevation of the chassis 36
inches or less above the grade at the site, the chassis shall be supported by
reinforced piers or engineered foundation. When the elevation of the chassis is
above 36 inches in height, an engineering certification is required.
               (c)   All enclosures or skirting below the lowest floor shall
meet the requirements of Section
7.2H(3)b(4)(a), (b) and (c).
               (d)   An evacuation plan must be developed for evacuation of all
residents of all new, substantially improved or substantially damaged
manufactured home parks or subdivisions located within flood prone areas . This
plan shall be filed with and approved by the floodplain administrator and the
local emergency management coordinator.
            (4)   Elevated buildings. Fully enclosed area, of new construction
and substantially improved structures, which is below the lowest floor:
               (a)   Shall not be designed or used for human habitation, but
shall only be used for parking of vehicles, building access, or limited storage
of maintenance equipment used in connection with the premises. Access to the
enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow for parking of vehicles
(garage door) or limited storage of maintenance equipment (standard exterior
door), or entry to the living area (stairway or elevator). The interior portion
of such enclosed area shall not be finished or partitioned into separate rooms,
except to enclose storage areas;
               (b)   Shall be constructed entirely of flood resistant materials
below the regulatory flood protection elevation ;
               (c)   Shall include, in Zones A, AO, AE, and A1--30, flood
openings to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on walls by
allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters. To meet this requirement, the
openings must either be certified by a professional engineer or architect or
meet or exceed the following minimum design criteria:
                  i.   A minimum of two flood openings on different sides of
each enclosed area subject to flooding ;
                  ii.   The total net area of all flood openings must be at
least one square inch for each square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
;
                  iii.   If a building has more than one enclosed area, each
enclosed area must have flood openings to allow floodwaters to automatically
enter and exit;
                  iv.   The bottom of all required flood openings shall be no
higher than one foot above the adjacent grade;
                  v.   Flood openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or
other coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of
floodwaters in both directions; and
                  vi.   Enclosures made of flexible skirting are not considered
enclosures for regulatory purposes, and, therefore, do not require flood
openings. Masonry or wood underpinning, regardless of structural status, is
considered an enclosure and requires flood openings as outlined above.
            (5)   Additions/improvements.
               (a)   Additions and/or improvements to pre-FIRMstructures when
the addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications
to the existing structure are:
                  i.   Not a substantial improvement , the addition and/or
improvements must be designed to minimize flood damages and must not be any
more non-conforming than the existing structure .
                  ii.   A substantial improvement , both the existing structure
and the addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction .
               (b)   Additions to post-FIRMstructures with no modifications to
the existing structure other than a standard door in the common wall shall
require only the addition to comply with the standards for new construction .
               (c)   Additions and/or improvements to post-FIRMstructures when
the addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications
to the existing structure are:
                  i.   Not a substantial improvement , the addition and/or
improvements only must comply with the standards for new construction .
                  ii.   A substantial improvement , both the existing structure
and the addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction .
               (d)   Where an independent perimeter load-bearing wall is
provided between the addition and the existing building , the addition (s)
shall be considered a separate building and only the addition must comply with
the standards for new construction .
            (6)   Recreational vehicles. Recreational vehicles shall either:
               (a)   Be on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days and be
fully licensed and ready for highway use (a recreational vehicle is ready for
highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site
only by quick disconnect type utilities, and has no permanently attached
additions ); or
               (b)   Meet all the requirements for new construction .
            (7)   Temporary non-residential structures. Prior to the issuance
of a floodplain development permit for a temporary structure, the applicant
must submit to the floodplain administrator a plan for the removal of such
structure(s) in the event of a hurricane, flash flood or other type of flood
warning notification. The following information shall be submitted in writing
to the floodplain administrator for review and written approval;
               (a)   A specified time period for which the temporary use will
be permitted. Time specified may not exceed three months, renewable up to one
year;
               (b)   The name, address, and phone number of the individual
responsible for the removal of the temporary structure ;
               (c)   The time frame prior to the event at which a structure
will be removed (i.e., minimum of 72 hours before landfall of a hurricane or
immediately upon flood warning notification);
               (d)   A copy of the contract or other suitable instrument with
the entity responsible for physical removal of the structure ; and
               (e)   Designation, accompanied by documentation, of a location
outside the special flood hazard area , to which the temporary structure will
be moved.
            (8)   Accessory structures. When accessory structures (sheds,
detached garages, etc.) are to be placed within a special flood hazard area,
the following criteria shall be met:
               (a)   Accessory structures shall not be used for human
habitation (including working, sleeping, living, cooking or restroom areas);
               (b)   Accessory structures shall not be temperature- controlled;
               (c)   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood
damage potential;
               (d)   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on
the building site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of
floodwaters;
               (e)   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored in
accordance with Section
7.2H(5)a(1);
               (f)   All service facilities such as electrical shall be
installed in accordance with Section
7.2H(5)a(4);
               (g)   Flood openings to facilitate automatic equalization of
hydrostatic flood forces shall be provided below regulatory flood protection
elevation in conformance with Section
7.2H(5)b(4)(c);
               (h)   An accessory structure with a footprint less than 150
square feet that satisfies the criteria outlined above does not require an
elevation or floodproofing certificate. Elevation or floodproofing
certifications are required for all other accessory structures in accordance
with Section
7.2H(4)d.
         c.   Reserved.
         d.   Standards for floodplains without established base flood
elevations. Within the special flood hazard areas designated as approximate
zone and established in Section
7.2H(3)b, where no base flood elevation (BFE) data has been provided by FEMA,
the following provisions, in addition to Section
7.2H(5)(a and b), shall apply:
            (1)   No encroachments , including fill, new construction ,
substantial improvements or new development shall be permitted within a
distance of 20 feet each side from top of bank or five times the width of the
stream, whichever is greater, unless certification with supporting technical
data by a registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating that such
encroachments shall not result in any increase in flood levels during the
occurrence of the base flood discharge.
            (2)   The BFE used in determining the regulatory flood protection
elevation shall be determined based on one of the following criteria set in
priority order:
               (a)   If base flood elevation (BFE) data is available from other
sources, all new construction and substantial improvements within such areas
shall also comply with all applicable provisions of this ordinance and shall be
elevated or floodproofed in accordance with standards in
Article 4, Section E(11 and 12).
               (b)   All subdivision, manufactured home park and other
development proposals shall provide base flood elevation (BFE) data if
development is greater than five acres or has more than 50 lots/manufactured
home sites. Such base flood elevation (BFE) data shall be adopted by reference
per Section
7.2H(3)b to be utilized in implementing this ordinance.
               (c)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is not available from
a federal, state, or other source as outlined above, the reference level shall
be elevated to or above the regulatory flood protection elevation , as defined
in Section
7.2H(2).
         e.   Standards for Riverine Floodplains with BFE but without
established floodways or non-encroachment areas. Along rivers and streams where
BFE data is provided but neither floodway nor non-encroachment areas are
identified for a special flood hazard area on the FIRM or in the FIS report,
the following requirements shall apply to all development within such areas:
               (a)   Standards outlined in Section
7.2H(5)a and b; and
               (b)   Until a regulatory floodway or non-encroachment area is
designated, no encroachments , including fill, new construction , substantial
improvements , or other development , shall be permitted unless certification
with supporting technical data by a registered professional engineer is
provided demonstrating that the cumulative effect of the proposed development ,
when combined with all other existing and anticipated development , will not
increase the water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot at
any point within the community.
         f.   Floodways and non-encroachment areas. Areas designated as
floodways or non-encroachment areas are located within the special flood hazard
areas established in
Article 3, Section B. The floodways and non-encroachment areas are extremely
hazardous areas due to the velocity of floodwaters that have erosion potential
and carry debris and potential projectiles. The following provisions, in
addition to standards outlined in Section
7.2H(3)b, shall apply to all development within such areas:
            1.   Construction within floodways restricted.
               a.   No development , including structures , fences, fill or
storage of materials or equipment, are permitted within a floodway or the
conservation buffer areas of specified streams, as defined above, except the
following:
                  (1)   Pasture, forestry, wildlife sanctuary, game farm and
similar agricultural, wildlife and related uses.
                  (2)   Lawns, gardens, play areas, and similar areas, golf
courses, tennis courts, archery ranges, picnic grounds, parks, hiking or
horseback riding trails, open space and similar private and public recreational
uses, provided that golf courses must have retention ponds.
                  (3)   Public water, stormwater or sewer infrastructure and
highways.
                  (4)   No artificial obstruction may be located within any
floodway , except as provided above. For purposes of this section, an
artificial obstruction is any obstruction, other than a natural obstruction,
that can reduce the floodcarrying capacity of a stream, or may accumulate
debris and thereby reduce the floodcarrying capacity of a stream. A natural
obstruction includes any rock, tree, or analogous natural matter located within
the floodway by a non-human cause.
                  (5)   The use of fill materials within a floodway is
prohibited unless certification by a registered professional engineer is
provided demonstrating that no increase in flood levels during a base flood
will result. Fill dirt within a floodplain shall be adequately stabilized to
withstand the erosive force of the base flood .
                  (6)   No new building construction or substantial improvement
of an existing building may take place within any floodway .
            2.   No encroachments , including fill, new construction ,
substantial improvements and other developments shall be permitted unless it
has been demonstrated that:
                  (a)   The proposed encroachment would not result in any
increase in the flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood , based on
hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with standard
engineering practice and presented to the floodplain administrator prior to
issuance of floodplain development permit , or
                  (b)   A conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR) has been
approved by FEMA. A letter of map revision (LOMR) must also be obtained upon
completion of the proposed encroachment .
            3.   If Section
7.2H(5)F(2)(e) is satisfied, all development shall comply with all applicable
flood hazard reduction provisions of this ordinance.
            4.   No manufactured homes shall be permitted, except replacement
manufactured homes in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision ,
provided the following provisions are met:
               (a)   The anchoring and the elevation standards of Section
7.2H(5)(b)(3); and
               (b)   The no encroachment standard of Section
7.2H(5)F(2)(a).
         g.   Standards for areas of shallow flooding (Zone AO). Located within
the special flood hazard areas established in Section
7.2H(3)b, are areas designated as shallow flooding areas. These areas have
special flood hazards associated with base flood  depths of one to three feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist and where the path of flooding
is unpredictable and indeterminate. In addition to Section
7.2H(5)a, all new construction and substantial improvements shall meet the
following requirements:
            1.   The reference level shall be elevated at least as high as the
depth number specified on the flood insurance rate map (FIRM ), in feet, plus a
freeboard of two feet, above the highest adjacent grade ; or at least two feet
above the highest adjacent grade plus a freeboard of two feet if no depth
number is specified.
            2.   Non-residential structures may, in lieu of elevation, be
floodproofed to the same level as required in Section
7.2H(5)(g)(2) so that the structure , together with attendant utility and
sanitary facilities, below that level shall be watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and effects of buoyancy. Certification is required as per Section
7.2H(4)d and Section
7.2H(5)(b)2.
            3.   Adequate drainage paths shall be provided around structures on
slopes, to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed structures .
(Ord. No. 3397, § 1, 4-18-06; Ord. No. 3507, § 1, 4-22-08; Ord. No. 3558, § 2,
7-7-09 ; Ord., 3-16-21 )
7.3.   Outdoor storage and display.
   A.   Limited outside display of seasonal merchandise. In NC, CR and I-1,
limited outside display of seasonal merchandise is permitted provided:
      1.   Fire lanes and vehicular accessways are not obstructed or encroached
upon.
      2.   If a pedestrian walkway exists along the entrance frontage of the
business, a minimum four-foot wide pedestrian walkway is maintained.
      3.   The total square footage of outside display area is ten percent or
less of the business's interior sales square footage.
      4.   Sales transactions take place inside the business building .
7.4.   Off-street parking and loading standards.
   A.   Number of parking spaces required.
      1.   All developments shall provide a sufficient number of parking spaces
to accommodate the number of vehicles likely to be attracted to the development
. However, in an effort to minimize impervious surfaces that can cause
stormwater quantity and quality problems, the number of parking spaces needed
should not be based upon rare seasonal peak demands.
      2.   The presumptions established by this section are that:
         a.   A development must comply with the parking standards set forth in
this section to satisfy the requirement stated in paragraph 1. above; and
         b.   Any development that does meet these standards is in compliance.
However, the table of parking standards is only intended to establish a
presumption and should be flexibly administered, as provided in paragraph C.
      3.   The table of parking standards represents both the typical minimum
number of parking spaces required and the maximum number of parking spaces
allowed. For those developments desiring additional parking beyond that
required by the parking standards, the total number of parking spaces provided
may be increased by up to ten percent above that recommended by the parking
standards. If additional parking, above the ten percent increase, is still
needed, the additional parking shall be constructed of permeable pavement or
shall be drained directly to a bioretention area or other approved water
quality BMP as approved by the Town of Garner.
      4.   Uses in the table of parking requirements are keyed to
Article 5. If application of this table results in a fractional space, any
fraction of one-half or less may be disregarded, while any fraction in excess
of one-half be counted as one parking space .
      5.   The number of parking spaces in lots of ten or more spaces may be
reduced by one if the developer provides a bicycle rack offering a secure
parking area for at least five bicycles.
      6.   Accessible parking.
         a.   Accessible parking spaces shall be provided in compliance with
the following table and shall be identified with above-ground signs as
specified in General Statutes 20-37.6 and 136-30, the North Carolina Department
of Transportation Manual on Uniform Traffic Control and Chapter 4 of the North
Carolina Accessibility Code, as amended.
Total Spaces in Lot Minimum Number of  Accessible Spaces
Total Spaces in Lot Minimum Number of  Accessible Spaces
  1 to 25          1
  26 to 50         2
  51 to 75         3
  76 to 100        4
101 to 150          5
151 to 200          6
201 to 300          7
301 to 400          8
401 to 500          9
501 to 1,000        Two percent of total
1,001 and over      20 plus 1 for each 100 over 1,000
 
         b.   One in every eight (1 in 8) accessible parking spaces , or a
minimum of one (whichever is the greater number), shall be van accessible and
shall be identified [by] the words "van accessible" on an above-ground sign .
Van accessible parking spaces shall be open to all vehicles properly identified
in compliance with General Statute 20-37.6.
      7.   Whenever a building is constructed, in whole or in part, for low
parking need uses , the building should be located so that sufficient usable
space remains on the lot to add the additional parking spaces that would be
required to convert the use of the building entirely to the new use
classifications. Whenever a building is proposed for purposes that require a
lesser number of parking spaces than other uses to which the building might
well be put at some future date, the Planning Director should send to the
developer a certified letter explaining that sufficient space should be left on
the lot to add parking spaces at a later time if required.
   B.   Table of parking requirements. The Town Council recognizes that the
table of parking requirements cannot cover every possible situation that may
arise. Therefore, in cases not specifically covered, the Planning Director is
authorized through Written Interpretationto determine the parking requirements,
using this table as a guide.
For a printer-friendly version, please click here
TABLE OF PARKING REQUIREMENTS
Use Category Specific Use Requirement
TABLE OF PARKING REQUIREMENTS
Use Category        Specific Use      Requirement
                    Single-Family     2 spaces per unit, plus 1 space per room rented
                    Detached
                    Residential       2 spaces per unit, plus 1 space per room rented
                    Cluster
                    Two-Family        2 spaces for each unit, except that one-bedroom units require only 1 space
                    Dwelling
                    Townhouse (fee    2 spaces for each unit, plus 1 additional space for every 4 uses in the
                    simple or         development
                    condominium )
Household Living    Multifamily       1½ spaces for each one-bedroom unit; 2 spaces for each two-bedroom unit; 2 ½
                    Residence         spaces for each unit with three or more bedrooms, plus one additional space
                                      for every four units in the development .
                    Upper-Story       2 spaces per unit
                    Residential
                    Manufactured Home 2 spaces per unit
                    Modular Home      2 spaces per unit, plus 1 space per room rented
                    Security or
                    Caretaker's       2 spaces per unit
                    Quarters
                    Family care home  1 space per 3 beds
                    Group Care Home   2 spaces for every 5 beds, except for uses exclusively serving children under
Group Living                          16, in which case 1 space for every 3 beds
                    Intermediate Care 1 space for every two employees on maximum shift and 1 space for every 3 beds
                    Home
                    Other             1 space per 2 bedrooms and 1.5 spaces per employee
                    Community Center  1 space per 300 square feet
                    Library, Museum,
Community Service   Art Gallery, Art  1 space per 300 square feet
                    Center
                    Other             1 space per 200 square feet of gross floor area
Day Care            Day Care Center   1 space per employee plus 1 space per 8 clients enrolled
                    Business Schools  5 spaces per classroom or office
                    College/          5 spaces per classroom or office
Educational        University
Facilities          Schools, Public/  2 spaces per classroom or office in elementary schools;5 spaces per classroom
                    Private           or office in high schools
                    Trade/Vocational  5 spaces per classroom or office
                    Ambulance
                    Service, Rescue   1 space per 200 square feet of gross floor area
Government          Squad, Police
Facilities          Station
                    Prison or Jail    1 per employee plus 1 visitor space per 10 inmates
                    Other             1 space per 300 square feet of gross floor area
                    Continuing Care   1 space per employee on maximum shift plus 1 visitor space per 5 beds
                    Facility
Health Care         Hospital          2 spaces per bed
                    Medical Clinic    1 space per 150 feet of gross floor area
                    Other             1 space per 200 square feet of gross floor area
                    Group Care        1 per 3 beds
                    Facility
                    Handicapped       1 per 3 beds
                    Institution
Institutions        Intermediate Care 1 space for every two employees on maximum shift and 1 space for every 3 beds
                    Institution
                    Mental Health
                    Facility, Nursing 1 space for every employee on maximum shift and 1 space for every 3 beds
                    Care Institution
                    Other             1 space for every two employees on maximum shift and 1 space for every 3 beds
                    Cemetery          1 space per 50 internment plots
                    Public Park       2 per acre, plus 1 per 250 square feet of developed park facility
Parks and Open      Public Swimming
Space               Pool, Tennis      1 space for every 3 persons to be normally accommodated in the establishment,
                    Courts, Golf      5 per tennis court, and 4 per hole
                    Course
                    Other             2 per acre, plus 1 per 250 square feet of developed park facility
                    Bus Passenger     1 per 300 square feet
                    Terminal
Passenger  TerminalTaxicab or
                    Limousine         1 per employee, plus 2 visitor spaces
                    Operations or
                    Facility
Religious                           1 space for every 4 seats or 1 space for every 40 square feet in the portion
Institution                           of the church building to be used for services
                    Minor Utility     None
                    Major Utility     1 per facility, plus 1 additional per 250 square feet of gross floor area and
Utilities                             1 per fleet vehicle
                    Telecommunication 1 for service vehicle
                    Facility
                    Golf Course or    1 space per 200 square feet of area within enclosed building , plus 1 space
                    Country Club,     for every 3 persons that the outdoor facilities are designed to accommodate
                    Private           when used to the maximum capacity
                    Gym, Spa, Indoor  1 space for every 3 persons that the facilities are designed to accommodate
                    Tennis Court or   when fully utilized, plus 1 space per 200 square feet of gross floor area used
                    Pool, Private     in a manner not susceptible to such calculation
                    Horse Stables     1 space per 2 horses at maximum capacity
                                      1 space for every 3 persons that the facilities are designed to accommodate
                    Electronic Gaming when fully utilized (if they can be measured in such a fashion) plus 1 space
                    Centers           per 200 square feet of gross floor area used in a manner not susceptible to
                                      such calculation
Entertainment       Indoor            1 space for every 3 persons that the facilities are designed to accommodate
                    Entertainment     when fully utilized (if they can be measured in such a fashion) plus 1 space
                    Facility          per 200 square feet of gross floor area used in a manner not susceptible to
                                      such calculation
                    Outdoor Athletic  1 per 3 fixed seats, plus 1 per 25 square feet of gross floor area of exhibit
                    Facility, Private or portable seating space.
                    Sexually Oriented 1 per 100 square feet of gross floor area , or 1 per each 4 permanent seats,
                    Business          plus 1 space per 200 square feet of gross floor area
                    Theater           1 space for every four seats
                    Theater, Drive-In 1 space per speaker outlet
                    Water Slide       1 space for every 3 persons that the facilities are designed to accommodate
                                      when fully utilized
                    Other             1 space for every 200 square feet of gross floor area
Office              Medical Office    1 space for every 200 square feet of gross floor area
                    Other             1 space for every 300 square feet of gross floor area
                    Bed and Breakfast 1 space per room plus 1 space for every 2 employees on the maximum shift
Overnight           Extended Stay     1 space per room plus 1 space for every 2 employees on the maximum shift
Accommodations      Facility
                    Hotel/Motel       1 space per room plus 1 space for every 2 employees on the maximum shift
Parking,                            1 space per employee on the maximum shift
Commercial
                    Drive-In          1 space per 100 square feet of gross floor area , plus 1.5 spaces for every 2
                    Restaurant        employees.
Restaurants         Drive-Through     1 space for each 3 seats, plus reserve lane capacity equal to 5 spaces per
                    Restaurant        drive-up window
                    Other             1 space plus 6 spaces per order delivery person on maximum shift
                    Bar, Nightclub,   1 space per 100 square feet of gross floor area
                    Taverns
                    Convenience Store 1 space per 200 square feet of gross floor area
                                      1 space per 200 square feet of gross floor area of building devoted primarily
                    Fuel Sales        to gas sales operation, plus sufficient parking area to accommodate 2 vehicles
                                      per pump without interfering with other parking spaces
Retail Sales and    Open Air Market   1 space per 300 square feet of sales area
Service             Veterinarian/     1 space per 200 square feet of gross floor area
                    Kennel , Indoor
                    Veterinarian/     1 space per 200 square feet of gross floor area
                    Kennel , Outdoor
                    Other             1 space per 200 square feet of gross floor area
                    Self-Service      1 per 5,000 square feet of area devoted to storage
                    Storage
                    Car Wash          1 space for every 3 employees on the maximum shift plus 3 spaces per stall
                    Vehicle Repair    5 spaces per service bay plus 1 space for each employee
Vehicle Sales and   Vehicle Sales,    2 spaces per 300 square feet of gross floor area plus one space for every 2
Service             Rental            employees on the maximum shift
                    Vehicle Service,  5 spaces per service bay plus 1 space for each employee
                    Limited
                    Other             1 space per employee, plus one visitor space per 200 square feet of office
Aviation  Service                   1 space per employee, plus one visitor space per 200 square feet of office
                    Flex Space        1 per 500 square feet of gross floor area
Light Industrial                      1 per 500 square feet of gross floor area , plus 1 additional per 1,000 square
Service             Other             feet of gross floor area outdoor facility and 1 per 2,500 square feet of
                                      indoor storage area
Manufacturing and                   1 space for every 2 employees on the maximum shift or 1 space per 200 square
Production                            feet of gross floor area , as most appropriate
Resource                            1 space for every 2 employees on the maximum shift, plus 1 per 200 square feet
Extraction                            of gross floor area indoor facilities
Warehouse and       Storage           1 space for every 2 employees on the maximum shift but not less than 1 per
Freight Movement                      5,000 square feet of area devoted to use (whether inside or outside)
                    Truck Terminal    1 space per 2 employees on maximum shift
                    Reclamation       1 space per 2 employees on maximum shift plus 1 space per vehicle used in
                    Landfill          operation
                    Recyclable        1 space per 2 employees on maximum shift plus 1 space per vehicle used in
                    Materials         operation
Waste Related       Collection
Service             Salvage Yard      1 space per 2 employees on the maximum shift but not less than 1 per 5,000
                                      square feet of area devoted to use , plus 1 space per vehicle use in operation
                    Sanitary Landfill 1 space per 2 employees on maximum shift plus 1 space per vehicle used in
                                      operation
                    Other             1 space per 2 employees on maximum shift plus 1 space per vehicle used in
                                      operation
Wholesale Sales                      1 space for every 2 employees on maximum shift
Agriculture                          1 space per 2 employees on maximum shift
   C.   Flexibility in administration authorized.
      1.   In recognition that inflexible application of the parking standards
in paragraph B., above, may result in inadequate or excessive parking
requirements, the permit-issuing authority shall permit deviations from the
presumptive requirements of paragraph B. of up to 25%.
      2.   Any allowed or required deviation from the presumptive parking
requirements set forth in paragraph B. above shall be entered on the permit.
      3.   If the permit-issuing authority is the Planning Director , and the
applicant does not wish to accept the Planning Director's decision and
requirements, the applicant can request a Variance .
   D.   Parking space dimensions. Each parking space shall contain a
rectangular area at least 18 feet long and nine feet wide, except as follows:
      1.   Handicapped spaces shall be consistent with the requirements of
Chapter 4 of the North Carolina Accessibility Code, as amended and shall be
located as closely and conveniently as practical to building entrances (see
Appendix F).
      2.   Parallel parking spaces shall have a rectangular area of not less
than 24 feet in length and nine feet in width.
      3.   Angled parking spaces shall conform with the dimensions illustrated
below. Alternative designs may be allowed by the Town Engineer provided it is
consistent with the recommended dimensions contained in the latest edition of
the Traffic Engineering Handbook published by the Institute of Traffic
Engineers.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4447ce03978db0feab4258ffc8ecb3f9806deb9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1288.jpg]
 
   E.   Required widths of parking area aisles and driveways.
      1.   Parking area aisle widths shall conform to the following table,
which relates aisle widths to parking angles.
 
Parking Angle Width: One Row  Sharing AisleWidth: Two Rows  Sharing Aisle
90 degrees    42 feet                       60 feet
60 degrees    40 feet                       62 feet
45 degrees    35 feet                       56 feet
 
      2.   Driveways shall be not less than ten feet in width for one-way
traffic and 18 feet in width for two-way traffic, except that ten feet wide
driveways are permissible for two-way traffic when:
         a.   The driveway is not longer than 50 feet;
         b.   It provides access to not more than six spaces;
         c.   Sufficient turning space is provided so that vehicles need not
back into a public street ;
         d.   The use is a low traffic volume use and the public right-of-way
has a low traffic volume.
   A Variance may provide relief from this requirement.
      3.   For uses proposed adjacent to U.S. 70, 401 or N.C. 50, see
Article 8.
   F.   General design requirements. Vehicle accommodation areas shall be
designed so that:
      1.   Vehicles may exit such area without backing onto a public street .
This requirement does not apply to driveways serving one or two dwelling units
.
      2.   Vehicles cannot overhang property lines, public rights-of-way, or
public sidewalks, or tend to bump against or damage any wall, vegetation or
other obstruction.
      3.   Vehicles can move without posing a danger to pedestrians or other
vehicles and without interfering with parking areas.
   G.   Vehicle accommodation area surfaces and standards.
      1.   It is strongly recommended that vehicle accommodation areas with
lanes for drive-in windows or ten or more parking spaces , and that are used at
least five days per week, be graded and surfaced with asphalt, concrete or
other material that will provide equivalent protection against potholes,
erosion, and dust.
Appendix C contains specifications for surfaces meeting this standard.
      2.   Vehicle accommodation areas not permanently surfaced shall be graded
and surfaced with crushed stone, gravel or other suitable material (as provided
in the specifications set forth in the Town of Garner Standard Construction
Details in
Appendix B) to stabilize the area and reduce dust and erosion. The perimeter of
such parking areas shall be defined by bricks, stones, railroad ties, or
similar devices. This section shall not apply to uses required to have only one
or two parking spaces .
      3.   Vehicle accommodation areas shall provide a minimum five feet or
perimeter space between the right-of-way line or property line and the edge of
the vehicle accommodation area , and shall be landscaped in plantings or other
appropriate manner. When adjacent to residential uses and/or districts,
plantings, hedge or a solid fence to a height of at least four feet shall
provide a screen.
      4.   Parking spaces shall be demarcated in a practical and appropriate
manner.
      5.   Vehicle accommodation areas shall be properly maintained. In
particular, vehicle accommodation area surfaces shall be kept in good condition
and parking space demarcations shall be kept clearly visible and distinct.
      6.   Parking spaces shall be separated from walkways so that at least a
4-foot walkway width is unobstructed.
   H.   Joint use of required parking space.
      1.   One parking area may contain required spaces for several uses , but,
except as provided in paragraph 2. below, the required space assigned to one
use may not be credited to any other use .
      2.   To the extent that developments that wish to make joint use of the
same parking spaces operate at different times, the same spaces may be credited
to both uses . For example, if a parking lot is used in connection with an
office building on Monday through Friday but is generally 90 percent vacant on
weekends, another development that operates only on weekends could be credited
with 90 percent of the spaces on that lot . Or, if a church parking lot is
generally occupied only to 50 percent of capacity on days other than Sunday,
another development could make use of 50 percent of the church lot's spaces on
those other days.
      3.   If the joint use of the same parking spaces by two or more principal
uses involves satellite parking spaces , then the provisions of paragraph I.
below are also applicable.
   I.   Satellite parking.
      1.   If the required number of off-streetparking spaces cannot reasonably
be provided on the same lot as the use they are serving then spaces may be
provided on nearby lots in accordance with the provisions of this section.
These off-site spaces are referred to as satellite parking spaces .
      2.   Satellite parking spaces (except spaces intended for employee use )
must be located within 400 feet of the use associated with such parking.
      3.   Satisfactory written evidence of permission by the owner(s) of the
area to be used for satellite parking spaces must be provided by the developer
. The developer must also sign an acknowledgment that the continuing validity
of his permit depends upon his continuing ability to provide the requisite
number of parking spaces .
      4.   For developments where:
         a.   The building (s) pre-existed this UDO;
         b.   A change in use that does not involve any structural enlargement
is proposed; and
         c.   The parking requirements cannot be satisfied on such lot , then
the developer need only comply with the requirements of paragraph A. of this
section to the extent that parking space is available on the lot where the
development is located, and satellite parking space is reasonably available as
provided in paragraph F of this section. It shall be a continuing condition of
the permit authorizing development on such lot that the developer obtain
satellite parking when it does become reasonably available.
      5.   Satellite parking areas are required to satisfy the general design
requirements of paragraphs F. and G. of this section.
   J.   Loading and unloading areas.
      1.   Whenever normal business operations require routine deliveries to or
shipments from a development , sufficient off-streetloading and unloading area
must be provided in accordance with this section to accommodate the delivery or
shipment operations in a safe and convenient manner.
      2.   The loading and unloading area must be of sufficient size to
accommodate the numbers and types of vehicles that are likely to use this area.
The following table indicates the number and size of spaces that,
presumptively, satisfy the standard set forth in this subsection. However, the
permit-issuing authority shall approve more or less loading and unloading area
if numerical justification is signed and sealed by an engineer licensed in NC .
                             Number of Spaces with Maximum Dimensions of 12' X
Gross Floor Area of Building 25' and Overhead Clearance of 14' From Street
                             Grade
                             Number of Spaces with Maximum Dimensions of 12' X
Gross Floor Area of Building 25' and Overhead Clearance of 14' From Street
                             Grade
0—39,999                   1
40,000—99,999              2
100,000—159,999            3
160,000—239,999            4
240,000—319,999            5
320,000—399,000            6
                             6 spaces plus one space for each additional 90,000
400,000 and over             square feet over 400,000 square feet or fraction
                             thereof
 
      3.   Loading and unloading areas shall be so located and designed that
the vehicles intended to use them:
         a.   Can maneuver safely and conveniently to and from a public right-
of- way; and
         b.   Complete the loading and unloading operations without obstructing
or interfering with any public right-of-way or any parking space or parking lot
aisle.
      4.   No area allocated to loading and unloading facilities may be used to
satisfy requirements for off-street parking and vice-versa.
      5.   Loading areas within the lots of industrial subdivisions shall be
self contained and capable of handling its own truck maneuvering and docking
requirements. The maneuvering, staging and docking areas shall not be in
conflict with the required parking spaces , lots and their aisle/maneuvering
areas. The use of public streets for commercial vehicle staging and/or
maneuvering is prohibited. Loading areas shall be located either to the rear or
the side of the industrial structures (s) to alleviate unsightly appearances
often created by loading facilities. Where such locations are not feasible,
loading docks and doors shall be screened as detailed in Section
7.1.M.2.
(Ord. No. 3396, § 13, 4-3-06; Ord. No. 3558, § 2, 7-7-09; Ord. No. 3673, § 4,
10-1-12; Ord. No. 3749, § 3, 10-6-14 ; Ord., 3-16-21 )
7.5.   Sign regulations.
   Commentary: Signs are permitted throughout the Town according to these sign
regulations. Different areas of the community are subject to different sign
regulations. In particular, the I-40, Timber Drive and U.S. 70/401 corridors
have separate regulations in the following material.
   Some signs are allowed without a permit (see D. below).
   General sign requirements are set forth in G. below. Details about
construction and location of specific types of signs are set forth in H. below.
   Timber Drive regulations are set forth in J. below, and U.S. 70/401
regulations are set forth in K. below.
   A.   Purpose and intent. These sign  regulations are intended to:
      1.   Encourage the effective use of signs as a means of communication for
businesses, organizations and individuals in the Town of Garner;
      2.   Encourage the effective use of signs as a means to improve
pedestrian and traffic safety and to promote safe way-finding in Garner by
establishing minimum standards for visibility and legibility of signs ;
      3.   Require that all signs that, because of their location, are within
the view of drivers in active traffic, meet minimum standards of visibility,
legibility and conspicuity standards, and to differentiate these signs from
those signs that are not within the view of drivers in active traffic but that
may provide information to them while they remain in their cars but out of
active traffic;
      4.   Maintain and enhance the pleasing look of Garner and preserve Garner
as a community that is attractive to business;
      5.   Minimize the possible adverse effects of signs on nearby public and
private property;
      6.   Implement the provisions of the Comprehensive Growth Plan, as
updated from time to time;
      7.   Create cohesive sign regulations that create a recognizable context
in Garner; and
      8.   Prohibit all signs on private property not expressly permitted under
this section.
   B.   Sign regulations: Height, number and size of signs. Unless otherwise
provided, the total surface area of all signs on any lot shall not exceed the
limitations set forth in this section, and all signs, except temporary signs
and those excluded from regulation under this section shall be included in this
calculation.
   C.   Prohibited signs. The following signs are prohibited in all districts.
      1.   Any non-government sign which by its location, shape, size, message,
color or operation would tend to obstruct the view of or be confused with
official traffic or railroad signs , signals or devices or other signs erected
by governmental agencies;
      2.   Any sign which, at its proposed location, would interfere with the
view necessary for motorists, bicyclists or pedestrians to proceed safely
through intersections or to enter onto or exit from public streets or private
roads or driveways ;
      3.   Any sign , subject to paragraph D.1. below, placed or shaped so as
to interfere with or obstruct any window, door, fire escape, stairway, walkway,
opening intended to provide light, air, ingress or egress for any building or
with vehicular movement on public streets or drives;
      4.   Any sign , or portion thereof, which, to attract attention, moves,
rotates, flutters or appears to move in any way, whether by natural, electrical
or mechanical means, including banners, flags, propellers and similar devices
except where noted in paragraph I. of this section;
      5.   Any sign which contains or is illuminated by flashing or
intermittent lights, lights of changing degrees of intensity, or rotating
lights, except signs indicating time and/or temperature or electronic message
signs as regulated in Subsection I(2)(e);
      6.   Balloons, blimps or similar types of lighter-than-air objects,
except those which are subject to Federal Aviation Administration regulations;
      7.   Portable signs , including any sign displayed on or painted on
vehicles or trailers used primarily for the purpose of attracting attention,
except signs painted or permanently attached to a commercial vehicle shall be
allowed provided:
         a.   The vehicle is road worthy and is regularly used as part the of
business operation;
         b.   The vehicle displays a current license that is registered to said
vehicle and;
         c.   The vehicle displays any required North Carolina inspection
decal;
   Commentary: The intent subsection 7 above is to prohibit the use of
commercial vehicles that are used strictly for signage purposes in cases where
there is no regular use of the vehicle in the business operation (i.e. the
vehicle is not operable and is parked in one location and is not moved on any
regular basis). Commercial vehicles that are regularly used as part of business
are not restricted under this section.
      8.   Any commercial sign not located on the premises for which it
advertises, except as specifically permitted;
      9.   Any temporary sign or banner, except as specifically permitted;
      10.   Any sign or portion thereof placed into or overhanging any right-
of-way, except as specifically permitted; and
      11.   Any sign extending above or placed upon any roof surface except as
provided in paragraph H.1. of this section.
   D.   Signs allowed without a permit. The following signs may be erected and
maintained in all districts without a permit.
      1.   Directional real estate signs no more than four square feet in size
and posted only from Friday at 6:00 p.m. until Sunday at 8:00 p.m. Such signs
shall be located no less than four feet from the back of curb, and shall not
interfere with clear sight triangles at driveways or intersections.
      2.   Signs on interior window glass, regardless of number, size or
coverage. Signs on glass doors are limited to 30 percent coverage of the glass
area and enough clear area shall be maintained to allow adequate vision to
ensure safe use of the doors by people of all sizes;
      3.   Un-illuminated temporary signs which advertise the sale, rental or
lease of the premises upon which the sign is located, limited to five square
feet in total area for residential uses , and 32 square feet in total area for
commercial or industrial properties. Any such sign shall not be placed within
any right-of-way or situated so as to interfere with sight distance, shall be
limited to one sign per street frontage and six feet in height and shall be
removed within ten days of the sale, lease or rental of the property advertised
or within five days of the date the sold sign is added or affixed;
      4.   Signs directing and guiding traffic on private property that do not
exceed two square feet in surface area or two feet in height and that bear no
advertising matter;
      5.   Signs and displays, including lighting erected in connection with
the observance of holidays. Such signs shall be removed within ten days
following the holiday;
      6.   Changes in the moveable lettering of any permitted signs ;
      7.   Signs advertising a special event such as a fair, carnival, circus,
fish fry, garage sale or other similar happening provided the following
conditions are met:
         a.   Signs are not erected more than two weeks before the event, and
shall be removed not later than three days after the event.
         b.   Signs shall be placed no closer than ten feet back from the curb
line or edge of pavement.
         c.   Signs shall not be placed on any existing official governmental
signs , including legal notices, identification and informational signs and
traffic, directional or regulatory signs .
         d.   Signs shall not be placed on any utility poles, trees on public
right-of- way, or street medians.
         e.   Signs shall not exceed three feet in height and nine square feet
in total area.
      8.   Political signs erected in connection with elections or political
campaigns are permitted under the following conditions:
         a.   Political signs in the vicinity of a polling place for a period
not exceeding 24 hours preceding the opening of the local polls; such signs
shall be removed within 24 hours following the closing of local polls.
         b.   All political signs shall be removed from the public street
right-of-way within seven days after the election day. A political sign shall
not be permitted in a sight distance triangle as specified in Article
11.2.
         c.   Except as noted in a. above, political signs shall not be erected
or posted until the candidate filing deadline date for the applicable national,
state, or local office, including primary elections. Prior to the erection of
any political sign , the candidate, or authorized representative shall post a
bond or cash deposit in the amount of $200.00 with the Planning Department to
guarantee the private removal of political signs . The bond or cash deposit may
be returned only upon satisfactory removal of such signs according to the time
requirements as specified herein. All political signs shall be removed from the
public street right-of-way within seven days after the election day.
         d.   Signs shall be placed no closer than ten feet off the curb or
ditch.
         e.   Signs shall not be placed on any utility poles, tree on public
property, or in any street median.
         f.   No sign shall exceed 32 square feet in total area or more than
eight feet in height.
         g.   Such signs on private property shall conform to this section.
      9.   Uses selling gasoline are allowed the following signs :
         a.   Price, self-service and/or credit card signs located at and
secured to each pump island and not exceeding nine square feet in aggregate per
pump island or one square foot per side per pump.
         b.   Brand name, grade of gasoline and informational signage directly
related to the gasoline being dispensed (i.e. pump usage directions, etc.) not
exceeding nine square feet in aggregate per pump island or one square foot per
side per pump.
      10.   One North Carolina automobile inspections sign located on the
building or on a permitted freestanding sign , and not exceeding ten square
feet; and
      11.   Signs sponsored by government, school, recreational or civic clubs
providing rules for the use of developments and sites, such as a pool, or
schedules, are permitted on the same site as the organization or use , limited
to 16 square feet per side, 32 square feet in aggregate area.
      12.   Signs on residential structures , premises or mailboxes giving the
names and/or address of the occupants and signs posted on property relating to
private parking or warning the public against trespassing or danger from
animals, provided any such sign shall not exceed two square feet in area; there
shall be not more than two such signs per lot .
      13.   Signs erected by, on behalf of, or pursuant to the authorization of
a governmental body, including legal notices, identification and informational
signs , and traffic, directional, and regulatory signs .
      14.   Official signs of a noncommercial nature erected by public
utilities, such as signs denoting the location of underground utilities.
      15.   Flags, pennants or insignia of any governmental, civic or non-
profit organization when not displayed in connection with a commercial venture
or an advertising device and when located on the same site as the organization
provided the maximum height for such does not exceed 30 feet or the height of
the tallest principal building on the site whichever is greater; and the
maximum size does not exceed 32 square feet.
      16.   Signs proclaiming religious, political, or other noncommercial
messages (other than those regulated by Section 280) that do not exceed one per
abutting street and 16 square feet in area and that are not internally
illuminated.
   E.   Computation.
      1.   Sign area.
         a.   Area to be included. The area of a sign shall include all
lettering, wording, designs and symbols, together with the background, whether
open or enclosed, on which they are displayed. The supporting structure or
bracing of a sign shall be omitted in measuring the area of the sign unless
such structure or bracing is made part of the message or face of the sign.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4447ce03978db0feab4258ffc8ecb3f9806deb9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1301.jpg]
 
         b.   Signs attached to walls. Where a sign consists of individual
letters, words or symbols attached to a surface, building, canopy, awning, wall
or window, the sign area shall be the area of the smallest rectangle which
completely encompasses all such letters, words or symbols and any accompanying
background of a color different than the natural color of the wall.
         c.   Gas sales or convenience store with gas sales. The registered
trademark of the brand of gas sold shall not be considered in the number of
wall signs allowed, but the area of such trademarks shall be included in the
maximum sign area permitted by lot.
      2.   Computation of height. The height of a sign shall be computed as the
distance from the base of the sign at a computed grade to the top of the
highest attached component of the sign. The computed grade shall be the
elevation of the nearest point of the crown of a public street or the grade of
the land at the principal entrance to the principal structure on the lot,
whichever is lower.
   F.   Schedule of general sign requirements.
For a printer-friendly version, please click here
Zoning  Sign Type Maximum  Sign Area Per Maximum  SignsMaximum  Height
District           Lot
Zoning  District                                                            Sign Type     Maximum  Sign Area Per Maximum  Maximum 
                                                                                           Lot                     Signs     Height
                                                                             Freestanding:
                                                                             Residential   4 square feet
                                                                             Use Other     32 square feet          1         4 feet
                                                                             Permissible
                                                                             Use
                                                                             Wall:
                                                                             Churches,
                                                                             schools, or
Residential Zones:  All Residential Districts (R-40, R-20, R-15, R-12, R-9, other
RMH, MF-1, MF-2 and Planned Development Residential Uses )                   residential   24 square feet          1         5 feet
                                                                             uses
                                                                             permitted in
                                                                             all
                                                                             residential
                                                                             zones
                                                                             Residential   See Section
                                                                             Entrance      7.5 (I)(2)(a)           1         None
                                                                             Signs
                                                                                                                   1 per
                                                                             Freestanding: 100 square feet         street    12 feet
                                                                                                                   frontage,
                                                                                                                   2 maximum
                                                                             Wall:
                                                                             Building up   Greater of 60 square
I-40:  All Business or Industrial Districts (NO, OI, NC, CR, SB, I-1, I-2)  to 100,000    feet or 7% of wall      3 wall    None
                                                                             square feet   frontage
                                                                             floor area
                                                                             Wall:         Lesser of 100 square
                                                                             Building over feet or 10% of wall     3 wall    None
                                                                             100,000       frontage
                                                                             square feet
                                                                                                                   1 per
                                                                             Freestanding: 100 square feet         street    12 feet
                                                                                                                   frontage,
                                                                                                                   2 maximum
                                                                             Wall:
                                                                             Building up   Greater of 60 square
U.S. 70 & U.S. 401:  All Business or Industrial Districts (NO, OI, NC, CR,  to 100,000    feet or 7% of business  3 wall     
SB, I-1, I-2)                                                                square feet   wall frontage
                                                                             floor area
                                                                             Wall:
                                                                             Building over Lesser of 100 square
                                                                             100,000       feet or 10% of wall     4 wall     
                                                                             square feet   frontage
                                                                             floor area
                                                                             Freestanding
                                                                             (monument
                                                                             only): 100                            1 per
                                                                             square feet                           street
                                                                             maximum total 48 square feet          frontage, 6 feet
                                                                             all                                   2 maximum
                                                                             freestanding
                                                                             and wall
OI Districts:  All NO and OI Districts not on Timber Dr., U.S. 70, U.S. 401 signs
or I-40                                                                      Wall:
                                                                             Building up   Greater of 60 square
                                                                             to 100,000    feet or 7% of wall      3         N/A
                                                                             square feet   frontage
                                                                             floor area
                                                                             Wall:         Lesser of 100 square
                                                                             Building over feet or 10% of wall     4         N/A
                                                                             100,000       frontage
                                                                             square feet
                                                                             Freestanding:
                                                                             100 square                            1 per
                                                                             feet maximum                          street
                                                                             total all     60 square feet          frontage, 12 feet
                                                                             freestanding                          2 maximum
                                                                             and wall
                                                                             signs
Business Districts:  All Business Districts (NC, CR, SB, I-1, I-2) not on   Wall:
Timber Dr., U.S. 70, U.S. 401 or I- 40                                       Building up   Greater of 60 square
                                                                             to 100,000    feet or 7% of wall      3         None
                                                                             square feet   frontage
                                                                             floor area
                                                                             Wall:         Lesser of 100 square
                                                                             Building over feet or 10% of wall     4         None
                                                                             100,000       frontage
                                                                             square feet
 
   G.   General sign location and construction standards. The following
regulations shall apply to signs in all districts.
      1.   Not in right-of-way. No sign or portion thereof may be placed into
or overhang any right-of-way.
      2.   Sign  located substantially below street . Where a business is
located substantially below the elevation of the street  (as determined by the
Planning Director ) such that the allowable maximum sign  height creates
unreasonable hardship in terms of limited visibility, an exception to the usual
maximum height requirements may be granted via a Variance . This exception
shall allow only for the minimum height beyond that normally granted necessary
to provide reasonable visibility for the sign  from the street  upon which the
business fronts having the highest traffic count. (Unless conflicting with
other provisions of this UDO, the sign  shall be located at the point on the
site along said frontage at which reasonable visibility from said street  is
first achieved within the allowable maximum height.) Regardless of location,
and in no case after making this exception shall the sign  be allowed at a
height above said street  which exceeds the maximum permitted height in this
section.
      3.   Sign  materials. All materials used for signs  shall be durable.
Examples of materials which do not endure include particle board and plywood.
Additionally, the external painting of signs  using methods that are not
durable are not allowed. Enamels must be baked on so as to help retain a new
look, and proper sealing from the weather is required. All signs  should be
fully encased or skirted at a minimum width that is one-half of the width of
the sign  face so as to present an appearance of pillars or other substantial
supports.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4447ce03978db0feab4258ffc8ecb3f9806deb9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1303.jpg]
 
      4.   Sign lighting. Illumination of signs is allowed in accordance with
the following provisions:
         a.   No illuminated sign shall be permitted within 50 feet of any
residential district. Church bulletin boards are exempt from this provision.
         b.   No sign within 300 feet of a residential zone may be illuminated
between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m., unless the impact of such
lighting beyond the boundaries of the lot where the sign is located is entirely
inconsequential.
         c.   Lighting directed toward a sign shall be shielded so that it
illuminates only the face of the sign and does not shine directly into a public
right-of-way or residential premises.
         d.   All lighted signs shall comply with state and local building and
electrical codes, and shall bear the label of Underwriters Laboratories, Inc.
All wiring to freestanding signs or to associated lighting equipment shall be
underground, unless it is impracticable to do so.
         e.   Poles and other supporting structures shall not be internally
illuminated.
      5.   Changeable copy. A changeable copy or marquee sign shall be erected
only in combination with an identification sign and shall be included in the
computation of sign area.
   H.   Sign standards by sign type.
      1.   Wall signs.
         a.   No sign may project more than 18 inches from the building wall.
         b.   No wall sign shall project above the roofline.
         c.   A sign may extend down from a roof or porch or walkway overhang
not more than 18 inches (to the bottom of the sign ), provided however that a
minimum clearance of seven feet between the bottom of the sign and the walking
surface shall be maintained.
         d.   Displays on roofs of residential structures erected in connection
with holiday observance are not included in this prohibition.
         e.   Roof surfaces constructed at an angle of 75 degrees or more from
horizontal shall be regarded as wall space for the purposes of this section.
      2.   Freestanding signs.
         a.   Freestanding signs shall be securely fastened to the ground so
that there is virtually no danger that the sign may be moved by wind or other
forces of nature and cause injury to persons or property. All applications for
a freestanding sign permit shall be accompanied by an engineer's sealed footing
drawing and calculations testifying to the ability of the sign to withstand 100
mile-per-hour winds.
         b.   No freestanding sign shall encroach into any right-of-way.
         c.   The Town encourages the use of the specific information signing
program (LOGO Program) along I-40.
         d.   Where physically possible and to the greatest extent possible,
all freestanding signs (including multi-tenant signs ) shall be separated by a
distance of at least 150 feet from the next nearest sign along the frontage.
         e.   All freestanding outparcelsigns shall be located on-site only,
and shall be separated by a minimum distance of 100 feet.
         f.   The base of every permanent freestanding sign that requires a
sign permit shall be landscaped. The size of the planted landscape area shall
be determined by multiplying the height of the sign (measured from the ground
to the upper most part of the sign ) by the width of the sign (widest
dimension), divided by two, but in no case shall the planted area be less than
50 square feet, unless restricted by the amount or size of land upon which the
sign is situated that is owned or controlled by the applicant. The planted
landscape area shall contain materials such as, but not limited to: vegetative
ground covers, perennials, shrubs, ornamental trees and mulch, but excluding
paving and artificial plant materials. A sketch plan of the landscaped area
with the name, quantity and spacing of plants shall be included in the
application for sign permit .
         g.   Poles and other supporting structures shall not be internally
illuminated.
      3.   Off-premises advertising signs.
         a.   Off-premises advertising signs are permitted only in I-1 or I-
2 zones; no off-premises advertising signs are permitted except along and
facing U.S. 70 or U.S. 401. No off-premises advertising signs shall be
permitted along and facing the 1-40 corridor.
         b.   Off-premises advertising signs shall be spaced a minimum of 2,500
feet apart, measured between signs facing the same street .
         c.   Where the structural support is visible from any street , the
display shall be constructed on a steel single pole.
         d.   The immediate premises shall be kept free from debris or
undergrowth. Appropriate landscaping shall be placed and maintained at the base
of the structural support of every off-premise advertising sign erected.
         e.   All displays shall be maintained in a state of good repair. The
backs and supporting structures of all off-premise advertising signs shall be
kept painted in a neutral color to blend with the natural environment.
         f.   While minor repairs, maintenance and the posting of new messages
on off-premise advertising signs made nonconforming by this UDO are permitted,
no changes in the size of construction of the sign shall be permitted except to
make the sign comply with the requirements.
         g.   Off premises advertising signs may be placed back-to-back or in a
v-type construction . Not more than one face is allowed on each side of the
display.
         h.   Size, height and setback requirements are as follows:
 
Standard
Maximum Surface Area 150 square feet
Minimum Setback      50 feet
Maximum Height       25 feet
 
      4.   Multi-tenant signs.
         a.   All multi-tenant signs , including but not limited to shopping
center identification signs , multiple business signs , directory signs and all
wall signs , shall meet the standards in the following table. For locations
within the Timber Drive Overlay District, see paragraphs J., below.
For a printer-friendly version, please click here
Multi-Tenant Sign Type Maximum  Sign AreaMaximum  NumberMaximum Height
Multi-Tenant Sign Type                                                     Maximum  Sign Maximum      Maximum
                                                                           Area           Number        Height
                                                                           100 square     1 per street
Freestanding ProjectSigns :  Development up to 300,000 square feet        feet           frontage, 2   10 feet
                                                                                          maximum
                                                                           120 square     2 per street
Development over 300,000 square feet and up to 500,000 square feet         feet           frontage, 3   15 feet
                                                                                          maximum
                                                                                          Maximum of 4
                                                                           When project   when project  When project
                                                                           qualifies for  has frontage  qualifies
                                                                           4 freestanding on 3 or more  for 4
                                                                           signs : 1 @    public        freestanding
                                                                           180 square     streets , no  signs :
                                                                           feet; 3 @ 120  more than 2   1 @ 15 feet*
                                                                           square feet    per public
                                                                                          street        3 @ 12 feet*
Development over 500,000 square feet                                                      frontage*
                                                                           For projects   For projects
                                                                           that do not    that do not   For projects
                                                                           qualify for 4  qualify for 4 that do not
                                                                           freestanding   signs , a     qualify for
                                                                           signs the      maximum of 3  4 signs ,
                                                                           maximum area   allowed with  sign height
                                                                           per sign is    no more than  may be up to
                                                                           120 square     2 per public  15 feet*
                                                                           feet           street
                                                                                          frontage
                                                                                          Maximum of 4
                                                                                          signs
Freestanding community identification or directional sign (Applies only to                regardless of
Development over 500,000 square feet)                                      20 square feet sign type, no 4 feet
                                                                                          more than 2
                                                                                          at any one
                                                                                          location
                                                                                          1 per
                                                                                          entrance or   5 feet
On-Premise Directional sign :  Development up to 300,000 square feet      20 square feet internal      monument
                                                                                          intersection, only
                                                                                          2 maximum
                                                                                          1 per
                                                                                          entrance or   5 feet,
Development over 300,000 and up to 500,000 square feet                     20 square feet internal      monument
                                                                                          intersection, only
                                                                                          3 maximum
                                                                                          1 per
                                                                                          entrance, or
                                                                                          other         5 feet
Development over 500,000 square feet                                       20 square feet internal      monument
                                                                                          location      only
                                                                                          (maximum of
                                                                                          4)
Outparcel :  Freestanding monument sign (development up to 300,000 square 32 square feet 1 per         4 feet
feet)                                                                                     outparcel
Freestanding monument sign (development over 300,000 and up to 500,000     32 square feet 1 per         4 feet
square feet)                                                                              outparcel
Freestanding monument (Development over 500,000 square feet)               32 square feet 1 per         4 feet
                                                                                          outparcel
                                                                           Greater of 60  1 per
                                                                           square feet or business
Wall: (including canopy face)  Development up to 100,000 square feet      10% of         frontage & 1  None
                                                                           frontage wall  per public
                                                                           area           street , max.
                                                                                          of 3
                                                                                          1 per
                                                                           Greater of 60  business
Development over 100,000 square feet and up to 500,000 square feet         square feet or frontage & 1  None
                                                                           7% of frontage per public
                                                                           wall area      street , max.
                                                                                          of 3
                                                                           Greater of 60  1 per
                                                                           square feet or business      No signs
Development over 500,000 square feet                                       7% of business frontage & 1  above
                                                                           frontage wall  per public    roofline
                                                                           area           street , max.
                                                                                          of 3
                                                                                          1 per
                                                                           Greater of 60  business      No signs
For 100,000 square foot major individual tenant in a shopping center       square feet or frontage & 1  above
                                                                           7% of business per public    roofline
                                                                           frontage wall  street , max.
                                                                                          of 4
                                                                                                        Bottom of
                                                                                                        sign maximum
Canopy Underhang:  Projects of any size                                   4 square feet  1 per         18 inches
                                                                                          business      below bottom
                                                                                                        of canopy
                                                                                                        face
Note: All freestanding signs in multi-tenant developments shall be separated by
300 feet between freestanding projectsigns and 100 feet between outparcel
freestanding signs .
         b.   Multi-tenant sign standards. All multi-tenant signs , including
but not limited to shopping center identification signs , multiple business
signs , directory signs and all wall signs , shall conform to the following
criteria and standards. (Wall signs and freestanding signs on existing
outparcels , regardless of the number of businesses on those parcels, are not
required to meet the following criteria and standards, but are encouraged to do
so to better achieve the purpose stated above.)
Criteria and Standards for Multi-Tenant Signs
Criteria Wall Signs Freestanding Signs
Criteria and Standards for Multi-Tenant Signs
Criteria     Wall Signs                      Freestanding Signs
Locations    Uniform vertical and horizontal N/A
             positions on storefront
             Similar style encouraged; logos
Type         allowed; maximum of 2 lines per N/A
             sign
Materials    Uniform;  compliment building facade materials
Colors       Same 3 matching colors (maximum) on each sign encouraged; pattern
             or scheme required. Garish schemes not allowed.
Logos        Maximum 20 percent of approved sign area
Illumination Signs may be illuminated or not, but all illumination must be the
             same type and intensity of light
                                             One pole preferred for signs other
                                             than multi-business signs .
Poles        N/A                             Minimum skirt width of 4 feet for
                                             single pole. Maximum of 2 poles
                                             per sign . Poles may not be
                                             illuminated.
 
      5.   Nonresidential subdivisionsigns.
         a.   Nonresidential subdivisionsigns shall meet the standards in the
following table:
 
                                                                           Maximum  Maximum   Maximum
Sign Type                                                                  Sign     Signs     Height
                                                                           Area
                                                                                              12 feet
                                                                                              for pole
                                                                                    1 per     sign
                                                                           72       exterior  with
Freestanding:  Subdivision identification or a freestanding multi- tenant square   road      minimum
sign (monument sign preferred)                                             feet     frontage, 7-foot
                                                                                    2 maximum wide
                                                                                              base, 8
                                                                                              feet for
                                                                                              monument
                                                                           60       1 per
Monument Signs for individual parcels and lease lots                       square   parcel or 6 feet
                                                                           feet     lease lot
                                                                           Lesser   1 per
                                                                           of 72    business
                                                                           square   frontage
                                                                           feet or  and one
Wall:  Including canopy face                                              15% of   per       None
                                                                           business public
                                                                           frontage street ,
                                                                           wall     3 maximum
                                                                           area
                                                                                              Bottom
                                                                                              of sign
                                                                                              maximum
                                                                                              18
Canopy Sign :                                                              4 square 1 per     inches
                                                                           feet     business  below
                                                                                              bottom
                                                                                              of
                                                                                              canopy
                                                                                              face
 
      6.   Nonresidential subdivisionsign standards. All commercial subdivision
identification signs, multiple business signs, freestanding signs for
individual businesses, and all wall signs shall conform to the following
criteria and standards and the standards of paragraph N.
Criteria and Standards for Nonresidential SubdivisionSigns
Criteria Wall Signs Freestanding Signs
Criteria and Standards for Nonresidential SubdivisionSigns
Criteria     Wall Signs                       Freestanding Signs
             Uniform vertical positions; all
Locations    centered on storefront or to one N/A
             side of storefront
Type         Similar style encouraged; logos allowed
Materials    Similar style; compliment building facade materials
Colors.      Same 3 matching colors (maximum) on each sign encouraged; pattern
             or scheme required. Garish schemes not allowed
Logos        Maximum of 20 percent of sign area
Illumination Signs may be illuminated or not, but all illumination must be the
             same type and intensity of light
                                              One pole preferred for signs
Poles        N/A                              other than multi-business signs .
                                              Maximum of 2 poles per sign .
                                              Poles may not be illuminated.
   I.   Miscellaneous temporary and permanent signs. The following temporary
and permanent signs are permitted in addition to any allowed in above, and all
require a sign permit.
      1.   Temporary signs.
         a.   Construction site identification signs , naming the project ,
developer , contractors and others connected with the construction , sale or
lease of structures , and related information, are permitted. Not more than one
such sign may be erected per site, and it may not exceed 32 square feet in area
or six feet in height. Permits for such signs shall be limited to one-year,
with a one year permit renewable option. Permits for such signs shall be
limited to a maximum of two years, which includes the original permit period,
provided:
            i.   such signs are not erected prior to site, Special Use or
Conditional Zoning approval of the project identified;
            ii.   that such permits have not expired and;
            iii.   the signs are maintained in good condition with no visible
deterioration, flaking paint, cracks, etc .
         Any such sign shall be removed within ten days after the issuance of
the final occupancy permit or where a site, Special Use or Conditional Zoning
approval has expired.
         b.   Signs or banners advertising special events must be on private
property and shall not be permitted within public rights-of-way. Permits for
such banners or signs shall be limited to 30 days and no more than three times
each year. Any such banner or sign shall be removed within ten days after the
event was advertised.
         c.   Signs or banners advertising the initial opening of a business
establishment may be permitted on private property. Not more than one such sign
or banner per site is permitted at any one time; such sign or banner shall not
exceed 32 square feet in area and shall meet all other requirements. Permits
shall be limited to 30 days from the date of issue.
         d.   Signs on private property directing the public to a subdivision
or multifamily development are permitted, provided that the property owner's
written permission for such use of his land accompanies the permit request,
that the sign does not exceed 32 square feet in surface area or six (6) feet in
height. The sign  shall bear only the name of and direction to the development.
Permits for such signs are limited to one year with a one year permit renewal
option. Permits for such signs shall be limited to a maximum of two (2) years
which includes the original permit time period, provided such signs are
maintained in good condition and appearance with no visible deterioration,
flaking paint, cracks, etc . Any such sign shall be removed within ten days
after the issuance of the final occupancy permit or upon expiration of the sign
permit.
         e.   Signs providing direction to a U-pick farm operation or
agricultural market are permitted. Any such sign shall not exceed 32 square
feet in area. Permits shall be limited to a maximum of 60 days from the date of
issue and require the written permission of the property owner or his agent for
such use of his land.
         f.   The application for a permit under the above noted sections and
the enjoyment of the rights to display signage pursuant to this section
constitute an authorization by the owner of the sign that the Town may remove
and destroy the sign if the owner fails to remove the sign within 10 days of
the expiration of the last permit issued for the sign .
         If the sign is located on private property, the application for the
permit for the sign and the enjoyment of the right to display such signage
constitutes authorization for the Town to enter upon such private property to
remove the sign pursuant to the above noted sections.
      2.   Permanent signs.
         a.   Residential subdivisionsigns.
            (1)   Each individual residential subdivision or multifamily
development is permitted the option of having one freestanding monument sign to
be located at the major entrance to the development with a single side of the
sign not to exceed 32 square feet in area or five feet in height, or two
freestanding monument signs with single faces not to exceed 16 square feet and
five feet in height. The maximum deviation permissible under this section is 30
percent and requires a Variance.
            (2)   All other entrances for each distinct phases of a residential
subdivision or multifamily development are permitted one freestanding monument
sign having a maximum single side surface area of 16 square feet and four feet
in height. A single sign may be located within a median of a public right- of-
way, at the major entrance to the development if such entrance is divided by a
median with dimensions of minimum length of 50 feet and minimum width of ten
feet. A sign located in the median of a public right-of-way shall be located a
minimum of ten feet from the end of the median radius and shall not exceed 3.5
feet. The maximum deviation permissible under section is 30 percent and
requires a Variance .
            (3)   For all entrance signs , the height limitation shall apply to
the sign as well as any support devices such as but not limited to a wall,
monument, fence, etc., or similar architectural features.
         b.   Promotional signs. Promotional signs advertising commercial
business or goods are allowed on the interior surface of fences of private,
public or semi-public ballfields.
         c.   Schedule and sponsor sign.
            (1)   A schedule and sponsor sign may be erected on school property
at a school ballfield provided no adverse impact on traffic safety or
neighborhood character, as determined by the permit-issuing authority, will
result. The sign may be erected according to the following:
               (a)   Zero--50 feet from road right-of-way, unlighted, maximum
50 square feet of face area;
               (b)   Fifty-one--150 feet from road right-of-way, unlighted,
maximum of 150 square feet of face area; or
               (c)   Greater than 150 feet from right-of-way, 300 square feet
maximum face area.
            (2)   The sign may list a schedule of dates and locations of play,
and may list sponsors, by name only. Advertisements beyond the name of the
sponsor(s) is not permitted. No part of this sign shall be higher than 25 feet
above grade.
         d.   Bulletin boards. Bulletin boards not over 12 square feet in area
for public, charitable or religious institutions and located on the same
premises as the institution being served is permitted.
         e.   Time and/or temperature signs in OI, CR, SB districts. One
freestanding or wall time and/or temperature sign not exceeding 18 square feet
in aggregate surface area is permitted on any lot in an OI, CR or SB district.
Such sign may be illuminated and animated to the extent necessary to display
time or temperature or both, but shall not otherwise flash, blink or rotate.
         f.   Farm product signs. Signs advertising the sale of farm products
on-site, limited to a maximum of 24 square feet per face, are permitted. Not
more than one such sign may be erected per site.
         g.   Community service signs. A welcome sign, or a sign incorporating
the insignias of more than one civic, governmental and/or non-profit
organizations may be permitted. Any such sign shall not exceed 100 square feet,
nor exceed 12 feet in height. Location within a right-of- way may be permitted
with state and Town approval, as applicable. Such signs may be either on-
premise or off-premise.
         h.   Electronic message signs.
            (1)   Signs that have an electronic changeable copy message are
allowed as part of a permanent freestanding monument sign . Such sign shall not
be permitted to be on a wall sign . All electronic message signs must meet the
following criteria:
               (a)   The square footage of the electronic message area and the
primary sign area together shall not exceed the total allowable sign area for
that use or zoning district;
               (b)   The electronic message sign area cannot exceed 40 percent
of the total sign area;
               (c)   The electronic message sign must be physically attached to
the primary sign ;
               (d)   The electronic message sign area may contain up to three
horizontal rows of information;
               (e)   The total electronic sign message, defined as both sides
of the sign , or any portion thereof may change only one timer per hour over a
24-hour period of time. Each row of information may not change more than one
time per day (24-hour period). This restriction does not apply to signs
displaying emergency information during publicly declared local, state, or
national emergencies or disasters; and
               (f)   Gas sales or convenience stores with gas sales displaying
digital gas prices must comply with the requirements of this section and all
other applicable sign requirements, except gas price changes are not restricted
to one time per day. In cases where a freestanding sign does not exist for the
business, digital gas price wall signs may be allowed to locate on a canopy or
its support columns subject to all applicable sign ordinance requirements.
            (2)   Electronic message signs are not permitted to have scrolling,
moving, rotating, fluttering, blinking, or flashing elements. In addition, such
signs are not permitted to have any animation, video or audio elements.
            (3)   The color of any digital message text or display shall be
red. No background colors are allowed.
            (4)   Electronic message signs are prohibited on off-premises
advertising signs .
            (5)   Illumination of electronic signs shall be in accordance with
the requirements of Subsection G.4.
            (6)   Electronic message signs that are part of multitenant signs
including, but not limited to, shopping center identification signs or multiple
business signs shall comply with the requirements of this section.
            (7)   Violation of the electronic sign ordinance shall be
punishable as follows:
               (a)   A civil penalty of $100.00 for each day of the first
violation and $500.00 each day for subsequent violations;
               (b)   Injunctive relief;
               (c)   Upon issuance of a violation notice, the electronic sign
must be turned off and remain turned off until the civil penalty has been paid;
               (d)   Upon issuance of a second or subsequent violation,
citation or notice, the sign permit shall be automatically terminated;
               (e)   Any illumination of the sign following permit termination
shall be punishable by a fine of $1,000.00 per day;
               (f)   The sign may not lawfully be illuminated following such
termination except upon reapplication and issuance of a subsequent sign permit
, and payment of all fees and fines; and
               (g)   Issuance of a subsequent sign permit following such
termination and reapplication shall be consummated only after the applicant has
posted a cash bond in the amount of $2,500.00, to be available for possible
future fines.
   J.   Timber Drive Overlay District sign regulations.
      1.   Signage for individual building.Signs on an individual building
shall meet the standards in the following table.
 
Sign Type                 Maximum Sign Area Maximum  Number   Maximum Height
                          Per Lot
Freestanding:  (monument                   1 per street       5 feet, monument
only)                     48 square feet    frontage, 2        sign only
                                            maximum
                          Lesser of 60      1 per business
                          square feet or    frontage and 1 per No sign above
Wall:                     10% of business   street frontage, 3 roofline
                          frontage wall     maximum
                          area
Combined:                 125 square feet                      
      Note: Freestanding signage for all buildings with build-to option shall
be limited to 36 square feet in sign area, one freestanding sign per lot not to
exceed a height of four feet measured at grade.
      2.   Multi-tenant signs. All multi-tenant signs, including but not
limited to shopping center identification signs, multiple business signs,
directory signs and all wall signs, shall meet the standards in the following
table.
 
Sign Type            Maximum Sign Area    Maximum  Number    Maximum  Height
Freestanding
shopping centersign  48 square feet       1 per street        5 feet, monument
or freestanding                           frontage, 2 maximum sign only
multi-business sign
On-premise                                internal location   5 feet, monument
freestanding         20 square feet       only, 2 maximum     sign only
directory sign
Freestanding         40 square feet       1 per outparcel     5 feet, monument
outparcelsign                                                 sign only
                     Lesser of 72 square  1 per business
Wall (includes       feet or 10% of       frontage and 1 per  No sign above
canopy face)         business frontage    public street , 3   roofline
                     wall area            maximum
Wall for 100,000     Greater of 60 square
square foot building feet or 7% of                            No sign above
, business complex   business frontage    4                   roofline
or major tenant in a wall
shopping center
                                                              Bottom of sign
Canopy Underhang     4 square feet        1 per business      maximum 18 inches
                                                              below bottom of
                                                              canopy face
 
      3.   Nonresidential subdivisionsigns. Nonresidential subdivisionsigns
shall meet the standards in the following table:
 
                                                      Maximum  Maximum      Maximum 
Sign Type                                             Sign     Number        Height
                                                      Area
                                                               1 per
Directional sign :  Development up to 300,000 square 20       entrance or
feet                                                  square   internal      5 feet
                                                      feet     intersection,
                                                               2 maximum
                                                               1 per
                                                      20       entrance or   5 feet,
Development over 300,000 square feet                  square   internal      monument
                                                      feet     intersection, only
                                                               4 maximum
Freestanding subdivision identification sign or       48       1 per         5 feet,
freestanding multi-business sign (monument signs      square   exterior road monument
preferred)                                            feet     frontage, 2   sign only
                                                               maximum
Freestanding signs for individual parcels & lease     48       1 per parcel  5 feet,
lots                                                  square   or lease lot  monument
                                                      feet                   sign only
                                                      Lesser
                                                      of 72    1 per
                                                      square   business
                                                      feet or  frontage and  No sign
Wall (including canopy face)                          15% of   1 per public  above
                                                      business street , 3    roofline
                                                      frontage maximum
                                                      wall
                                                      area
                                                                             Bottom of
                                                                             sign
                                                                             maximum
Canopy Sign                                           4 square 1 per         18 inches
                                                      feet     business      below
                                                                             bottom of
                                                                             canopy
                                                                             face
 
   K.   U.S. 70/401 Thoroughfare Overlay District signage requirements.
Shopping centers, business complexsigns, and commercial subdivisionsigns shall
meet the requirements in the following table (for shopping centerdevelopment
greater than 300,000 square feet, see paragraph H of this Section).
Sign Type Maximum Sign Area Maximum  NumberMaximum  Height
                                              Maximum                                                          Maximum 
Sign Type                                     Sign     Maximum  Number                                        Height
                                              Area
Directory:  Development up to 300,000 square 20                                                               5 feet
feet                                          square   1 per entrance or internal intersection, 2 maximum      monument
                                              feet                                                             only
Freestanding shopping centersign or           100                                                              12 feet,
freestanding multi-business sign              square   1 per street frontage, 2 maximum                        monument
                                              feet                                                             sign only
OR                                                                                                              
                                                                                                              2 @ 12
When a development has a minimum of 100 feet                                                                 feet,
of frontage along 2 major thoroughfares the   100      Two 12’ signs  (1 per street )                        monument
following applies:                            square                                                          only
                                             feet                                                             
2 signs @ 100 square feet in area 12 feet     (all     One 6’tall sign (100’ separation from other signs )  
tall (1 sign per street frontage)             signs )                                                         1 @ 6
                                                      3 maximum                                               feet,
1 sign @ 100 square feet in area 6 feet tall                                                                   monument
(100 foot separation from other signs )                                                                        only
Freestanding shopping sign or freestanding
multi-business sign for development that has  100                                                              12 feet,
a minimum 100,000 square feet of GLA and a    square   1 per street frontage, 3 maximum                        monument
minimum property frontage of 100 feet along   feet                                                             sign only
each public street .
                                              20                                                               5 feet,
On-premise freestanding directory sign        square   Internal location only, 2 maximum                       monument
                                              feet                                                             sign only
                                              32                                                               4 feet,
Freestanding outparcelsign                    square   1 per outparcel                                         monument
                                              feet                                                             sign only
                                              Lesser
                                              of 72
                                              square
                                              feet or  1 per business frontage and 1 per public street , 3
Wall (includes canopy face)                   10% of   maximum                                                  
                                              business
                                              frontage
                                              wall
                                              area
                                              Greater
                                              of 60
Wall for 100,000 square foot building ,       square
business complex or major tenant in a         feet or  4                                                        
shopping center                               7% of
                                              business
                                              frontage
                                              wall
                                                                                                               Bottom of
                                                                                                               sign
                                                                                                               maximum
Canopy underhang                              4 square 1 per business                                          18 inches
                                              feet                                                             below
                                                                                                               bottom of
                                                                                                               canopy
                                                                                                               face
 
   L.   Removal or repair of signs.
      1.   Whenever use of a building or premises by a specific business or
activity is discontinued for that business or activity for a period of 60 days,
signs pertaining to that business or activity shall be immediately removed by
the owner. Failure to do so shall constitute abandonment of the sign and is
sufficient grounds to order the sign's removal.
      2.   Every sign and signstructure shall be maintained in good condition
at all times. The Planning Director shall have the authority to order painting,
repair, alteration or removal of any sign or signstructure which constitutes,
by reason of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, obsolescence, or
abandonment, a public nuisance or hazard to safety, health, or public welfare.
Permits for any such sign may be revoked in accordance with
Article 10, Enforcement.
      3.   Procedures for handling violations are contained in
Article 10, Enforcement.
   M.   Nonconforming signs . See
Article 9, Nonconformities.
(Ord. No. 3376, § 17, 1-17-06; Ord. No. 3515, §§ 2, 3, 6-2-08; Ord. No. 3558, §
2, 7-7-09; Ord. No. 3576, § 1, 3-1-10; Ord. No. 3618, § 1, 5-2-11; Ord. No.
3675, § 1, 10-1-12; Ord. No. 3714, § 1, 10-22-13; Ord. No. 38-01, § 5, 12-7-15;
Ord., 3-16-21)
7.6.   Outdoor lighting standards.
   A.   Applicability. The standards of this section shall not apply to:
      1.   Individual residential lighting that is not part of a site plan or
subdivision plan.
      2.   Lighting associated with temporary uses that have been permitted.
      3.   Seasonal lighting that is part of customary holiday decorations and
annual civic events.
      4.   Lighting associated with sign illumination as set forth in
Article 8.
      5.   Municipal lighting installed for the benefit of public health,
safety, and welfare.
   B.   Lighting plan. Any proposed development requiring a site plan or
subdivision plan shall include, as part of site plan or subdivision plan
submission, a detailed exterior lighting plan. This plan shall include:
      1.   Specifications for the lighting fixtures such as: type of unit
(cutoff, non-cutoff, glare shields, etc.), lamps (wattage, etc.), electrical
load requirements, utility company involved, method of wiring, routing/location
of lines, location of lights, and mounting heights.
      2.   An iso-footcandle plan that shows typical footcandle contours or a
point photometric grid that indicates footcandle levels measured at grade
across the site. Other information such as: maximum, average, and minimum site
footcandles, uniformity ratio (average/minimum), and depreciation factors
should also be included.
   C.   Final acceptance. Before certificates of occupancy are released, the
owner/builder must supply the Town with a final letter of certification from
the lighting engineer, lighting manufacturer, or authorized lighting contractor
verifying that all site lighting is installed according to Town standards, the
approved plans, and any applicable conditions.
   D.   Street lighting.
      1.   Street lighting required. All streets and sidewalks shall be
sufficiently illuminated to ensure the security of the street right-of-way and
safety of persons using such areas. To comply with this provision, the
applicant shall coordinate with the utility company and the Town to see that
all necessary facilities for the eventual installation of street lights are put
in place.
      2.   Town responsibility. The Town shall be responsible for requesting
the utility company to install street lights. Such lights shall be consistent
with the Town's standard street light package with regard to fixture type,
intensity, pole type, length, and spacing.
      3.   Developer responsibility. The developer shall be responsible for the
placement and operation of necessary lighting in common areas not dedicated to
public use. The developer shall also be responsible for the placement and
operation of any streets lights placed in the public right-of-way that are not
consistent with the Town's standard lighting package. Such lights shall be
approved by the Town Engineer.
   E.   Site lighting design requirements. All lighting fixtures designed or
placed so as to illuminate any portion of a site shall meet the following
requirements:
      1.   Fixture (luminaire). The light source shall be completely concealed
within an opaque housing and shall not be visible from any street  right-of-
way. Floodlights may be used in the rear of non-residential buildings  that are
not adjacent to residential uses  or residentially zoned properties and are not
visible from public or private roadways if there are not measurable impacts to
neighboring properties. If floodlights are permitted, in addition to meeting
the locational restrictions noted above, they shall be installed such that the
fixture shall be aimed down at least 45 degrees from vertical. Flood lights and
display lights shall be positioned such that any such fixture with a side-to-
side horizontal aiming tolerance not to exceed 15 degrees from perpendicular to
the right-of-way. Glare shields must be added to reduce glare.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4447ce03978db0feab4258ffc8ecb3f9806deb9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1305.jpg]
 
      2.   Light source (lamp). Only incandescent, LED, fluorescent, metal
halide, or induction lighting may be used. High pressure sodium lighting may be
used if approved by the permit issuing authority. The same type must be used
for the same or similar types of lighting on any one site throughout any
master-Planned Development .
      3.   Mounting. Fixtures shall be mounted in such a manner that the cone
of light directly under the fixture does not cross any property line of the
site.
         a.   All outdoor lighting fixtures shall be located a minimum of ten
feet from a property or right-of-way line, and should be kept out of and at
least two feet away from any required perimeter or streetscape buffer , and
tree save area. If forward throw fixtures are used the minimum setback distance
may be reduced to a minimum of five feet from a property or right-of-way line.
         b.   Lighting for outdoor display areas, such as auto dealerships,
must be located inside the illuminated area or no more than ten feet away from
the outside edge of the illuminated area so that the amount of direct glare and
the visual field of view does not present a safety hazard to the passing
motorist.
      4.   Mounting heights. Outdoor lighting fixtures shall be designed,
located and mounted at heights no greater than:
         a.   Thirty feet above grade for non-cutoff lights; and
         b.   Thirty-seven feet above grade for cutoff lights.
         c.   Mounting height is measured from the finished grade or surface
and includes the total height of the fixture, pole, and any base or other
supporting structure required to mount the lights.
         d.   All wall packs must be full cut-off.
      5.   Architectural/site compatibility. Lighting fixtures shall be of a
design and size compatible with the principal building  of a development  and
adjacent areas, and shall be designed to be an integral part of the entire
development  site.
      6.   Illumination levels. All site lighting shall be designed so that the
level of illumination as measured in footcandles (fc) at any one point meets
the standards in the table below. The minimum light level for all illuminated
areas shall be no less than 0.2 footcandles maintained. Average level is a not
to exceed value calculated using only the area of the site intended to receive
illumination. It is recognized that the site lighting of some land uses  may
need to be evaluated on a case by case basis, therefore the BOA, via Variance
may allow deviations from these standards if it concludes that the objectives
underlying these standards can be met without strict adherence to them,
provided there are no excessive measurable impacts to adjoining properties that
result and it finds that such deviations are more likely to satisfy the
standards listed below.
Level of Activity Horizontal Illumination (maintained f.c.)
                  Maximum Average Uniformity Ratio (average/ minimum)
                                   Horizontal Illumination (maintained f.c.)
Level of Activity                  Maximum Average  Uniformity Ratio (average/
                                                    minimum)
HIGH
Major athletic, cultural and civic
facilities                         9.0     3 to 5   4 to 1
Regional retail
Retail with drive-thru
MEDIUM
Cultural, civic and recreational
facilities                         6.0     2 to 4   4 to 1
Residential complex
Commercial, general
LOW
Neighborhood retail
Industrial facilities              5.0     1.5 to 3 4 to 1
Educational facilities
Churches
 
 
Location Horizontal Illumination (average) Uniformity Ratio (initial
                                           footcandles)
Location                    Horizontal Illumination  Uniformity Ratio (initial
                            (average)                footcandles)
Active entrances and vital  5.0                      4 to 1
locations (security)
Inactive entrances          1.0                      4 to 1
Private sidewalks           0.3                      4 to 1
(residential)
Private sidewalks           0.8                      6 to 1
(nonresidential)
Vehicular use area (service
areas, approach ways,       1.0                      4 to 1
private access roads, etc.)
Storage yards (active)      5.0                      6 to 1
Storage yards (inactive)    1.0                      6 to 1
Loading docks and platforms 15.0                     2 to 1
Vehicle sales and display   20.0                     2 to 1
Recreational areas (fields, 20.0                     4 to 1
playgrounds, courts)
 
   F.   Lighting required for specific uses.
      1.   Roads, driveways , sidewalks and parking lots . All roads, driveways
, sidewalks and parking lots shall be sufficiently illuminated to ensure the
security of property and safety of persons using such areas and facilities.
Where such roads, driveways , sidewalks or parking lots fall on private
property, the responsibility for lighting such areas shall fall upon the
developer .
      2.   Entrances and exits in nonresidential and multifamily projects . All
entrances and exits in buildings used for nonresidential purposes and open to
the general public, along with all entrances and exits in multifamily
residential buildings containing more than four units, shall be adequately
lighted to ensure the safety of persons and the security of the building .
      3.   Canopy area lighting. All development that incorporates a canopy
area over fuel sales, automated bank machines, or similar installations shall
use a recessed lens cover that is flush with the bottom surface of the canopy
that provides a cutoff or shielded light distribution. Areas under a vehicular
canopy shall have an average of 12 footcandles as measured at ground level at
the inside of the outside edge of the canopy.
   G.   Roof lighting.
   Commentary: Many businesses use tasteful roof lighting not only to increase
the visibility of their establishments, but to add visual structure to the
nighttime sky of the Town. This section is intended to prevent gaudy, harsh,
glaring, loudly contrasting and otherwise distasteful roof lighting within the
Garner planning jurisdiction .
      1.   Application.
         a.   An application for a permit authorizing a project including the
use of roof lighting shall include a roof lighting plan containing sufficient
information to determine whether the roof lighting, if installed as proposed,
will meet the standards and intent of this section.
         b.   Whenever a roof lighting plan is submitted pursuant to this
section, it may be referred to the Planning Commission to obtain the
Commission's recommendation on the compliance of the plan with this section.
      2.   Roof lighting standards.
         a.   All bulbs or tubing shall be encased so that the bulb is not
naked and that direct glare is prevented.
         b.   Complete outlining of the roof is not permitted.
         c.   Lights shall not run along the highest peak of a roof line,
except that perimeter lighting around the top of a flat roof is allowed.
         d.   Roof lighting that qualifies as a sign under this UDO is
prohibited.
   H.   Excessive illumination.
      1.   Lighting within any lot that unnecessarily illuminates and
substantially interferes with the use or enjoyment of any other lot is
prohibited. Lighting unnecessarily illuminates another lot if it clearly
exceeds the requirements of this section, or if the standard could reasonably
be achieved in a manner that would not substantially interfere with the use or
enjoyment of neighboring properties.
      2.   Lighting shall not be oriented so as to direct glare or excessive
illumination onto streets in a manner that may distract or interfere with the
vision of drivers on such streets .
      3.   Illumination using bare illuminated tubing or strings of lights that
completely outline or define property lines, sales areas, roofs, doors, windows
or similar areas in a manner that is not primarily for safety purposes is
prohibited.
   I.   Special requirements in the Timber Drive Overlay District.
      1.   A site lighting plan must be provided as part of any development
plan submittal for property within the overlay district and shall contain the
following information:
         a.   Lighting plan shall be superimposed on the site plan with the
location of all poles and fixtures and reference for the height of each
fixture, including a specification detail; and
         b.   The distribution and intensity levels of illumination for each
fixture producing a contour diagram of the light intensity delineated in
footcandle measurements must be indicated.
      2.   The following are lighting standards for new development within the
Timber Drive Overlay District.
 
Standard
                High Pressure Sodium, LED, or alternative authorized by the
Type of fixture permit-issuing authority with cut-off (no glare on streets or
                outside boundaries of the lot is permissible)
Height          Maximum of 37 feet
                Not to exceed 250 watts (incandescent light equivalent) at
Footcandle      perimeter of lot ; average footcandle on interior lot areas not
                to exceed an average of three footcandles
 
      3.   The BOA, via Variance, may approve deviations from these presumptive
standards if it concludes that objectives underlying these standards can be met
without strict adherence to them, provided there are no excessive measurable
impacts to adjoining properties and it finds that such deviations are more
likely to satisfy the above noted standards.
   J.   Special requirements in the U.S. 70/401 Thoroughfare Overlay.
      1.   A site lighting plan must be provided as part of any development
plan submittal for property within the overlay district. Such plan and shall
meet the following information.
         a.   A lighting plan shall be superimposed on the site plan with the
location of all poles and fixtures and reference for the height of each
fixture, including a specification detail.
         b.   The distribution and intensity levels of illumination for each
fixture producing a point-by-point footcandle plan at intervals no greater than
20 feet.
         c.   The plan should include average footcandles maintained and the
average to minimum ratio.
      2.   The following lighting standards for new development shall apply
within the U.S. 70/401 Thoroughfare Overlay District.
 
Standard
Type of fixture Cut-off Control Fixtures Recommended; Semi-cutoff Fixtures may
                be considered if appropriate
Height          Maximum of 37 feet
                Average maintained footcandle not to exceed an average of 5
Footcandle      footcandles; average to minimum ratio 4:1 to maintain
                uniformity; spill over adjacent property not to exceed .2
                footcandles
 
      3.   The permitting authority may approve deviations from these
presumptive standards if it concludes that the objectives underlying these
standards can be met without strict adherence to them, and that there are no
excessive measurable impacts to adjoining properties, and it finds that such
deviations are more likely to satisfy the above noted standards.
(Ord. No. 3396, § 14, 4-3-06 ; Ord., 3-16-21 )
7.7.   Access standards.
   A.   On N.C. DOT streets (both sides). From right-of-way line of street,
along right-of-way of driveway or street to a point ten feet from the
intersection of the right-of-way; from same point, along right-of-way 70 feet;
with remaining side connecting these two points. These sight triangles shall be
kept clear of any such visual obstructions between two and one-half feet and
ten feet in height.
   B.   On all streets. From right-of-way line of street, along centerline of
driveway or street to a point ten feet from the intersection of the centerline
and the back of curb; from same point, along the center of travel lane a
distance of ten times the posted speed limit; with remaining side connecting
these two points. These sight triangles shall be kept clear of any such visual
obstructions between two and one-half feet and ten feet in height.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4447ce03978db0feab4258ffc8ecb3f9806deb9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1307.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4447ce03978db0feab4258ffc8ecb3f9806deb9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1309.jpg]
 
ARTICLE 8.  SUBDIVISION DESIGN/IMPROVEMENTS
   
8.1.   Applicability of Article.
   
8.2.   Streets.
      
8.2.1.   Street classification.
      
8.2.2.   Access to public streets in general.
      
8.2.3.   Access to major thoroughfares.
      
8.2.4.   Coordination with surrounding streets.
      
8.2.5.   Relationship of streets to topography.
      
8.2.6.   Right-of-way and street width standards.
      
8.2.7.   Other right-of-way standards.
      
8.2.8.   Curb and gutter.
      
8.2.9.   Major or minor thoroughfare dedication.
      
8.2.10.   General layout of streets.
   
8.3.   Detailed Design of Streets.
      
8.3.1.   Local streets.
      
8.3.2.   Cul-de-sac streets.
      
8.3.3.   Exceptions to street standards.
      
8.3.4.   Private roads.
      
8.3.5.   Sidewalks.
      
8.3.6.   Criteria for sidewalks.
      
8.3.7.   Fee-in-lieu of sidewalk construction.
      
8.3.8.   Previously constructed sidewalks.
      
8.3.9.   Sidewalk width.
      
8.3.10.   Construction standards.
      
8.3.11.   Unpaved roads to be paved prior to annexation.
      
8.3.12.   Road and sidewalk requirements in unsubdivided development s.
      
8.3.13.   Attention to handicapped in street and sidewalk construction.
      
8.3.14.   Public utility easements.
      
8.3.15.   Street names, street markers and house numbers.
      
8.3.16.   Bridges.
   
8.4.   Sewage Disposal Facilities, Water Supply and Utilities.
      
8.4.1.   General.
      
8.4.2.   Lots served by publicly-owned water and sewer lines.
      
8.4.3.   Certification require prior to certificate of occupancy.
      
8.4.4.   Sewage disposal facilities.
      
8.4.5.   Determining compliance.
      
8.4.6.   Water supply.
      
8.4.7.   Determining compliance.
      
8.4.8.   Fire hydrants.
   
8.5.   Other Utilities.
      
8.5.1.   Electric power.
      
8.5.2.   Telephone service.
      
8.5.3.   Underground utilities.
      
8.5.4.   Utilities to be consistent with internal and external development.
      
8.5.5.   As-built drawings required.
   
8.6.   Open Space and Recreational Facilities.
      
8.6.1.   Open space.
      
8.6.2.   Park land dedication and fee-in-lieu requirement.
      
8.6.3.   Use of fees.
      
8.6.4.   Dedication or fee-in-lieu.
      
8.6.5.   Park land dedication.
      
8.6.6.   Fee-in-lieu of dedication.
      
8.6.7.   Prerequisites for approval of final plat.
      
8.6.8.   Refunds.
      
8.6.9.   Private ownership and maintenance.
   
8.7.   Subdivision Dedication Requirements.
      
8.7.1.   Plat approval does not constitute acceptance of dedication offers.
      
8.7.2.   Protection against defects.
      
8.7.3.   Maintenance of dedicated areas until acceptance.
   
8.8.   Improvement Guarantees.
      
8.8.1.   Performance guarantee to ensure compliance with subdivision or other
approval.
      
8.8.2.   Performance guarantee.
      
8.8.3.   Roads intended to be accepted by N.C. DOT
      
8.8.4.   As-built and engineers' certificates submittals
8.1.  APPLICABILITY OFARTICLE.
   This article shall apply to all development within the Town's planning
jurisdiction.
8.2.  STREETS.
8.2.1.  Street classification.
   A.   In all new subdivisions , street s that are dedicated to public use
shall be classified as provided in subsection B, below.
      1.   The classification shall be based upon the projected volume of
traffic to be carried by the street , stated in terms of the number of trips
per day or during the peak hour of the day;
      2.   The number of dwelling units to be served by the street may be used
as a useful indicator of the number of trips but is not conclusive; and
      3.   Whenever a subdivision street continues on an existing street or it
is expected that a subdivision street will be continued beyond the subdivision
at some future time, the classification of the street will be based upon the
street in its entirety, both within and outside of the subdivision .
   B.   Street types:
      1.   Major thoroughfare. A street  serving the principal network for high
volumes of traffic or high speed traffic as shown on the Town of Garner
Transportation Plan. This street type consists of at least two travel lanes in
each direction. A major thoroughfare shall be designated where the anticipated
average daily volume exceeds 10,000 vehicles. Residences should not front on a
major thoroughfare.
      2.   Minor thoroughfare. A street designed primarily to collect and
distribute traffic between local streets or areas and the major thoroughfare
network as shown on the Town of Garner Transportation Plan. This street type
generally consists of more than one travel lane in each direction. A minor
thoroughfare shall be designated where the anticipated average daily volume
ranges exceeds 6,000 vehicles. Residences should not front on a minor
thoroughfare.
      3.   Collector street. A street  whose principal function is to carry
traffic between local streets and major and minor thoroughfare streets but that
may also provide direct access to abutting properties. This street  type
generally consists of one travel lane in each direction and may include on-
street parking. A collector street  shall be designated where the anticipated
average daily volume exceeds 2,000 vehicles. Residences may front on a
collector street . The Town may require a collector street  to meet
continuation, connectivity or spacing requirements.
      4.   Local streets. A street  whose primary function is serving adjacent
land users. This street  type generally consists of one travel lane in each
direction and may include on-street parking. A local street generally carries
an anticipated average daily volume that exceeds 500 vehicles. Residences
should front on a local street.
      5.   Cul-de-sac. A short local street  having one end open to traffic and
the other permanently terminated by a vehicular turn-around.
      6.   Service drive (alley). A public vehicular way used for providing
service access along rear or side property lines of lots which are also served
by one of the previously listed street types. Alleys are not intended to
accommodate through traffic.
      7.   Access easement. An access easement is intended to provide
connections to landlocked properties created prior to the adoption of land use
ordinance requirements in the Town in 1984. It may also, in rare cases, be used
to provide access for a new subdivision not to exceed three lots.
      8.   Frontage road. A street  that is parallel to and adjacent to a major
or minor thoroughfare street and that is designed to provide access to abutting
properties.
(Ord. No. 3532, § 2, 11-4-08; Ord., 3-16-21)
8.2.2.  Access to public streets in general.
   A.   Every lot shall have either direct or indirect access to a public
street. A lot has direct access to a public street if a sufficient portion of a
boundary of the lot abuts the public street right-of-way so that an access way
meeting the criteria set forth in this section can be established. A lot has
indirect access if it connects to a public street by means of one or more
private roads that are of sufficient size to meet the criteria for a public
access easement. A sufficient portion of a boundary is 20 feet; however, this
is a presumptive standard and greater or lesser frontage may be necessary to
meet the criteria of this section and the provisions of this UDO.
   B.   Access must provide a reasonable means of ingress and egress for
emergency vehicles as well as for all those likely to need or desire access to
the property in its intended use.
(Ord. No. 3532, § 2, 11-4-08; Ord., 3-16-21)
8.2.3.  Access to major thoroughfares.
   A.   Whenever a subdivision that involves the creation of one or more new
streets borders on or contains an existing or proposed thoroughfare street, no
direct driveway access may be provided from lots within the subdivision onto
this street.
   B.   When a lot or development borders on or contains an existing or
proposed thoroughfare as delineated by the Transportation Plan access to the
thoroughfare may be limited by one of the following means:
      1.   Driveway access between the lot and the thoroughfare shall be
located not closer than 400 feet to the nearest centerline of any other
proposed or existing driveway access along the same side of the thoroughfare.
      2.   Lots shall be subdivided so as to provide access onto a frontage
road or reverse frontage road. The centerline of the frontage or reverse
frontage road where it intersects the thoroughfare shall be no closer than 800
feet to the centerline of the nearest proposed or existing driveway access or
road.
      3.   Approval of driveway access between a lot and the thoroughfare at an
interval less than those specified herein may be granted only by review and
recommendation of the Town Engineer and the Division of Highways of the North
Carolina Department of Transportation.
      4.   Driveway access closure may be required for any change in use of a
lot based upon review and recommendation of the Town Engineer and the Division
of Highways of the North Carolina Department of Transportation.
      5.   Road widening and right-of-way dedication shall be required to be
consistent with the recommendations of the adopted CAMPO Transportation Plan or
Garner Transportation Plan.
      6.   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this section, the driveway
access provisions shall not be applicable to any subdivision lot where:
         a.   The effect of such application would be to deprive the lot of
reasonable access; or
         b.   The size of the tract being subdivided, or lack of frontage on
the thoroughfare makes the alternatives above not feasible.
   C.   No building permit shall be issued until submitted site development
plans have been approved as complying with the major thoroughfare access
requirements of this UDO.
   D.   No certificate of compliance may be issued until the major thoroughfare
access requirements of this UDO have been complied with in full.
   E.   Access to minor thoroughfares. All access to minor thoroughfares shall
occur in accordance with the following illustrations.
      1.   Provision of a frontage road. Lots may take direct access onto a
frontage road.
      2.   Provision of cul-de-sac. Lots may take indirect access by fronting
on cul-de-sac.
      3.   Change of lot orientation. Lots may front on a parallel residential
street.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4447ce03978db0feab4258ffc8ecb3f9806deb9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1299.jpg]
 
   B.   DRIVEWAYS AND OTHER ENTRANCES TO STREETS.
      1.   All driveway entrances and other openings onto streets within the
Town's planning jurisdiction shall be constructed so that:
         a.   Vehicles can enter and exit from the lot in question without
posing any substantial danger to themselves, pedestrians, or vehicles traveling
in abutting streets; and
         b.   Interference with the free and convenient flow of traffic in
abutting or surrounding streets is minimized.
      2.   As provided in G.S. 136-93, no person may construct any driveway
entrance or other opening onto a state maintained street except in accordance
with a permit issued by the North Carolina Department of Transportation.
      3.   All commercial or industrial development shall require a paved
driveway.
      4.   The design of entrance drives in industrial subdivisions shall be
based upon the development standards detailed in Chapter 2 of Policy on
Geometric Design of Highways and Streets by AASHTO (American Association of
State Highway and Transportation Officials), dated 1984.
      5.   For lots within industrial subdivisions with access onto existing,
anticipated or proposed collector streets, the entrance drives shall be
developed so turning movements will not encroach onto opposing travel lanes on
the collector roadway or the drive through the property.
(Ord. No. 3532, § 2, 11-4-08; Ord., 3-16-21)
8.2.4.  Coordination with surrounding streets.
   A.   The street system of a subdivision shall be coordinated with existing,
proposed and anticipated streets outside the subdivision (hereinafter,
surrounding streets) as provided in this section.
   B.   Collector streets shall intersect with surrounding collector or
thoroughfare streets at safe and convenient locations.
   C.   In order to accommodate emergency and service vehicles, the following
standards shall apply;
      1.   Any subdivision of greater than 75 lots shall include at least two
access points to the collector and thoroughfare street network via public
streets or private streets built to public standards.
      2.   No more than 75 certificates of occupancy may be issued within the
subdivision until the required secondary access has been constructed or bonded
for construction.
      3.   Subdivisions of 250 or more lots shall provide three separate access
points. Where three or more access points are required, the Town Engineer may
waive the requirement for immediate construction of more than two access
points, provided that subdivision phasing and design illustrates the additional
required connections.
      4.   For those subdivisions large enough to require a third access, a
stub-out street may be credited as a required access if the two functioning
access roads are both connected to a collector road.
      5.   Where acceptable to the Town of Garner Fire Official, secondary
private access points may be gated.
      6.   A waiver of these standards may be allowed by the permit issuing
authority during approval of the preliminary subdivision plat or site plan only
in extreme cases where limited frontage, natural features (slope, topography),
or similar circumstances preclude the required connections and there is no
substantial impact noted regarding emergency service delivery.
   D.   Local residential streets shall connect with surrounding streets where
necessary to permit the convenient movement of traffic, or to facilitate access
to neighborhoods by emergency service vehicles, or for other sufficient
reasons, but connections shall be designed to avoid the use of such streets by
substantial through traffic.
   E.   Whenever connections to anticipated or proposed surrounding streets are
required by this section, the right-of-way shall be extended and the street
developed to the property line of the subdivided property (or to the edge of
the remaining undeveloped portion of a single tract) at the point where the
connection to the anticipated or proposed street is expected. A sign at the end
of the street stub describing the street extension and Type III barriers may be
required by the Town Engineer. Temporary turn-arounds are required to be
constructed at the end of such streets pending their extension when such turn-
arounds appear necessary to facilitate the flow of traffic or accommodate
emergency or service vehicles. Notwithstanding the other provisions of this
subsection, no temporary dead-end street in excess of 1,000 feet may be created
unless no other practicable alternative is available.
   F.   The street system of the industrial subdivision shall be designed to
connect into existing, proposed or anticipated streets outside the subdivision.
In cases where the connections to an anticipated or proposed surrounding street
are called for but the streets are not designated for immediate construction,
then the right-of-way shall be extended to the property line of the subdivided
property (or to the edge of the remaining undeveloped portion of the tract) at
the point where the connection to the anticipated or proposed street is
expected. In lieu of the actual construction of the connection street,
temporary turn-arounds may be constructed at a location which facilitates the
flow of traffic inside the subdivision and accommodates emergency and service
vehicles. No temporary dead-end streets in excess of 1,000 feet may be created
unless no other practical alternative is available.
(Ord. No. 3532, § 2, 11-4-08; Ord., 3-16-21)
8.2.5.  Relationship of streets to topography.
   A.   Streets shall be designed to relate appropriately to the topography of
a site. In particular, streets shall be designed to facilitate the drainage and
stormwater runoff objectives in this Article, and, subject to the design
requirements relating to maximum grades, street grades shall conform as closely
as practicable to the original topography.
   B.   The maximum grade for street construction shall meet design
requirements of the North Carolina Department of Transportation. However, in no
case may streets be constructed with grades that, in the professional opinion
of the Town Engineer, create a substantial danger to the public safety or cause
any substantial degradation to the street or drainage system.
   C.   Construction standards and specifications. Construction standards and
specifications shall be determined by the Town Engineer. The geometric layout
of all streets shall meet or exceed N.C. DOT requirements.
(Ord. No. 3532, § 2, 11-4-08; Ord., 3-16-21)
8.2.6.  Right-of-way and street width standards.
   A.   General intent. Streets and rights-of-way within the Town of Garner are
intended for multi-purpose use, as follows:
      1.   To carry motor vehicle traffic, and, in some cases, allow on-street
parking;
      2.   To provide a safe and convenient passageway for pedestrian traffic;
and
      3.   To serve as an important link in the Town's drainage system.
   B.   Right-of-way standards by type of development. Street widths shall be
measured from back of curb to back of curb.
 
Street Type       Right-of-Way Width (Back of Gutter           Sidewalk
                               Curb)
Access Easement
Landlocked Parcel 20 feet      10 feet        --               --
(1 lot)
New Subdivision   20 feet      16 feet        2-foot shoulder, --
(max. 3 lots)                                 each side
Alley             20 feet      12 feet                         --
Local             55 feet      29 feet        2 feet           5 feet, one side
(and cul-de-sac)
Collector         60 feet      32 feet        2 feet           5 feet, both
                                                               sides
 
Lake Benson Conservation District::
Street Type    Right-of- Way Width (Back of Gutter           Sidewalk
                             Curb)
Collector      60 feet       26 feet                         5 feet, both
                                            Roll Type        sides
Local          50 feet       26 feet                         5 feet, one side
Rural Streets* 60 feet       20 feet (no    6-foot shoulder, --
                             curb)          each side
Minor/Major    Build to NCDOT standards.  No driveway access for lots in a
Thoroughfare   residential subdivision.
 
* Note: Rural street type shall not be used where public water or wastewater
utility service is available.
(Ord. No. 3532, § 2, 11-4-08; Ord., 3-16-21)
8.2.7.  Other right-of-way standards.
   A.   Access easements.
      1.   A recorded access easement option is available for existing
landlocked lots only; nothing in this section is intended to allow approval of
new lots with easement frontage and access only.
      2.   In RMH districts, every lot or rental space shall have at least 20
feet of frontage on either a public street or a private drive, measured at the
street right-of-way line or private drive "reserved area" limit.
      3.   The minimum acceptable access easement width shall be 20 feet.
      4.   The access easement shall be paved with, at minimum, gravel three to
six inches in depth and 16 feet in width running down the center of the
easement.
      5.   A full shoulder and ditch section shall be required on the subject
property.
   B.   Arterials and thoroughfares. Arterial and thoroughfare right-of-way
widths shall be as determined by the Town in consultation with N.C. DOT. The
geometric layout shall meet or exceed N.C. DOT standards.
(Ord. No. 3532, § 2, 11-4-08; Ord., 3-16-21)
8.2.8.  Curb and gutter.
   A.   All public streets within the Town or its extra-territorial zoning
jurisdiction shall be constructed with curb and gutter section as provided for
in this ordinance and the Town of Garner Standard Construction Details.
   B.   The Town Council may allow non curb and gutter street construction in
residential projects developed at rural densities of one dwelling unit per
30,000 square feet or greater without the provision of sidewalks or in non-
residential projects under the following conditions:
      1.   Such project is located outside of the Town limits but within the
Towns extraterritorial jurisdiction;
      2.   There is no connection to municipal water or sewer proposed;
      3.   This type of alternative street construction will not create
significant storm water drainage impacts to surrounding areas;
      4.   It may be applied only to local streets or cul-de-sac where the
grade does not exceed eight percent;
      5.   Streets with non curb and gutter sections shall have a minimum
right-of-way width of 60 feet and;
      6.   Streets with non curb and gutter sections shall have a minimum
pavement width of 20 feet with eight-foot wide shoulders with drainage swales
on each side. All non curb and gutter streets shall be constructed in
accordance with the specifications in Appendix C. The non curb and gutter
street construction provisions of this subsection shall not apply to streets in
cluster developments, instead all streets in cluster development shall have
curb and gutter construction as provided for in Article 6.
(Ord. No. 3532, § 2, 11-4-08; Ord. No. 3558, § 2, 7-7-09; Ord., 3-16-21)
8.2.9.  Major or minor thoroughfare dedication.
   A.   Whenever a subdivision is developed in an area through which a proposed
major or minor thoroughfare passes, according to the officially adopted CAMPO
Transportation Plan or Garner Transportation Plan, then the developer shall
dedicate to the Town a right-of-way as set forth in such plan and shall
construct within such right-of-way a street meeting the specifications set
forth in this section for a collector street.
   B.   Whenever a subdivision or new development fronts along an existing
major or minor thoroughfare, the development shall dedicate one-half of the
right-of-way required for the appropriate street type and build at least one-
half of the recommended cross-section as shown in the CAMPO Transportation Plan
or the Garner Transportation Plan unless the subdivision or development does
not propose street or driveway access to said thoroughfare. When the total peak
hour trip generation according to the latest edition of the Institute of
Transportation Engineers (ITE) Trip Generation Manual does not exceed a total
of 50 trips for a project, the permit issuing authority may require only that a
deceleration lane without curb and gutter construction be installed in lieu of
full widening.
(Ord. No. 3532, § 2, 11-4-08; Ord., 3-16-21)
8.2.10.  General layout of streets.
   A.   Local residential streets shall be laid out so as to avoid conformity
of lot appearance.
   B.   Cul-de-sac streets shall be laid out only in limited instances where
they are required to provide access to land which cannot be served by a loop or
other street design solution.
   C.   Traffic calming measures, including improved street network design and
other technical solutions such as traffic circles and other natural calming
measures may be used to limit cut- through traffic if approved by the Town
Engineer.
   D.   To the extent practical, driveway access to collector streets shall be
minimized to facilitate the free flow of traffic and avoid traffic hazards.
   E.   Half streets (i.e., streets of less than the full required right-of-way
and pavement width) shall not be permitted.
   F.   Streets shall intersect as nearly as possible at right angles, and no
two streets may intersect at an angle of less than 80 degrees. Not more than
two streets shall intersect at any one point.
   G.   Whenever possible, proposed intersections along one side of a street
shall coincide with existing or proposed intersections on the opposite side of
such street. In any event, where a centerline offset (jog) occurs at an
intersection, the distance between centerlines of the intersecting streets
shall be not less than 150 feet unless the Town Engineer concludes that a
shorter distance will not adversely affect public safety.
   H.   No two streets may intersect with any other street on the same side at
a distance of less than 400 feet measured from centerline to centerline of the
intersecting street. When the intersected street is a major thoroughfare, the
distance between intersecting streets shall be at least 1,000 feet wherever
practicable.
   I.   Local circulation systems and land development patterns should not
detract from the efficiency of adjacent major streets.
   J.   To discourage excessive speeds, residential streets should be designed
with curves, changes in alignment and short lengths. Residential streets should
not be designed to be wider than is necessary.
(Ord. No. 3532, § 2, 11-4-08; Ord., 3-16-21)
8.3.  DETAILED DESIGN OF STREETS.
8.3.1.  Local streets.
   Local streets shall be designed to provide parking unless an alley is
provided. Streets shall be laid out so that residential blocks do not exceed
1,000 feet, unless no other practicable alternative is available.
(Ord. No. 3532, § 2, 11-4-08; Ord., 3-16-21)
8.3.2.  Cul-de-sac streets.
   A.   All permanent dead-end streets, as opposed to temporary dead-end
streets, shall be developed as cul-de-sac in accordance with the standards set
forth in the table below.
   B.   A minimum 30' wide pedestrian or bikeway connection with sidewalk is
required through a cul-de-sac when the following criteria occur:
      1.   the cul-de-sac is within 350' of the street to which the connection
will provide access, and
      2.   the cul-de-sac is within ½ mile straight-line distance of a
pedestrian traffic generator such as a school, public park or open space,
library or recreation facility, or a shopping, office or governmental facility
or district.
   C.   The minimum right-of-way for cul-de-sac turnarounds shall be 100 feet
in conventional subdivisions and 80 feet in cluster developments. Two types of
cul-de-sac are permitted:
      1.   A standard fully paved turn-around shall have a minimum pavement
diameter of 80 feet in conventional subdivisions and 60 feet in cluster
developments both measured back of curb to back of curb.
      2.   Turn-arounds with one way travel lanes and unpaved centers shall
have a minimum travel lane pavement width of 24 feet in conventional
subdivisions and 20 feet in cluster developments. Unpaved centers of turn-
arounds in all types of developments shall be landscaped.
   D.   Streets shall be laid out so that residential blocks do not exceed
1,000 feet, unless no other practicable alternative is available. Cul-de-sac
requirements are set forth in the table below. The BOA, via Variance , may
allow cul-de-sac lengths in residential developments to exceed the maximum
length allowable when there is no other practical alternative available due to
steep slopes or other environmental restrictions (floodplains, buffer areas,
etc.) In no case shall the length exceed 500 feet.
Type        Type   Max. Length  Cul-de- R/W Width  Turn- Pavement  Curb Type
Subdivision Street Sac                   Around            Width
Type         Type    Max. Length  Cul-de- R/W Width  Turn- Pavement  Curb Type
Subdivision  Street  Sac                   Around            Width
             Curb &                        100 ft.                      90
             Gutter                                          80 ft.     degrees
Industrial   Ditch   580 ft.                                 back to    8 ft.
             Section                       120 ft.           back       shoulders
                                                                        & swales
             Curb &                        100 ft.                      90
             Gutter                                          80 ft.     degrees
Conventional Ditch   200 ft.                                 back to    8 ft.
             Section                       120 ft.           back       shoulders
                                                                        & swales
             Curb &                        80 ft.                       90
             Gutter                                          60 ft.     degrees
Cluster              200 ft.                                 back to    8 ft.
             —                           80 ft.            back       shoulders
                                                                        & swales
             Curb &                        100 ft.                      Roll Type
Lake Benson  Gutter                                          80 ft.
Conservation Ditch   200 ft.                                 back to    8 ft.
District     Section                       120 ft.           back       shoulders
                                                                        & swales
 
(Ord. No. 3532, § 2, 11-4-08; Ord., 3-16-21)
8.3.3.  Exceptions to street standards.
   A.   Only standard 90-degree curb shall be used in conventional subdivisions
located outside the Lake Benson Conservation District.
   B.   Roll type curb and gutter construction may be allowed in lieu of a
ditch section as an option in the Lake Benson Conservation District in
developments where all street surface runoff is diverted to permanent retention
ponds constructed in accordance with the provisions of Article 7.
   C.   In cluster developments, the type of curb and gutter section shall be
standard 90-degree curb unless an alternative curb and gutter section which
adequately provides for proper drainage, access and maintenance needs is
approved by the Town Engineer.
   D.   Within the Lake Benson Conservation District all roads shall be
constructed and paved to the Town of Garner standards. No unimproved or gravel
roads are permitted, with the exception of farm roads.
   E.   The entrance of unpaved residential driveways shall be graveled for an
area of 30 feet in length and ten feet in width, with a six-inch depth of
stone. Roads, streets and driveways shall be designed to avoid direct runoff
into streams through dispersion onto grassed and vegetated areas wherever
possible.
(Ord. No. 3532, § 2, 11-4-08; Ord., 3-16-21)
8.3.4.  Private roads.
   A.   Except as provided in this section, all streets in subdivisions shall
be constructed according to Town of Garner public street standards and shall be
offered as a public street dedication to the Town. Unless the recorded plat of
a subdivision clearly indicates a street to be private, the recording of such
plat shall constitute an offer of dedication of such streets.
   B.   A new subdivision shall be served by a private road where it contains
three lots or less. A private road serving greater than three lots shall be
built in accordance with public street standards. The Town shall have the
discretion to require a public street connection for safety or access purposes.
   C.   No final plat that shows lots served by private roads may be recorded
unless the final plat contains the following notations:
      1.   Further subdivision of any lot shown on this plat as served by a
private road may be prohibited by the Town of Garner UDO.
      2.   The policy of the Town of Garner is that, if the Town improves
streets:
         a.   That were never constructed to the standards required in the Town
of Garner Unified Development Ordinance for dedicated streets or its precedent;
and
         b.   On which 75 percent of the dwelling units were constructed after
July 1, 1981; 100 percent of the costs of such improvements shall be assessed
to abutting landowners.
   D.   The recorded plat of any subdivision that includes a private road shall
clearly state that such road is a private road. Further, the initial purchasers
of a newly-created lot served by a private road shall be furnished by the
seller with a disclosure statement outlining the maintenance responsibilities
for the road, in accordance with the requirements set forth in G.S. 136-102.6.
The intention of this subsection is to afford the same protection to purchasers
of lots on private roads within the Town as is provided to purchasers of lots
outside the Town by G.S. 136-102.6.
   E.   All private roads shall be maintained in accordance with Town of Garner
standards.
   F.   Where private roads are later made public through dedication to the
Town, such roads shall be brought up to public standards, including
maintenance, prior to their acceptance by the Town.
(Ord. No. 3532, § 2, 11-4-08; Ord., 3-16-21)
8.3.5.  Sidewalks.
   A.   Sidewalks required.
      1.   The developer of any subdivision with frontage on any street
identified as meeting the criteria set out in this section below shall provide
for the construction of public sidewalks in accordance with the Town standards
across the entirety of such frontages. Subdivision exemptions are excluded from
this requirement.
      2.   Sidewalks shall be constructed to allow easy continuation by
adjacent properties and to form a safe and convenient network for users.
(Ord. No. 3532, § 2, 11-4-08; Ord., 3-16-21)
8.3.6.  Criteria for sidewalks.
The developer shall be responsible for constructing a sidewalk in the public
right-of-way, or, where required by topography or other circumstances in duly
obtained public easements approved by the Town Council, and along every street
upon which the property fronts and along every new street within the
development according to the following criteria:
   A.   Public sidewalks shall be constructed on both sides of a road or street
with four or more lanes; and
   B.   Public sidewalks shall be constructed on one side of a road or street
designated as a local street, cul-de-sac, and both sides of a street designated
as a collector.
(Ord. No. 3532, § 2, 11-4-08; Ord. No. 3558, § 2, 7-7-09; Ord., 3-16-21)
8.3.7.  Fee-in-lieu of sidewalk construction.
   For streets meeting any combination of the categories in the previous
section, the developer may propose to pay a fee in lieu of sidewalk
construction, based on the then current estimated per- foot cost of
construction, if a particular street frontage qualifies under one or more of
the following:
   A.   Extenuating circumstances, documented by the developer and mutually
acceptable to the Town which makes sidewalk construction along a particular
frontage impractical or unreasonable at the time of the development's
construction;
   B.   A capital improvements program schedule that calls for the installation
of sidewalk improvements by the Town along a particular frontage; or
   C.   The Town Council has made a decision that sidewalks are only to be
provided along the opposite side of the street. Such fees shall be held by the
Town in a restricted sidewalk construction account.
(Ord. No. 3532, § 2, 11-4-08; Ord. No. 3558, § 2, 7-7-09; Ord., 3-16-21)
8.3.8.  Previously constructed sidewalks.
   Where the sidewalk which a developer would otherwise be required to
construct, or pay a fee-in- lieu of constructing pursuant to other sections in
this UDO, has previously been constructed by the Town, the permitting authority
shall determine during site plan review whether the developer's compliance with
this subsection shall be accomplished by a re-design and reconstruction of said
sidewalk, or by the payment of a fee-in-lieu in accordance with the then
current Town schedule of fees.
(Ord. No. 3532, § 2, 11-4-08; Ord., 3-16-21)
8.3.9.  Sidewalk width.
   Public sidewalks in all developments shall be at least five feet in width.
(Ord. No. 3532, § 2, 11-4-08; Ord., 3-16-21)
8.3.10.  Construction standards.
Sidewalks and walkways required by this section shall be constructed according
to the specifications of the Town of Garner Standard Construction Details
except that the Town Engineer may permit sidewalks and walkways to be
constructed with other materials when it concludes that:
   A.   Such sidewalks would serve the residents of the development as
adequately as concrete sidewalks;
   B.   Such sidewalks would be more environmentally desirable or more in
keeping with the overall design of the development; or
   C.   Such sidewalks could be maintained as adequately as concrete sidewalks.
   D.   Whenever the permit-issuing authority finds that a means of pedestrian
access is necessary from the subdivision to schools, parks, playgrounds or
other facilities within ½ mile distance, or roads within 350 feet distance, and
that such access is not conveniently provided by sidewalks adjacent to the
streets, the developer shall be required to provide an unobstructed easement of
at least ten feet in width and a sidewalk through the easement to provide such
access.
(Ord. No. 3532, § 2, 11-4-08; Ord., 3-16-21)
8.3.11.  Unpaved roads to be paved prior to annexation.
Where a property that is annexed after the effective date of this UDO uses
nonconforming gravel roads to provide access, such roads shall be paved at the
landowner's expense in accordance with Town specifications within 30 days of
annexation. This requirement shall not apply to any roads permitted to be
gravel by this section.
(Ord. No. 3532, § 2, 11-4-08; Ord., 3-16-21)
8.3.12.  Road and sidewalk requirements in unsubdivided developments.
   A.   Within unsubdivided developments, all private roads and access ways
shall be designed and constructed to facilitate the safe and convenient
movement of vehicular and pedestrian traffic. Width of roads and use of curb
and gutter shall be determined based on the density, size and type of
development. The Town Engineer shall determine appropriate road widths and
paving specifications based on the street classification system in Section
8.2. To the extent not otherwise covered in this UDO, and to the extent that
the requirements set forth in this Article may be relevant to the roads in
unsubdivided developments, the requirements of this article may be applied to
satisfy the standard set forth in the first sentence of this subsection.
   B.   Whenever a road in an unsubdivided development connects two or more
collector, or major thoroughfare streets in such a manner that any substantial
volume of through-traffic is likely to make use of this road, such road shall
be constructed in accordance with the standards applicable to subdivision
streets and shall be dedicated. In other cases when roads in unsubdivided
developments within the Town are constructed in accordance with the
specifications for subdivision streets, the Town may accept an offer of
dedication of such streets.
   C.   Whenever a development fronts along an existing major or minor
thoroughfare, the development shall dedicate one-half of the right-of-way
required for the appropriate street type and build at least one-half of the
recommended cross-section as shown in the CAMPO Transportation Plan or the
Garner Transportation Plan unless the development does not process street or
driveway access to said thoroughfare.
   D.   The developer(s) of any land in a location which meets the criteria
established in this section shall provide for the construction of sidewalks or
pay a fee in lieu of construction, in accordance with Town standards across the
entirety of such frontages and along any new streets within the development.
The residential development of one duplex or single-family dwelling on an
existing lot is excluded from this requirement, unless sidewalks abut the
property line, in which case, sidewalks shall be required.
   E.   In all unsubdivided multifamily residential developments, private
walkways shall be provided linking dwelling units with other dwelling units
with the public street frontage and with on-site activity centers such as
parking areas, laundry facilities and recreational areas and facilities. Such
walkways shall not be required for developments of 25 or fewer units in which
all units have direct access to an interior private drive or public street.
   F.   Whenever the permit-issuing authority finds that a means of pedestrian
access is necessary from an unsubdivided development to schools, parks, play-
grounds or other facilities within ½ mile distance, or roads within 350 feet,
and that such access is not conveniently provided by sidewalks adjacent to the
roads, the developer shall be required to provide an unobstructed easement of
at least ten feet and construct a sidewalk to provide such access.
   G.   The public sidewalks required in of this subsection shall be at least
five feet wide and those private walkways required in this subsection shall be
at least four feet wide, except for walkways constructed along the back of
parking bays which shall be at least six feet in width in order to accommodate
vehicle overhang, unless wheel stops are placed at the ends of these parking
spaces, in which case sidewalks shall be at least four feet in width.
   H.   Sidewalks and walkways required by this subsection shall be constructed
according to the specifications set forth in Appendix B, except that the Town
Engineer may permit sidewalks and walkways to be constructed with other
materials when it concludes that:
      1.   Such sidewalks would serve the residents of the development as
adequately as concrete sidewalks;
      2.   Such sidewalks would be more environmentally desirable or more in
keeping with the overall design of the development; or
      3.   Such sidewalks could be maintained as adequately as concrete
sidewalks.
(Ord. No. 3532, § 2, 11-4-08; Ord., 3-16-21)
8.3.13.  Attention to handicapped in street and sidewalk construction.
   A.   As provided in G.S. 136-44.14, whenever curb and gutter construction is
used on public streets, wheelchair ramps for the handicapped shall be provided
at intersections and other major points of pedestrian flow. Wheelchair ramps
and depressed curbs shall be constructed in accordance with published standards
of the North Carolina Department of Transportation, Division of Highways.
   B.   In unsubdivided developments, sidewalk construction for the handicapped
shall conform to the published standards of the North Carolina Department of
Transportation, Division of Highways.
(Ord. No. 3532, § 2, 11-4-08; Ord., 3-16-21)
8.3.14.  Public utility easements.
   A.   All public utility easements shall meet the requirements of the City of
Raleigh as set forth in the City of Raleigh Public Utility Department Handbook.
   B.   The City of Raleigh may allow deviations from the standards outlined
above that may be less or more restrictive whenever it finds that such
deviations are more likely to satisfy the public utility needs of the Town of
Garner.
(Ord. No. 3532, § 2, 11-4-08; Ord., 3-16-21)
8.3.15.  Street names, street markers and house numbers.
   A.   Street names shall be assigned by the developer subject to the approval
of the permit- issuing authority. Proposed streets that are obviously in
alignment with existing streets shall be given the same name. Newly created
streets shall be given names that neither duplicate nor are phonetically
similar to other streets within Wake County;
   B.   The developer shall bear the costs of the fabrication and installation
of street markers on all streets within or intersecting the development in
accordance with the standards of the Town; and
   C.   Building numbers shall be assigned by the Town.
   D.   All street makers shall be in accordance with the Town of Garner
standard street number installation. If a development wishes to use an
alternative street maker, such maker shall be maintained by the development and
approved by the Town Engineer.
(Ord. No. 3532, § 2, 11-4-08; Ord., 3-16-21)
8.3.16.  Bridges.
All bridges shall be constructed in accordance with the standards and
specifications of the North Carolina Department of Transportation, except that
bridges on roads not intended for public dedication in unsubdivided
developments may be approved if designed by a licensed architect or engineer.
   A.   Fee-in-lieu of street construction. In lieu of required street
construction, a developer may be required to provide funds that the Town will
use solely for the construction of roads to serve the occupants, residents, or
invitees of the subdivision or development and these funds may be used for
roads which serve more than one subdivision or development within the area.
"Required street construction" as used in this subsection means either street
construction required by existing provisions of the UDO or improvements
required by a TIA where a consensus between the developer, the developer's
traffic consultant and the Town Planning Department that said improvements are
necessary to mitigate adverse traffic conditions resulting from the proposed
development as reflected in a development agreement.
   B.   Capital fund. The Town will establish a capital fund or funds dedicated
to roadway improvements. All monies in said capital fund or funds shall be used
only for the development of roads - including design, land acquisition and
construction - which serve the occupants, residents or invitees of the
subdivision or development being created by the entity providing the funds;
and/or for roads in the vicinity which serve more than one subdivision or
development within the area.
      1.   All monies received by the Town pursuant to this subsection shall be
deposited in the capital fund created herein.
      2.   All monies to be paid into the aforesaid capital fund shall be paid
prior to issuance of building permits relating to the proposed development.
      3.   The Town may require a combination of partial payment of money and
partial dedication of constructed streets when the Town Council determines that
a combination is in the best interests of the citizens of the area to be
served.
   C.   Fee amount determination. The amount of any fee-in-lieu shall be
determined as follows:
      1.   The amount of any fee-in-lieu of completing roadway construction
otherwise required by existing provisions of the UDO shall be established as a
condition in the applicable permit. The developer shall initially provide an
engineering estimate for staff review and discussion with the developer.
      2.   Such engineering estimates shall at a minimum reflect the
consideration of design and permitting costs, land acquisition costs,
construction costs and a cost escalator based on known and reasonably
anticipated construction cost increases; if the likely date of construction is
not readily subject to estimation, the escalation factor shall be limited to
ten years.
      3.   The amount of any fee-in-lieu established in a Development Agreement
shall be in an amount resulting from consensus involving the developer, the
developer's traffic and other consultants, the Town Engineering and Planning
departments, and shall be reflected by an executed Development Agreement
between the developer and the Town.
      4.   Any formula which may be adopted in a future ordinance to determine
the amount of funds the developer should pay in lieu of required street
construction shall be based on the trips generated from the subdivision or
development.
   D.   Use of capital funds. The Town may undertake such design, land
acquisition and construction by itself or in conjunction with the North
Carolina Department of Transportation.
(Ord. No. 3532, § 2, 11-4-08; Ord. No. 4031, § 1, 11-19-19; Ord., 3-16-21)
8.4.  SEWAGE DISPOSAL FACILITIES, WATER SUPPLY AND UTILITIES.
8.4.1.  General.
   A.   Utility ownership and easement rights. In any case in which a developer
installs or causes the installation of water, sewer, electric power, telephone
or cable television facilities and intends that such facilities shall be owned,
operated or maintained by a public utility or any entity other than the
developer, the developer shall transfer to such utility or entity the necessary
ownership or easement rights to enable the utility or entity to operate and
maintain such facilities.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
8.4.2.  Lots served by publicly-owned water and sewer lines.
   A.   Whenever it is legally possible and practicable in terms of topography
to connect a lot with a publicly-owned water or sewer line by running a
connecting line not more than 300 feet from the lot to the Town line, then no
use requiring water or sewage disposal service may be made of such lot unless
that connection is made.
   B.   Connection is not legally possible if it is necessary to run the
connecting line over property not owned by the owner of the property to be
served by the connection, and after diligent effort, the easement necessary to
run the connecting line cannot reasonably be obtained.
   C.   A lot is served by public water or sewer system if connection is
required by this section.
   D.   No requirements or provisions of this subsection are intended to
supersede the requirements for utility extensions for a new development as
provided for in the Town Garner Utility Extension Policy.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
8.4.3.  Certification require prior to certificate of occupancy.
The project engineer shall certify that the water and/or sewer system has been
constructed according to plans and specifications approved by the Town prior to
receipt of any certificate of occupancy.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
8.4.4.  Sewage disposal facilities.
   A.   Sewage disposal facilities required.
      1.   Every principal use and every lot within a subdivision shall be
served by a sewage disposal system that:
   A.   Is adequate to accommodate the reasonable needs of such use or lot; and
      1.   Complies with applicable health regulations.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
8.4.5.  Determining compliance.
   A.   Primary responsibility for determining compliance with the standards
above, often lies with an agency other than the Town, and the developer must
comply with the standards and specifications of such other agency. Whenever any
such agency requires detailed construction or design drawings before giving its
official approval to the proposed sewage disposal system, the Town may rely
upon a preliminary review by such agency of the basic design elements of the
proposed sewage disposal system to determine compliance with this section.
However, construction of such system may not be commenced until the detailed
plans and specifications have been reviewed and any appropriate permits issued
or approvals given by such agency.
   B.   In the following table, the column on the left describes the type of
development and the column on the right indicates the agency that must certify
to the permit-issuing authority whether the proposed sewage disposal system
complies with the standard set forth above.
Type of Development Permit-Issuing Authority Action
Type of Development                     Permit-Issuing Authority Action
(1) The use is located on a lot that is
served by the Town sewer system or a
previously approved, privately owned
package treatment plant, and the use
can be served by a simple connection to No further certification is necessary.
the system (as in the case of a single-
family residence) rather than the
construction of an internal collection
system (as in the case of a shopping
center or apartment complex).
(2) The use (other than a subdivision)
is located on a lot that is served by
the Town sewer system but service to
the use necessitates construction of an
internal collection system (as in the   The Town Engineer must determine that
case of a shopping center or apartment  the proposed collection system is
complex); and,                          adequate and conforms to the Town of
(a) The internal collection system is   Garner Utility Extension Policy.
to be transferred to and maintained by
the Town.
The internal collection system is to be
privately maintained
(3) The use (other than a subdivision)  The Wake County Health Department
is not served by the Town system, but   (WCHD) must certify to the Town that
is to be served by a privately operated the proposed system complies with all
sewage treatment system (that has not   applicable state regulations. If the
previously been approved) with 3,000    proposed use is a single-family
gallons or less design capacity,        dwelling other than a mobile home, the
effluent from which does not discharge  developer must present to the Town a
into surface waters.                    certificate of completion from the
                                        WCHD.
(4) The use (other than a subdivision)  The City of Raleigh must certify to the
is to be served by a privately operated Town that the proposed system complies
sewage treatment system (not previously with all applicable state regulations.
approved) that has a design capacity of A "Permit to Construct" and a "Permit
more than 3,000 gallons or that         to Discharge" must be obtained from the
discharges effluent into surface        City of Raleigh. The Town Engineer must
waters.                                 also approve the system for future
                                        addition to the Town system.
(5) The proposed use is a subdivision,
and
(a) Lots within the subdivision are to  No further certification is necessary.
be served by simple connection to
existing Town lines or lines of a
previously approved private system.
(b) Lots within the subdivision are to  The Town Engineer must determine that
be served by the Town system, but the   the proposed collection system is
developer will be responsible for       adequate and conforms to the Town of
installing the necessary additions to   Garner Utility Extension Policy.
the Town system.
                                        The Wake County Health Department must
                                        certify that the proposed system
                                        complies with applicable state and
(c) Lots within the subdivision are to  local health regulations. If each lot
be served by a sewage treatment system  within the subdivision is to be served
that has not been approved that has a   by a separate on-site disposal system,
capacity of 3,000 gallons or less, and  the WCHD must certify that each lot
that does not discharge into surface    shown on a major subdivision
waters.                                 preliminary plat can probably be
                                        served, and each lot on a major or
                                        minor subdivision final plat can be
                                        served by an on-site disposal system.
(d) Lots within the subdivision are to  The City of Raleigh must certify that
be served by a privately operated       proposed system complies with all
sewage treatment system (not previously applicable state regulations. A Permit
approved) that has a design capacity in to Discharge must be obtained from the
excess of 3,000 gallons or that         City of Raleigh. The Town Engineer must
discharges effluent into surface        also approve the system for future
waters.                                 addition to the Town system
 
(Ord., 3-16-21)
8.4.6.  Water supply.
   A.   Water supply system required. Every principal use and every lot within
a subdivision shall be served by a water supply system that:
      1.   Is adequate to accommodate the reasonable needs of such use or lot;
and
      2.   Complies with all applicable health regulations.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
8.4.7.  Determining compliance.
   A.   Primary responsibility for determining compliance with the standards in
the section above, often lies with an agency other than the Town, and the
developer must comply with the standards and specifications of such other
agency. These agencies are listed in the table below. Whenever any such agency
requires detailed construction or design drawings before giving its official
approval to the proposed water supply system, the Town way rely upon a
preliminary review by such agency of the basic design elements of the proposed
water supply system to determine compliance with the section above. However,
construction of such system may not be commenced until the detailed plans and
specifications have been reviewed and any appropriate permits issued by such
agency.
   B.   In the following table, the column on the left describes the type of
development and the column on the right indicates the agency that must certify
to the Town whether the proposed water supply system complies with the standard
set forth in the section above.
Type of Development Permit-Issuing Authority Action
Type of Development                     Permit-Issuing Authority Action
(1) The use is located on a lot that is
served by the Town water system or a
previously approved, privately owned
public water system and the use can be
served by a simple connection to the
system (as in the case of a single-     No further certification is necessary.
family residence) rather than the
construction of an internal
distribution system (as in the case of
a shopping center or apartment
complex).
(2) The use (other than a subdivision)
is located on a lot that is served by
the Town water system but service to
the use necessitates construction of an The Town Engineer must determine that
internal distribution system (as in the the proposed collection system is
case of a shopping center or apartment  adequate and conforms to the Town of
complex); and                           Garner Utility Extension Policy.
(a) The internal distribution system is
to be transferred to and maintained by
the Town.
                                        The Town Engineer must certify that the
(b) The internal distribution system is proposed distribution system is
to be privately maintained.             adequate. A Permit to Construct must
                                        also be obtained from DHS.
                                        The Division of Health Services of
                                        North Carolina Department of Human
                                        Resources must certify that the
(3) The use (other than a subdivision)  proposed system complies with all
is located on a lot not served by the   applicable state and federal
Town system or a previously approved,   regulations. A Permit to Construct must
privately owned public water supply     be obtained from DHS. The City of
system; and                             Raleigh must also approve the plans if
(a) The use is to be served by a        the water source is a well and the
privately owned public water supply     system has a design capacity of 100,000
system that has not previously been     gallons per day or greater or is
approved.                               located in certain areas designated by
                                        the city. The Town Engineer must also
                                        approve the system for possible future
                                        addition to the Town system.
(b) The use is to be served by some     The Wake County Health Department must
other source (such as an individual     certify that the proposed system meets
well).                                  all applicable state and local
                                        regulations.
(4) The proposed use is a subdivision;
and
(a) Lots within the subdivision are to
be served by simple connection to       No further certification is necessary.
existing Town lines or lines of a
previously approved public water supply
system;
                                        The Town Engineer must certify that the
(b) Lots within the subdivision are to  proposed system meets the necessary
be served by the Town system but the    additions to the Town's standards and
developer will be responsible for       will be accepted by the Town. A Permit
installing the necessary additions to   to Construct must also be obtained from
the Town systems.                       the Division of Health Services of the
                                        North Carolina Department of Human
                                        Resources.
                                        The Division of Health Services of
                                        North Carolina Department of Human
                                        Resources must certify that the
                                        proposed system complies with all
                                        applicable state and federal
(c) Lots within the subdivision are to  regulations. A Permit to Construct must
be served by a privately owned public   be obtained from DHS. The City of
water supply system that has not been   Raleigh must also approve the plans if
previously approved.                    the water source is a well and the
                                        design capacity of 100,000 gallons per
                                        day or greater or is located within
                                        certain areas designated by the City.
                                        The Town Engineer must also approve the
                                        system for possible future addition to
                                        the Town system.
                                        The Wake County Health Department must
(d) Lots within the subdivision are to  certify to the Town that each lot
be served by individual wells.          intended to be served by a well can be
                                        served in accordance with applicable
                                        health regulations
 
(Ord., 3-16-21)
8.4.8.  Fire hydrants.
   A.   Every development, subdivided or unsubdivided, shall include a system
of fire hydrants sufficient to provide adequate fire protection for a building
or buildings located or intended to be located within a development.
   B.   All fire hydrants shall be installed on a minimum six inch water line.
Only one fire hydrant may be installed on a dead-end six inch water line.
   C.   The spacing and general location of hydrants shall be as follows:
      1.   In all zoning districts, there shall be at least one fire hydrant at
each public or private street intersection;
      2.   In residential districts, the maximum distance between fire
hydrants, measured along street centerlines, shall be 500 feet.
      3.   In nonresidential zoning districts, the maximum distance between
fire hydrants, measured along street centerlines, shall be 300 feet.
      4.   In applying the previous sections, fire hydrants located on the
opposite side of any major thoroughfare with four or more travel lanes, any
U.S. or N.C. designated routes, divided highway, or railroad track shall not be
counted when determining the fire hydrant coverage or locational requirements
of this subsection; and
      5.   All premises subject to the state building code where buildings or
portions of buildings are located more than 500 feet from a fire hydrant system
shall be provided with approved on-site fire hydrants and water mains capable
of supplying the fire flow required by the Fire Official. The location and
number of on-site hydrants shall be as designated by the Fire Official
consistent with the criteria in the section below where practicable, with the
minimum arrangement being so as to have a hydrant available for distribution of
hose to any portion (including public hydrants) of any building on the premises
at distances not exceeding 500 feet but in no case shall hose lengths be
greater than 500 feet; provided, however that this subsection does not apply to
one and two family dwellings with or without attached or detached accessory
structures used exclusively by the owner and not subject to use by the public.
   D.   The Town Fire Official shall approve the specific location of all fire
hydrants, in accordance, where practicable, with the following design criteria:
      1.   Relative location to streets: Streets with curb and gutter two to
four feet behind back of curb; streets with ditch section--one foot inside
right-of-way;
      2.   Clear space: Four feet on all sides free of any structures, utility
poles, landscaping planting, or other permanent objects;
      3.   Minimum distance from nonresidential buildings: 40 feet;
      4.   Construction standards and specifications: City of Raleigh Utilities
Department, except that the nozzles still have national standard threads;
      5.   Adequate fire flow and coverage for nonresidential buildings:
Coverage from two hydrants generally required; and
      6.   Maximum distance from a hydrant to any portion of a building: 500
feet (as measured along the hose laying route).
   E.   Provided, however, that the permit-issuing authority may apply either
more restrictive or less restrictive fire hydrant location criteria when it
finds that such deviations are more likely to accomplish the provision of
sufficient fire protection for all buildings within a development.
   F.   Whenever the permit-issuing authority allows or requires a deviation
from the presumptive requirements, the reasons for doing so and the
requirements imposed shall be listed on the permit.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
8.5.  OTHER UTILITIES.
8.5.1.  Electric power.
Every principal use, and every lot within a subdivision shall have available to
it a source of electric power adequate to accommodate the reasonable needs of
such use and every lot within such subdivision. Compliance with this
requirement shall be determined as follows:
   A.   If the use is not a subdivision and is located on a lot served by an
existing power line, and the use can be served by a simple connection (as
opposed to a more complex distribution system, such as would be required in an
apartment complex or shopping center), then no further certification is needed;
and
   B.   If the use is a subdivision or is not located on a lot served by an
existing power line or a substantial internal distribution system, then the
electric utility company must review the proposed plans and certify to the Town
that it can provide service that is adequate to meet the needs of the proposed
use and every lot within the proposed subdivision.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
8.5.2.  Telephone service.
Every principal use and every lot within a subdivision must have available to
it a telephone service cable adequate to accommodate the reasonable needs of
such use or lot. Compliance with this requirement shall be determined as
follows:
   A.   If the use is not a subdivision and is located on a lot that is served
by an existing telephone line and the use can be served by a simple connection
to such line, then no further certification is necessary; and
   B.   If the use is a subdivision, or is not located on a lot served by an
existing telephone line, or will require a substantial internal distribution
system, then the telephone company must review the proposed plans and certify
to the Town that it can provide service that is adequate to meet the needs of
the proposed use and every lot within the proposed subdivision.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
8.5.3.  Underground utilities.
   A.   All electric power lines, (not to include transformers or enclosures
containing electrical equipment such as switches, meters, and capacitors, which
may be pad mounted), telephone, gas distribution, and cable television lines in
subdivisions developed after the effective date of this UDO shall be placed
underground in accordance with the specifications and policies of the
respective utility companies and located in accordance with Town of Garner
Standard Construction Details.
   B.   Whenever an unsubdivided development is hereafter constructed on a lot
that is undeveloped on the effective date of this UDO, then all electric power,
telephone, gas distribution, and cable television lines shall run underground
from the point of connection with the main lines to any structures on the lot
served by those lines. Such lines shall be placed underground in accordance
with the specifications and policies of the respective utility companies.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
8.5.4.  Utilities to be consistent with internal and external development.
   A.   Whenever it can reasonably be anticipated that utility facilities
constructed in one development will be extended to serve other adjacent or
nearby developments, such utility facilities (e.g., water or sewer lines) shall
be located and constructed so that extensions can be made conveniently and
without undue expense or service duplication.
   B.   All utility facilities shall be constructed in such a manner as to
minimize interference with pedestrian or vehicle traffic and to facilitate
maintenance without undue damage to improvements or facilities located within
the development.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
8.5.5.  As-built drawings required.
   A.   Whenever a developer installs or causes to be installed a utility line
in any public right-of-way or easement, the developer shall, as soon as
practical after complete installation furnish the Town with a permanent copy of
a drawing that shows the exact location of such utility lines. Such drawings
must be verified as accurate by an appropriately licensed designer and shall
bear a certificate on the drawing to that effect. Compliance with this
requirement shall be a condition of the continued validity of the permit
authorizing such development.
   B.   If any utility line in any right-of-way is installed by a utility
company, the company shall maintain accurate as-built drawings and shall make
these available to the Town upon request. The Town will maintain as-built
drawings furnished by the developer of all other utilities.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
8.6.  OPEN SPACE AND RECREATIONAL FACILITIES.
8.6.1.  Open space.
   A.   The Town Council finds that, when land is developed for residential
purposes, the public health, safety, and welfare are best served if a portion
of the land so developed remains as common open space. The preservation of such
open space areas serves the following important objectives, to the benefit of
the residents of such developments as well as the general public:
      1.   Preservation of open vistas, providing relief from an urban
landscape;
      2.   Preservation of environmentally sensitive lands;
      3.   Preservation of habitat for wildlife;
      4.   Preservation of historically or archaeologically significant areas;
and
      5.   Provision of areas for passive recreation, such as walking or
jogging.
   B.   For purposes of this section:
      1.   Open space refers to an area that:a.   Is not encumbered with any
substantial structure;
         b.   Is not exclusively devoted to use as a roadway, parking area, or
sidewalk;
         c.   Is not part of any privately owned lot that is used or intended
for use for residential purposes;
         d.   Is private, is legally and practicably accessible to the
residents of the subdivision or development it is designed to serve; and
         e.   If publicly dedicated, is legally and practicably accessible to
the general public.
   C.   Narrow strips of common area that separate lots within a development
from each other, from streets, or from adjoining tracts shall generally not be
regarded as open space within the meaning of this section unless such areas:
      1.   Are at least 50 feet in width and capable of functioning as a
substantial visual buffer; or
      2.   Are configured and improved in a manner acceptable to the permit
issuing authority (e.g. through the installation of trails) in such a way as to
be conducive to actual use for passive recreational purposes (i.e. walking or
jogging) by residents of the development where located.
   D.   The following areas shall be regarded as open space where such areas
satisfy the criteria set forth a.(1), a.(2) and a.(3) of this section:
      1.   Utility easements located outside of street rights-of-way;
      2.   Cemeteries located on a tract prior to its development;
      3.   Areas used for the growing of crops, such as hay, corn, or
vegetables, if and to the extent that such uses occur within an area that is
subject to the control of a homeowners association and the homeowners
association approves such uses; and
      4.   Golf courses as private open space.
   E.   The term "primary conservation areas" shall mean:
      1.   Areas shown as greenways on the adopted Garner Open Space and
Greenways Plan or other applicable policies or plans;
      2.   Wetlands as defined pursuant to Section 404 of the Clean Water Act;
      3.   Floodplains;
      4.   Lakes and ponds; or
      5.   Areas containing slopes greater than 25 percent.
   F.   The term "secondary conservation areas" shall mean:
      1.   Areas containing slopes greater than 15 percent but not more than 25
percent;
      2.   Other areas containing unique vistas or unusual natural features
(such as major rock formations); or
      3.   Other environmentally, historically or archaeologically significant
or unique areas.
   G.   Except as otherwise provided herein, every residential development
shall be developed so that at least ten percent of the total area of the
development remains permanently as open space.
      1.   The Town Council recognizes that, the smaller the development, the
less practical value open space areas set aside under this section may have.
Therefore, developments of less than one acre in overall size shall be exempt
from the open space provisions of this section.
      2.   For purposes of this section, the term "development" refers to the
entire project developed on a single tract or contiguous multiple tracts under
common ownership or control, regardless of whether the development is
constructed in phases or stages.
   H.   If a tract where a residential development is proposed contains any
areas defined above as primary or secondary conservation areas, then such areas
shall be designated as open space, subject to the following:
      1.   In no case shall the developer be required to set aside as open
space more than the minimum required percentage of open space specified in this
section.
      2.   If the development tract contains primary or secondary conservation
areas, then the specific areas to be set aside as open space shall be
determined by the permit issuing authority, with priority given to primary
conservation areas over secondary conservation areas.
      3.   If the total of primary and secondary conservation areas on a
development tract is less than the minimum required percentage of open space
specified in this section, then the choice of additional open space areas to be
set aside to satisfy this minimum percentage shall remain with the developer,
provided the location meets the standards of this UDO.
   I.   Notwithstanding the other provisions of this section, where a developer
agrees to dedicate land to the Town that is intended to be used by the Town for
open space purposes such dedication shall be credited to the developer in
satisfaction of the open space requirements.
(Ord. No. 3558, § 2, 7-7-09; Ord., 3-16-21)
8.6.2.  Park land dedication and fee in-lieu requirement.
   A.   Purpose.
      1.   The Town Council finds that all new residential development places a
demand on existing Town park and recreational facilities and creates the need
for the expansion of existing park and recreation facilities and the
development of new park and recreation facilities.
      2.   The Council further concludes that the need for such new or expanded
parks and recreation facilities is directly related to the number of persons
expected to reside in such new development and is also affected by the housing
type (single-family detached or multifamily and all other residential units) as
well as the extent to which such developments provide their own recreational
facilities.
      3.   The Council concludes that it is appropriate for such new
developments to contribute to the cost of such new or expanded parks and
recreational facilities in a manner that is roughly proportional to the need
generated by such developments either through public dedication of land or by
the payment of fees in-lieu-of dedication.
(Ord. No. 3558, § 2, 7-7-09; Ord., 3-16-21)
8.6.3.  Use of fees.
   A.   The Town Council hereby establishes a park and recreational facilities
capital improvement fund that is distinct from the general fund of the Town,
the purpose of which shall be to accumulate the fees generated by this section.
   B.   The park and recreational facilities capital improvement fund shall
contain only those funds collected pursuant to this section plus any interest
which may accrue from time to time on such amounts.
   C.   The monies in such fund shall be used only for the acquisition of
additional park land or for the construction of new recreational facilities in
areas that will benefit the residents of the development that contributed to
the fund. The Town Council may consider granting a credit against required fee-
in-lieu of parkland dedication when a developer constructs public recreation
facilities dedicated for public use and ownership as part of an approved
residential development provided such facilities are designed and constructed a
manner that is approved by the Town.
   D.   The Town Council may establish more than one fund, and divide the Town
into districts, each served by a separate fund, if the Council concludes that
the establishment of such multiple districts and multiple funds will best serve
the objectives of this section.
(Ord. No. 3558, § 2, 7-7-09; Ord. No. 3801, § 7, 12-7-15; Ord. No. 4031, § 2,
11-19-19; Ord., 3-16-21)
8.6.4.  Dedication or fee-in-lieu.
The procedure for determining if a subdivider is to dedicate land or pay a fee
in-lieu of dedication shall be as follows:
   A.   Subdivider. At the time of filing any subdivision plan, the subdivider
shall, as part of such submission, indicate whether dedication of the property
for park and recreational purposes is proposed, or whether the subdivider
proposes to pay a fee in-lieu thereof. If the subdivider proposes to dedicate
land for this purpose the subdivider shall designate the area thereof on the
master subdivision plan as submitted.
   B.   Action of Town. At the time of the subdivision plat review, the parks
and recreation advisory Committee shall recommend and the Planning Commission
shall determine as a part of its subdivision plat approval, whether to require
a dedication of land within the subdivision, payment of a fee in-lieu thereof
or a combination of both. In cases where there is any disagreement on the
question of dedication or fee in-lieu, the Planning Commission shall refer the
matter to the Town Council for a final decision.
(Ord. No. 3558, § 2, 7-7-09; Ord., 3-16-21)
8.6.5.  Park land dedication.
Where it is determined that park land dedication is appropriate to satisfy the
recreational requirements of the UDO, the amount of the park land to be
dedicated shall be as follows:
 
Housing Type           Acres/Unit
Single-family detached 0.0354
All other residential  0.0287
 
   Acceptance of dedicated park land. The Parks and Recreation Advisory
Committee and the Planning Commission shall have the opportunity to review the
proposed land dedication and recommend on its acceptability within the
guidelines of this UDO and Town plans, and on the preferability of land
dedication or payment of a fee-in-lieu of dedication.
   B.   Required Open Space Cannot be Used by Another Building or Use. No part
of a lot, yard, off-street parking area, or other required open space shall be
reduced below the minimum required by this Ordinance. No part of a lot, yard,
off-street parking area, or other open space required for a building or use
shall be used to satisfy the requirements of another building or use. These
prohibitions shall not be interpreted to prevent the granting of a variance by
the Zoning Board of Adjustment.
   C.   Standards for dedicated park land. All park land proposed for
dedication shall meet the following criteria:
      1.   Unity. The dedicated park land shall form a single parcel of land
except where the Parks and Recreation Advisory Committee recommends, and the
Town Council finds, that two parcels or more would be in the public interest.
Where two or more parcels exist, any connecting path or strip of land shall not
be less than 30 feet in width.
      2.   Shape. The shape of the dedicated parcel of land shall be a shape to
be sufficiently usable for recreational activities generally associated with a
public recreation park.
      3.   Location. The dedicated land shall be located so as to reasonably
serve the recreation area needs of the development and surrounding area for
which the dedication was made.
      4.   Access. Public access to the dedicated land shall be provided either
by adjoining street frontage or public easement at least 30 feet in width.
      5.   Topography. Slope on areas dedicated for parks shall not exceed five
percent.
      6.   Utility. The dedicated land shall be usable for active recreation,
or could be improved so as to be so usable without exceeding the amount of the
fee in-lieu.
      7.   Consistency with adopted plans. The acceptance of dedication shall
be consistent with the officially adopted open space and greenway plan, parks
and recreation master plan or other applicable policies or plans.
(Ord. No. 3558, § 2, 7-7-09; Ord., 3-16-21)
8.6.6.  Fee-in-lieu of dedication.
   A.   Where determined appropriate, all residential development shall pay a
fee-in-lieu of dedication to the Town in an amount equal to the fee set
annually by the Town Council in the miscellaneous fees and charges schedule
based on the number of dwelling units in the proposed development.
   B.   The amount of the fee-in-lieu shall not exceed the cost per acre to
acquire new park land multiplied by the acreage demand per housing unit, as set
forth in Article
8.4.B.4.
   C.   Fees-in-lieu are payable at the time of building permit issuance.
(Ord. No. 3558, § 2, 7-7-09; Ord. No. 3723, § 1, 12-17-13; Ord. No. 4031, § 3,
11-19-19; Ord., 3-16-21)
8.6.7.  Prerequisites for approval of final plat.
   A.   Where park land dedication is required, such dedication shall be shown
on the final plat for the subdivision submitted for approval.
   B.   Where a fee in-lieu is required, the fee in-lieu shall be deposited
with the Town before issuance of a building permit.
   C.   Covenants for private open space areas shall be submitted to the Town
prior to approval of the final plat and shall be recorded with the final plat.
(Ord. No. 3558, § 2, 7-7-09; Ord., 3-16-21)
8.6.8.  Refunds.
Any monies in the park and recreational facilities capital improvement fund
that have not been spent within ten years after the date on which such fee was
paid shall be returned to the current owners with any accumulated interest
since the date of payment.
   A.   Notice of the right to a refund, including the amount of the refund and
the procedure for applying for and receiving the refund, shall be sent or
served in writing to the present owners of the property within 30 days of the
date the refund becomes due. The sending by regular mail of the notices to all
present owners of record shall be sufficient to satisfy the requirement of
notice.
   B.   The refund shall be made on a pro rata basis, and shall be paid in full
within 90 days of the date certain upon which the refund becomes due.
(Ord. No. 3558, § 2, 7-7-09; Ord., 3-16-21)
8.6.9.  Private ownership and maintenance.
   A.   Recreational facilities or open space not dedicated to the Town shall
remain under the ownership and control of the developer (or his successor) or a
homeowners' association or similar organization. Such recreational facilities
and open space shall be made available to all residents of the development
where they are located under reasonable rules and regulations established to
encourage and govern the use of such facilities and open space by the residents
without payment of separate optional fees or charges other than membership fees
in a homeowners' association. Such facilities and open space may be made
available to a limited extent on a fee basis to persons who are not residents
of the development where such facilities or open space are located, so long as
such use does not become so extensive as to remove the facilities and open
space from the category of an accessory use to a residential development and
transform the use to a separate principal use classification.
   B.   The person or entity identified in subsection 1. as having the right of
ownership and control over such recreational facilities and open space shall be
responsible for the continuing upkeep and proper maintenance of the same.
   C.   Homeowners' associations or similar legal entities that are responsible
for the maintenance and control of common areas, including recreational
facilities and open space, shall be established in such a manner that:
      1.   Provisions for the establishment of the association or similar
entity is made before any lot in the development is sold or any building
occupied;
      2.   The association or similar legal entity has clear legal authority to
maintain and exercise control over such common areas and facilities;
      3.   The association or similar legal entity has the power to compel
contributions from residents of the development to cover their proportionate
shares of the costs associated with the maintenance and upkeep of such common
areas and facilities; and
      4.   The association will establish a capital fund for the maintenance
and upkeep of common areas and facilities and a method of contributing to that
fund which will spread the costs of said maintenance and upkeep to the
residents over a number of years.
(Ord. No. 3558, § 2, 7-7-09; Ord., 3-16-21)
8.7.  SUBDIVISION DEDICATION REQUIREMENTS.
8.7.1.  Plat approval does not constitute acceptance of dedication offers.
   Pursuant to G.S. § 160D-806, plat approval does not constitute acceptance by
the Town of the offer of dedication of any public facilities shown on a plat.
However, the Town may accept any such offer of dedication by resolution of the
Town Council or by actually exercising control over and maintaining such
facilities.
(Ord. No. 3558, § 2, 7-7-09; Ord., 3-16-21)
8.7.2.  Protection against defects.
   A.   Whenever occupancy, use or sale is allowed prior to completion of all
publicly dedicated facilities and improvements, the performance bond or surety
posted pursuant to section 8.6.A shall guarantee correction by the developer of
any defects in such improvements or facilities that appear within one year.
   B.   Whenever all publicly dedicated facilities and improvements are
installed before occupancy, use, or sale is authorized, then the developer
shall post a performance bond or other sufficient surety to guarantee that he
will correct all defects in such facilities or improvements that occur within
one year after use, occupancy or sale is authorized.
   C.   An architect, landscape architect, or engineer retained by the
developer shall certify to the Town that all facilities and improvements to be
dedicated to the Town have been constructed in accordance with the requirements
of the ordinance. This certification shall be a condition precedent to
acceptance by the Town of the offer of dedication of such facilities or
improvements.
   D.   For purposes of this section, the term defects refers to any condition
that requires the Town to make repairs in such facilities over and above the
normal amount of maintenance that they would require. If such defects appear,
the guaranty may be enforced regardless of whether the facilities or
improvements were constructed in accordance with the requirements of this UDO.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
8.7.3.  Maintenance of dedicated areas until acceptance.
All facilities and improvements with respect to which the owner makes an offer
of dedication to public use shall be maintained by the owner until such offer
is accepted by the appropriate public authority.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
8.8.  IMPROVEMENT GUARANTEES.
8.8.1.  Performance guarantee to ensure compliance with subdivision or other
approval.
   A.   There may be cases when it would be unreasonable to require the permit
recipient to comply with all UDO requirements before commencing the intended
use of the property or occupying any buildings or selling lots in a
subdivision, such as weather conditions or other factors beyond the control of
the permit recipient (exclusive of financial hardship). In these cases, the
Town of Garner may authorize such commencement or occupancy or sale if the
permit recipient provides a performance guarantee or other security of 125
percent of the costs of the remaining improvements satisfactory to the Town to
ensure that all of these requirements will be fulfilled within not more than
one year.
   B.   When the Town of Garner imposes additional requirements upon the
developer or when the permittee proposes to install amenities beyond those
required by this UDO, the Town may authorize the permittee to commence the
intended use, occupy any building, or sell any subdivision lots before the
additional requirements are fulfilled or the amenities installed if it
specifies a date or a schedule by which such requirements must be met or each
amenity installed and if it concludes that compliance will be ensured as the
result of any one or more of the following:
      1.   A commercial letter of credit, or a certified check satisfactory to
the Town of Garner is furnished;
      2.   A condition is imposed establishing an automatic expiration date on
the permit, thereby ensuring that the permit recipient's compliance will be
reviewed when application for renewal is made; and
      3.   The nature of the requirements or amenities is such that sufficient
assurance of compliance is given by Article 10.
   C.   With respect to subdivisions in which the permittee is selling only
undeveloped lots, the Planning Director may authorize final plat approval
before all of the requirements of this UDO are fulfilled if the permittee
provides a commercial letter of credit or certified check satisfactory to the
Town of Garner to ensure that all of these requirements will be fulfilled
within not more than 12 months after final plat approval.
   D.   In no case shall an improvement guarantee that reduces public safety be
approved in place of the actual improvement.
   E.   The final plat for a single phase subdivision (i.e. a plat that is
recorded as a single unit and is not one that will be recorded in multiple
phases) shall have a minimum of 10 lots withheld from plat recordation until
such time as all remaining improvements have been satisfactorily installed in a
manner acceptable to the Town of Garner. The last final plat of a multiple
phase subdivision shall be withheld from plat recordation until such time as
all remaining improvements have been satisfactorily installed in a manner
acceptable to the Town of Garner.
(Ord. No. 3376, § 13, 1-17-06; Ord., 3-16-21)
8.8.2.  Performance guarantee.
There may be cases when it would be unreasonable to require the applicant to
comply with all of the requirements of this UDO prior to commencing the
intended use of the property or occupying any buildings, such as weather
conditions or other factors beyond the control of the permit recipient
(exclusive of financial hardship). In these cases, the Planning Director may
authorize commencement of the intended use or occupancy of buildings if the
permit recipient provides a commercial letter of credit or certified check of
125 percent of the cost of the remaining improvement satisfactory to the
Planning Director to ensure that all UDO requirements will be fulfilled within
not more than 12 months.
(Ord. No. 3376, § 13, 1-17-06; Ord., 3-16-21)
8.8.3.  Roads intended to be accepted by N.C. DOT.
Any road intended to be accepted by the North Carolina Department of
Transportation (N.C. DOT) shall meet the following requirements:
   A.   An encroachment agreement with N.C. DOT for all utilities is required
prior to the Town issuing a building permit for any more than 25 percent of the
lots in the phase of the subdivision currently under construction.
   B.   The road must be accepted by N.C. DOT prior to the Town issuing a
building permit for any more than 70 percent of the lots in the phase of the
subdivision currently under construction.
(Ord. No. 3376, § 13, 1-17-06; Ord., 3-16-21)
8.8.4.  As-built and engineers' certificates submittals.
For projects that involve infrastructure construction or stormwater best
management practices (BMPs), as-built construction surveys and engineer's
certification of the infrastructure and stormwater BMPs are required. Submittal
of acceptable as-built surveys and engineer's certificate, as determined by the
Town Engineer, shall conform to the following schedule:
   A.   Water and/or sewer as-builts and an engineer's certificate must be
submitted and accepted prior to the Town issuing a building permit for any more
than 70 percent of the lots in the phase of a subdivision currently under
construction.
   B.   Water and/or sewer as-builts and an engineer's certificate must be
submitted and accepted prior to the Town issuing any certificate of occupancy.
   C.   Streets and/or stormwater as-builts and an engineer's certificate must
be submitted and accepted prior to the Town issuing a building permit for any
more than 70 percent of the lots in the phase of a subdivision currently under
construction.
   D.   For single building site plans, stormwater as-builts and an engineer's
certificate must be submitted and accepted prior to the Town issuing a
certificate of occupancy.
   E.   For multiple building site plans, stormwater as-builts and an
engineer's certificate must be submitted and accepted prior to the Town issuing
a certificate of occupancy for more than 70 percent of the buildings shown on
the site plan.
(Ord. No. 3376, § 13, 1-17-06; Ord. No. 3502, § 3, 3-3-08; Ord., 3-16-21)
ARTICLE 9.  NONCONFORMITIES
   
9.1.   Purpose and Intent.
   
9.2.   Definitions.
      
9.2.1.   Abandoned.
      
9.2.2.   Discontinued.
      
9.2.3.   Intent to resume.
   
9.3.   Nonconforming Uses.
      
9.3.1.   Normal maintenance and repair.
      
9.3.2.   Extension or alteration.
      
9.3.3.   Change in use .
      
9.3.4.   Single-family residential nonconforming uses.
      
9.3.5.   Continuation of accessory use.
      
9.3.6.   Discontinuance and abandonment.
   
9.4.   Nonconforming Structures.
      
9.4.1.   Normal maintenance and repair.
      
9.4.2.   Alteration or additions.
      
9.4.3.   Reconstruction.
      
9.4.4.   Unsafe building or structure.
      
9.4.5.   Discontinuance and abandonment.
   
9.5.   Nonconforming Lots of Record.
      
9.5.1.   Applicability.
      
9.5.2.   Uses.
      
9.5.3.   Setback requirements.
      
9.5.4.   Setback hardship.
      
9.5.5.   Governmental acquisition of land.
      
9.5.6.   Contiguous nonconforming lots.
   
9.6.   Nonconforming Signs.
      
9.6.1.   Normal maintenance and repair.
      
9.6.2.   Enlargement or alteration.
      
9.6.3.   Discontinuation of business.
      
9.6.4.   Billboards on federal aid highways.
   
9.7.   Nonconforming Site Elements.
      
9.7.1.   Reduction of nonconformity.
      
9.7.2.   Applicability matrix.
      
9.7.3.   Compliance.
9.1.   PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   There exist within the Town of Garner uses of land, structures, lots, site
elements, and signs that were lawfully established prior to the date of
adoption of this UDO, but that no longer conform to the standards of this UDO.
It is the intent of this UDO to move nonconformities in the direction of
conformity (wherever possible), permit nonconformities to continue until they
are removed (where necessary), and not to encourage their survival except under
the limited circumstances established in this article. The Planning Director
may require conformance with specific provisions of this UDO where deemed
necessary to resolve immediate or pending public safety concerns. The intent of
this Article in resolving and bringing uses, structures, and activities into
conformance with this UDO is to protect the public health safety and welfare.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
9.2.   DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this Article and discussing nonconformities, the
following definitions shall apply:
9.2.1.   Abandoned.
   To cease, either intentionally or unintentionally, from actively using land,
structures, or any premises for the intended or previous use , but excluding
temporary periods of inactivity due to remodeling, maintaining, or otherwise
improving a facility. Abandonment is often referenced to a specified time
period.
   This definition includes "abandon", "abandonment", and any other tense or
version of the word "abandoned."
9.2.2.   Discontinued.
   To quit or cease, either intentionally or unintentionally, operation or
activity associated with a use of land, structures, or any premises from their
intended or previous use or to replace the previous use with a new use of a
different kind or class. A change of occupancy, owner, or tenant does not
constitute a discontinuance or change of use .
   This definition includes "discontinue", "discontinuance", "ceased" (as it
refers to a use, and any other tense or version of the word "discontinued."
9.2.3.   Intent to Resume.
   An "intent to resume" a use , operations, or activities may be demonstrated
through continuous operation of a portion of the facility, by the maintenance
of water, sewer, electric, and other utility service (as appropriate), or by
other outside documentation such as proof of deliveries.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
9.3.   NONCONFORMING USES.
9.3.1.   Normal Maintenance and Repair.
   Normal maintenance or repair of structures where nonconforming uses are
located may be performed in any consecutive twelve-month period, to an extent
not exceeding 33% of the current assessed value of the structure. Such
maintenance and repair shall not be allowed to increase the usable space of the
structure occupied by the nonconforming use , except pursuant to this section.
9.3.2.   Extension or Alteration.
   A.   A nonconforming use may be extended throughout any portion of a
completed building that, when the use was made nonconforming by this UDO, was
manifestly designed or arranged to accommodate such use . However, a
nonconforming use may not be extended to additional buildings or to land
outside the original building .
   B.   A nonconforming use of open land may not be extended to cover more land
than was occupied by that use when it became nonconforming, except that a use
involving the removal of natural materials (e.g., a quarry) may be expanded to
the boundaries of the lot where the use was established at the time it became
nonconforming if ten percent or more of the earth products had already been
removed at the effective date of this UDO.
   C.   For full description of standards for alterations or additions, see
Figure 9.6-A.
9.3.3.   Change in Use.
   A nonconforming use may be changed, modified, or expanded to any permitted
use (s) in the subject district. The affected property may not then revert to a
nonconforming use .
9.3.4.   Single-Family Residential Nonconforming Uses.
   A structure used for a single-family residence and maintained as a
nonconforming use may be enlarged or replaced with a similar structure of a
larger size, so long as new nonconformities or an increase in the extent of
existing nonconformities, such as parking requirements,  are not created.
9.3.5.   Continuation of Accessory Use.
   No use that is accessory to a principal nonconforming use shall continue
after such principal use has discontinued, ceased, been abandoned, or
terminated unless it conforms to all provisions of this UDO.
9.3.6.   Discontinuance and Abandonment.
   A.   A nonconforming use shall be presumed to be discontinued and abandoned,
shall lose its nonconforming status, and shall not be reestablished or resumed
and thereafter be used only for conforming purposes, when any of the following
has occurred:
      1.   The owner has indicated intent to abandon the use , delivered in
writing to the Planning Director .
      2.   When a nonconforming use is abandoned or discontinued for a
consecutive 180-day period or for a total of (180) calendar days in a 12-month
period.
      3.   At the point when the electric meter is pulled off or water service
or other public utility service is terminated on a structure or lot due to any
reason, provided that it is not replaced or reactivated within the 180-day
period immediately following.
   B.   When a use or use of land made nonconforming by adoption of this UDO is
vacant or discontinued at the effective date of this UDO, the 180-day period
begins to run at that date.
   C.   All of the buildings, activities, and operations maintained on a lot
are generally to be considered as a whole in determining whether a right to
continue a nonconforming situation is lost pursuant to this section. However,
if a nonconforming use is maintained in conjunction with a conforming use,
discontinuance of a nonconforming use for the required period shall terminate
the right to maintain it thereafter.
   Commentary: For example, the failure to rent one apartment in a
nonconforming apartment building for 180 days shall not result in a loss of the
right to rent that apartment or space thereafter so long as the apartment
building as whole is continuously maintained.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
9.4.   NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES.
9.4.1.   Normal Maintenance and Repair.
   Normal maintenance or repair of nonconforming structures may be performed in
any consecutive twelve-month period, to an extent not exceeding 33% of the
current assessed value of the structure. Such maintenance and repair shall not
be allowed to increase the usable space of the structure, except pursuant to
this section.
9.4.2.   Alteration or Additions.
   Alterations or additions to a nonconforming building or structure may be
permitted as long as the alterations or additions do not increase the
nonconformity of the structure related to the building setback line, height
limitations, yard or other provisions regulating the size and placement of
buildings and structures for the district in which the nonconforming structure
is located. For full description of standards for alterations or additions, see
Figure 9.7-A: Required Site Element Upfits.
9.4.3.   Reconstruction.
   A.   Nonresidential Structures.
      1.   If a nonresidential building or structure, including any accessory
structures, is damaged by reason of fire, flood , explosion, earthquake, or
other extraordinary circumstance, may be repaired, reconstructed, and used as
before if the damage does not exceed 50 percent of its replacement value as
determined by the Building Official, and if the repairs and reconstruction are
done within 12 months from the time such damage occurred. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, no illegal use shall be re-established.
      2.   If a nonresidential building or structure, including any accessory
structures, is damaged and if such damage is greater than 50 percent of its
replacement value as determined by the Building Official, such building or
structure may only be reconstructed to conform with the standards in the
district in which it is situated.
   B.   Residential Structures.
      1.   If a residential building or structure, including any accessory
structures, is damaged by reason of fire, flood , explosion, earthquake, or
other extraordinary circumstance, it may be repaired, reconstructed, and used
as before if the damage does not exceed fifty (50) percent of its replacement
value as determined by the Building Official, and if the repairs and
reconstruction are done within twelve (12) months from the time such damage
occurred.
      2.   If a residential building or structure (including any accessory
structure) is damaged greater than fifty (50) percent of its replacement value
as determined by the Building Official, such building or structure may be
repaired, reconstructed, and used as before if the repairs and reconstruction
are done within twelve (12) months from the time such damage occurred.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, no illegal use shall be re-established.
9.4.4.   Unsafe Building or Structure.
   If a nonconforming building or structure or portion thereof is declared to
be an unsafe structure per G.S. § 160D-1119, it shall thereafter be rebuilt
only in conformance with the standards of this UDO and the building code.
9.4.5.   Discontinuance and Abandonment.
   A.   When a structure made nonconforming by this UDO is vacant or
discontinued at the effective date of this UDO, the 180-day period begins to
run at that date.
   B.   If such nonconforming structure on a property is abandoned for a period
of 180 consecutive days, any subsequent use of that property shall conform to
current zoning district regulations. See
9.2.1. for full definition of abandonment.
   C.   All of the buildings, activities and operations maintained on a lot are
generally to be considered as a whole in determining whether a right to
continue a nonconforming situation is lost pursuant to this section.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
9.5.   NONCONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD.
9.5.1.   Applicability.
   This section applies only to undeveloped nonconforming lots of record. A lot
is undeveloped if it has no substantial structures upon it. A change in use of
a developed nonconforming lot may be accomplished in accordance with Section
9.2.3.
9.5.2.   Uses.
   When a nonconforming lot can be used in conformity with all of the
regulations applicable to the intended use , except that the lot is smaller
than the required minimum set forth in
Article 6, then the lot may be used just as if it were conforming. However, no
use that requires a greater than minimum lot size for a particular zone is
permissible on a nonconforming lot .
9.5.3.   Setback Requirements.
   When the use proposed for a nonconforming lot is one that is conforming in
all other respects but the applicable setback requirements located in Article 6
cannot reasonably be complied with, then the entity authorized to issue a
permit for the proposed use may allow deviations from the setback requirements
if it finds that:
   A.   The property cannot reasonably be developed for the use proposed
without such deviations;
   B.   These deviations are necessitated by the size or shape of the
nonconforming lot ; and
   C.   The property can be developed as proposed without any significantly
adverse impact on surrounding properties or the public health or safety.
9.5.4.   Setback Hardship.
   For purposes of Section
9.5.3, compliance with applicable building setback requirements is not
reasonably possible if a building serving the minimal needs of the proposed use
cannot practicably be constructed and located on the lot in conformity with
setback requirements. Financial hardship does not constitute grounds for
finding that compliance is not reasonably possible.
9.5.5.   Governmental Acquisition of Land.
   A lot , established under the provisions of this or previous town zoning
ordinance, that is reduced in size by governmental action, such as acquisition
for a right-of-way or other governmental use , shall not render the lot
nonconforming.
9.5.6.   Contiguous Nonconforming Lots.
   If, on the effective date of this UDO, an undeveloped nonconforming lot
adjoins and has continuous frontage with one or more other undeveloped lots
under the same ownership, then the provisions of this section cannot be taken
advantage of and the undeveloped lots shall be considered as one lot . This
shall not apply if a majority of the developed lots on either side of the
street and within 500 feet of the undeveloped lot are also similarly
nonconforming.
   Commentary: The intent of this subsection is to require nonconforming lots
to be combined with other undeveloped lots to create conforming lots under the
circumstances specified herein, but not to require such combination when that
would be out of character with the way the existing neighborhood has been
developed.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
9.6.   NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
      59.6.  NONCONFORMING SIGNS.      It is the intent of this section to
provide a reasonable time for the elimination of nonconforming signs and sign
structures. The provisions of this section shall apply to nonconforming signs.
Nonconforming signs may remain in use , subject to the regulations of this
section and all other applicable requirements.
9.6.1.   Normal Maintenance and Repair.
   A.   Nonconforming signs may be repaired or renovated as long as the cost of
such work does not exceed, within a twelve-month period, 33% of the value of
such sign . A permit for such renovation or repair is required. Proof of value
is required at the time of permit.
   B.   The message of a nonconforming sign (sign face) may be changed, so long
as a change in use has not occurred. If a change in use occurs, the sign must
be brought into full conformity with this UDO.
9.6.2.   Enlargement or Alteration.
   A.   No nonconforming sign shall be enlarged or altered in any manner that
results in a greater degree of nonconformity.
   B.   No modification of the structure of any nonconforming sign shall be
permitted, except to bring the sign into conformity.
   C.   Illumination may not be added to a nonconforming sign that previously
was unilluminated.
9.6.3.   Discontinuation of Business.
   If a nonconforming sign other than a billboard advertises a business,
service, commodity, accommodation, attraction or other enterprise or activity
no longer operating or being offered or conducted, that sign shall be
considered abandoned and shall be removed within 90 days after such abandonment
by the sign owner, property owner or other person having control of the
property.
9.6.4.   Billboards on Federal Aid Highways.
   Billboards on federal aid highways are protected by the State and Federal
Highway Beautification Acts and cannot be amortized and can be removed only
upon payment of just compensation as defined by those Acts.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
9.7.   NONCONFORMING SITE ELEMENTS.
   A nonconforming site element is a site improvement that is required as part
of an approval but does not exist, or was existing or lawfully established
prior to this UDO being adopted or amended. Site elements include, but are not
limited to access, parking, pedestrian amenities, landscaping, signage, and
lighting.
9.7.1.   Reduction of Nonconformity.
   No nonconforming site element shall be erected, replaced, or modified except
to reduce or eliminate the nonconformity. Repair and maintenance of
nonconforming site elements is permitted.
   Commentary 01/01/2021: Previous interpretations have ruled that upper floor
additions to structures can be constructed within the current (nonconforming)
building footprint, provided all other criteria are met.
9.7.2.   Applicability Matrix.
   Notwithstanding other portions of this Article, the following table
summarizes the minimum requirements that shall be met when there are changes to
existing nonconforming development and/or to nonconforming structures or uses.
A √ indicates that compliance with all applicable standards of this UDO is
required.
Figure 9.7-A: Required Site Element Upfits
                       Sidewalks,
 Dimensional Building  Street     Tree         Parking Lot Buffers & Outdoor
 Standards   Design    Trees, &   Protection & Landscaping Screening Lighting
             Standards Curb-and-  Landscaping
                       Gutter
                                     Sidewalks, Tree
               Dimensional Building  Street     Protection  Parking Lot Buffers & Outdoor
               Standards   Design    Trees, &   &           Landscaping Screening Lighting
                           Standards Curb-and-  Landscaping
                                     Gutter
Existing Development
Change of Use
(from
residential to             √       √        √         √         √       √
nonresidential
or mixed use)
Parking Area Expansion
Less than 12
Spaces or <                          √        √         √         √       √
40% of Paved
Area(a)
Expansion of >
40% of Paved                         √        √         √         √       √
Area or 12
Spaces or More
Building Expansion and/or Reconstruction
< 50% of
Existing Floor √(a, b)   √(c)                                                 √(a)
Area
> 50% of
Existing Floor √(a, b)   √(c)    √        √         √         √       √
Area
Notes:
(a)   For expanded/reconstructed portion only. For sidewalks and curb-and-gutter, this
includes any areas of abutting right-of-way.
(b)   Exception: Maximum front setback should be met to the extent practical as determined
by the Board of Adjustment.
For expansions, reconstruction areas and all other walls facing public streets.
 
9.7.3.   Compliance.
   If all site elements cannot be brought into compliance with the current
requirements of this Chapter for reasons which include, but are not limited to
site layout, space limitations, tree preservation, or other natural features,
the Board of Adjustment may approve a Variance to deviate from site element
dimensional requirements so long as the modifications to the elements are
moving in the direction of conformity with the provisions of this Chapter.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
ARTICLE 10.  ENFORCEMENT
   
10.1.   Violations.
      
10.1.1.   Development without permit.
      
10.1.2.   Development inconsistent with permit.
      
10.1.3.   Violation by act or omission.
      
10.1.4.   Use in violation.
      
10.1.5.   Subdivide in violation.
      
10.1.6.   Continue a violation.
   
10.2.   Enforcement by Planning Director .
      
10.2.1.   Complaints regarding violations.
      
10.2.2.   Procedures upon discovery of violations.
   
10.3.   Penalties for Violation.
      
10.3.1.   Persons liable.
      
10.3.2.   Penalties and remedies for violation.
      
10.3.3.   Permit revocation.
      
10.3.4.   Stop work order.
   
10.4.   Special Enforcement of Landscaping Requirements.
      
10.4.1.   Completion of work prior to certificate of occupancy required.
      
10.4.2.   Procedures and penalties regarding replacing dead plant material.
10.1.   VIOLATIONS.
   Pursuant to G.S. ' 160D Article 4, any violation of the standards,
procedures, and regulations of this UDO shall be subject to the enforcement
remedies and penalties provided by this Article and by state law. The following
are violations of this UDO, including but not limited to:
10.1.1.  Development without Permit.
   To engage in any development , use , construction , remodeling, or other
activity of any nature upon land or improvements thereon subject to the
jurisdiction of this UDO without all required permits, certificates, or other
forms of authorization as set forth in this UDO.
10.1.2.  Development Inconsistent with Permit.
   To engage in any development , use , construction , remodeling, or other
activity of any nature in any way inconsistent with any approved plan, permit,
certificate, or other form of authorization granted for such activity.
10.1.3.  Violation by Act or Omission.
   To violate, by act or omission, any term, variance , modification,
condition, or qualification of any required permit, certificate, or other form
of authorization for the use , development , or other activity upon land or
improvements thereon.
10.1.4.  Use in Violation.
   To erect, construct, reconstruct, alter, repair, convert, maintain, or use
any building or structure or to use any land in violation or contravention of
this UDO or any other regulation made under the authority conferred thereby.
10.1.5.  Subdivide in Violation.
To subdivide land in violation of this UDO or transfer or sell land by
reference to, exhibition of, or any other use of a plat or map showing a
subdivision of the land before the plat or map has been properly approved under
this UDO and recorded in the office of the county register of deeds. The
description by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer or other document
used in the process of selling or transferring land does not exempt the
transaction from violation of this UDO.
10.1.6.  Continue a Violation.
   To continue any of the above violations is a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
10.2.  ENFORCEMENT BY PLANNING DIRECTOR.
   The Planning Director is responsible for investigating, inspecting, and
enforcing the standards of this UDO.
10.2.1.  Complaints Regarding Violations.
   A.   Whenever the Planning Director receives a written complaint alleging a
violation of this UDO, he/she shall investigate the complaint, take such action
as is warranted, and inform the complainant in writing what actions have been
or will be taken.
   B.   The Planning Director may investigate violations of this UDO on their
own initiative or upon receipt of complaints (oral, written, or otherwise).
10.2.2.  Procedures upon Discovery of Violations.
   A.   If any provision of this UDO is being violated, a written notice of
violation shall be issued, pursuant to G.S. ' 160D-404, indicating the nature
of the violation, ordering the action necessary to correct it, and associated
deadlines and penalties.
   B.   The final written notice of violation (and the initial written notice
may be the final notice) shall state what action is intended if the violation
is not corrected and shall advise that the order may be appealed to the Board
of Adjustment, pursuant to G.S. ' 160D-405. A civil penalty may not be appealed
to the Board of Adjustment if the offender was sent a final notice and did not
take an appeal to the Board of Adjustment within the prescribed time.
   C.   If the owner or occupant of a property does not appeal and fails to
correct the violation or if the owner or occupant of a property fails to
correct the violation after a final Board of Adjustment decision upholding the
administrative action, the owner or occupant shall be subject to such remedies
and penalties as authorized in Section
10.3.
   D.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, in cases where delay would seriously
threaten the effective enforcement of this UDO or pose a danger to the public
health, safety, or welfare, the Planning Director may seek enforcement without
prior written notice by invoking any of the penalties or remedies authorized in
Section
10.3.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
10.3.  PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION.
10.3.1.  Persons Liable.
   The owner, tenant or occupant of any building , land or part thereof and any
architect, builder, contractor, agent or other person who participates in,
assists, directs, creates or maintains any situation contrary to the
requirements of this UDO may be held responsible for the violation, suffer the
penalties and be subject to the remedies herein provided.
10.3.2.  Penalties and Remedies for Violation.
   A.   A violation or failure to comply with any of the provisions or
requirements of the UDO, including a violation of any of the conditions and
safeguards established in connection with grants of variances or special use
permits, shall constitute a misdemeanor punishable as provided in G.S. ' 14-4.
   B.   Violation or failure to comply with any of the provisions or
requirements of this UDO, including a violation of any conditions and
safeguards established in connection with the grants of variances or special
use permits, shall also subject the offender to a civil penalty of $50.00 for
the first violation. If the offender fails to pay this penalty within ten days
after being cited for a violation, the penalty may be recovered by the Town in
a civil action in the nature of debt.
   C.   Each day a violation continues after notification by the Planning
Director that such violation exists shall be considered a separate offense for
purposes of the penalties and remedies specified in this article.
   D.   If a civil penalty is assessed after January 1, 2003, for an offense or
series of related offenses as described above, and the property is brought into
compliance with this UDO, but the same person , firm, or corporation repeats
the offending activity, the civil penalty shall be increased to $100.00 for the
second violation, $200.00 for the third violation, and $500.00 for the fourth
and each succeeding violation.
   E.   This UDO may also be enforced by any appropriate equitable action. Any
one, all, or any combination of the foregoing penalties and remedies may be
used to enforce this UDO. To the extent that North Carolina law may limit the
availability of a particular remedy set forth herein for a certain violation or
a part thereof, such remedy shall remain available for other violations or
other parts of the same violation.
10.3.3.  Permit Revocation.
   A.   A permit issued under this UDO shall be revoked if the permit recipient
fails to develop or maintain the property in accordance with the plans
submitted, the requirements of this UDO, or any additional requirements
lawfully imposed by the permit-issuing authority.
   B.   Before a permit may be revoked, all of the notice, hearing, and other
requirements of Article 3, shall be met. The notice shall inform the permit
recipient of the alleged grounds for the revocation.
   C.   The burden of presenting evidence sufficient to allow the permit-
issuing authority to conclude that a permit should be revoked shall be upon the
party advocating that position. The burden of persuasion shall also be upon
that party.
   D.   A motion to revoke a permit shall cite, insofar as practical, the
specific reasons or findings of fact that support the motion. Such motion is
adopted if passed by a majority vote, a quorum being present.
   E.   No person may continue to make use of land or buildings in the manner
authorized by any permit authorized by this UDO after such permit has been
revoked.
10.3.4.  Stop Work Order.
   Whenever there is a land disturbing activity and/or a building , structure,
sign , or part thereof is being constructed, reconstructed, altered, or
repaired in violation of this UDO, the Planning Director  may order the
specific part of the work in violation of this UDO to be immediately stopped.
See G.S. ' 160D-404(b) for full procedures regarding stop work orders.
   A.   A stop work order issued under this section shall be in writing,
directed to the person doing the work and shall state the specific work to be
stopped, the specific reasons therefore, and the conditions under which the
work may be resumed. A copy of the stop work order shall also be sent forthwith
to the owner of the property where the work is taking place and the developer ,
if different from the owner.
   B.   Any person aggrieved by the issuance of a stop work order may appeal
the issuance of the order to the Board of Adjustment pursuant to
Article 3. However, an appeal shall not stay the operation of the stop work
order except as provided in the following paragraph of this section.
   C.   The Board of Adjustment shall meet and act upon the appeal within 15
working days after the receipt of the appeal notice. If the Board fails to
comply with this requirement, the stop work order shall be stayed automatically
beginning on the day following the expiration of the 15-working-day period, and
the stay shall remain in effect until the Board of Adjustment meets and acts on
the appeal.
   D.   The notice of hearing requirements set forth in Article 3 shall not
apply to appeals of stop work orders. However, the staff shall notify the
applicant of the date, time and place of the hearing as soon as it has been
scheduled and shall send to the appellant a written confirmation of this notice
as soon as possible.
   E.   Neither the person whom a stop work order is served nor an owner or
developer served with a copy under paragraph 1. above, may thereafter cause,
suffer, or permit a violation of the order while it remains in effect, except
during a period in which the operation of the order is stayed under paragraph
3., above.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
10.4.  SPECIAL ENFORCEMENT OF LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS.
10.4.1.  Completion of Work prior to Certificate of Occupancy Required.
   Pursuant to G.S. ' 160D-804.1, prior to issuance of a certificate of zoning
compliance or a certificate of occupancy, all required landscape plantings and
site elements must be installed and related work completed as indicated on the
final, approved landscape and/or site plan. In periods of adverse weather
conditions, a performance guarantee for 125 percent of the cost of installation
of landscaping and other uncompleted site work or site elements, determined by
the executed contract, will be accepted to allow the certificate of zoning
compliance to be issued. Completion of the work must be completed by a
prescribed time or the performance guarantee shall be called and the work
completed by the Town of Garner or by a designated contractor. This optional
means of temporary compliance shall not be available if the site is substandard
in terms of any life safety, emergency services, or fire safety concerns or
does not have adequate parking or pedestrian ingress/egress.
10.4.2.  Procedures and Penalties Regarding Replacing Dead Plant Material.
   A.   Upon notice by certified mail from the Planning Department regarding
replacement of dead plant material, an offender shall have 10 business days to
respond with a plan of action that includes a replacement planting plan
designating the numbers, types, sizes and locations of replacement plants; an
estimated date of completion of plant installation; and an agreed-upon date for
a site inspection of the completed work.
   B.   Failure by the offender to respond to the written notice from the Town
within the aforementioned 10-day period may result in a $100.00 per tree and
$50.00 per shrub per day of violation commencing on the eleventh day.
   C.   Replacement plantings shall be inch for inch replacement with the
smallest tree being 22-inch diameter-at-breast-height (DBH). If there is not
enough land area available without destroying or endangering existing healthy
and savable plants or if there is not a suitable location on site which can be
agreed upon by the Town and the offender, then a payment in lieu may be made by
the offender. This payment will be based upon current market price for
materials installed and warranted as determined by the Town of Garner.
   D.   Replacement vegetation as required by this UDO shall be installed by
the offender within 30 days after the date the replacement planting plan is
approved by the Planning Department. Failure to comply with this requirement
subjects the offender to these penalty provisions. If the 30-day period falls
between May 15 and October 1, the offender may be allowed to delay replanting
to the next acceptable planting season. Such an arrangement must have prior
written approval by the Planning Department. Failure to comply with this
alternative planting time arrangement subjects the offender to these penalty
provisions retroactively back to the original violation date.
   E.   A fine of $250.00 per caliper inch for each tree removed in violation
of an approved tree protection zone or buffer protection zone.
   F.   The violator shall be required to install replacement trees at a rate
of one caliper inch for every three DBH inches of tree removed. For trees
removed that are greater than 30 DBH inches, the replacement rate shall be at
one caliper inch per every five DBH inches.
(Ord., 3-16-21)
ARTICLE 11.  DEFINITIONS
   
11.1.   General.
   
11.2.   Defined terms.
11.1.   General.
   For the purpose of this UDO certain words shall be interpreted as follows:
   A.   "Town" means the Town of Garner, North Carolina.
   B.   "Governing authority", "Town Council", and "Council" means the Mayor
and Town Council of the Town of Garner, North Carolina.
   C.   "Administrator" means the Planning Director .
   D.   "Zoning map" means the official zoning map of the Town of Garner, North
Carolina.
   E.   Words in the present tense include the future tense.
   F.   Words used in the singular number include the plural, and words used in
the plural number include the singular, unless the natural construction of the
wording indicates otherwise.
   G.   The word "person" includes a firm, association, corporation, trust, and
company as well as an individual.
   H.   The word "structure" shall include the word "building."
   I.   The word "lot" shall include the words, "plot," "parcel," or "tract."
   J.   The words "will" and "shall" are always mandatory and not merely
directory.
   K.   The word "may" is optional or discretionary, but "may not" is
mandatory.
(Ord. No. 3558, § 2, 7-7-09; Ord., 3-16-21)
11.2.   Defined terms.
   Unless otherwise provided, or unless clearly required by the context, the
terms defined in this section shall have one meaning indicated when used in
this UDO.
      Accessory building, residential district. In residential districts, an
accessory building may be a detached garage, workshop, storage shed, hobby-type
greenhouse or similar minor building.
      Accessory building or structure. A building or structure which is on the
same zoning lot as, and detached from a principal building to which the use is
incidental and subordinate.
      Accessory building. A minor building located on the same lot as a
principal building and used incidentally to a principal building or housing an
accessory use.
      Accessory dwelling unit. A separate and complete dwelling unit that is
contained on the same lot as the structure of a single-family dwelling.
      Accessory solar energy system. A collection of solar panels and related
equipment designed to convert sunlight into electrical power for direct
consumption by the principal on-site use; accessory solar energy systems may be
ground-mounted, roof-mounted or integrated into the building design, and are
small and/or limited in scale.
      Accessory use or structure. A use, building or structure that is
subordinate to the principal use, building or structure on the lot, and used
for purposes incidental to the main or principal use, building or structure.
      Adult cabaret. Any place which features topless dancers, go-go dancers,
strippers, male or female impersonator(s), or similar entertainers which are
lawful under state law.
      Adult establishment. An adult bookstore, adult motion picture theater,
adult mini-motion picture theater, or other adult entertainment business or
massage business as defined in G.S. 14-202.10.
      Agricultural use. The use of waters for stock watering, irrigation and
other farm purposes.
      Ambulatory health/emergency care facility. A stand-alone emergency
department which operates under the governance of a hospital operator and is
licensed by the State of North Carolina pursuant to the Hospital Licensure Act
as amended. A heliport may be considered an acessory use for this type of
health care facility provided all applicable sections of the UDO are met.
      Animal unit. A unit of measurement developed by the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency that is used to compare different types of animal operations.
      ANSI. American National Standards Institute or its successor bodies.
      Antenna. Equipment designed to transmit or receive radio or electronic
signals.
      Approval authority. The Town Council, Board of Adjustment or other Board
or official designated by ordinance as being authorized to grant the specific
zoning or land use permit or approval that constitutes a site specific
development plan.
      Automobile service center. Any establishment where automobile parts sales
or minor automobile service/repair activities occurs. Service/repair activities
shall be limited to tuning or lubricating automobile engines, sales, repair or
servicing of tires, mufflers or batteries. Major engine repair, transmission,
or automobile body repair/paint shops are excluded activities under this use.
      A-weighted sound pressure level. The sound pressure level as measured
with a sound level meter using the A-weighting network. The symbol for this
standard is dB(A).
      Base flood. The flood having a one percent chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year. Also known as the 100-year flood.
      Basement. The lowest level or story of a building which has its floor
subgrade on all sides.
      Best management practices (BMP). A structural or nonstructural
management-based practice used singularly or in combination to reduce nonpoint
source inputs to receiving waters in order to achieve water quality protection
goals.
      Buffer. An area of natural or planted vegetation through which stormwater
runoff flows in a diffuse manner so that the runoff does not become channelized
and which provides for infiltration of the runoff and filtering of pollutants.
The buffer is measured landward from the normal pool elevation of impounded
structures and from the bank of each side of streams or rivers.
      Buffer (landscaping), perimeter. The area of undisturbed land between
adjacent incompatible uses. Performs the dual role of providing horizontal
separation and vertical screening. The width and planting requirement varies
according to the use classification of the subject and adjacent property.
      Buffer (landscaping), street. The area of undisturbed land between
incompatible uses across the street from each other. Provides horizontal
separation only. The width varies according to the use classification of the
subject and adjacent property.
      Buffer, stream. The area of natural or planted vegetation through which
stormwater runoff flows in a diffuse manner so that the runoff does not become
channelized and which provides for infiltration of the runoff and filtering of
pollutants. The buffer is measured landward from the normal pool elevation of
impounded structures and from the bank of each side of the streams or rivers.
      Building. Subject to the restriction of G.S. § 160D-706(b), any structure
used or intended for supporting or sheltering any use  or occupancy.
      Building coverage. Building coverage refers to the area of a lot covered
by buildings (principal and accessory) or roofed areas, as measured along the
outside wall at ground level, and including all projections, other than open
porches, fire escapes, canopies and the first two feet of a roof overhang.
      Built-upon area. Built-upon areas shall include that portion of a
developmentproject that is covered by impervious improvements.
      Business complex. A group of two or more office, industrial and/or other
operations on an unsubdivided tract, operating under one name or presenting
other elements of a unified image of identity to the public. A complex may or
may not have a central core of attached businesses, (which a shopping center
does have).
      Business frontage. The distance that is occupied by a business or other
activity measured along the outside wall of the building side on which the main
entrance of the business or activity is located.
      Caliper. Trunk diameter measurement for nursery grown stock taken six
inches above grade of the rootball for trunks up to and including four inches,
and 12 inches above grade of the rootball for trunks greater than four inches.
      Certified. Whenever this UDO requires certification of the existence of
some fact or circumstance to the Town, the Town may require that such
certification be made in any manner that provides reasonable assurance of the
accuracy of the certification. By way of illustration, the Town may accept
certification by telephone from some agency when the circumstances warrant it,
or may require that the certification be in the form of a letter or other
document.
      Child care center. A child care arrangement that is licensed by the state
of North Carolina and located in a residence where full time care is provided
for at least three children but, not more than 12 children for which a special
use permit has been granted by the Board of Adjustment.
      Child care home. A home for not more than nine orphaned, abandoned,
dependent, abused or neglected children, together with not more than two adults
who supervise such children, all of whom live together as a single housekeeping
unit.
      Child care institution. An institutional facility housing more than nine
orphaned, abandoned, dependent, abused, or neglected children.
      Circulation area. That portion of the vehicle accommodation area used for
access to parking or loading areas or other facilities on the lot. Essentially,
driveways and maneuvering areas (other than parking aisles) comprise the
circulation area.
      Cluster development. A residential development constructed on a tract of
land of at least five acres, zoned residential cluster district, under single
ownership, planned, designed and developed as an integral unit, intended to
allow flexibility in lot shapes, reduce infrastructure networks, provide inter-
connected open space primarily along rear lot lines and protect natural
resources by concentrating dwellings in specific areas of an overall tract.
      Combination use. A use consisting of a combination on one lot of two or
more principal uses. In some instances, a second principal use may be regarded
as accessory to the first, and thus a combination use is not established.
      Commercial boundary. Outer marker or boundary lines encompassing a tract
or parcel of land used or zoned for commercial use.
      Commercial subdivision (lease lots or separate parcels). A group of two
or more office, commercial or other operations in geographic proximity, which
may or may not operate under one banner, sharing ingress and egress, but having
each operation on a separate lot, either through lease arrangement or through
bonafide subdivision into separate parcels. (Examples in Garner include Plaza
70 East and the large lot of which PD Quix is a part.) Commercial Subdivisions
are not shopping centers or business complexes as defined herein.
      Community center. Governmentally owned and operated building(s) and
facilities which may provide a wide range of activities predominately indoors
to the general community such as but not limited to the following use:
recreational; cultural; dining; educational; social and general administrative
office uses.
      Community park. A community park usually comprises 14 to 40 acres
designed primarily to serve the community park district pursuant to the adopted
park and greenway plan, usually serving residents within a radius of
approximately one to two miles. A community park district is usually comprised
of two or more neighborhood park districts. In addition to the facilities
provided in neighborhood parks, community parks are designed to include such
amenities as a community center or other special facilities, such as a swimming
pool.
      Composting facility. A facility in which stumps, limbs, leaves, grass and
untreated wood collected from land clearing or landscaping operations is
deposited.
      Conditional use zoning district. This consists of a legislative rezoning
and a separate conditional use permit  following a trial-like quasi-judicial
hearing by the Town Council. These permits are obsolete and no longer utilized.
      Conditional use permit. This is issued in conjunction with a legislative
rezoning and consists of a separate conditional use  permit following a trial-
like quasi-judicial hearing. It is a permit issued by the Town Council that
authorizes the recipient to make use  of property in accordance with the
requirements of this UDO as well as any additional requirements imposed by the
Town Council. These permits are obsolete and no longer utilized.
      Condominium. (See unit ownership structure).
      Construction. On-site erection, fabrication, installation, alteration,
demolition or removal of any structure, facility, or addition thereto,
including all related activities, including, but not restricted to, clearing of
land, earthmoving, blasting and landscaping.
      Controlled access roadway. A roadway with four or more lanes divided by a
median with speed limits that would exceed 50 mph, where access to and from
said road is by interchange only.
      Correctional facility. A facility that houses persons  in the custody of
Wake County, the North Carolina Department of Correction federal government, or
its agent as a result of conviction of a criminal offense or persons  on
parole.
      Council. The Town Council of the Town of Garner.
      Critical area. The area adjacent to a water supply intake or reservoir
where risk associated with pollution is greater than from the remaining
portions of the watershed. In this UDO, the critical area consists of the Lake
Benson Conservation District, as previously established and mapped, extending
to the next property line or major landmark after a distance of 2,000 feet from
the lake, plus the Watershed Conservation Buffer Areas as established at
specified distances beyond the floodplain of Swift Creek and all other creeks
flowing into Lake Benson, up to a distance of 5,000 feet.
      Critical root zone. A circular area measured outward from a tree trunk
where roots must remain undisturbed to ensure the tree's survival. Measured as
one foot radial distance for every inch of tree DBH at a minimum of eight feet.
      Crown dripline. A vertical line extending from the outer most surface of
a tree's branch tips projected down to the ground.
      Cyclically varying noise. Any sound which varies in sound level such that
the same level is obtained repetitively at reasonably uniform intervals of
time.
      dB(A). A sound level in decibels determined by using the A-weighting
network of a sound level meter.
      DBH. Diameter-at-breast-height is a standard forestry measure of tree
size, and is a tree trunk diameter measured in inches at a height of four and
one-half feet above the ground. lf a tree splits into multiple trunks below
four and one-half feet, then each trunk is measured as a separate tree. A tree
which splits into multiple trunks above four and one-half feet is measured as a
single tree at four and one-half feet.
      Decibel (dB). A unit of measure, on a logarithmic scale, of the ratio or
magnitude of a particular sound pressure to a standard reference pressure,
which, for purposes of this UDO, shall be 20 micropascals.
      Developer. A person  who is responsible for any undertaking that requires
a site, special use , or sign permit .
      Development. Any land disturbing activity which (a) requires a soil and
erosion permit, site permit, special use permit or sign permit, or (b) which
adds to or changes the amount of impervious or partially impervious cover on a
land area or which otherwise decreases the infiltration of precipitation into
the soil.
      Disabled or handicapped home. A residential arrangement which does not
meet the definition of group care home and consists of a single family dwelling
unit with a single family kitchen facility housing up to six persons with a
disability or handicap.
      Discharging landfill. A facility with liners, monitoring equipment and
other measures to detect and/or prevent leachate from entering the environment
and in which the leachate is treated on site and discharged to a receiving
stream.
      Driveway. That portion of the vehicle accommodation area that consists of
a travel lane bounded on either side by an area that is not part of the vehicle
accommodation area.
      Driveway/intersection sight distance standards. All driveway and/or
street intersections shall maintain sight triangles meeting the following
minimums, within which nothing that may obstruct a motorist's or pedestrian's
view of traffic on the street onto which the motorist or pedestrian will enter
shall be permitted, including structures, signs, plant materials or earth
berms.
      Driveway or residential or secondary street onto U.S. or N.C. primary
road . See
Article 7.
      Dwelling. Subject to the restriction of G.S. § 160D-706(b), a building
that contains one or two dwelling units used, intended, or designed to be used,
rented, leased, let, or hired out to be occupied for living purposes.
      Dwelling unit. Subject to the restriction of G.S. § 160D-706(b) a single
unit providing complete independent living facilities for one or more persons,
including permanent provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking, and
sanitation.
      Dwelling unit. A building, or portion thereof, providing complete and
permanent living facilities for one household.
      Eighty-five percent TSS removal stormwater quality control device. A
constructed device or series of devices designed to achieve the removal of 85
percent of the total suspended solids from stormwater runoff. This may be a
single device with a removal efficiency of 85 percent or multiple devices with
a collective removal efficiency of 85 percent. Examples of single devices with
a removal efficiency of 85 percent include retention ponds, and bioretention
devices. Other devices and their associated removal efficiencies are subject to
approval by the North Carolina Division of Environmental Management.
      Electronic gaming centers. A business enterprise, as a principal use or
as an accessory use where persons utilize more than six (6) electronic machine
(s),  including, but not limited to computers and gaming terminals, to conduct
games including but not limited to sweepstakes, lotteries games, and or games
of chance, and where cash, merchandise, or items of value are redeemed or
otherwise distributed, whether or not the value of such distribution is
determined by electronic games played or by predetermined odds, which have a
finite pool of winners. The term includes, but is not limited to internet
sweepstakes, video sweepstakes or cybercafes. This definition does not include
any lottery endorsed, approved or sponsored by the State of North Carolina or
arcade games of skill.
      Engineered stormwater control structure. Stormwater control structures
designed by an engineer or landscape architect to control stormwater runoff.
Such structures include but are not limited to wet retention ponds, detention
ponds, etc.
      Existing development. Those projects that as of July 1, 1993, have been
built or for which a permit has been issued, a subdivisionplat has been
recorded, or for which a vested right exists under Town ordinance or state law.
      Existing lot. A lot which is part of a subdivision, or a lot described by
metes and bounds, a deed or plat of which has been recorded in the office of
the register of deeds prior to the adoption of this UDO. Synonymous with lot of
record.
      Existing manufactured home park or manufactured home subdivision. A
parcel or parcels of land divided into two or more manufactured home lots  for
rent or sale for which the construction  of facilities for servicing the lot
on which the manufactured home  is to be affixed (including at a minimum the
installation of utilities, either final site grading or the pouring of concrete
pads, and the construction  of street (s)) is completed before the effective
date of this UDO.
      Expenditure. A sum paid out in return for some benefit or to fulfill some
obligation. The term also includes binding, contractual commitments to make
future expenditures, as well as any other substantial changes in position.
      Extraterritorial planning jurisdiction. That portion of the Town's
planning jurisdiction located outside the corporate boundaries of the Town.
      Family. Two or more persons living together and occupying a single
dwelling unit with a single kitchen facility, and who are related by blood,
marriage, or adoption, or foster children, and including both a) a nuclear
family consisting of one or two parents and any number of children and b) an
extended family containing up to four adults and any number of children, but
excluding from the definition of family a combination which consists of two or
more nuclear families and more than four adults.
      Family care home. A home for a limited number of residents and support or
supervisory personnel (as limited by state definitional requirements) that
provides room and board, personal care and rehabilitation services for persons
with a disability in a family  environment. According to GS 168-3(7a), a person
with a disability is defined as a person  with a temporary or permanent,
physical, emotional, or mental disability. A family care home  is a residential
use  of property and permissible by right in all residential districts, subject
to additional requirements.
      Family child care home. A child care arrangement that is licensed by the
state of North Carolina and located in a residence where full time care is
provided for at least three children but, not more than five children for which
a site permit has been issued by the Planning Department.
      Flex space. The sale, lease, or rental of space within a structure or
multiple structures that will allow a combination of uses.
      Floating zone. A zoning district whose requirements are fully described
in this UDO but initially is unmapped. It is mapped in response to the approval
of an applicant's request for a rezoning.
      Flood. A general or temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from:
            (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and
            (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface
waters from any source.
      Floodplain. Any area susceptible to being inundated by water from the
base flood. As used in this UDO, the term refers to that area designated as
subject to flooding from the base flood on the flood boundary and the latest
edition of the floodway map prepared by the U.S. Department of Housing and
Urban Development, a copy of which is on file in the Town Hall.
      Floodway. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent
land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot. As used
in this UDO, the term refers to that area designated as a floodway on the flood
boundary and the latest edition of the floodway map prepared by the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development, a copy of which is on file in the
Town Hall.
      Flood hazard boundary map. An official map of a community issued by the
federal emergency management agency, where the boundaries of the areas of
special flood hazard have been defined in zone A.
      Flood insurance rate map. An official map of a community on which the
federal emergency management agency has delineated both the areas of special
flood hazard and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
      Flood insurance study. The official report provided by the federal
management agency. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the flood
boundary floodway map and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
      General use district. A zoning district in which some uses are
permissible with a site permit and others require a special use permit.
      Gross floor area. The total area of a building measured by taking the
outside dimensions of the building at each floor level intended for occupancy
or storage.
      Group care home. A home where rehabilitation services are provided in a
residential setting and family  environment for up to nine persons  at 200
square feet per occupant and one full bath per five occupants, including
support and supervisory personnel who reside in the home. A group care home
shall not include persons  being housed in a correctional facility  or mentally
ill persons  who are dangerous to others as defined in G.S. 122C-3(11)b, as
amended.
      Group care institution. An institutional facility that provides
rehabilitation services in a family  environment for more than nine persons
including support and supervisory personnel, and shall not include persons
being housed in a correctional facility  or mentally ill persons  who are
dangerous as defined in G.S. 122C-3(11).
      Habitable floor. Any floor usable for living purposes, which includes
working, sleeping, eating, cooking or recreation, or any combination thereof. A
floor used only for storage is not a habitable floor.
      Handicapped or home disabled. A residential arrangement which does not
meet the definition of group care home and consists of a single family dwelling
unit with a single family kitchen facility housing up to six persons with a
disability or handicap.
      Handicapped or infirm institution. An institutional facility housing and
providing care or assistance for more than nine persons who are physically or
mentally handicapped or infirm.
      Hazardous material. Any substance listed as such in: SARA Section 302,
Extremely Hazardous Substances, CERCLA Hazardous Substances, or Section 311 of
CWA (oil and hazardous substances).
      Heliport.  A formalized helicopter landing area that offers some or all
of the following services: fueling, maintenance, passenger building, hanger
facilities and support services.
      High density development.Development within the Lake Benson Swift Creek
Watershed area that exceeds the amount of impervious area which is allowed
without engineered stormwater control measures.
      Highest adjacent grade. The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface, prior to construction, next to the proposed walls of the structure.
      Home occupation. A commercial activity in any residential district that:
(i) is conducted by a person on the same lot where such person resides; and
(ii) is not so insubstantial or incidental or is not so commonly associated
with the residential use as to be regarded as an accessory use, but that can be
conducted without any significantly adverse impact on the surrounding
neighborhood.
      Household. One or more persons occupying a single family dwelling unit
with a single kitchen facility, including a family as defined in this
ordinance, and including a group of not more than five persons living together
as a housekeeping unit by joint agreement or non-profit cost sharing basis.
      Impacted area. Areas of a site where the cultural, natural and visual
resources will be affected by a proposed development  and or land disturbance.
      Impervious surface.Impervious surfaces are those natural or man-made
structures, which prevent or restrict the infiltration of stormwater runoff
into the underlying soil. For the purpose of impervious calculation, rooftops,
gravel or paved driveways, sidewalk, gravel or paved streets, curb and gutter
and like structures are considered to be impervious surfaces. Water
impoundments, landscaped areas and wooden slatted decks are considered
pervious.
      Impulsive sound. Either a single pressure peak or a single burst
(multiple pressure peaks) for a duration less than one second.
      In-home adult day care. An adult day care arrangement that been issued a
certificate to operate by the state of North Carolina and located in a
residence where a day care program is provided for up to six adults which meets
the standards of the UDO for which a zoning compliance permit has been issued
by the Planning Department.
      Industrial boundary. Outer marker or boundary lines encompassing a tract
or parcel of land used or zoned for industrial use.
      Industrial development. Any nonresidential development that requires an
NPDES permit for an industrial discharge and/or requires the use or storage of
any hazardous material for the purpose of manufacturing, assembling, finishing,
cleaning or developing any product or commodity.
      Intermediate care home. A facility maintained for the purpose of
providing accommodation for not more than seven occupants needing medical care
at a lower level than that provided in a nursing care institution  but at a
higher level than that provided in homes for the disabled persons or the
infirm.
      Intermediate care institution. An institutional facility maintained for
the purpose of providing accommodations for more than seven persons needing
medical care at a lower level than that provided in a nursing care institution
but at a higher level than that provided in institutions for the handicapped or
infirm.
      Kennel. A commercial operation that:
            (1)   Provides food, shelter and care for animals for purposes not
primarily related to medical care (a kennel may or may not be run by or
associated with a veterinarian); or
            (2)   Engages in the breeding of animals for sale.
      Land disturbing activity. Any use of land in residential, industrial,
educational, institutional or commercial development, highway and
roadconstruction and maintenance that results in a change in the natural cover
or topography and that may cause or contribute to sedimentation. Sedimentation
occurs whenever solid particulate matter, mineral or organic, is transported by
water, air, gravity, or ice from the site of its origin, and is deposited
elsewhere.
      Landfill. A facility for the disposal of solid waste on land in a
sanitary manner in accordance with Chapter 130A Article 9 of the North Carolina
General Statutes. For the purpose of this UDO this term does not include
composting facilities.
      Landscaped area. Areas of a site where groupings (more than one) of
trees, shrubs and/or ground cover are proposed and are defined within a bed of
mulch.
      Livestock. All animals kept or raised on a farm, except however, that
necessary working animals and pets are not included.
      Loading and unloading area.That portion of the vehicle accommodation area
used to satisfy the relevant requirements of this UDO.
      Logo. A picture, pattern or way of writing its name that an establishment
uses as its symbol and puts on its products or signs.
      Lot. A parcel of land whose boundaries have been established by some
legal instrument, such as a recorded deed or a recorded map, and which is
recognized as a separate legal entity for purposes of transfer of title. The
term tract is used interchangeably with the term lot.
      Lot area.The area circumscribed by the boundaries of a lot, except that:
(i) when the legal instrument creating a lot shows the boundary of the lot
extending into a public street right-of-way, then the lot boundary for the
purposes of computing the lot area shall be the street right-of-way line, or a
line running parallel to and 30 feet from the center of the traveled portion of
the street if the right-of-way line cannot be determined, and (ii) in a
residential district, when a private road that serves more than three dwelling
units is located along any lot boundary, then the lot boundary for purposes of
computing the lot area shall be the inside boundary of the traveled portion of
that road.
      Lower ratio of parking need to building square footage uses.Uses, such as
furniture stores, carpet stores, and major appliance stores, that sell items
that are large and bulky, that need a relatively large amount of storage or
display area for each unit offered for sale, and that therefore, generate less
customer traffic per square foot of floor space than stores selling smaller
items.
      Lowest floor. The lowest floor  of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement ). An unfinished floor or resistant enclosure, useable solely for
parking of vehicles, building  access or storage in an area other than basement
areas is not considered a building's lowest floor  provided that such enclosure
is not built so as to render the structure  in violation of the applicable non-
elevation design requirements of this UDO.
      Major watershed variance. A watershedvariance that results in any one or
more of the following:
            (1)   The complete waiver of a management requirement;
            (2)   The relaxation, by a factor of more than ten percent, of any
management requirement that takes the form of a numerical standard; and
            (3)   The relaxation of any management requirement that applies to
a development proposal intended to exceed 12 percent impervious surface within
the Lake Benson Conservation District or within the area subject to CUD-SB-C-
22, CUDR-12-C53 or CUD-R-12PR-C54 previously classified by the Swift Creek Land
Management Plan as suburban new and those projects for which development would
exceed 24 percent impervious surface for the balance of the watershed .
      Manufactured home. A dwelling unit that:
            (1)   Is composed of one or more components each of which was
substantially assembled in a manufacturing plant and designed to be installed
or assembled on the building site;
            (2)   Exceeds 40 feet in length and eight feet in width;
            (3)   Is constructed in accordance with the federal manufactured
homeconstruction and safety standards; and
            (4)   Is constructed after June 15, 1976.
      Mean pool depth. The cross-sectional area of a stream, pond or other body
or water divided by the width of the water's free surface.
      Mini-parks. A mini-park usually comprises one lot or less, and is
designed primarily to serve the area contained on the final plat or approved
site plan, and particularly to provide an area for play of younger children
during daytime hours.
      Minor watershed variance. A watershedvariance that does not qualify as a
major variance.
      Mobile home. A dwelling unit that:
            (1)   Was constructed before June 15, 1976 (pre-HUD requirements);
            (2)   Is composed of one or more components, each of which was
substantially assembled in a manufacturing plant and designed to be transported
to the site on its own chassis; and
            (3)   Exceeds 40 feet in length and eight feet in width.
      Modular home. A dwelling unit that:
            (1)   Is composed of one or more components, each of which was
substantially assembled in a manufacturing plant and designed to be transported
to the site on its own chassis;
            (2)   Is constructed in accordance with the North Carolina Building
Code (rather than HUD code) for single dwelling units .
      Neighborhood park. A neighborhood park usually comprises three to ten
acres serving the residents within the neighborhood park district as pursuant
to the parks and greenway plan and primarily serving a radius of approximately
three quarters of a mile. Typical facilities would include a meeting center,
picnic areas, multi-use courts, ballfields, tot lots, tennis courts and special
facilities as needed.
      Noise pollution. The emission of sound that reasonably interferes with
the enjoyment of life or with any lawful business or activity.
      Nonconforming lot. A lot existing at the effective date of this UDO (and
not created for the purposes of evading the restrictions of this UDO) that does
not meet the minimum area requirements or the presumptive minimum lot width
requirement of the district in which the lot is located.
      Nonconforming project. Any structure, development, or undertaking that is
incomplete at the effective date of this UDO and would be inconsistent with any
regulation applicable to the district in which it is located if completed as
proposed or planned.
      Nonconforming situation. A situation that occurs when any existing lot or
structure, or use of an existing lot or structure, does not conform to one or
more of the regulations applicable to the district in which the lot or
structure is located on the effective date of this UDO. Among other
possibilities, a nonconforming situation may arise because a lot does not meet
minimum acreage requirements, because structures exceed maximum height
limitations, because the relationship between existing buildings and the land
(in such matters as density and setback requirements) is not in conformity with
this UDO, because signs do not meet the requirements of, or because land or
buildings are used for purposes made unlawful by this UDO.
      Nonconforming use. A nonconforming situation that occurs when property is
used for a purpose or in a manner made unlawful by the use regulations
applicable to the district in which the property is located. For example, a
commercial office building in a residential district may be a nonconforming
use. The term also refers to the activity that constitutes the use made of the
property. For example, all the activity associated with running a bakery in a
residentially zoned area is a nonconforming use.
      Nonconformity, dimensional. A nonconforming situation that occurs when
the height or size of a structure or the relationship between an existing
building and other buildings or lot lines does not conform to the regulations
applicable to the district in which the property is located.
      Nonresidential development. All development other than residential
development, agriculture and silviculture.
      Nursing care home. A facility maintained for the purpose of providing
skilled nursing care and medical supervision at a lower level than that
available in a hospital to not more than nine persons.
      Nursing care institution. An institutional facility maintained for the
purpose of providing skilled nursing care and medical supervision at a lower
level than that available in a hospital to more than nine persons.
      Outdoor storage.The storage of materials in an unenclosed area. Outdoor
storage shall not include the temporary storage of vehicles at repair or sales
facilities.
      Outparcel. A parcel, adjacent to or partially surrounded by a shopping
center tract, which was either part of the original shopping center tract, or
which, as determined by the Planning Director, acts (in the manner in which it
operates and the way it blends into the image of the overall shopping center),
like part of the shopping center. Such parcels have separate deeds or have been
sectioned-off by the developer for purposes of leasing to one or more
businesses. In no case shall an outparcel as defined herein be considered as a
separate shopping center.
      Parking area aisles. That portion of the vehicle accommodation area
consisting of lanes providing access to parking spaces.
      Parking space. A portion of the parking area set aside for the parking of
one vehicle.
      Passive stormwater quality control device. A constructed device designed
to achieve the removal of up to 40 percent of the total suspended solids from
stormwater runoff. Examples of a passive device include grass swales and other
devices approved by the North Carolina Division of Environmental Management.
      Person. An individual, executor, corporation, partnership or other entity
acting as a unit.
      Pervious surface. Ground treatments which will allow the infiltration of
water, air and nutrients to root systems of adjacent plant material which lie
directly under the ground treatment.
      Planned Residential Development. A development constructed on a tract of
at least five acres under single ownership, planned and developed as an
integral unit, and consisting of a combination of single-family
residentialsubdivisionlots and multi-family residences.
      Planned Unit Development. A development constructed on a tract of at
least 20 acres under single ownership, planned and developed as an integral
unit, and consisting of a combination of principal uses that could be combined
only in a Planned Unit Development District.
      Planning Director. See Section
2.5.
      Planning jurisdiction. The area within which the Town is authorized to
plan for and regulate development  pursuant to the authority granted in the
North Carolina General Statutes.
      Plat. A map or plan of a parcel of land which is to be, or has been
subdivided.
      Principal building. The primary building on a lot, or a building that
houses a principal use.
      Private service laterals for water and sewer. These facilities are
defined as beginning at the public street right-of-way or public utility
easement and extending onto private property to a point necessary to serve said
property, specifically for water this shall be beyond the water meter location;
for sewer this shall be beyond the cleanout location.
      Project. Any use requiring a permit from the building inspections and/or
Planning Department. Such permits shall include, but not limited to a building
permit and site permit.
      Public sewer and other utility system, municipally owned. The existing
Town of Garner or City of Raleigh owned water, storm sewer and sanitary sewer
lines including all pipes, valves, valve boxes, hydrants and other fixtures,
equipment and apparatus of the water main, storm sewer and sanitary sewer pipe
lines and systems, and all appliances necessary and convenient thereto, and
such lines built to the Town of Garner and City of Raleigh standards to be
dedicated and accepted by the City of Raleigh or the Town of Garner. The
utility lines dedicated to the City of Raleigh shall include only main
distribution and collection lines and appurtenances in street right-of-way or
dedicated recorded easements on private property. Such facilities shall be
subject to the applicable provisions of this UDO and applicable sections of the
Code of the Town of Garner.
      Public sewer or water system, non-municipally owned. A sewer or water
system designed for and intended to provide services to users and is franchised
by the North Carolina Utilities Commission. Such systems and all appurtenances
shall be built to the Town of Garner and City of Raleigh standards and
specifications according to the applicable provisions of this UDO and the Code
of the Town of Garner.
      Pure tone. Any sound that can be distinctly heard as a single pitch or a
set of single pitches.
      Recreational vehicle. A vehicular type accommodation, other than a
manufactured home designed as temporary accommodations for travel, vacation, or
recreation purposes, which is propelled by its own motive power or is mounted
on or drawn by another vehicle.
      Recycling collection point. An incidental use that is considered an
accessory use to only the principal uses. Recycling collection points serve as
a neighborhood drop-off point outside of a fully enclosed building for
temporary storage of small amounts of recyclable materials.
      Recyclable material collection center. Operations inside or outside of
enclosed buildings for the collection of recyclable materials such as aluminum,
copper, plastic, glass or paper materials which may be recycled for re-
manufacture or reuse.
      Repetitive impulsive noise. Any noise that is composed of impulsive
noises that are repeated at sufficiently slow rates such that a sound level
meter set at fast meter characteristics will show changes in sound pressure
level greater than ten dB(A).
      Residence, duplex. A residential use consisting of two dwelling units
within a single building on a single lot.
      Residence, multifamily. A residential use consisting of two dwelling
units located in separate buildings on the same lot, three or more dwelling
units located in one or more buildings on the same lot, or attached or detached
units on separate lots at densities permitted only in multifamily zones.
      Residence, single-family. A residential use consisting of a detached
building containing one dwelling unit on a single lot.
      Residential boundary. Outer marker or boundary lines a tract or parcel of
land used or zoned for residential use.
      Restaurant. An establishment providing food and food service, whereby at
least 51 percent of the establishment's revenue is derived from such food
sales.
      Restaurant, drive-in. A restaurant where a substantial portion of the
food service is to occupants of motor vehicles parked on the premises.
      R/W. Right-of-way line of a public street.
      Road. All private ways used to provide motor vehicle access to:
            (1)   Two or more lots ; or
            (2)   Two or more distinct areas or buildings in unsubdivided
developments .
      Satellite dish antenna. A device capable of receiving radio or television
signals from orbiting satellites and other extraterrestrial sources; and shall
include all appurtenant components of the satellite dish antenna.
      Sewer or water facilities, individual. A sewer or water system or
facility designed for and intended for private use  by one or more users, but
not requiring a franchise from the North Carolina Utilities Commission, and not
being a municipally owned system. However, such facilities may require permit
approvals by the Wake County Health Department as provided for in this UDO.
      Shopping center. A building or group of buildings housing seven or more
businesses (usually as in-line tenants) on a unified tract (i.e. not on a lease
lot or parcel subdivided out of the original larger shopping center parcel),
under one or multiple ownerships, and operating under one banner as a
pedestrian movement, and/or common ingress and egress points. Its occupants
provide or are intended to provide for the retail sale of goods and services
(including postal services, etc.) to the public. However, expansions of
shopping centers developed after the aforementioned date are required to
conform to the uniform signage regulations applicable to the shopping center.
      Shrub, large. A deciduous or evergreen shrub that matures at between six
to 12 feet or greater in height. Usually maintains branches from the ground up,
and if evergreen, used as a screening material.
      Shrub, medium. A deciduous or evergreen shrub that matures (or is
maintained) at three to six feet in height. If evergreen it is used as a
screening material.
      Shrub, small. A deciduous or evergreen shrub that matures (or is
maintained) at one to three feet in height. May be used inside sight triangle
planting.
      Sight distance standards (triangle). To ensure that landscape materials
do not constitute a traffic hazard, a triangle will be observed at all
intersections of driveways/streets with adjacent streets. These sight triangles
shall be kept clear of any such visual obstructions between two and one-half
feet and ten feet in height.
      Sign. Any device that is sufficiently visible to persons not on the
premises and designed to attract or direct the attention of such persons or to
communicate information to them.
            (1)   Sign, canopy. Any sign  attached to or made a part of a
canopy; a canopy being any rooflike structure  supported by posts or suspended
from a wall and extending over an area for the purpose of providing protection
against the weather. A canopy sign  may be considered a wall or freestanding
sign  the area of which shall be calculated into the maximum sign  area and
maximum number permitted as either a wall sign  or freestanding sign . Such
signs  are limited to two sides of a canopy and may not extend above or below
the canopy fascia or project any further than necessary for attachment, not to
exceed 18 inches.
            (2)   Sign, changeable copy. A sign whose display area is designed
so that the characters, letters, or illustrations can be changed or rearranged
without otherwise altering the face or surface of the sign. In the context of
this UDO, a changeable copy sign is defined as a permanent sign and erected
only in combination with an identification sign; also locally known as a
marquee sign.
            (3)   Sign, directory. A sign located on the interior portion of a
shopping center or other business complex, designed to convey the names of
occupants of the complex to persons on site. Such signs are typically located
near entrances or at strategic locations within the parking area of the
complex.
            (4)   Sign, freestanding. A sign that is not attached to, suspended
from, erected on or supported by a building or other structure having a
principal function other than the support of such sign but is instead supported
by some structure, such as a pole or post, or is without supporting elements,
such as an A-frame or monument base. Any sign on a fence located within the
required building setback area shall be considered a freestanding sign, and
canopy signs may be interpreted as either freestanding or wall signs.
            (5)   Sign, ground. See freestanding sign and monument sign.
            (6)   Sign, monument. A type of freestanding sign (often referred
to as a ground sign, which has a low profile, typically below 36 feet in
height, and is built of brick or other substantial material resembling a
monument.
            (7)   Sign, multiple-business. A sign of major significance
designed to inform persons off the premises of the businesses which comprise a
shopping center or business complex. It may or may not bear the name of the
complex but must list the entities within the complex.
            (8)   Sign, off-premises. A commercial sign which directs attention
to or communicates about a business, service, commodity, attraction or other
activity that is conducted sold or offered at a location other than the
premises on which the sign is located.
            (9)   Sign, political. A sign advertising a ballot measure or
candidate for public office.
            (10)   Temporary sign. A sign that is designed for short-term use
or is used in connection with a circumstance or event expected to take place or
be completed within a reasonably short period of time. (If a sign display area
is permanent but the message is subject to periodic change, that sign shall not
be regarded as temporary.)
      Significant trimming. Any pruning and/or trimming of a tree which removes
more than one-third of the branching of the tree and/or results in the loss of
more than one-third of the tree's overall form and shape.
      Sign permit. A permit issued by the Planning Director that authorizes the
recipient to erect, move, enlarge or substantially alter a sign.
      Single-family residential. Any development where (1) no building contains
more than one dwelling unit, (2) every dwelling unit is on a separate lot, and
(3) where no lot contains more than one dwelling unit.
      Site permit. A permit issued by the land usePlanning Director that
authorizes the recipient to make use of property in accordance with the
requirements of this UDO.
      Site specific development plan. A plan of land development  submitted to
the Town for purposes of obtaining one of the following zoning or land use
permits or approvals: subdivision plat , site permit , conditional use permit ,
special use permit , special exception, conditional use zoning district  or
variance ; provided, notwithstanding the foregoing that neither a variance , a
plat  nor any other document that fails to describe with reasonable certainty
that type and intensity of use  for a specified parcel or parcels of property
shall constitute a site specific development plan .
      Sleeping Unit. Subject to the restriction of G.S. § 160D-706(b), a room
or space in which people sleep, which can also include permanent provisions for
living, eating, and either sanitation or kitchen facilities, but not both. Such
rooms and spaces that are also part of dwelling unit are not sleeping units.
      Solar farm. An entire tract or portion of a tract that contains a
collection of ground-mounted solar panels and related equipment designed to
convert sunlight into electrical power for direct on-site consumption or for
interconnection with the power grid system for off-site consumption; the size
of a solar farm may vary from a few acres to hundreds of acres.
      Sound. An oscillation in pressure in air.
      Sound level. In decibels, a weighted sound pressure level, determined by
the use of metering characteristics and frequency weightings specified in ANSI
Sl.4-1971 Specifications for Sound Level Meters.
      Sound level meter. An instrument, including a microphone, amplifier, EMS
detector and integrator, time average, output-meter and/or visual display and
weighting networks, that is sensitive to pressure fluctuations. The instrument
reads sound pressure level when properly calibrated and is of type I or better
as specified in American National Standards Institute Publication Sl.4-1971 or
its successor publication.
      Sound pressure level. In decibels, 20 times the logarithm to the base ten
of the ratio of the magnitude of a particular sound pressure to the standard
reference pressure. The standard reference pressure is 20 micropascals.
      Special scenic corridor. An area parallel to the right-of-way of existing
and proposed major and minor thoroughfares and other designated highways on the
adopted or amended Garner Transportation Plan, that are subject to overlay
district regulations to preserve natural scenic beauty and aesthetic character,
promote design quality, to protect and enhance the public and private
investment in and along said highways, and to enhance trade, tourism, capital
investment and the general welfare.
      Special use permit. A permit issued by the Board of Adjustment that
authorizes the recipient to make use of property in accordance with the
requirements of this UDO as well as any additional requirements imposed by the
Board of Adjustment.
      Start of construction. Substantial improvement, which means the date the
building permit was issued, providing the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The
actual start means the first placement of permanent construction of a structure
(including a manufactured home) on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or
footings, installation of piles, construction of columns, or any work beyond
the stage of excavation or the placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers
or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory building, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure.
      Steady-state noise source. One that exhibits a sound level whose
variation is within plus or minus five dB(A) over any one ten-minute period in
a 24-hour day.
      Stormwater. The runoff generated by rainfall during a storm event.
      Stream. A perennial body of water running over the earth's surface in a
channel or bed and also shown by a single blue line on the most recent version
of the U.S. Geological Survey 1:24,000 scale (7.5 minute) topographic maps; or
as delineated by the most recent Town of Garner study.
      Street. A public street or a street with respect to which an offer of
dedication has been made.
      Street wall. The building facade and or wall which is facing the right-
of-way line and the street.
      Structure. Anything constructed or erected, including but not limited to
buildings, which requires location on the land.
      Subdivider. Any person, firm or corporation who subdivides or develops
any land deemed to be a subdivision as herein defined.
      Subdivision. The divisions of a tract or parcel of land into two or more
lots, building sites, or other divisions when one or more of those divisions
are created for the purpose of sale or building development (whether immediate
or future) and shall include all divisions of land involving the dedication of
a new street or a change in existing streets, but the following shall not be
included within this definition nor be subject to the regulations authorized by
this UDO:
            (1)   The combination or recombination of portions of previously
subdivided and recorded lots where the total number of lots is not increased
and the resulting lots are equal to or exceed the standards of this UDO;
            (2)   The division of land into parcels greater than ten acres
where no street right-of-way dedication is involved;
            (3)   The public acquisition by purchase of strips of land for
water or sewer infrastructure the widening or opening of streets ;
            (4)   The division of a tract in single ownership whose entire area
is no greater than two acres into not more than three lots , where no street
right-of-way dedication is involved and where the resultant lots are equal to
or exceed the standards of the this UDO; and
            (5)   The division of a tract into plots or lots used as a
cemetery.
      Subdivision, minor. A subdivision that does not involve any of the
following: (i) the creation of more than a total of five lots; (ii) the
creation of any new public streets; (iii) the extension of the water or sewer
system operated by the Town of Garner, or (iv) the installation of drainage
improvements through one or more lots to serve one or more other lots.
      Substantial improvement. Any combination of repairs, reconstruction,
alteration or improvements to a structure, taking place within any consecutive
12-month period in which the cumulative cost equals or exceeds 50 percent of
the present market value of the structure. The market value should be:
            (1)   The appraised value of the structure before the initial
repair or improvement; or
            (2)   In case of damage, the value of the structure prior to the
damage occurring.
      Tenth percentile sound level. The A-weighted sound pressure level that is
exceeded ten percent of the time in any measurement period (such as the level
that is exceeded for one minute in a ten minute period) and is denoted LIO.
      Townhouse or townhome. The townhouse is a form of single-family attached
dwelling in which units share common side walls and are often designed in rows
(although good design attempts to de-emphasize the lined-up appearance). Units
are purchasable on a fee-simple basis on small individual parcels of land,
fronting on either a public or private street. Yards are typically small, and
privacy requires careful protection.
      Tower. A structure whose principal function is to support an antenna with
the exception of a satellite dish antenna (see definition of satellite dish
antenna).
      Toxic substance. Any substance or combination of substances (including
disease causing agents), which after discharge and upon exposure, ingestion,
inhalation, or assimilation into any organism, either directly from the
environment or indirectly by ingestion through food chains, has the potential
to cause death, disease, behavioral abnormalities, cancer, genetic mutations,
physiological malfunctions (including malfunctions or suppression in
reproduction or growth) or physical deformities in such organisms or their off
spring or other adverse health effects.
      Travel trailer. A structure that is (i) intended to be transported over
the streets and highways either as a motor vehicle, or attached to or hauled by
a motor vehicle, and (ii) is designed for temporary use as sleeping quarters,
but that does not satisfy one or more of the definitional criteria of a mobile
home.
      Tree, ornamental. A small to medium-sized tree growing to 15 to 35 feet
in height at maturity, planted for aesthetic purposes such as colorful flower,
interesting bark, or interesting fall foliage.
      Tree, overstory. A large tree growing to 35 feet in height or spread or
greater at maturity, usually deciduous, planted to provide a canopy of shade.
      Tree, screening. Medium to large evergreen tree, 12 feet or greater in
height at maturity, that keeps branches from the ground up. Examples include
Thuga 'Green Giant', Virginia Pine, Cedar, Leyland Cypress, some Hollies, or
vertical growing Junipers.
      Tree, street. A deciduous overstory tree, installed at a minimum two and
one-half-inch caliper size, planted a minimum five feet and a maximum of 15
feet from the road right-of- way. Where overhead lines exist an ornamental tree
shall be used.
      Unit ownership structure (condominium). Any building  or structure  in
which dwelling unit  ownership has been created by the owners or co-owners by
an express declaration of intent under the Unit Ownership Act of Chapter 47A,
North Carolina General Statutes.
      Use. The activity or function that actually takes place or is intended to
take place on or in a building , structure , or lot , including everything that
is done to, on, or in a building , structure , or lot .
      Utility facilities. Any above-ground structures  or facilities, other
than buildings , (unless such buildings  are used for storage incidental to the
operation of such structures  or facilities) owned by a governmental entity, a
nonprofit organization, corporation, or any entity defined as a public utility
for any purpose by Section 62-3 of the North Carolina General Statutes and used
in connection with the production, generation, transmission, delivery,
collection or storage of water, sewage, electricity, gas, oil or electronic
signals. Excepted from this definition are utility lines and supporting
structures .
      Utility facilities, community or regional. All utility facilities other
than neighborhood facilities.
      Utility facilities, neighborhood.Utility facilities that are designed to
serve the immediately surrounding neighborhood and that must, for reasons
associated with the purpose of the utility in question, be located in or near
the neighborhood where such facilities are proposed to be located.
      Variance. A grant of permission by the Board of Adjustment that
authorizes the recipient to do that which, according to the strict letter of
this UDO, could not otherwise legally be done.
      Vehicle accommodation area. That portion of a lot that is used by
vehicles for access, circulation, parking, and loading and unloading. It
comprises the total of circulation areas, loading and unloading areas and
parking areas.
      Vehicular surface area. The paved or non-paved area intended for
vehicular circulation or storage. Square footage calculations shall include the
total of all vehicular surface areas located in the street yard and in the rear
yard. This section does not apply to single-family residentialuse or parking
structures. Any vehicular surface area, or portions thereof, built after the
adoption of this section, which area is expanded by 25 percent or more, shall
be landscaped as required.
      Vested right. A right pursuant to G.S. 160D-108 or -108.1 to undertake
and complete the development  and use  of property under the terms and
conditions of an approved site specific development plan  after public notice
and hearing.
      Water dependent structure. Any structure for which the use requires
access to or proximity to or citing within surface waters to fulfill its basic
purpose, such as boat ramps, boat houses, docks and bulkheads. Ancillary
facilities such as restaurants, outlets for boat supplies, parking lots and
commercial boat storage areas are not water dependent structures.
      Watershed. The entire land area contributing surface drainage at a water
supply intake.
      Watershed administrator. An official or designated person of the Town of
Garner responsible for administration and enforcement of the watershed
provisions of this UDO.
      Watershed record. An official record or file of all development requests
within the watershed and the actions taken. This record will be maintained by
the watershedPlanning Director.
      Wholesale sales. On-premises sales of goods primarily to customers
engaged in the business of reselling the goods.
      Yard, front. The portion of a lot  bounded by a street  right-of-way,
side lot  lines, and the front line of the principal building , structure  or
use , in the absence of a principal building  or structure
      Yard, rear. The portion of a lot  bounded by side lot  lines, the rear
lot  line or street  right-of-way, and the rear line of the principal building
, structure  or use , in the absence of a principal building  or structure .
      Yard, side. The portion of a lot  bounded by side lot  line(s) and the
side line of a principal building , structure  or use  in the absence of a
principal building  or structure , extending the full length of the building ,
structure  or use  and not including any front or rear yard  (See diagram
below).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4447ce03978db0feab4258ffc8ecb3f9806deb9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1341.jpg]
 
      Yard, cornerside. The portion of a lot bounded by a street right-of-way
and the side line of a principle building, structure or use in the absence of a
principle building or structure extending the full length the building,
structure or use and not including any front or rear yard.
      Yard, side and rear (applies to landscaping compliance only). All of the
required yard area within the interior side and rear yards as established in
each underlying zone, that does not fall within the defined street yard.
      Yards, street (applies to landscaping compliance only). The area of a lot
that lies between the public right-of-way line abutting a street and the line
created from the street wall/facade facing the right-of-way of a building that
is extended toward the adjacent side or rear property lines. If the two street
yards cross, the yard with the smaller distance between the right-of-way and
the building wall/facade shall be used in this area of overlap.
      Zero-lot-line dwelling. A group of two or three attached dwelling unit s
with a common wall situated on a property line.
(Ord. No. 3376, § 15, 1-17-06; Ord. No. 3558, § 2, 7-7-09; Ord. No. 3656, § 6,
2-21-12; Ord. No. 3673, § 1, 10-1-12; Ord. No. 3780, § 12, 7-7-15; Ord., 3-16-
21)
APPENDIX A  LEGAL DESCRIPTION OF JURISDICTION
   Beginning at a point in the existing Town of Garner extra-territorial
boundary said point being in the centerline intersection of SR 1004 (Old Garner
Road) and the Garner Town limit line and being a point established by Ordinance
No. 15 16; thence leaving said centerline 5 82 degrees 30 minutes W 145.7 feet;
thence 5 19 degrees 46 minutes E 50 feet; thence 5 82 degrees 30 minutes W 95
feet; thence due 5 360 feet; thence N 82 degrees 57 minutes W 589.35 feet and
crossing the Southern Railroad right-of-way to a point in the western right-of-
way of said railroad; thence with said right-of-way 5 22 degrees 56 minutes B
218.53 feet; thence 5 21 degrees 36 minutes B 388.4 feet; thence S 21 degrees
59 minutes B 289.64 feet; thence leaving said right-of- way 5 83 degrees 30
minutes W 575 feet; thence 5 01 degrees 30 minutes E 250 feet; thence N 84
degrees 30 minutes E 250 feet; thence S 03 degrees 00 minutes E 590 feet;
thence 5 86 degrees 00 minutes W 2100 feet to a point in the centerline of a
road ; thence N 00 degrees 35 minutes 10 seconds E 610.40 feet to a point;
thence N 85 degrees 56 minutes 31 seconds W 140.61 feet to a point; thence N 88
degrees 02 minutes 54 seconds W 217.76 feet to a point; thence 5 06 degrees 17
minutes 14 seconds W 300.56 feet to a point; thence 5 05 degrees 19 minutes 40
seconds W 257.78 to a point; thence S 05 degrees 49 minutes 10 seconds W 110
feet to a point; N 66 degrees 58 minutes W 1675.44 feet; 5 86 degrees 56
minutes W 790.64 feet; S 02 degrees 01 minutes B 100.02 feet; S 86 degrees 56
minutes W 261.06 feet; 5 03 degrees 04 minutes E 121.22 feet; 1-1 S 89 degrees
13 minutes W 244.04 feet; N 03 degrees 04 minutes W 216.0 feet; 5 89 degrees 13
minutes W 214.30 feet; N 03 degrees 04 minutes W 161.58 feet; S 86 degrees 57
minutes W 350.25 feet; S 03 degrees 31 minutes B 413.70 feet to a point in the
northern right-of-way of Mechanical Boulevard; thence with said right-of-way
and continuing with the Garner Town limits N 63 degrees 39 minutes W 100.0
feet; N 61 degrees 29 minutes W 50.0 feet; N 46 degrees 29 minutes W 63.02 feet
to a point in the northern right-of-way of U.S. Highway 70; thence crossing
U.S. 70 and continuing with Garner Town limits S 77 degrees 28 minutes W 801.34
feet; 5 25 degrees 21 minutes W 403.81 feet to a point in the eastern right-of-
way of U.S. 401 and being a point in the Garner Town limits; thence in a
straight line across the right-of-way of U.S. 401 to a point on the western
right-of-way of U.S. 401 and the northeastern corner of Parcel 656-2, cornering
thence with and along the northeast boundary line of Parcel 656-2 northwest 700
feet to a point, cornering thence along the northern boundary line of Parcel
656-2 400 feet west to a point being the southeast corner of Parcel 631-6,
cornering thence with and along the eastern boundary of Parcel 63 1-6 north 750
feet to a point on the northern right-of-way line of Tryon Road, cornering
thence with and along the northern right-of-way line of Tryon Road west 2310
feet to a point on the northern right-of-way line of Tryon Road, cornering
thence south 60 feet to a point on the southern right-of-way of Tryon Road said
point being the northeast corner of Parcel 631-101, cornering thence with and
along the northern boundary of Parcel 631-101 west 585 feet to a point on the
western right-of-way line of Norfolk Southern Railroad, cornering thence with
and along the western right-of-way of said railroad south 1790 feet to a point
of inter-section of said railroad right- of-way and the northern boundary of
Parcel 656-2, cornering thence west 551 feet along the northern boundary of
Parcel 656-2 to a point, cornering thence south 860 feet along the western
boundary of Parcel 656-2 to a point, cornering thence west 297 feet along a
northern boundary of Parcel 656-2 to a point, cornering thence south 1003 feet
along the western boundary of Parcel 656-2 to a point said point being the
extreme southwest corner of Parcel 656-2, thence 5 89 degrees 51 minutes W 580
feet; thence N 01 degrees 43 minutes W 380 feet; thence 5 89 degrees 51 minutes
W 1891. 12 feet to a point in the western right-of-way line SR 1373 (Inwood
Baptist Church Road); thence with said right-of-way line northerly and westerly
510 feet to its intersection with the western right-of-way line SR 1371 (Lake
Wheeler Road); thence southerly with the western right-of-way line of Lake
Wheeler Road 4670 feet to its intersection with the centerline of Steep Hill
Creek; thence southeasterly along the centerline of Steep Hill Creek 3700 feet;
thence leaving said centerline N 02 degrees 05 minutes W 425.20 feet; thence 5
87 degrees 41 minutes W 161.75 feet; thence 5 02 degrees 05 minutes B 530.10
feet to a point in the centerline of Steep Hill Creek; thence southeasterly
with the centerline of Steep Hill Creek 1280 feet; thence leaving said
centerline and running along the southern property line of Parcel 2 Tax Map 679
the following courses and distances: 5 09 degrees 45 minutes B 115 feet; 5 62
degrees 15 minutes B 1240 feet; 5 07 degrees 22 minutes W 125 feet; and 5 89
degrees 25 minutes B 250 feet to a point in the centerline of Norfolk and
Southern Railroad right-of-way; thence easterly with the southern extended
right-of-way of SR 1374 2070 feet to a point in the eastern right-of-way of
U.S. 401 South and southern right-of-way of SR 1006 (Old Stage Road); thence
running with said southern and eastern right-of-way line of S.R. 1006
centerline in a southeastwardly direction 5700 feet; thence leaving said road
and running with the centerline of Steep Hill Creek in a southerly direction
approximately 2,420 feet to the eastern boundary of the property identified as
Wake County Parcel PIN 1700-16-2587; thence northwest approximately 2,114 feet
following the northern boundary of the property identified as Wake County
Parcel PIN 1700-16-2587 to a point being the northeast corner of the property
identified as Wake County Parcel PIN 1700-06-4675; thence approximately 924
feet along the western boundary of the property identified as Wake County
Parcel PIN 1700- 06-4675 and also identified as Tract 9 Southern Acres to a
point being the northeast corner of the property identified as Wake County
Parcel PIN 1700-06-4270 and also identified as Tract 8 Southern Acres; thence
due south a distance of approximately 325 feet to a point being the southeast
corner of the property identified as Wake County Parcel PIN 1700-06-4270 and
also identified as Tract 8 Southern Acres; thence due west a distance of
approximately 1,336 feet to a point being the northeast corner of the property
identified as Wake County Parcel PIN 0790-95- 2823; thence a distance of
approximately 256 feet around the south and west boundary of the property
identified as Wake County Parcel PIN 0790-95-2823 to a point being the
southwest corner of the property identified as Wake County Parcel PIN 0790-96-
2165 and also identified as Tract 1 Southern Acres; thence due north a distance
of approximately 700 feet to a point being the centerline of the railroad
right-of-way; thence southwest a distance of approximately 1,700 feet along the
railroad centerline; thence leaving said right-of-way west a distance of
approximately 950 feet along the southern boundaries of the properties
identified as Wake County Parcel PINs 0790- 75-7553 and 0790-75-4342 to a point
being the southwest corner of the property identified as Wake County Parcel PIN
0790-75-1297; thence northwest a distance of approximately 1,825 feet along the
northern boundary of the property identified as Wake County Parcel PIN 0790-64-
2974 to a point being the northwest corner of the property identified as Wake
County Parcel PIN 0790- 55-9934; thence southwest along the eastern boundary of
the right-of-way of Fayetteville Road (US 401) a distance of approximately
1,321 feet to a point being the southwest corner of the property identified as
Wake County Parcel PIN 0790-64-2974; thence east a distance of approximately
6,063 feet along the centerline of Swift Creek to a point being the northeast
corner of the property identified as Wake County Parcel PIN 0790-72-6990;
thence south a distance of approximately 3,140 feet along the western
boundaries of the properties identified as Wake County Parcel PINs 0790-82-
2465, 0790-71-5484, and 0790-70-7807 to a point being the southeast corner of
the property identified as Wake County Parcel PIN 0790-70-0212; thence
southwest a distance of approximately 1,212 feet along the north boundary of
the railroad right-of-way to a point being the southwest corner of the property
identified as Wake County Parcel PIN 0699-69-1862; thence southwest a distance
of approximately 135 feet across the railroad right-of-way to a point being the
northeast corner of the property identified as Wake County Parcel PIN 0699-58-
3961; thence southwest a distance of approximately 2,950 feet along the western
boundary of the property identified as Wake County Parcel PIN 0699-58-3961 and
also along the eastern boundary of the railroad right-of-way; thence west a
distance of approximately 145 feet across the railroad right-of- way to a point
being the northeastern boundary of the property identified as Wake County
Parcel PIN 0699-37-4574; thence southwest a distance of approximately 1,720
feet along the western boundary of the railroad right-of-way to a point being
the northeastern boundary of 0699-16-1595; thence west a distance of
approximately 3,813 feet around the northern boundaries of the properties
identified as Wake County Parcel PINs 0699-16-1595, 0699-16-7852, and 0689-97-
9107 to a point being the northwest corner of parcel 0689-97-9107 and also the
eastern right-of-way of U.S. 401; thence southwest a distance of approximately
970 feet along the eastern right-of-way of N.C. 401 to a point being Ten Ten
Road (SR 1010) and the southwest corner of the property identified as Wake
County Parcel PIN 0689-97-4184; thence east along the northern right-of-way of
SR 1010 a distance of approximately 2,065 feet to a point being the southwest
corner of the property identified as Wake County Parcel PIN 0699-05-6426;
thence east a distance of approximately 1,489 feet along the western, northern
and eastern boundary of parcel 0699-05-6426 and along the western and southern
boundary of the property identified as Wake County Parcel PIN 0699-05-7385 and
along the southern boundary of the property identified as Wake County Parcel
PIN 0699-16-1595 to a point being the western edge of the railroad right-of-
way; thence northeast a distance of approximately 3,005 feet along the western
boundary of the railroad right- of-way to a point being the northeastern
boundary of the property identified as Wake County Parcel PIN 0699-37-4574;
thence east a distance of approximately 145 feet across the railroad right-of-
way and northeast a distance of 3,425 feet along the eastern boundary of the
property identified as Wake County Parcel PIN 0699-58-3961 to a point being the
western tip of the property identified as Wake County Parcel PIN 0699-89-2857
and also the eastern railroad right-of-way; thence east a distance of
approximately 9,497 feet along the western and southern boundary of Eagle Ridge
Subdivision including Phases 3, 4, 7-A, and 7-B to a point being the western
right-of-way of Old Stage Road (SR 1006) and also the eastern edge of the
property identified as Wake County Parcel PIN 1609-06-3953; thence north a
distance of about 875 feet along the western right-of-way of SR 1006 to a point
being the northeast corner of the property identified as Wake County Parcel PIN
1609-07-6547; thence west a distance of approximately 540 feet and then north a
distance of approximately 1,189 feet along the southern and western boundary of
the property identified as Wake County Parcel PIN 1609-08-7228; thence north a
distance of approximately 7,362 feet along the eastern boundary of Eagle Ridge
Phase 2-A, along the eastern and northern boundary of the property identified
as Wake County Parcel PIN 1609-19-0748, and along the northern boundary of the
property identified as Wake County Parcel PIN 0699-89-2857 to a point being the
southwestern boundary of the property identified as Wake County Parcel PIN
1700-02-8506 and also a common point with parcels 1700-01-9441 and 0790-71-
5484; thence continuing approximately 4,686 feet along the southern boundary of
Parcel 1700-02-8506 to a point being the western right-of-way of Old Stage Road
(SR 1006); thence north along the western right-of-way of SR 1006 a distance of
approximately 780 feet to a point being the northeastern corner of the property
identified as Wake County Parcel PIN 1700-02-8506; thence west a distance of
approximately 1,244 feet along the northern boundary of the property identified
as Wake County Parcel PIN 1700-02-8506; thence turning north a distance of
approximately 1,126 feet along the eastern boundary of the property identified
as Wake County Parcel PIN 0790-93-8604; thence turning east a distance of
approximately 2,391 feet along the southern boundary of the property identified
as Wake County Parcel PIN 1700-25-9563 to a point being the centerline of Old
Stage Road (SR 1006) and being directly across from the southwestern corner of
the property identified as Wake County Parcel PIN 1700-34-5242; thence leaving
said centerline and running with the northern high water boundary of Lake
Benson in an eastwardly direction 22,000 feet crossing SR 2711 (Buff aloe Road)
to a point; thence leaving said boundary due east 2000 feet to a point in the
eastern right-of-way of N.C. Highway 50; thence running along the eastern
right-of-way line of said road in a southwesterly direction 4550 feet to a
point, cornering thence west 100 feet to the point of intersection of the
western right-of-way line of N.C. Highway 50 and the northern right-of-way line
of S.R. 2728, thence with and along the northern right-of-way line of S.R. 2728
west 3650 feet to a point on the northern right-of-way line of S.R. 2728 said
point being the southwest corner of Parcel 769-177, cornering thence south 60
feet to a point in the southern right-of-way line of S.R. 2728 said point being
the northwest corner of Parcel 769-326, thence along the western boundary of
Woodoak Subdivision south 1120 feet to the southwest corner of said subdivision
said point also being the northwest corner of Parcel 769-13; thence south 1200
feet along the western boundary of Parcel 769-13 to a point at the northeast
corner of Parcel 769-18, cornering thence west 513 feet along the northern
boundary of Parcel 769-18 to a point; cornering thence south 2610 along the
western boundaries of Parcels 769-18 and 789-13 to a point; said point being
the northeast corner of Parcel 789-12, cornering thence westward along the
northern boundaries of Parcels 789-12, 789-9 1060 feet to a point on the
eastern boundary of Parcel 789-7, cornering thence south 820 feet along the
eastern boundary of Parcel 789-7 to a point; said point being the southeast
corner of Parcel 789-7, cornering thence west 1221 feet along the northern
boundaries of Parcels 789-81, 789-80, 789-79, 789-78 and 789-6 to a point; said
point being the northwest corner of Parcel 789-6, cornering thence south 481
feet along the western boundary of Parcel 789-6 to a point; said point being
the northwest corner of Parcel 789-45, cornering thence east 150 feet along the
northern boundary of Parcel 789-45 to a point, cornering thence south 351 feet
along the eastern boundary of Parcel 789-45 to a point in the southern right-
of-way of S.R. 1010; cornering thence with and along the southern right-of-way
of S.R. 1010 5561 feet to the point of intersection of the southern right-of-
way of S.R. 1010 and the eastern right-of-way of S.R. 2731, cornering thence
north 487 feet along the eastern right-of-way of S.R. 2731 to a point, said
point being the northwest corner of Parcel 790-8; corner thence east 1275 feet
along the northern boundaries of Parcels 790-8 and 790-9, said point being the
northeast corner of 790-9 to a point, thence east 330 feet along the southern
boundary of Parcel 790-28 to a point; said point being the southeast corner of
Parcel 790- 28, cornering thence north 970 feet along the eastern boundary of
Parcel 790-28 to a point, said point being the northeast corner of Parcel 790-
28, cornering thence in a northeasterly direction along the western boundary of
Parcel 790-10 4122 feet to a point in the southern boundary of Parcel 770-6,
cornering thence with and along the southern and western boundaries of Parcel
770- 6 north 3150 feet to a point; said point being the southeast corner of
Parcel 770-267; cornering thence east 1920 feet along the northern boundary of
Parcel 770-6 to the northeast corner of Parcel 770-6; cornering thence north
along the eastern boundary of Parcel 770-280 1053 feet to a point in the
southern right-of-way of S.R. 2703; thence 400 feet southeasterly to the
southern right-of-way of S.R. 2706, thence easterly 5500 feet along the
southern right-of-way of S.R. 2706 to the eastern right-of-way line of S.R.
2547, cornering thence along the eastern right-of-way line of S.R. 2547 1210
feet north to a point, said point being the southeast corner of Parcel 750-104;
thence in an easterly direction with the southern line of the Village of White
Oak subdivision 1700 feet to a point being the southeast corner of said
subdivision; thence in a northerly direction with the eastern line of said
subdivision 1120 feet to a common point of the right-of-way of Skyline Drive
and Country Club Drive; thence with the southern line of the Meadowbrook
Country Club subdivision in a generally northeasterly direction as follows: 60
feet; 39 feet; 131.9 feet; 80.4 feet; 115 feet; 44 feet; 104 feet; 76.5 feet;
138.2 feet; 203.6 feet; thence with the eastern line of said subdivision in a
northerly direction 595 feet to a point in the southern right-of-way line of
S.R. 2700 (White Oak Road); thence easterly with the southern right-of-way of
S.R. 2700 crossing Interstate 40 and continuing for a total distance of 3090
feet to a point; thence leaving said right-of-way in a generally northerly
direction with the eastern line of the Woodsway subdivision the following
distances: 270 feet; 1144 feet; 1346.5 feet; 1090 feet; thence with the
northern line of a tract referenced as parcel 255 of Wake County Tax Map 751
for 500 feet to a point in the centerline of White Oak Creek, also being a
point in the Garner Town Limits; thence with the centerline of said creek in an
easterly direction 3700 feet to a point in the center line of White Oak Creek,
Eastern Prong; thence with the centerline of said White Oak Creek, Eastern
Prong in a northerly direction for a distance of 3150 feet to a point being the
southeast corner of a tract referenced as Parcel 1 of Tax Map 730; thence with
the eastern line of said 730-1 in a northerly direction and continuing across
U.S. 70 a distance of 400 feet to a point in the eastern line of a tract
referenced as Parcel 13, Tax Map 708; thence with said eastern line of Tax Map
708-13 (containing Buffaloe Mobile Acres) the following distances: 210 feet,
38.3 feet, 349.46 feet, 1237.14 feet to a point in the southern right-of-way
line of the Norfolk Southern Railroad; thence with the right-of-way of said
Norfolk and Southern Railroad westward 4650 feet to a point being the northeast
corner of a tract referenced as Tax Map 707-117; thence with the eastern line
of said tract south 246 feet to a point; thence with the southern line of said
Parcel 707-117 west 118 feet to a point being the northeast corner of a tract
referenced as 707-92; thence south with a common line of 707-92 and 707-108 690
feet to a point in the northern right-of-way of U.S. 70; thence with said
right-of-way of U.S. 70 west 1310 feet to a point being the southwest corner of
a tract referenced as Tax Map 707-55 also being a point in an old dirt path;
thence north with said dirt path's eastern boundary also being the western
lines of parcels 55, 54B, 54A and 52 of Tax Map 707 325 feet to a point, said
point being the northwest corner of said parcel 52; thence with the northern
line of said parcel 270 feet in an easterly direction to a point; thence north
200 feet with the western lines of parcels 50 and 46 of Tax Map 707 to a point;
thence west 240 feet with the southern line of parcel 707-43 to a point; thence
north with the western line of said parcel 43, said line also being the
aforesaid dirt path, 100 feet to a point; thence in a northerly direction with
the western line of said parcel 707-43 85 feet to a point, said point being the
northwest corner of parcel 707-42; thence with the northern line of said parcel
707-42 in an easterly direction 220 feet to a point, said point being the
southwest corner of parcel 39, tax map 707; thence north with the western line
of said parcel 707-39 340 feet to a point in the southern right-of-way of S.R.
2560 (Auburn Road); thence continuing north 40 feet with an extension of said
line to the northern right-of-way 505 feet to a point being the southwest
corner of parcel 70, tax map 707; thence with the western line of 707-70 north
100 feet to a point; thence east with the common northern lines of parcels 70
and 69 of tax map 707 130.38 feet to a point; thence with the western line of
parcel 707-71 north 80.5 feet to a point; thence with the northern line of said
parcel 71 east of 110 feet to a point; thence with the western line of parcel
707-34 north 147.4 feet to a point in the southern boundary of Norfolk and
Southern Railroad right-of-way; thence in a westerly direction with said right-
of-way 2290 feet to. a point in the existing Garner ETJ boundary said point
being the intersection of the eastern right-of-way of S.R. 2548 and the western
boundary of Parcel 707-106, thence north along the eastern right-of-way of S.R.
2548 to the northwest corner of Parcel 707-8 thence east along the northern
boundary of Parcel 707-8 to a point cornering, thence in a southerly direction
along the eastern boundary of Parcels 707-8 and 707-106 to a point in the
northern right-of-way of Norfolk Southern Railroad cornering, thence in an
easterly direction 536 feet to a point being the southwest corner of Parcel
707-104, thence north along the western boundary of Parcel 707-104 137 feet to
the northeast corner of Parcel 707-104 cornering, thence easterly in a straight
line 290 feet to the northeastern corner of Parcel 707-68, thence 450 feet in a
northeastern direction along the western boundary of Parcel 707-14, thence in
an easterly direction along the northern boundary of Parcels 707-14 and 707-15
1141 feet to the northeast corner of Parcel 707-15, thence south along the
eastern boundary of Parcel 707-15 1300 feet to a point in the northern right-
of-way of S.R. 1004, thence along the northern right-of-way of S.R. 1004 1040
feet to a point being the intersection of the northern right-of-way of S.R.
1004 and the southwest corner of Parcel 707-78, thence northward with and along
the eastern right-of-way line of S.R. 2555 to the point of intersection of the
eastern right-of-way line of S.R. 2555 and the western boundary of Parcel 708-
1, thence north along the western boundary of Parcel 708-1, thence eastward
along the northern boundary of Parcel 708-1, thence south along the eastern
boundary of Parcel 708-I to a point, thence east along a northern boundary of
Parcel 708-1 to a point in the eastern right-of-way of S.R. 2555, thence
following with and along the eastern right-of- way of S.R. 2555 northeastward
to the point of intersection of the eastern right-of-way line of S.R. 2555 and
the northeastern right-of-way line of S.R. 2542 thence northwesterly along the
northeastern right-of-way line of SR 25422150 feet to the point of intersection
of the northeastern right-of-way of S.R. 2542 and the northern right-of-way
line of S.R. 2549, thence westerly with and along the northern right-of-way
line of S.R. 2549 a distance of approximately 1.3 miles to the point of
intersection of the northern right-of-way line of S.R. 2549 and the eastern
right-of-way line of S.R. 2548, thence with and along the eastern right-of-way
line of S.R. 2548 westerly 2700 feet to a point where Big Branch intersects the
eastern right-of-way line of S. R. 2548, thence cornering southward along Big
Branch 150 feet to a point, thence cornering southeasterly along said creek 150
feet to a point, thence cornering 440 southward along the eastern boundary of
Parcel 659-16 to a point, thence cornering westward along the southern boundary
of Parcel 659-16 approximately 2700 feet to a point, cornering thence north
538.2 feet to a point, cornering thence west 1670 feet along the southern
boundary of Parcel 659-16 to a point, said point being the southwest corner of
Parcel 659-16, cornering thence northward along the western boundary of Parcel
659-16 1630 feet to the southeast corner of Parcel 683-7, cornering thence
along the eastern boundary of Parcels 683-2 1600 feet to the northeast corner
of Parcel 683-2, cornering thence west along the northern boundaries of Parcels
683-16 and 683-2 1680 feet to I-40 right-of-way, cornering thence north along
the eastern right-of-way of I-40 1100 feet to a point, said point being a point
in the intersection on the western right-of-way of the proposed 1-40 extension
south of the Raleigh Beltline as shown on the North Carolina Department of
Transportation Plan and Profile of State Highways, Wake County, AI-40 from
Raleigh Beltline and Rock Quarry Road to approximately 1.3 miles southeast of
U.S. 70@, State Project No. 8.1475602; thence northwesterly with the controlled
access right-of-way of said 1-40 extension as shown on said right-of-way plans
for a distance of 10,000 feet to a point; thence leaving said right-of-way
southwesterly 4400 feet along the southeastern property line extended of
Parcels 62, 63, 64 and 18 Tax Map 633 to a point in the centerline of SR 2564
(Creech Road); thence with the centerline of said road and running in a
northwestwardly direction 1900 feet to the centerline intersection of
Sanderford Road; thence with the centerline of Sanderford Road and running in a
northwestwardly direction 725 feet; thence leaving said road and running with
the Raleigh City limit line southwest along the eastern and southern boundary
of the property owned by the Mount Calvary Word of Faith Church identified as
Wake County Parcel PIN 1712-53-7324 a distance of approximately 1,165 feet;
thence south a distance of approximately 1,740 feet along the eastern
boundaries of the properties identified as Wake County PINs 1712-42-3689, 1712-
42-5248, 1712-51-2847, 1712-31-9496, and 1712-31- 7179; thence west a distance
of approximately 3,175 feet along the northern boundary of Cloverdale
Subdivision and along the entire southern boundary of the property identified
as Wake County Parcel PIN 1712-31-7179 to a point being the southeastern corner
of the property identified as Wake County Parcel PIN 1712-11-1414 and the
northeastern corner of the property identified as Wake County Parcel PIN 1712-
20-1913; thence west a distance of approximately 1,170 feet along the southern
boundary of the property identified as Wake County Parcel PIN 1712-11-1414;
thence south a distance of approximately 215 feet along the western boundary of
the property identified as Wake County Parcel PIN 1712-10-1859 to a point being
the northeastern corner of the property identified as Wake County Parcel PIN
1712-10-1715; thence southwest a distance of approximately 308 feet along the
northern boundaries of the properties identified as Wake County PINs 1712-10-
1715 and 1712-10-0617 to a point being the eastern edge of the right-of-way of
W. Garner Road (SR 1004); thence 30 feet west to the centerline of SR 1004 to
the point of beginning and being all the extraterritorial boundaries of Garner.
Boundary description prepared by the Town of Garner Planning Department and the
Town of Garner Engineering Department from the Town of Garner 1,000 foot scale
base map.
APPENDIX B  CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS
[Reserved]
APPENDIX C  STANDARD CONSTRUCTION DETAILS
[Reserved]
APPENDIX D  APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS
[Reserved]
APPENDIX E  PLANTING MANUAL
[Reserved]
APPENDIX F  ACCESSIBLE PARKING SIGNS
[Reserved]
UNIFIED LAND DEVELOPMENT - TABLE OF AMENDMENTS
   This is a chronological and a numerical listing of the ordinances and
motions of the town used in this Unified Development Ordinance, as revised
through July 7, 2015. Superseded laws and any omitted materials are not
reflected in this table.
Ordinance Number Date Section Section this UDO
Ordinance Date Section             Section this UDO
Number
          1-
3376      17-  1                2.2.1
          06
             2                2.3.3
             3                   2.3.4
             4                   2.4.5
             5                   2.4.5
             6                   3.4.5
             7                   3.6.3
             8                   3.6.1
             9                   3.6.1
             10                  3.6.1
             11                  3.6.1
             12                  3.9.2
             13                  8.8
             14                  3.5.1
             15                  11.2
             16    Added      3.2.4
             17                  7.5 C.7.
3396      4-3- 1                   3.6.2
          06
             7                   5.1
             2                   3.9.2
             3                   4.14 B.3.c., d.
             4                   5.1
             5                   5.2 E.1., F.1.
             6                   5.3 C.13.
             7                   5.3 D.2.
             8                   5.3 D.7.
             9                   5.3 B.3.c.
             10                  5.3 B.3.d.
             11                  5.4 B.1.f.
             12                  6.10 D.1.j.
             13                  7.4 G.6.
             14                  7.6 E.4.a.
             15                  7.1 P.
          4-
3397      18-  1                   7.2.I.
          06
3417      7-5- 1                   6.3
          06
             2                   5.1
3418      7-5- 1                   5.4 F.
          06
             2    Added       5.4 G.
             3—5    Rnbd    5.4 G.—I.
                as            5.4 H.—J.
          8-
3423      22-  1                   5.1
          06
             2                   5.2 F.6.c.(2)
             3    Added       5.2 F.6.d.(6)
3487      10-  1                   4.10 D.1.d.(2)
          1-08
             2                   4.10 D.1.e.
             3    Rnbd        4.10 D.1.e.
                as            4.10 D.1.f.
          12-
3497      18-  1    Added       4.15
          07
3502      3-3- 1    Dltd        5.3 B.8.c.(1)
          08
             2                   5.3 B.8.c.(5)
             3    Added       8.8.4
             4                   6.9 A.
          4-
3507      22-  1    Added       7.2.E.3.b.
          08
                Rnbd          7.2.E.3.b., c.
                as            7.2.E.3.c., d.
3515      6-2- 2                   7.5 C.5.
          08
             3    Added       7.5 I.2.h.
3519      7-7-    Added         5.4 H.7.
          08
3523      8-4- 1                   5.4
          08
             2                   4.14
                                3.5.3
             3                   3.5.3
             4                   5.1
             5    Added       5.3
             6                   5.2
          10-
3528      21-  1    Added       4.16
          08
3529      10-  1                   4.10
          6-08
3532      11-  1                   6.10
          4-08
                                   8.2.1—
             2                   8.2.10,
                                   8.3.1—
                                   8.3.16
3558      7-7- 1                   3.4.9
          09
                                   1.2.2.
             2                   1.9.1,
                                   1.11
                                1.10.1.C.,
                                   1.10.2.B.
                                2.2.1
                                2.3.1—
                                   2.3.4
                                2.4.2
                                3.3
                                   3.4.2,
                                3.4.5,
                                   3.4.6,
                                   3.4.9
                                3.5.1,
                                   3.5.3
                                3.8.1
                                3.7.1
                                3.7.2
                                3.6.3
                                3.4.3,
                                   3.6.1
                                3.6.2
                                3.9.2
                                3.9.1
                                4.1.2.a.
                                4.7.E.2.
                                4.9.H.
                                4.10.A.
                                4.10.J.
                                4.11.A.
                                4.12.A.1., C., H.2.d., O., O.2.i.
                                4.14.C.4.a.
                                4.15.A., D.1.
                                4.16.A.
                                5.3.B.8.a., B.8.c.
                                6.6.L.
                                6.9.B.8.
                                6.13.E.2., I.
                                6.14.J.
                                7.1.G.2.c., P.
                                7.2.I.1.a.
                                7.4.B.
                                   8.2.8,
                                8.3.6,
                                   8.3.7
                                8.6.1—
                                   8.6.6
                                8.7.1
                                11.1.B.,
                                   11.2.
3559      7-7- 1                   5.5.C.1.
          2009
             2    Added       5.5.C.9.
3576      3-1-                    7.5.K.
          2010
          5-3- 1    Amended and 5.1,
3579      2010 Added               5.2E(3),
                                   5.2F(6)
             2                   5.2E.3.
             3                   5.2F.6.
3617      4-4-                    5.1
          2012
3618      5-2-                    7.5
          2011
          2-
3656      21-  1                   5.1
          2012
             2                   5.2.E.5.c.
             3    Added       5.3.B.11.
             4                   7.1.K.
             5                   6.9.B.3.f.
             6                   11.2
          10-
3672      1-   1                   3.4.5
          2012
          10-
3673      1-   1                   11.2
          2012
             2                   5.1
             3    Added       5.3.C.17.
             4                   7.4.B.
          10-
3675      1-   1                   7.5.I.2.h.(d) and (e)
          2012
          5-
3694      21-  1                   3.9.2
          2013
             2                   3.4.5
             3                   3.4.5
          10-
3714      22-  1                   7.5.k.
          2013
             2                   4.11
          12-                      2.4.1—
3720      2-   1                   2.4.5
          2013
             2                   3.9.4
             3                   3.9.1
          12-
3723      17-  1                   8.6.6
          2013
3749      10-  1                   5.1
          6-14
             2                   5.2.E.6.
             3                   7.4.B.
3761      2-2- 1                   6.5.C.3.
          15
3780      7-7- 1    Added       4.10.D.2.y.
          15
             2    Added       4.11.D.1.i.
             3    Added       4.12.K.12.
                Rnbd          4.12.K.12
                as            4.12.K.13.
             4   Added        4.15.E.2.cc
             5   Added        4.16.D.1.f
             6                   5.1
             7                   5.2.E.10.
             8   Added        5.3.B.5.
                Rnbd          5.3.B.5.—10.
                as            5.3.B.6.—11.
             9   Added        5.4.K.
             10                  7.1.K.5.
             11   Added       7.1.M.5.
                Rnbd          7.1.M.5.
                as            7.1.M.6.
             12                  11.2
3781      7-7- 1                   5.1
          15
3801      12-  1                   6.8
          7-15
             2                   3.6.3
             3                   3.6.1
             4                   3.6.2
             5                   7.5
             6                   5.1
             7                   8.6.3
          4-
3813      19-  1                   6.1
          16
             2                   6.9
3881      9-5- 1                   3.6.2
          17
             2                   3.6.2
             3                   5.1
             4                   5.3
             5                   7.1
             6                   7.1
3929      9-4- 1                   5.1
          18
             2                   5.3
          2-
3951      19-  1, 2                3.1
          19
          4-
3963      16-  1                   5.1
          19
             2                   5.3
          9-
3999      17-  1                   5.3.C.2
          19
          11-
4031      19-  1   Added        8.3.16.A.—D.
          19
             2                   8.6.3
             3                   8.6.6
5005      1-4- 1                   5.4.K.
          21
5006      1-4- 1                   5.1
          21
             2                   6.5.C.3
             3                   6.9.A.
5007      1-4- 1                   5.3.B.8.c.(7)
          21
          3-                       1.1,
--        16-                     1.3
          21
                Rnbd          1.2, 1.8, 1.4, 1.5, 1.10, 1.6, 1.7.A., 1.11, 1.9
                                   1.2—
                                   1.2.2,
                                   1.4,
                                   1.7.2,
                                   1.8.1—
                as            1.8.2,
                                   1.8.3,
                                   1.9.1,
                                   1.9.5,
                                   1.10—
                                   1.10.3,
                                   1.11
                                   1.5,
                Added         1.6,
                                   1.7.1,
                                   1.10.4
                Added         2.1—
                                   2.1.2
                Rnbd          2.1, 2.2, 2.3, 2.4, 2.5, 2.6, 2.7
                                   2.2.1,
                                   2.3—
                                   2.3.4,
                                   2.4—
                as            2.4.5,
                                   2.5—
                                   2.5.3,
                                   2.6.1,
                                   2.6.2,
                                   2.6.3
                Dltd          2.8
                                3.1—3.10.2
                                   3.1,
                                   3.2.1,
                Added         3.2.3,
                                   3.2.6,
                                   3.8.3,
                                   3.10.1
                Rnbd          3.1
                                   3.2.2,
                                   3.2.4,
                                   3.2.5,
                                   3.2.7,
                as            3.4.1,
                                   3.4.2,
                                   3.4.4—
                                   3.4.10,
                                   3.5.4.C.,
                                   3.8.2
                Rnbd          3.4
                as            3.9.5
                Rnbd          3.5
                                   3.5.1—
                as            3.5.4,
                                   3.9.3
                Rnbd          3.6, 3.7, 3.8
                                   3.8.1,
                as            3.7.1,
                                   3.7.2
                Rnbd          3.11, 3.12, 3.12.G., 3.13
                                   3.6.3,
                as            3.6.1,
                                   3.4.3,
                                   3.6.2
                Rnbd          3.14, 3.15, 3.16
                                   3.9.2,
                as            3.9.4,
                                   3.9.1
                Dltd          3.2, 3.3, 3.5.K., 3.9, 3.10, 3.17
                                4.1—4.4, 4.6—4.16
                                5.1—5.5
                                6.3—6.7, 6.9—6.14
                                7.1, 7.2.A., 7.4, 7.5A.—7.5.M., 7.6
                Added         7.2.B
                Rnbd          7.2.B.—7.2.H.
                as            7.2.C.—
                                   7.2.I.
                Dltd          7.5.N.
                Rnbd          8.2.A.—8.2.K., 8.2.L.1.—L.3., 8.2.M., 8.2.N.1.—N.6.,
                                   8.2.O.—8.2.U.
                                   8.2.1—
                                   8.2.10,
                                   8.3.1—
                                   8.3.3,
                as            8.3.4,
                                   8.3.5—
                                   8.3.10,
                                   8.3.11—
                                   8.3.16
                Rnbd          8.3.A.1.—C.3., 8.3.D.1.—D.5.
                                   8.4.1—
                as            8.4.8,
                                   8.5.1—
                                   8.5.5
                Rnbd          8.4.A., 8.4.B.1.—8.4.B.7., 8.4.C.
                                   8.6.1,
                as            8.6.2—
                                   8.6.8,
                                   8.6.9
                Rnbd          8.5.A.—8.5.C.
                as            8.7.1—
                                   8.7.3
                Rnbd          8.6.A.—8.6.D.
                as            8.8.1—
                                   8.8.4
                                9.1
                                   9.2—
                Added         9.2.3,
                                   9.7—
                                   9.7.3
                Rnbd          9.2, 9.3, 9.4, 9.6, 
                                   9.3—
                                   9.3.6,
                                   9.4—
                as            9.4.5,
                                   9.5—
                                   9.5.6,
                                   9.6—
                                   9.6.4
                Dltd          9.5
                Rnbd          10.1—10.4
                                   10.1—
                                   10.1.6,
                                   10.2—
                as            10.2.2,
                                   10.3—
                                   10.3.4,
                                   10.4.1—
                                   10.4.2
                Dltd          10.5
                                11.1,
                                   11.2
5048      7-6- 1                   4.9.D
          21
             2                   5.3.B.8.c.(5)
                                 
 
